Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 125 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 1.
General information b Basis of consolidation TP ICAP plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales under The Groups Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the the Companies Act.
The address of the registered office is given on Financial Statements of the Company and entities controlled by page 181.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal the Company made up to 31 December each year.
Under IFRS 10 activities are set out in the Directors Report on pages 108 to 111 Consolidated Financial Statements, control is achieved where the and in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 49.
Company exercises power over anentity, is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the 2.
Basis of preparation ability to use its power to affect the returns from the entity.
a Basis of accounting The Groups Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement from IFRSs adopted by the European Union and comply with Article 4 theeffective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of of the EU IAS Regulation.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting The Financial Statements are presented in Pounds Sterling because policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All interthat is the currency of the primary economic environment in which company transactions, balances, income and expenses are the Group operates and are rounded to the nearest million pounds eliminated on consolidation.
expressed as m, except where otherwise indicated.
The significant accounting policies are set out in Note 3.
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
Those interests of non-controlling The Financial Statements have been prepared on the historical shareholders that are present ownership interests entitling their cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments holders to a proportionate share of net assets upon liquidation held at fair values at the end of each reporting period, asexplained may initially be measured at fair value or at the non-controlling in the accounting policies.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair interests proportionate share of the fair value of the acquirees value of the consideration given in exchange for goods and services.
Other non-controlling interests are initially measured at fair value.
The choice of measurement is made on Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid anacquisition by acquisition basis.
Subsequent to acquisition, the to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that interests at initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation share of subsequent changes in equity.
In estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, the is attributed to non-controlling interests even if thisresults in the Group takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability non-controlling interest having a deficit balance.
if market participants would take those characteristics into account when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date.
Changes in the Groups interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a Fairvalue for measurement and or disclosure purposes in these loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
The carrying Consolidated Financial Statements is determined on such a basis, amount of the Groups interests and the non-controlling interests except for share-based payment transactions that are within the are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the scope of IFRS 2, leasing transactions that are within the scope of subsidiaries.
Any differences between the amount by which the IAS17, and measurements that have some similarities to fair value non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the but are not fair value, such as net realisable value in IAS 2 or value consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity inuse in IAS 36. and attributed to the owners of the Company.
For financial reporting purposes, fair value measurements are When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on categorised into Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which inputs disposal is calculated as the difference between i the aggregate to the fair value measurements are observable and the significance ofthe fair value of theconsideration received and the fair value of of the inputs to the fairvalue measurement in its entirety, which are any retained interest and ii the previous carrying amount of the described as follows: assets, including goodwill, less liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling interests.
Amounts previously recognised in other Level 1 inputs are quoted prices unadjusted in active markets comprehensive income in relation to the subsidiary are accounted for identical assets or liabilities: for in the same manner as would be required if the relevant assets or Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included liabilities are disposed of.
The fair value of any investment retained within Level1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either in the former subsidiary at the date when control was lost is regarded directly i. e. asprices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
under IFRS 9 Financial Instruments or, when applicable, the cost on initial recognition of an investment in an associate or jointly controlled entity.
com 126 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 2.
Basis of preparation continued Classification and measurement c Presentation of the Income Statement With respect to the classification and measurement of financial The Group maintains a columnar format for the presentation of its assets, the number of categories of financial assets under IFRS 9 has Consolidated Income Statement.
The columnar format enables the been reduced compared to lAS 39.
Under IFRS 9 the classification Group to continue its practice of aiding the understanding of its of financial assets is based both on the business model within which results by presenting its underlying profit.
This is the profit measure the asset is held and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the used to calculate underlying EPS Note 11 and is considered to be asset.
There are three principal classification categories for financial the most appropriate as it better reflects the Groups underlying assets that are debt instruments: i amortised cost, ii fair value earnings.
Underlying profit is reconciled to profit before tax on the through other comprehensive income FVTOCI and iii fair value face of the Consolidated Income Statement, which also includes through profit or loss FVTPL.
Equity instruments in scope of IFRS 9 acquisition, disposal and integration costs and exceptional items.
are measured at fair value with gains and losses recognised in profit or loss unless an irrevocable election is made to recognise gains or The column acquisition, disposal and integration costs includes: any losses in other comprehensive income.
Under IFRS 9, derivatives gains, losses or other associated costs on the full or partial disposal embedded in financial assets are not bifurcated but instead the of investments, associates, joint ventures or subsidiaries and costs whole hybrid contract is assessed for classification.
associated with a business combination that do not constitute fees relating to the arrangement of financing: amortisation of A financial asset is measured at amortised cost if it meets both of the intangible assets arising on consolidation: any remeasurement following conditions and is not designated as at FVTPL: afterinitial recognition of contingent consideration which has been it is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets classified as a liability: and any gains or losses on the revaluation of to collect contractual cash flows: and previous interests.
The column may also include items such as gains its contractual terms give rise on specified dates to cash flows or losses on the settlement of pre-existing relationships with acquired that are solely payments of principal and interest on the businesses and the remeasurement of liabilities that are above the principal amount outstanding.
Acquisition related integration costs include costs associated with exit or disposal activities, which A debt instrument is measured at FVTOCI if it meets both of the do not meet the criteria of discontinued operations, including following conditions and is not designated as at FVTPL: costs for employee and lease terminations, or other exit activities.
Additionally, these costs include expenses directly related to it is held within a business model whose objective is achieved integrating and reorganising acquired businesses and include by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial items such as employee retention costs, recruiting costs, certain assets: and moving costs, certain duplicative costs during integration and its contractual terms give rise on specified dates to cash flows asset impairments.
that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
Items which are of a non-routine nature and material, when considering both size and nature, are disclosed separately to On initial recognition of an equity instrument that is not held for give a clearer presentation of the Groups results.
These are trading, the Group may irrevocably elect to present subsequent shown as exceptional items on the face of the Consolidated changes in the instruments fair value in Other Comprehensive Income Income Statement.
This election is made on an  basis.
d Going concern All financial assets not classified as measured at amortised cost or The Directors have, at the time of approving the Financial FVTOCI as described above are measured at FVTPL.
This includes Statements, a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate all derivative financial assets.
On initial recognition, the Group may resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable irrevocably designate a financial asset that otherwise meets the future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of requirements to be measured at amortised cost or at FVTOCI as at accounting in preparing the Financial Statements.
Further detail FVTPL if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting is contained in the going concern section and viability statement mismatch that would otherwise arise.
included in the Strategic report on page 37.
A financial asset unless it is a trade receivable without a significant e Adoption of new and revised Standards financing component that is initially measured at the transaction The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations price is initially measured at fair value plus, for an item not at FVTPL, havebeen adopted in the current year: transaction costs that are directly attributable to its acquisition.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Impact of the classification and measurement requirements The Group has applied IFRS 9 from 1 January 2018 which There has been no impact in the classification and measurement has replaced IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and of the Groups financial assets as at the date of initial application Measurement.
Under the transition methods chosen, comparative of IFRS 9, except for 17m of equity instruments classified as information has not been restated.
The Group had no hedging available-for-sale under lAS 39 which the Group has elected to relationships as at this date or during the current reporting period.
apply the FVTOCI option and for 2m of corporate debt securities The details of the requirements of IFRS 9 are set out in Note 3 j and and 86m of government debt instruments, that were classified as the impact on the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements are available-for-sale, which are now mandatorily held as FVTOCI.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 127 2.
Basis of preparation continued The Group has determined that the application of IFRS 9s e Adoption of new and revised Standards continued impairment requirements at 1 January 2018 results in an additional There has been no change in the accounting for financial liabilities impairment allowance as follows.
as IFRS 9 largely retains the existing requirements in IAS 39 for the Loss allowance at 31 December 2017 under IAS 39 6 classification and measurement of financial liabilities.
Under IFRS 9, Additional impairment recognised at 1 January 2018 on changes in the fair value of a financial liability designated as at - Trade receivables as at 31 December 2017 4 FVTPL due to credit risk are presented in other comprehensive - Other financial assets 1 income unless such presentation would create or enlarge an Loss allowance at 1 January 2018 under IFRS 9 11 accounting mismatch in profit or loss.
Associated adjustment to deferred tax 1 Note 26 c illustrates the classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities under IFRS 9 and IAS 39.
The Group has recognised lifetime ECLs for trade receivables.
The expected credit losses on these financial assets were estimated Impairment using a provision matrix based on the Groups historical credit loss IFRS 9 replaces the incurred loss model in IAS 39 with an expected experience, adjusted for factors that are specific to the debtors and credit loss ECL model.
The new impairment model applies to general economic conditions.
financial assets measured at amortised cost and debt investments at FVTOCI, but not to investments in equity instruments.
Under For other financial assets, the Group has recognised loss allowances IFRS 9, credit losses are recognised earlier than under IAS 39. at an amount equal to 12-month ECL or lifetime ECL based on the credit risk of the respective financial instrument when it was initially The financial assets at amortised cost consist of trade receivables, recognised compared to the credit risk as at 1 January 2018. settlement balances, deposits paid for securities borrowed, cash and However, if the financial instrument had a low credit risk at 1 January cash equivalents, term deposits and restricted funds.
2018, the Group assumed that the credit risk had not increased significantly since initial recognition.
Under IFRS 9, loss allowances are measured on either of the following bases: Hedge accounting The Group did not undertake any qualifying hedging activities 12-month ECLs: these are ECLs that result from expected default during the reporting period and will apply IFRS 9s hedge events within the 12 months after the reporting date: and accounting requirements as and when such transactions arise.
lifetime ECLs: these are ECLs that result from all expected default events over the expected life of a financial instrument.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 establishes a single comprehensive model for determining Presentation of impairment whether, how much and when revenue arising from contracts with Loss allowances for financial assets measured at amortised cost customers is recognised.
It replaced lAS 18 Revenue and related are deducted from the gross carrying amount of the assets.
For debt securities at FVTOCI, the loss allowance charged to profit The Group has adopted IFRS 15 with effect from 1 January 2018 or loss is recognised in OCI, instead of reducing the carrying amount and has adopted the modified retrospective approach without of the asset.
Accordingly the information presented for 2017 has not been restated and is presented, as Impairment losses related to trade receivables, settlement balances, previously reported, under IAS 18.
The application of IFRS 15 has not deposits paid for securities borrowed, cash and cash equivalents, had a significant impact on the financial position nor performance term deposits and restricted funds are presented separately in the of the Group.
statement of profit or loss.
As a result, the Group reclassified impairment losses amounting to 2m, recognised under IAS 39, from The performance obligation for the Groups Name Passing administrative expenses to impairment loss on trade and other brokerage is the matching of buyers and sellers.
The performance receivables, in the statement of profit or loss for the year ended obligations in respect of Executing Broker brokerage is the give-up 31 December 2017. of the trade to the relevant client or its clearing member.
These performance obligations are recognised at a point in time being Impairment losses on other financial assets are presented under the date of the trade.
finance costs, similar to the presentation under IAS 39, and not presented separately in the statement of profit or loss and OCI The performance obligations in respect of contracts for the provision due to materiality considerations.
Data & Analytics is the sale of price information from financial and commodity markets to third parties over the duration of the contract.
Impact of the new impairment model In respect of these contracts the Group has applied the practical The application of the impairment requirements of IFRS 9 has expedient in IFRS 15, allowing for the non-disclosure of both the not had a material impact on the Groups consolidated amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining financial statements.
performance obligations, and an explanation of when it expects to recognise that amount.
In relation to these contracts the Group has For assets in the scope of the IFRS 9 impairment model, impairment a right that corresponds directly with the value of the Groups losses are generally expected to increase and become more volatile.
com 128 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 2.
Basis of preparation continued value assets, are recorded as a rightof-use asset with a e Adoption of new and revised Standards continued corresponding liability.
The core principle of IFRS 15 is that revenue should be recognised The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost and subsequently depicting the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in adjusted, subject to certain exceptions, for accumulated an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects depreciation, impairment losses, and any remeasurement of the to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The lease liability is initially measured Specifically, the Standard introduces a five step approach to at the present value offuture lease payments and subsequently revenue recognition: adjusted for interest, leasepayments, and the impact of any lease modifications.
Step 1: Identify the contract s with a customer: Step 2: Identify the performance obligations in the contract: The Group has chosen the cumulative catch-up approach in IFRS 16.
Step 3: Determine the transaction price: Under this transition method, comparative information will not Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to the performance be restated and cumulative adjustments will be reflected in obligations in the contract: and opening reserves.
Step 5: Recognise revenue when or as the entity satisfies The Group will make use of the practical expedient available on a performance obligation.
transition to IFRS 16 not to reassess whether a contract is or contains Under IFRS 15, revenue is recognised as and when control of the a lease.
Accordingly, the definition of a lease in accordance with IAS goods or services underlying a particular performance obligation is 17 and IFRIC 4 will continue to apply to those leases entered or transferred to the customer.
Determining the timing of the transfer modified before 1 January 2019. of control, at a point in time or over time, requires judgement.
The Group will apply the definition of a lease and related guidance The application of IFRS 15 has not significantly changed the amount set out in IFRS 16 to all lease contracts entered into or modified on or or timing of the revenue recognised by the Group.
In preparation for the first-time application of obligations in respect of Name Passing and Executing Brokerage IFRS 16, the Group has carried out an implementation assessment.
continue to be recognised at a point in time, being the trade date.
The assessment has shown that the new definition in IFRS 16 will not Performance obligations for the provision of Data & Analytics change significantly the scope of contracts that meet the definition continue to be recognised over the duration of the contract for of a lease for the Group.
the provision of those services.
Lease cash flows, currently presented as operating cash flows, will be Other New Standards and Interpretations split into payments of principal and interest and will be presented as financing and operating cash flows respectively.
The following new Standards and Interpretations are effective from 1 January 2018 but they do not have a material effect in the Groups As at 31 December 2018, the Group has non-cancellable operating financial statements: lease commitments of 313m Note 34.
Under IAS 17 the 2019 operating lease expense on these leases was forecast to be 30m.
Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based payment transactions regarding the classification and measurement of share-based The Groups assessment of these leases indicates that 7m of these payment transactions: arrangements relate to short-term leases and leases of low-value IFRIC Interpretation 22 relating to foreign currency transactions assets.
The remaining 306m relate to leases on which the Group and advance consideration: estimates it will, in 2019, recognise a right-of-use asset of 146m Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014-2016 Cycle, relating to and a lease liability of 192m.
As at 31 December 2018 the Group improvements effective from 1 January 2018 : and held 14m of provisions for onerous lease contracts and building Amendments to IAS 40: Transfers of Investment Property.
dilapidations, and 32m in respect of lease liability incentives.
These are offset against the right-of-use asset when determining At the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, the its carrying value.
following EU endorsed Standards and Interpretations were in issue but not yet effective.
The Group has not applied these Standards The estimated impact on profit or loss in 2019 is to decrease Other or Interpretations in the preparation of these Financial Statements: operating expenses by 25m, to increase depreciation by 17m and to increase net interest expense by 14m.
IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 introduces comprehensive changes to the identification Discount rates used to estimate the lease liabilities range from 2.4% and accounting for leases for lessees.
The date of initial application to 13.6%.
A 1% reduction in discount rates would increase the lease for the Group will be 1 January 2019 for the year ending liability, and associated right-of-use asset, by 10m, reducing interest 31 December 2019. expense by 1m and increasing depreciation by 1m.
IFRS 16 distinguishes leases and service contracts on the basis The Groups financial statements for 2019 will reflect the application of whether an asset is controlled by the customer.
The distinction of the standard to qualifying leases obligations existing as at between operating leases and finance leases is removed for lessees.
1 January 2019 and to new qualifying lease obligations entered Instead, allleases, except for short-term leases and leases of low into during the period.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 129 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies e Adoption of new and revised Standards continued a Income recognition In contrast to lessee accounting, IFRS 16 substantially carries forward Revenue, which excludes sales taxes, includes brokerage including the lessor accounting requirements in IAS 17.
Under IFRS 16, a lessor commissions, fees earned and subscriptions for information sales.
continues to classify leases as either finance leases or operating Fee income is recognised when the related services are completed leases and account for those two types of leases differently.
and the income is considered receivable.
Where the Group is an intermediate lessor, it will account for the Revenue comprises: head lease and the sublease as two separate contracts and is i Name Passing brokerage, where counterparties to a transaction required to classify the sublease as a finance or operating lease settle directly with each other.
Revenue for the service of by reference to the right of use asset arising from the head lease.
matching buyers and sellers of financial instruments is stated Because of this change, the Group will reclassify certain of its netof sales taxes, rebates and discounts and is recognised in sublease agreements as finance leases.
As required by IFRS 9, fullon trade date: an allowance for expected credit losses will be recognised on the ii Matched Principal brokerage revenue, being the net proceeds finance lease receivables.
The leased assets will be derecognised from a commitment to simultaneously buy and sell financial and finance lease asset receivables recognised.
This change in instruments with counterparties, is recognised on trade date: accounting will change the timing of recognition of the related iii Executing Broker brokerage, where the Group executes revenue, recognised in finance income.
transactions on certain regulated exchanges and then gives-up the trade to the relevant client, or its clearing member.
Revenue In addition to IFRS 16, the following Standards and Interpretations for the service of matching buyers and sellers of financial are also in issue but not yet effective and have not been applied in instruments is stated net of sales taxes, rebates and discounts the preparation of these Financial Statements: and is recognised in full on trade date: and iv Fees earned from the sales of price information from financial IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments: and and commodity markets to third parties is recognised on an Amendments to IFRS 9: Prepayment Features with Negative accruals basis to match the provision of the service.
Compensation: and Amendments to IAS 28: Long-term Interests in Associates and In respect of contracts for the provision Data & Analytics, the Joint Ventures.
Group has applied the practical expedient in IFRS 15, allowing for the non-disclosure of both the amount of the transaction The following Standards and Interpretations have not been endorsed price allocated to the remaining performance obligations, and an bytheEU and have not been applied in the preparation of these explanation of when it expects to recognise that amount.
In relation FinancialStatements: to these contracts the Group has a right that corresponds directly with the value of the Groups performance completed.
IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts: Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2015-2017 Cycle : Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to Amendments to IAS 19: Plan Amendment, Curtailment theprincipal outstanding and at the effective interest rate or Settlement: applicable.
Dividend income from investments is recognised Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework whenthe Groups right to receive the payment is established.
in IFRS Standards: Amendment to IFRS 3 Business Combinations: and b Business combinations Amendments to IAS 1 and IAS 8: Definition of Material.
Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each Other than where stated, the Directors do not expect the adoption acquisition ismeasured at the aggregate of the fair values ofthe above Standards and Interpretations will have a material at the date of exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred impact on the Financial Statements of the Group in future periods.
or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition costs are recognised inprofit or loss as incurred.
com 130 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by b Business combinations continued post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration Losses of the associates in excess of the Groups interest in those arrangement, measured atits acquisition date fair value.
Subsequent associates are recognised only to the extent that the Group has changes in such fair values areadjusted against the cost of the incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the to the date the Group obtains complete information about the facts fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
Any discount in the cost subject to a maximum of one year.
All subsequent changes in the fair of acquisition below the Groups share of the fair value of the value of contingent consideration classified as an asset ora liability identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition are accounted for in accordance with relevant IFRSs.
Changes inthe i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to profit and loss in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as equity are year of acquisition.
Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the Group, Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups previously held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured to interestin the relevant associate.
Losses may provide evidence fair value at the acquisition date and any resulting gain or loss ofimpairment of the asset transferred in which case appropriate is recognised in profit or loss.
Amounts arising from interests in provision is made for impairment.
the acquiree prior to the acquisition that have previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit d Interests in joint arrangements or loss, where such treatment would be appropriate ifthat interest A joint arrangement is a contractual arrangement whereby the was disposed of.
Group and other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 2008 are Joint ventures are joint arrangements which involve the recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that: establishment of a separate entity in which each party has rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
The Group reports its interests deferred tax assets or liabilities are recognised and measured in joint ventures using the equity method of accounting, based on in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes: financial information made up to 31 December each year.
liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements Investments in joint ventures are carried in the balance sheet at cost are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 19 as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the Employee Benefits: net assets of the joint venture, less any impairment in the value of acquiree share-based payment awards replaced by Group individual investments.
Lossesof the joint venture in excess of the awards are measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Groups interest in those joint ventures are recognised only to the Payments: and extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations assets or disposal groups that are classified for sale are measured or made payments under the terms of thejoint venture.
in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
e Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the end of the reporting period in which the business combination the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of occurs, provisional amounts are reported.
Those provisional amounts a subsidiary or associate atthe date of acquisition.
Goodwill is are adjusted during the measurement period, or additional assets initially recognised at cost and is subsequently measured at cost or liabilities recognised, to reflect the facts and circumstances that less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill arising on existed as at the acquisition date.
acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS hasbeen Non-controlling interests in the acquired entity are initially retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts at that date.
measuredat the non-controlling interests proportion of the net fair Goodwill recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Any impairment loss is recognised as an expense c Investment in associates immediately and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to impairment testing goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups exercise significant influence.
Significant influence is the power cash-generating units CGU expected to benefit from the synergies toparticipate in the financial and operating decisions of the of the combination.
CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are investee but is not control or joint control over these policies.
tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated of the CGU is less than thecarrying amount of any goodwill in these Financial Statements based on financial information allocated to the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce madeup to 31 December each year using the equity method of the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then accounting, except when classified as held for sale.
Investments TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 131 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued g Property, plant and equipment e Goodwill continued Freehold land is stated at cost.
Buildings, furniture, fixtures, to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying equipment and motor vehicles are stated at cost less accumulated amount of each asset in the unit.
depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associate or joint venture Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets at rates isincluded within the carrying value of the associate or the joint calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value venture.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is basedon prices prevailing at the date of acquisition, of each presented separately in the balance sheet.
assetona straight-line basis over its expected useful life as follows: On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture, the Furniture, fixtures, equipment attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination and motor vehicles 3 to 10 years ofthe profit or loss on disposal.
Short and long leasehold land and buildings period of the lease f Intangible assets Freehold land infinite Software and software development costs Freehold buildings 50 years An internally generated intangible asset arising from the Groups software development is recognised at cost only if all of the following Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected conditions aremet: useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the term of the relevant lease.
an asset is created that can be identified: it is probable that the asset created will generate future The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset economic benefits: and is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the development costs of the asset can be measured reliably.
thecarrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
Where the above conditions are not met, costs are expensed h Impairment of tangible and intangible assets as incurred.
excluding goodwill At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts Acquired separately or from a business combination of its tangible and intangible assets with finite lives to determine Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost and whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered intangible assets acquired in a business acquisition are capitalised an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable at fair value at the date of acquisition.
The useful lives of these amount of the asset is estimated in order todetermine the extent intangible assets are assessed tobe either finite or indefinite.
Where the asset does not generate cash Amortisation charged on assets with a finiteuseful life is taken flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates to the income statement through administrative expenses.
the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment Other than software development costs, intangible assets created annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may within thebusiness are not capitalised and expenditure is charged to be impaired.
the income statement in the year in which the expenditure is incurred.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less any cost to sell Intangible assets are amortised over their finite useful lives generally and valuein use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash on astraight-line basis, as follows: flows are discounted to their present values using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value Software: of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Purchased or developed up to 5 years Software licences over the period of the licence If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU Acquisition intangibles: is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are Brand Trademarks up to 5 years recognised as an expense immediately.
Where an impairment loss Customer relationships 2 to 20 years subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is Other intangibles over the period of the contract increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying Intangible assets are subject to impairment review if there are events amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss or changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying amount been recognised for the asset or CGU in prior years.
A reversal of may not berecoverable.
an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are reversal of the impairment loss is treatedas a revaluation increase.
measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the income statement when the asset is derecognised.
com 132 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified i Broker contract payments dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and Payments made to brokers under employment contracts which are interest on the principal amount outstanding.
in advance of the expected economic benefit due to the Group are By default, all other financial assets are measured subsequently accounted for as prepayments and included within trade and other at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL.
Payments made in advance are subject to repayment conditions during the contract period and the prepayment is The Group may make the following irrevocable elections or amortised over the shorter of the contract term and the period designations at initial recognition of a financial asset: the payment remains recoverable.
Amounts that are irrecoverable, or become irrecoverable, are written off immediately.
to irrevocably elect to present subsequent changes in fair value of an equity investment in other comprehensive income if certain Payments made in arrears are accrued and are included within trade criteria are met: and and other payables.
to irrevocably designate a debt investment that meets the amortised cost or FVTOCI criteria as measured at FVTPL if doing so eliminates j Financial instruments or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group has become a party Debt instruments at FVTOCI to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Debt instruments at FVTOCI are initially measured at fair value plus transaction costs.
Subsequently, changes in the carrying amount as Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured a result of foreign exchange gains and losses, impairment gains or at fair value.
Transaction costs that are directly attributable to losses, and interest income calculated using the effective interest the acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities method are recognised in profit or loss.
All other changes in the other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value carrying amount of these corporate bonds are recognised in other through profit or loss are added to or deducted from the fair value comprehensive income and accumulated in the revaluation reserve.
of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on When such assets are derecognised, the cumulative gains or losses initial recognition.
Transaction costs directly attributable to the previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value to profit or loss.
through profit or loss are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Equity instruments at FVTOCI All regular way purchases or sales of financial assets are recognised On initial recognition, the Group may make an irrevocable election, and derecognised on a trade date basis.
Regular way purchases or on an  basis, to designate investments in sales are purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery equity instruments as at FVTOCI.
Designation at FVTOCI is not of assets within the time frame established by regulation or permitted if the equity investment is held for trading or if it is convention in the marketplace.
contingent consideration recognised by an acquirer in a business combination.
All recognised financial assets are measured subsequently in their entirety at either amortised cost or fair value, depending on the A financial asset is held for trading if: classification of the financial assets.
it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling it in the Classification of financial assets near term: or The classification of financial assets is based both on the business on initial recognition it is part of a portfolio of identified model within which the asset is held and the contractual cash flow financial instruments that the Group manages together and has characteristics of the asset.
evidence of a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking: or it is a derivative, except for a derivative that is a financial Debt instruments that meet the following conditions are measured guarantee contract or a designated and effective hedging subsequently at amortised cost: instrument.
the financial asset is held within a business model whose Investments in equity instruments at FVTOCI are initially measured objective is to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual at fair value plus transaction costs.
Subsequently, they are measured cash flows: and at fair value with gains and losses arising from changes in fair value the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and revaluation reserve.
The cumulative gain or loss is not be reclassified interest on the principal amount outstanding.
to profit or loss on disposal of the equity investments, instead, it is transferred to retained earnings.
Debt instruments that meet the following conditions are measured subsequently at fair value through other comprehensive income Dividends on these investments in equity instruments are recognised FVTOCI : in profit or loss unless the dividends clearly represent a recovery of part of the cost of the investment.
Dividends are included as finance the financial asset is held within a business model whose income in profit or loss.
objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling the financial assets: and TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 133 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Impairment of financial assets j Financial instruments continued The Group recognises a loss allowance for expected credit losses The Group has designated all investments in equity instruments that ECL on investments in debt instruments that are measured at are not held for trading as at FVTOCI on initial application of IFRS 9. amortised cost or at FVTOCI, lease receivables, trade receivables and contract assets.
The amount of expected credit losses is updated Financial assets at FVTPL at each reporting date to reflect changes in credit risk since initial Financial assets that do not meet the criteria for being measured recognition of the respective financial instrument.
at amortised cost or FVTOCI are measured at FVTPL.
Specifically: The Group always recognises lifetime ECL for trade receivables.
investments in equity instruments are classified as at FVTPL, The expected credit losses on these financial assets are estimated unless the Group designates an equity investment that is neither using a provision matrix based on the Groups historical credit loss held for trading nor a contingent consideration arising from experience, adjusted for factors that are specific to the debtors, a business combination as at FVTOCI on initial recognition.
general economic conditions and an assessment of both the current debt instruments that do not meet the amortised cost criteria or as well as the forecast direction of conditions at the reporting date, the FVTOCI criteria are classified as at FVTPL.
Debt instruments including time value of money where appropriate.
that meet either the amortised cost criteria or the FVTOCI criteria may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition For all other financial instruments, the Group recognises lifetime ECL if such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a when there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial measurement or recognition inconsistency that would arise from recognition.
If the credit risk on the financial instrument has not measuring assets or liabilities or recognising the gains and losses increased significantly since initial recognition, the Group measures on them on different bases.
The Group has not designated any the loss allowance for that financial instrument at an amount equal debt instruments as at FVTPL.
Lifetime ECL represents the expected credit losses that will result from all possible default events over the expected life Financial assets at FVTPL are measured at fair value at the end of of a financial instrument.
12-month ECL represents the portion of each reporting period, with any fair value gains or losses recognised lifetime ECL that is expected to result from default events on a in profit or loss to the extent they are not part of a designated financial instrument that are possible within twelve months after hedging relationship.
The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss the reporting date.
includes any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset and is included in finance income.
Significant increase in credit risk In assessing whether the credit risk on a financial instrument has Derecognition of financial assets increased significantly since initial recognition, the Group compares The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual the risk of a default occurring on the financial instrument at the rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers reporting date with the risk of a default occurring on the financial the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of instrument at the date of initial recognition.
In making this ownership of the asset.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains assessment, the Group considers both quantitative and qualitative substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues information that is reasonable and supportable, including historical to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained experience and forward-looking information that is available interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may without undue cost or effort.
If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group The following information is taken into account when assessing continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a whether credit risk has increased significantly since initial collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
recognition: On derecognition of a financial asset measured at amortised cost, an actual or expected significant deterioration in the financial the difference between the assets carrying amount and the sum instruments external or internal credit rating: of the consideration received and receivable is recognised in profit significant deterioration in external market indicators of credit or loss.
On derecognition of an investment in a debt instrument risk for a particular financial instrument: classified as at FVTOCI, the cumulative gain or loss previously existing or forecast adverse changes in business, financial or accumulated in the investments revaluation reserve is reclassified to economic conditions that are expected to cause a significant profit or loss.
On derecognition of an investment in equity instrument decrease in the debtors ability to meet its debt obligations: which the Group has elected on initial recognition to measure at an actual or expected significant deterioration in the operating FVTOCI, the cumulative gain or loss previously accumulated in the results of the debtor: and revaluation reserve is not reclassified to profit or loss, significant increases in credit risk on other financial instruments but is transferred to retained earnings.
of the same debtor: an actual or expected significant adverse change in the regulatory, economic, or technological environment of the debtor that results in a significant decrease in the debtors ability to meet its debt obligations.
com 134 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Presentation of impairment j Financial instruments continued Loss allowances for financial assets measured at amortised cost are The Group presumes that the credit risk on a financial asset has deducted from the gross carrying amount of the assets.
increased significantly since initial recognition when contractual For debt securities at FVTOCI, the loss allowance is recognised in payments are more than 30 days past due, unless the Group has OCI, instead of reducing the carrying amount of the asset.
reasonable and supportable information that demonstrates otherwise.
Impairment losses related to trade and other receivables, including settlement balances and deposits paid for securities borrowed, are The Group assumes that the credit risk on a financial instrument has presented separately in the statement of profit or loss.
Impairment not increased significantly since initial recognition if the financial losses on other financial assets are presented under finance costs, instrument is determined to have low credit risk at the reporting and not presented separately in the statement of profit or loss and date.
A financial instrument is determined to have low credit risk if: OCI due to materiality considerations.
The financial instrument has a low risk of default: Financial liabilities and equity The debtor has a strong capacity to meet its contractual cash Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial flow obligations in the near term: and liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the Adverse changes in economic and business conditions in the contractual arrangements and the definitions of a financial liability longer term may, but will not necessarily, reduce the ability and an equity instrument.
of the borrower to fulfil its contractual cash flow obligations.
Equity instruments The Group considers a financial asset to have low credit risk when its An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual credit risk rating is equivalent to the globally understood definition interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities.
The Group considers this to be Baa3 or higher Equity instruments issued by the Group are recognised at the per Moodys or BBBor higher per both Standard & Poors and Fitch.
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
The Group monitors the effectiveness of the criteria used to identify Repurchase of the Companys own equity instruments is recognised whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk and and deducted directly in equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in profit revises them as appropriate to ensure that the criteria are capable or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Companys of identifying significant increase in credit risk before the amount own equity instruments.
Financial liabilities Credit-impaired financial assets All financial liabilities are measured subsequently at amortised cost A financial asset is credit-impaired when one or more events that using the effective interest method or at FVTPL.
have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset have occurred.
Financial liabilities that arise when a transfer of a financial asset does not qualify for derecognition or when the continuing Definition of default involvement approach applies, and financial guarantee contracts The Group considers a financial asset to be in default when: issued by the Group, are measured in accordance with the specific the borrower is unlikely to pay its credit obligations to the Group accounting policies set out below.
in full, without recourse by the Group to actions such as realising Financial liabilities at FVTPL security if any is held : or Financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL when the financial the financial asset is more than 90 days past due.
liability is i contingent consideration of an acquirer in a business The maximum period considered when estimating ECLs is the combination, ii held for trading or iii it is designated as at FVTPL.
maximum contractual period over which the Group is exposed A financial liability is classified as held for trading if: to credit risk.
it has been acquired principally for the purpose of repurchasing Write-off policy it in the near term: or The Group writes off a financial asset when there is information on initial recognition it is part of a portfolio of identified indicating that the debtor is in severe financial difficulty and there is financial instruments that the Group manages together and no realistic prospect of recovery.
Trade receivables are written off if has a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking: or the debtor is in severe financial difficulty or if the amount is over two it is a derivative, except for a derivative that is a financial years past due, whichever occurs sooner.
Financial assets written off guarantee contract or a designated and effective hedging may still be subject to enforcement activities under the Groups instrument.
recovery procedures, taking into account legal advice where appropriate.
Any recoveries made are recognised in profit or loss.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 135 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued net of any fees received and discounted using the original effective j Financial instruments continued rate is at least 10% different from the discounted present value of A financial liability other than a financial liability held for trading or the remaining cash flows of the original financial liability.
If the contingent consideration of an acquirer in a business combination modification is not substantial, the difference between: i the may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: carrying amount of the liability before the modification: and ii the present value of the cash flows after modification should be such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a recognised in profit or loss as the modification gain or loss within measurement or recognition inconsistency that would other gains and losses.
otherwise arise: or the financial liability forms part of a group of financial assets k Derivative financial instruments or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its Derivative financial instruments, such as foreign currency contracts performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance and interest rate swaps, are entered into by the Group in order with the Groups documented risk management or investment to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign currency strategy, and information about the grouping is provided fluctuations or as simultaneous back-to-back transactions with internally on that basis: or counterparties.
The Group does not use derivative financial it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded instruments for speculative purposes.
derivatives, and IFRS 9 permits the entire combined contract Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a to be designated as at FVTPL.
derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured Financial liabilities at FVTPL are measured at fair value, with any to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or gains or losses arising on changes in fair value recognised in profit loss is recognised immediately unless the derivative is designated or loss to the extent that they are not part of a designated hedging and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing relationship.
The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the incorporates any interest paid on the financial liability and is hedge relationship.
included in other gains and losses in profit or loss.
A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial Financial liabilities that are designated as at FVTPL, the amount of asset whereas a derivative with a negative fair value is recognised change in the fair value of the financial liability that is attributable as a financial liability.
Derivatives are not offset in the financial to changes in the credit risk of that liability is recognised in other statements unless the Group has both legal right and intention to comprehensive income, unless the recognition of the effects of offset.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a nonchanges in the liabilitys credit risk in other comprehensive income current liability if theremaining maturity of the instrument is more would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss.
than twelve months and it is not expected to be realised or settled The remaining amount of change in the fair value of liability is within twelve months.
Other derivatives are presented as current recognised in profit or loss.
Changes in fair value attributable assets or current liabilities.
to a financial liabilitys credit risk that are recognised in other An embedded derivative is a component of a hybrid contract that comprehensive income are not subsequently reclassified to profit also includes a non-derivative host with the effect that some of or loss: instead, they are transferred to retained earnings upon the cash flows of the combined instrument vary in a way similar derecognition of the financial liability.
Financial liabilities measured subsequently at amortised cost Derivatives embedded in hybrid contracts with a financial asset Financial liabilities that are not i contingent consideration of an host within the scope of IFRS 9 are not separated.
The entire hybrid acquirer in a business combination, ii held-for-trading, or iii contract is classified and subsequently measured as either amortised designated as at FVTPL, are measured subsequently at amortised cost or fair value as appropriate.
cost using the effective interest method.
Derivatives embedded in hybrid contracts with hosts that are not Derecognition of financial liabilities financial assets within the scope of IFRS 9 are treated as separate The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, derivatives when they meet the definition of a derivative, their risks the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or have expired.
and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host The difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability contracts and the host contracts are not measured at FVTPL.
derecognised and the consideration paid and payable is recognised in profit or loss.
If the hybrid contract is a quoted financial liability, instead of separating the embedded derivative, the Group generally When the Group exchanges with the existing lender one debt designates the whole hybrid contract at FVTPL.
instrument into another one with the substantially different terms, such exchange is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original An embedded derivative is presented as a non-current asset financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability.
or non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the hybrid Similarly, the Group accounts for substantial modification of terms of instrument to which the embedded derivative relates is more an existing liability or part of it as an extinguishment of the original than twelve months and is not expected to be realised or settled financial liability and the recognition of a new liability.
It is assumed within twelve months.
that the terms are substantially different if the discounted present value of the cash flows under the new terms, including any fees paid www.
com 136 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued The Group undertakes Matched Principal broking involving l Hedge accounting simultaneous back-to-back derivative transactions with Derivatives designated as hedges are either fair value hedges counterparties.
These transactions are classified as financial or hedges ofnet investments in foreign operations.
instruments at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL and are shown gross, except where a netting agreement, which is legally Fair value hedges enforceable at all times, exists and the asset and liability are either Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated settled net or simultaneously.
and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in profit or loss except when the hedging instrument hedges an equity instrument n Restricted Funds, Cash and cash equivalents designated at FVTOCI in which case it is recognised in other Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits which may be comprehensive income.
Cash equivalents comprise short term highly liquid investments with a maturity of less than three months The carrying amount of a hedged item not already measured at fair from the date of acquisition.
For the purposes of the Consolidated value is adjusted for the fair value change attributable to the hedged Cash Flow Statement, cashand cash equivalents consist of cash risk with a corresponding entry in profit or loss.
For debt instruments and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding measured at FVTOCI, the carrying amount is not adjusted as it is bank overdrafts.
already at fair value, but the hedging gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss instead of other comprehensive income.
When the The Group holds money, and occasionally financial instruments, hedged item is an equity instrument designated at FVTOCI, the on behalf of customers client monies in accordance with local hedging gain or loss remains in other comprehensive income to regulatory rules.
Since the Group is not beneficially entitled to these match that of the hedging instrument.
amounts, they are excluded from the Consolidated Balance Sheet along with the corresponding liabilities to customers.
Where hedging gains or losses are recognised in profit or loss, they are recognised in the same line as the hedged item.
Restricted funds comprise cash held with a central counterparty clearing house CCP, or a financial institution providing the Group Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the with access to a CCP, and funds set aside for regulatory purposes, but hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, excluding client money.
The funds represent cash for which the Group terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
does not have immediate and direct access or for which regulatory The adjustment to thecarrying amount of the hedged item arising requirements restrict the use of the cash.
from the hedged risk is amortised to profit or loss from that date.
o Interest bearing loans and borrowings Net investment hedges All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that being the consideration received net of issue costs associated are designated and qualify as net investment hedges is recognised with the borrowing.
in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the hedging and translation reserve.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are is recognised immediately in profit or loss, and is included in financial measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
income or financial expense respectively.
Amortised cost is calculated taking into account any issue costs andany discounts or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses Gains and losses deferred in the hedging and translation reserve arerecognised in the income statement when the liabilities are are recognised in profit or loss on disposal of the foreign operation.
derecognised, as well as through the amortisation process.
m Settlement balances and stock lending p Provisions Certain Group companies engage in Matched Principal brokerage Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation, whereby securities are bought from one counterparty and legal or constructive, as a result of a past event where it is probable simultaneously sold to another counterparty.
Settlement of such that this will result in an outflow of economic benefits that can be transactions are primarily on a delivery vs payment basis DVP and reliably estimated.
typically take place within a few business days of the transaction date according to the relevant market rules and conventions.
The amounts Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has due from and payable to counterparties in respect of as yet unsettled a detailed formal plan for the restructuring, which has been notified Matched Principal transactions are shown gross, except where a to affected parties.
netting agreement, which is legally enforceable at all times, exists q Foreign currencies andthe asset and liability are either settled net or simultaneously.
The individual financial statements of each Group company are The Group acts as an intermediary between its customers for prepared inthe currency of the primary economic environment in collateralised stock lending transactions.
Such trades are complete which it operates, itsfunctional currency.
For the purpose of the only when both the collateral and stock for each side of the Consolidated Financial Statements, the results and financial position transaction are returned.
The gross amounts of collateral due to of each Group company are expressed in Pounds Sterling, which is andreceivable are disclosed in the balance sheet as deposits paid the functional currency of the Company and the presentation forsecurities borrowed and deposits received for securities loaned.
currency for the Consolidated Financial Statements.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 137 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued s Leases q Foreign currencies continued Assets held under finance leases, which transfer to the Group In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, substantially allthe risks and benefits incidental to ownership of transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are theleased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the recorded atthe rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of transactions.
Gains and losses arising from the settlement of these the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned transactions, and from the retranslation of monetary assets and between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional so as to achieve a constant rate of interest onthe remaining balance currency at rates prevailing at the balance sheet date, are recognised of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the denominated in currencies other than the functional currency estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
thatare measured at historical cost or fair value are translated at the exchange rate at the date of the transaction or at the date Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and the fair value wasdetermined.
benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the For the purpose of presenting Consolidated Financial Statements, income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
t Retirement benefit costs Exchange differences arising are classified as other comprehensive Defined contributions made to employees personal pension income and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Such plans are charged to the income statement as and when incurred.
translation differences are recognised as income oras expense in the year in which the operation is disposed of.
Income and expense For defined benefit retirement plans, the cost of providing the items are translated at average exchange rates for the year, unless benefits isdetermined using the projected unit credit method.
exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that year, in which case Actuarial gains andlosses are recognised in full in the year the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used.
They are recognised outside the income statementand are presented in other comprehensive income.
r Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of current tax payable arising in Past service cost is recognised in profit or loss when the plan the year, movements in deferred tax and movements in tax provisions.
amendment or curtailment occurs, or when the Group recognises The tax expense includes any interest and penalties payable.
related restructuring costs or termination benefits, if earlier.
Gains or losses on settlement of a defined benefit plan are recognised The current tax payable arising in the year is based on taxable profit when the settlement occurs.
for theyear using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted bythe balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax The amount recognised in the balance sheet represents the net of payable in respect ofprior years.
the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for actuarial gains and losses and past service cost, and the fair value of Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability plan assets.
The Trust Deed provides the Group with an unconditional method in respect of temporary differences arising between right to a refund of surplus assets assuming the full settlement of plan the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the Financial liabilities in the event of a plan wind-up.
Furthermore, in the ordinary Statements and the corresponding tax basis used in the course of business the Trustee has no rights to unilaterally wind up, or computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally otherwise augment the benefits due to members of, the plan.
Based recognised for all temporary differences and deferred tax assets on these rights, any net surplus in the plan is recognised in full.
are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences u Share-based payments may be utilised.
Temporary differences are not recognised if they The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain arise from goodwill or from initial recognition of other assets and employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured liabilities in a transaction which affects neither the tax profit nor atfair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the the accounting profit.
grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the The fair value of share options issued is determined using temporary difference and itisprobable that the temporary appropriate valuation models.
The expected life used in the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
modelshas been adjusted, based on managements best estimate for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and Deferred tax is calculated at the rates that are expected to apply behavioural considerations.
when theasset or liability is settled or when the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to othercomprehensive income or equity, in which case the deferred taxis also dealt with in other comprehensive income or equity.
com 138 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued The following key assumptions concerning the future, and other u Share-based payments continued sources of estimation uncertainty that may have a significant risk of The estimated fair value of shares granted is based on the share price material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities at grant date, reduced where shares do not qualify for dividends are discussed below.
Market-based performance conditions for equity-settled payments are reflected in the initial fair value Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets of the award.
Determining whether goodwill and intangible assets are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating v Treasury shares units to which these assets have been allocated.
The value in use Where share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount calculation requires estimation of future cash flows expected to arise of theconsideration paid, including directly attributable costs, net for the cash-generating unit, the selection of suitable discount rates of any tax effects, is recognised as a deduction from equity.
When and the estimation of future growth rates.
During the year goodwill treasury shares are sold or re-issued subsequently, the amount has been impaired by 65m.
Note 13 describes the assumptions used received is recognised as an increase in equity, and the resulting together with an analysis of the sensitivity to reasonably possible surplus or deficit on the transaction is transferred to or from changes in key assumptions.
w Accounting estimates and judgements In the application of the Groups accounting policies, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions aboutthe carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis andrevisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period an estimate is revised.
The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving estimations, that the Directors have made in the process of preparing the Financial Statements.
Provisions and contingent liabilities Provisions are established by the Group based on managements assessment of relevant information and advice available at the time of preparing the Financial Statements.
Judgement is required as to whether a present obligation exists and in estimating the probability, timing and amount of any outflows.
Judgement is also required as to when contingent liabilities become disclosable.
Outcomes are uncertain and dependent on future events.
Where outcomes differ from managements expectations, differences from the amount initially provided will impact profit or loss in the period the outcome is determined.
Estimating potential legal outcomes is also a significant areaof estimation uncertainty.
Note 24 and Note 33 provide details of the Groups provisions and contingent liabilities.
Presentation of the Income Statement The Group maintains a columnar format for the presentation of its Consolidated Income Statement.
The columnar format enables the Group to continue its practice of aiding the understanding of its results by presenting its underlying profit separate from items relating to acquisition, disposal and integration costs, and exceptional items.
Judgement is required to ensure that profit or loss items are appropriately and consistently classified and that their classification and description correctly reflects the presentational objectives of the Group.
Note 5 provides details of the items separately presented in the Groups Income Statement.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 139 4.
Segmental analysis Products and services from which reportable segments derive their revenues The Group is organised by geographic reporting segments which are used for the purposes of resource allocation and assessment of segmental performance by Group management.
These are the Groups reportable segments under IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
Revenue arising in each geographic reportable segment is derived from four business divisions: Global Broking, Energy & Commodities, Institutional Services, and Data & Analytics.
Information regarding the Groups operating segments is reported below: Analysis by geographic segment 2018 2017 m m Revenue EMEA 886 877 Americas 636 628 Asia Pacific 241 252 1,763 1,757 Operating profit EMEA 173 170 Americas 81 64 Asia Pacific 22 29 Underlying operating profit 276 263 Acquisition, disposal and integration costs Note 5 160 127 Exceptional items Note 5 23 34 Reported operating profit 93 102 Finance income 5 6 Finance costs 36 36 Profit before tax 62 72 Taxation 39 3 Profit after tax 23 75 Share of results of associates and joint ventures 12 12 Profit for the year 35 87 There are no inter-segment sales included in segment revenue.
TP ICAP plc is domiciled in the UK.
Revenue attributable to the UK amounted to 828m 2017: 795m and the total revenue from other countries was 935m 2017: 962m.
Other segmental information 2018 2017 m m Capital additions EMEA UK 33 28 Americas 34 10 Asia Pacific 6 3 73 41 2018 2017 m m Depreciation and amortisation EMEA UK 24 27 EMEA Other 2 2 Americas 11 10 Asia Pacific 2 2 39 41 www.
com 140 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 4.
Segmental analysis continued 2018 2017 m m Share-based compensation EMEA UK including nil relating to acquisitions and integration 2017: 14m 3 16 Americas 1 2 Asia Pacific 1 1 5 19 Non-current Current 2018 2017 m m m m Segment assets EMEA UK 1,130 3,049 4,179 6,006 EMEA Other 35 75 110 191 Americas 556 20,317 20,873 30,805 Asia Pacific 194 157 351 350 1,915 23,598 25,513 37,352 Unallocated goodwill arising on acquisitions Note 13 21 1,915 23,598 25,513 37,373 Non-current Current 2018 2017 m m m m Segment liabilities EMEA UK 324 2,766 3,090 4,936 EMEA Other 33 62 95 176 Americas 269 20,072 20,341 30,278 Asia Pacific 92 65 157 150 718 22,965 23,683 35,540 Segment assets and liabilities exclude all inter-segment balances.
Analysis by business division 2018 2017 m m Revenue Rates 547 528 Credit 101 117 FX & Money Markets 207 218 Emerging Markets 213 225 Equities 210 182 Global Broking 1,278 1,270 Energy & Commodities 331 343 Institutional Services 37 32 Data & Analytics 117 112 1,763 1,757 In respect of contracts for the provision Data & Analytics, the Group has applied the practical expedient in IFRS 15, allowing for the nondisclosure of both the amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations, and an explanation of when it expects to recognise that amount.
In relation to these contracts the Group has a right that corresponds directly with the value of the Groups performance completed.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 141 5.
Administrative expenses Acquisition, disposal and integration Exceptional Underlying costs items Total m m m m 2018 Broker compensation costs 859 859 Other staff costs 237 22 259 Other share-based payment charge 5 5 Charge relating to employee long-term benefits 2 2 Employment costs Note 7 1,101 22 2 1,125 Technology and related costs 146 146 Premises and related costs 52 1 14 67 Amortisation of other intangible assets Note 14 25 1 26 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Note 15 10 3 13 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on consolidation Note 13 40 40 Impairment of intangible assets arising on consolidation Note 13 65 65 Impairment of associate 3 3 Adjustments to deferred consideration 5 5 Net change relating to legal settlements 3 3 Acquisition costs 3 3 Other administrative costs 164 20 1 185 1,498 160 23 1,681 2017 Broker compensation costs 828 32 860 Other staff costs 237 35 272 Acquisition related share-based payment charge 9 9 Other share-based payment charge 5 5 10 Charge relating to employee long-term benefits 2 2 Employment costs Note 7 1,070 49 34 1,153 Technology and related costs 149 1 150 Premises and related costs 49 2 51 Amortisation of other intangible assets Note 14 25 4 29 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Note 15 12 12 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on consolidation Note 13 40 40 Adjustments to deferred consideration 1 1 Acquisition costs 1 1 Other administrative costs 204 32 236 1,509 128 34 1,671 Net foreign exchange gains of 1m 2017: gain 1m are included in other administrative costs.
com 142 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 5.
Administrative expenses continued Acquisition, disposal and integration costs comprise: 2018 2017 m m ICAP integration costs Employee related costs 22 35 Share-based payment charge 5 Premises and technology costs 1 3 Amortisation of other intangible assets 1 4 Other administrative costs 20 32 44 79 Acquisition and disposal costs Acquisition costs 3 1 Acquisition related share-based payment charge 9 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on consolidation 40 40 Impairment of intangible assets arising on consolidation 65 Impairment of associate 3 Adjustments to acquisition consideration Note 30 d 5 1 160 128 Other income 1 160 127 Taxation 20 54 140 73 Exceptional items comprise: 2018 2017 m m Charge relating to business reorganisation 18 Charge relating to cost improvement programmes 32 Charge relating to employee long-term benefits 2 2 Net charge relating to legal settlements 3 23 34 Taxation 4 10 19 24 The analysis of auditors remuneration is as follows: 2018 2017 000 000 Audit of the Groups annual accounts 448 435 Audit of the Companys subsidiaries and associates pursuant to legislation 4,917 4,222 Total audit fees 5,365 4,657 Audit related assurance services 1,239 999 Other assurance services 88 77 Taxation compliance services Other taxation advisory services Corporate finance services Total non-audit fees 1,327 1,076 Audit fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates in respect of associated pension schemes 18 18 1 Audit related assurance services relate to services required by law or regulation, assurance on regulatory returns and review of interim financial information.
2 Other assurance services relate to non-statutory audits and other permitted assurance services.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 143 6.
Other operating income Other operating income represents receipts such as rental income, royalties, insurance proceeds, settlements from competitors and business relocation grants.
Costs associated with such items are included in administrative expenses.
Staff costs The average monthly number of full time equivalent employees and Directors of the Group was: 2018 2017 No.
EMEA 2,216 2,338 Americas 1,576 1,674 Asia Pacific 1,042 1,116 4,834 5,128 The aggregate employment costs of staff and Directors were: 2018 2017 m m Wages, salaries, bonuses and incentive payments 1,022 1,039 Social security costs 83 82 Defined contribution pension costs Note 35 c 15 13 Acquisition related share-based payment charge 9 Other share-based compensation expense 5 10 1,125 1,153 8.
Finance income 2018 2017 m m Interest receivable and similar income 4 3 Deemed interest arising on the defined benefit pension scheme surplus Note 35 1 3 5 6 9.
Finance costs 2018 2017 m m Interest and fees payable on bank facilities 4 4 Interest payable on Sterling Notes June 2019 4 4 Interest payable on Sterling Notes January 2024 26 24 Other interest payable 1 1 Amortisation of debt issue and bank facility costs 1 3 Total borrowing costs 36 36 www.
com 144 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 10.
Taxation 2018 2017 m m Current tax UK corporation tax 23 19 Overseas tax 17 13 Prior year UK corporation tax 2 Prior year overseas tax 3 38 29 Deferred tax Note 20 Current year 1 32 Prior year 1 32 Tax charge credit for the year 39 3 The charge credit for the year can be reconciled to the profit in the income statement as follows: Acquisition, disposal and integration Exceptional Underlying costs items 2018 2017 m m m m m Profit before tax 245 160 23 62 72 Tax based on the UK corporation tax rate of 19.0% 2017: 19.25% 46 30 4 12 14 Tax effect of items that are not deductible: expenses 6 2 1 9 9 impairment of intangible assets arising on consolidation 13 13 Prior year adjustments 2 2 3 Impact of tax rate change 24 Impact of overseas tax rates 13 5 1 7 1 Tax charge credit for the year 63 20 4 39 3 The UK corporation tax rate for 2018 is 19.0% 2017: 19.25%.
The impact of tax rate change in 2017 of 24m relates to a reduction in the deferred tax liability that was recognised in relation to the intangible assets of 636m that arose on acquisition of ICAP, due to the reduction in the US federal rate of tax Note 20.
In addition to the income statement charge, the following current and deferred tax items have been included in other comprehensive income and equity: Recognised in other comprehensive Recognised income in equity Total m m m 2018 Deferred tax credit relating to: Decrease in the defined benefit pension scheme surplus 1 1 Other timing differences 1 1 Tax credit on items taken directly to other comprehensive income and equity 1 1 2 2017 Deferred tax credit relating to: Decrease in the defined benefit pension scheme surplus 16 16 Tax credit on items taken directly to other comprehensive income and equity 16 16 TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 145 11.
Earnings per share 2018 2017 Basic underlying 34.2p 33.3p Diluted underlying 33.9p 32.7p Basic earnings per share 5.7p 15.8p Diluted earnings per share 5.7p 15.5p The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following number of shares: 2018 2017 No.
m Basic weighted average shares 558.5 551.8 Contingently issuable shares 5.6 10.9 Diluted weighted average shares 564.1 562.7 The earnings used in the calculation of underlying, basic and diluted earnings per share are set out below: 2018 2017 m m Earnings for the year 35 87 Non-controlling interests 3 Earnings 32 87 Acquisition, disposal and integration costs Note 5 160 127 Exceptional items Note 5 23 34 Taxation Note 10 24 64 Underlying earnings 191 184 12.
Dividends 2018 2017 m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017 of 11.25p per share 63 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 5.6p per share 31 Second interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 of 11.25p per share 27 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017 of 5.6p per share 31 94 58 In respect of the current year, the Directors propose a final dividend of 11.25p per share amounting to 63m which will be paid on 21May2019 to all shareholders that are on the Register of Members on 5 April 2019.
This dividend has not been included asaliability in these Financial Statements.
The Trustees of the TP ICAP plc Employee Benefit Trust formerly the Tullett Prebon plc Employee Benefit Trust 2007 have waived their rights to dividends.
com 146 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 13.
Intangible assets arising on consolidation Goodwill Other Total m m m At 1 January 2018 1,052 590 1,642 Recognised on acquisitions 31 2 33 Remeasurement period adjustments 2 2 Amortisation of acquisition related intangibles 40 40 Impairment of acquisition related intangibles 65 65 Effect of movements in exchange rates 14 10 24 At 31 December 2018 1,030 564 1,594 At 1 January 2017 1,066 646 1,712 Recognised on acquisitions 21 3 24 Amortisation of acquisition related intangibles 40 40 Effect of movements in exchange rates 35 19 54 At 31 December 2017 1,052 590 1,642 Other intangible assets at 31 December 2018 represent customer relationships, 543m 2017: 561m, business brands and trade marks, 16m 2017: 21m, and other intangibles, 5m 2017: 8m that arise through business combinations.
Customer relationships are being amortised between 10 and 20 years.
Goodwill arising through business combinations is allocated to groups of individual cash-generating units CGUs, reflecting the lowest level at which the Group monitors and tests goodwill for impairment purposes.
The CGU groupings are as follows: 2018 2017 m m CGU EMEA 654 644 Americas 281 284 Asia Pacific 95 103 Goodwill allocated to CGUs 1,030 1,031 Unallocated goodwill 21 1,030 1,052 The allocation of goodwill arising on the acquisition of COEX Note 30 c has been completed during 2018.
This has been allocated to the regional operating segments that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the recoverable amount of each CGU.
The recoverable amount is the higher of its value in use VIU or its fair value less cost of disposal FVLCD.
CGUs, to which goodwill has been allocated, are tested for impairment at least annually.
During the year the Group undertook impairment assessments as at 30 June and as at 31 December, triggered as a result of changes in expected CGU cash flows.
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the recoverable amount of each group of CGUs.
VIU is a pre-tax valuation, using pre-tax cash flows and pre-tax discount rates which is compared to the pre-tax carrying value of the CGU, whereas FVLCD is a post-tax valuation, using post-tax cash flows, post-tax discount rates and other post-tax observable valuation inputs, which is compared to a post-tax carrying value of the CGU.
The key assumptions for the VIU calculations are those regarding expected cash flows arising in future periods, regional growth rates and the discount rates.
Future projections are based on the most recent financial projections considered by the Board which are used to project pre-tax cash flows for the next five years.
After this period a steady state cash flow is used to derive a terminal value for the CGU.
As at 30 June 2018 the recoverable amount for each CGU was based on their VIU.
Growth rates on underlying revenue, equating to a 1% compound annual growth rate over the five year projected period, were used for all CGUs, with pre-tax discount rates of 13.4% for EMEA, 16.7% for Americas and 14.8% for Asia Pacific.
As a result, the recoverable amount for the Americas CGU was estimated to be lower than its carrying value by 58m and was impaired by this amount.
At that time both the Americas and Asia Pacific CGUs were sensitive to reasonably possible changes in the VIU assumptions.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 147 13.
Intangible assets arising on consolidation continued As at 31 December 2018 the recoverable amount for each CGU was based on their VIU.
Growth rates on underlying revenue, equating to a 1.2% compound annual growth rate over the five year projected period, were used for all CGUs, with pre-tax discount rates of 12.7% for EMEA, 15.5% for Americas and 14.1% for Asia Pacific.
As a result, the recoverable amount for the Asia Pacific CGU was estimated to be lower than its carrying value by 7m and has been impaired by this amount.
As at 31 December 2017 the recoverable amounts for each CGU were based on their FVLCD, using the Income Approach, as the difference between each CGUs recoverable amount and their carrying value was greater on this basis than that under the CGUs VIU calculation.
The key assumptions for the Income Approach are those regarding expected cash flows arising in future periods, regional growth rates and the discount rates.
Future projections were based on financial budgets considered by the Board which were used to project cash flows for the next seven years.
After this period a steady state cash flow was used to derive a terminal value for the CGU.
Annual growth rates of1.5% were used for all CGUs with discount rates of 11% for EMEA, 12% for Americas and 13.5% for Asia Pacific.
Under this valuation approach each CGU had a FVLCD in excess of its carrying value.
Under this approach Americas and Asia Pacific were sensitive to reasonably possible changes in assumptions.
As at 31 December 2018 both the Americas and Asia Pacific CGUs are sensitive to reasonably possible changes in the VIU assumptions.
The recoverable amount for Americas exceeded its carrying value by 79m which reduces to nil if, over the projected period, compound annual growth rates fall to nil%, or if the discount rate is increased to 18%.
Further impairment of the Asia Pacific CGU would be required if there are changes in the applicable assumptions.
A reduction in the compound growth rate over the period by 0.3% would increase the impairment charge by 10m and a 1% increase in the discount rate would increase the charge by 11m.
The impact on future cash flows resulting from falling growth rates does not reflect any management actions that would be taken under such circumstances.
Other intangible assets Purchased Developed software software Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2018 18 112 130 Additions 6 20 26 Amounts derecognised 1 10 11 Effect of movements in exchange rates 3 3 At 31 December 2018 23 125 148 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2018 9 52 61 Charge for the year 4 22 26 Amounts derecognised 1 10 11 Effect of movements in exchange rates 2 1 3 At 31 December 2018 14 65 79 Carrying amount At 31 December 2018 9 60 69 Cost At 1 January 2017 19 99 118 Additions 26 26 Amounts derecognised 1 10 11 Effect of movements in exchange rates 3 3 At 31 December 2017 18 112 130 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2017 6 39 45 Charge for the year 5 24 29 Amounts derecognised 1 9 10 Effect of movements in exchange rates 1 2 3 At 31 December 2017 9 52 61 Carrying amount At 31 December 2017 9 60 69 www.
com 148 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 15.
Property, plant and equipment Furniture, Land, fixtures, buildings and equipment leasehold and motor improvements vehicles Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2018 36 72 108 Additions 31 16 47 Disposals 17 12 29 Effect of movements in exchange rates 4 3 7 At 31 December 2018 54 79 133 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2018 20 50 70 Charge for the year 6 7 13 Disposals 17 12 29 Effect of movements in exchange rates 2 3 5 At 31 December 2018 11 48 59 Carrying amount At 31 December 2018 43 31 74 Cost At 1 January 2017 38 68 106 Additions 2 13 15 Disposals 1 5 6 Effect of movements in exchange rates 3 4 7 At 31 December 2017 36 72 108 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2017 19 51 70 Charge for the year 4 8 12 Disposals 1 5 6 Effect of movements in exchange rates 2 4 6 At 31 December 2017 20 50 70 Carrying amount At 31 December 2017 16 22 38 No assets are held under finance leases.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 149 16.
Investment in associates 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 52 52 Additions 2 1 Disposals 1 Impairment 3 Share of profit for the year 8 9 Dividends received 7 8 Effect of movements in exchange rates 2 2 At 31 December 53 52 Summary financial information for associates Aggregated amounts for associates at the year end : Total assets 261 250 Total liabilities 95 92 Net assets 166 158 Proportion of Groups ownership interest 51 47 Goodwill 2 5 Carrying amount of Groups ownership interest 53 52 Aggregated amounts for associates during the year : Revenue 201 203 Profit for the year 25 28 Groups share of profit for the year 8 9 Dividends received from associates during the year 7 8 Interests in associates are measured using the equity method.
All associates are involved in broking activities and have either a 31 December or 31 March year end.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these Financial Statements based on financial information made up to 31 December each year.
No individual associate is material to the Group.
Country of incorporation Percentage and operation Associated undertakings held Bahrain ICAP Middle East W. L. L. 49% China Tullett Prebon SITICO China Limited 33% England Glia Ecosystems Limited 20% Zodiac Seven Limited 35% India Tullett Prebon India Limited formerly Prebon Yamane India Limited 48% 1 ICAP IL India Private Limited 40% 1 Japan Totan ICAP Co. Ltd 40% 1 Central Totan Securities Co. Ltd 20% Malaysia Amanah Butler Malaysia Sdn Bhd 32.1% Spain Corretaje e Informacion Monetaria y fide Divisas SA 21.5% 1 United States First Brokers Securities LLC 40% 1 31 March year end.
com 150 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 17.
Investment in joint ventures 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 24 28 Share of result for the year 4 3 Dividends received 3 5 Effect of movements in exchange rates 1 2 At 31 December 26 24 Summary financial information for joint ventures Aggregated amounts for joint ventures at the year end : Total assets 21 17 Total liabilities 6 5 Net assets 15 12 Proportion of Groups ownership interest 7 5 Goodwill 19 19 Carrying amount of Groups ownership interest 26 24 Aggregated amounts for joint ventures during the year : Revenue 14 14 Result for the year 7 6 Groups share of result for the year 4 3 Dividends received from joint ventures during the year 3 5 Interests in joint ventures are measured using the equity method.
All joint ventures are involved in broking activities and have a 31 December year end.
No individual joint venture is material to the Group.
Country of incorporation Percentage and operation Joint ventures held Colombia SET-ICAP FX SA 47.9% SET-ICAP Securities S. A.
47.4% England tpSynrex Ltd 50% Mexico SIF ICAP, S. A. fide C. V. 50% 18.
Other investments 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 19 23 Disposals 7 4 Revaluation of equity instruments at FVTOCI 7 Effect of movements in exchange rates 1 At 31 December 20 19 Categorisation of other investments: Debt instruments at FVTOCI corporate debt securities 2 Available-for-sale corporate debt securities 2 Equity instruments at FVTOCI 18 Available-for-sale equity instruments 17 20 19 The fair values are based on valuations as disclosed in Note 26 i.
Equity instruments comprise securities that do not qualify as associates or joint ventures.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 151 19.
Financial investments 2018 2017 m m Debt instruments at FVTOCI Government debt securities 84 Available-for-sale Government debt securities 86 Investments at amortised cost Term deposits 37 41 Restricted funds 12 12 133 139 Debt instruments and term deposits are liquid instruments held with financial institutions and central counterparty clearing houses CCP providing the Group with access to clearing services.
Restricted funds comprise cash held with financial institutions and CCPs together with funds set aside for regulatory purposes.
The funds represent cash for which the Group does not have immediate and direct access or for which regulatory requirements restrict the use of the cash.
Deferred tax 2018 2017 m m Deferred tax assets 4 2 Deferred tax liabilities 123 116 119 114 The movement for the year in the Groups net deferred tax position was as follows: 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 114 170 Credit to equity on initial application of IFRS 9 Note 2 e 1 Charge credit to income for the year 1 32 Credit to other comprehensive income for the year 1 16 Recognised with acquisitions 1 2 Effect of movements in exchange rates 5 6 At 31 December 119 114 www.
com 152 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 20.
Deferred tax continued Deferred tax balances and movements thereon are analysed as: Recognised Effect of Recognised in other Recognised movements At Recognised in profit comprehensive with in exchange At 1 January in equity or loss income acquisitions rates 31 December m m m m m m m 2018 Share-based payment awards 2 1 3 Defined benefit pension scheme 20 1 19 Tax losses 2 3 5 Bonuses 16 15 1 Intangible assets arising on consolidation 119 10 1 4 114 Other timing differences 5 1 1 5 114 1 1 1 1 5 119 2017 Share-based payment awards 2 2 Defined benefit pension scheme 33 3 16 20 Tax losses 2 2 Bonuses 19 3 16 Intangible assets arising on consolidation 160 34 7 119 Other timing differences 2 2 2 1 5 170 32 16 2 6 114 At the balance sheet date, the Group has gross unrecognised temporary differences of 119m with the unrecognised net tax amount being 25m 2017: gross 133m and net tax 29m respectively.
This includes gross tax losses of 97m with the net tax amount being 19m 2017: gross 119m and net tax 27m respectively, which are potentially available for offset against future profits.
Of the unrecognised gross losses 48m 2017: 83m are expected to expire within 20 years and 49m 2017: 36m have no expiry.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items since it is not probable that future taxable profits will arise against which the temporary differences may be utilised.
A deferred tax asset of 5m 2017: 2m in respect of tax losses has been recognised as at 31 December 2018 as it was considered probable that future tax profits should arise.
In 2017, the deferred tax liability relating to intangible assets arising on consolidation was reduced by 34m, 24m duetothe reduction in the US federal rate of tax, and 10m relating to amortisation of intangible assets.
No deferred tax has been recognised on temporary differences associated with unremitted earnings of subsidiaries as the Group is able to control the timing of distributions and overseas dividends are largely exempt from UK tax.
As at the balance sheet date, the Group had unrecognised deferred tax liabilities of 2m 2017: 2m in respect of unremitted profits of subsidiaries of 27m 2017: 23m.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 153 21.
Trade and other receivables 2018 2017 m m Non-current receivables Other debtors 20 19 Current receivables Trade receivables 283 258 Settlement balances 21,487 33,640 Deposits paid for securities borrowed 900 681 Derivatives at FVTPL 3 12 Financial assets 22,673 34,591 Other debtors 18 13 Prepayments 90 71 Accrued income 10 9 Corporation tax 3 2 Owed by associates and joint ventures 4 4 22,798 34,690 The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables which are not held at fair value through profit or loss approximate to their fairvalues.
No interest is charged on outstanding trade receivables.
For the year ended 31 December 2018 the Group measures the loss allowance for trade receivables at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit loss.
The expected credit losses on trade receivables are estimated using a provision matrix by reference to past default experience of the debtor and an analysis of the debtors current financial position, adjusted for factors that are specific to the debtors, general economic conditions and an assessment of both the current as well as the forecast direction of conditions at the reporting date.
The following table details the risk profile of trade receivables based on the Groups provision matrix by region.
As the Groups historical credit loss experience does not show significantly different loss patterns for different regional customer segments, the provision for loss allowance based on past due status is not further distinguished between the Groups different customer base.
Amounts not past due have been reduced by 11m, with increases of 6m in less than 30 days past due, 1m in 31-60 days past due, 2m in 61-90 days past due and 2m in greater than 90 days past due.
The Group adopted IFRS 9 on 1 January 2018 and on transition recognised an additional loss allowance of 4m, increasing the loss allowance to 10m, reflecting the measurement of ECLs at that date Note 2 e. www.
com 154 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 21.
Trade and other receivables continued As at 31 December 2018 settlement balances that were due and those that were past due were as follows: Less than Greater than 90 days 91 days Total Not past due past due past due Settlement balances m m m m 2018 EMEA 2,387 1,605 779 3 Americas 19,100 18,960 140 Total 21,487 20,565 919 3 2017 EMEA 4,429 3,939 490 Americas 29,211 29,006 205 Total restated 33,640 32,945 695 1 The ageing for 2017 has been restated.
Amounts not past due have been reduced by 403m with a corresponding increase in amounts less than 90 days past due.
Settlement balances arise on Matched Principal brokerage whereby securities are bought from one counterparty and simultaneously sold to another counterparty.
Settlement of such transactions is primarily on a delivery vs payment basis DVP and typically take place within a few business days of the transaction date according to the relevant market rules and conventions.
The amounts due from and payable to counterparties in respect of as yet unsettled Matched Principal transactions are shown gross, except where a netting agreement Note 26 d, which is legally enforceable at all times, exists andthe asset and liability are either settled net or simultaneously.
The above analysis reflects only the receivable side of such transactions.
Corresponding payable amounts are shown in Note 22 Trade and other payables.
The Group measures loss allowances for settlement balances under the general approach reflecting the probability of default based on the credit rating of the counterparty together with an assessment of the loss, after the sale of underlying instruments, that could arise as a result of default.
As at 31 December 2018, the provision for expected credit losses amounted to less than 1m.
Deposits paid for securities borrowed arise on collateralised stock lending transactions.
Such trades are complete only when both the collateral and stock for each side of the transaction are returned.
The above analysis reflects the receivable side of such transactions.
Corresponding deposits received for securities loaned are shown in Note 22 Trade and other payables.
The Group measures loss allowances for these balances under the general approach reflecting the probability of default based on the credit rating of the counterparty together with an assessment of the loss, after the sale of collateral, that could arise as a result of default.
Derivatives at FVTPL arise on simultaneous back-to-back derivative transactions with counterparties.
The above analysis reflects only the asset side ofsuch transactions.
Corresponding liability amounts are shown in Note 22 Trade and other payables.
Trade and other payables 2018 2017 m m Trade payables 19 14 Settlement balances 21,451 33,622 Deposits received for securities loaned 907 687 Derivatives at FVTPL 3 12 Deferred consideration Note 30 d 15 12 Financial liabilities 22,395 34,347 Tax and social security 27 34 Other creditors 20 15 Accruals 289 281 Deferred income 2 2 Owed to associates and joint ventures 2 2 22,735 34,681 The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables which are not held at fair value through profit or loss approximate to their fairvalues.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 155 23.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings Less than Greater than one year one year Total m m m 2018 Bank loans 52 52 Sterling Notes June 2019 80 80 Sterling Notes January 2024 12 498 510 144 498 642 2017 Sterling Notes June 2019 80 80 Sterling Notes January 2024 12 497 509 12 577 589 All amounts are denominated in Sterling and are stated after unamortised transaction costs.
An analysis of borrowings by maturity has been disclosed inNote 26 f. Bank credit facilities and bank loans In December 2018 the Group cancelled its 250m committed revolving credit facility, that would have matured in April 2020, and entered into a new 270m committed revolving credit facility maturing in December 2021.
Facility commitment fees of 0.8% on the undrawn balance are payable on the new facility, reduced from 1.0% that were payable on the cancelled facility.
Arrangement fees of 3m were incurred in 2018 and will be amortised over the maturity of the new facility.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group had 52m 2017: nil drawn down against the 270m revolving credit facility.
Amounts drawn down are reported as bank loans in the above table.
27m is repayable in January 2019 and 25m in February 2019.
The carrying amount of bank loans approximated to their carrying fairvalue.
Interest and facility fees of 4m were incurred in 2018.
Sterling Notes: Due June 2019 In December 2012 80m Sterling Notes, due June 2019, were issued.
The Notes have a coupon of 5.25% paid semi-annually.
At 31 December 2018 their fair value Level 1 was 81m 2017: 84m.
Sterling Notes: Due January 2024 In January 2017 the Group issued 500m unsecured Sterling Notes due January 2024.
The Notes have a fixed coupon of 5.25% paid semi-annually, subject to compliance with the terms of the Notes.
At 31 December 2018 their fair value Level 1 was 468m 2017: 533m.
Accrued interest at 31 December 2018 amounted to 12m 2017: 12m.
Issue costs of 3m were incurred in 2017. www.
com 156 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 24.
Provisions Legal Property Restructuring and other Total m m m m 2018 At 1 January 2018 5 27 29 61 Charge to income statement 11 10 7 28 Utilisation of provision 2 27 29 Effect of movements in exchange rates 1 1 At 31 December 2018 14 10 37 61 2017 At 1 January 2017 9 5 29 43 Released charge to income statement 2 32 1 31 Utilisation of provision 2 10 1 13 Effect of movements in exchange rates At 31 December 2017 5 27 29 61 2018 2017 m m Included in current liabilities 31 42 Included in non-current liabilities 30 19 61 61 Property provisions outstanding as at 31 December 2018 relate to provisions in respect of onerous leases and building dilapidations.
Theonerous lease provision represents the net present value of the future rental cost net of expected sub-lease income.
These leases expireinone to eight years 2017: one to nine years.
The building dilapidations provision represents the estimated cost of making good dilapidations and disrepair on various leasehold buildings.
The leases expire in one to 16 years.
Restructuring provisions outstanding as at 31 December 2018 relate to termination and other employee related costs.
The movement during theyear reflects the actions taken under the Groups integration of ICAP and other business reorganisations.
It is expected that the remainingobligations will be discharged during 2019.
Legal and other provisions include provisions for legal claims brought against subsidiaries of the Group together with provisions against obligations for certain long-term employee benefits and non-property related onerous contracts.
At present the timing and amount of any payments are uncertain and provisions are subject toregular review.
It is expected that the obligations will be discharged over the next 25 years.
In February 2015 the European Commission imposed a fine of 13m 15m on ICAP Europe Limited IEL for alleged competition violations in relation to the involvement of certain of IELs brokers in the attempted manipulation of Yen LIBOR by bank traders between October 2006 and January 2011.
While this matter relates to alleged conduct violations prior to completion of the Groups acquisition of the ICAP global broking business, the Company notes that the fine imposed by the European Commission has been appealed, seeking a full annulment of the Commissions decision.
In the event that the Commission imposes a fine in excess of 15m such excess will be borne by NEX Group plc NEX.
In November 2017, the European General Court granted a partial annulment of the Commissions findings.
The Commission appealed this decision in February 2018 and IEL served its reply during April 2018.
Written submissions for the appeal process have now closed.
A decision from the Courts of Justice of the European Union is unlikely to be received until the second quarter of 2019.
During the period, the amount provided for in respect of this matter has been reduced from 13m 15m to 9m 10m reflecting the Groups current estimate of the liability.
In June 2018, the Company recorded an exceptional legal provision in the amount of 8m US$10m in connection with an ongoing regulatory investigation into its subsidiary, Tullett Prebon Americas Corp. TPAC, relating to alleged broker conduct on the TPAC USD Medium Term Interest Rate Swaps desk in 2013 and 2014.
Based upon currently available information, the Company believes that the outcome of the investigation will not, in aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition.
In light of the inherent uncertainties of such proceedings, however, including those that may be brought by regulators or other governmental authorities, the ultimate cost to the Group of resolving such proceedings may exceed current litigation provisions and any excess may be material to its operating results for any particular period depending in part upon the operating results for such period.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 157 25.
Other long term payables 2018 2017 m m Accruals and deferred income 38 24 Deferred consideration Note 30 d 26 19 64 43 Accruals and deferred income includes deferred leasehold rental accruals that build up during rent free periods which are subsequently utilised over the rental payment period of the lease.
Financial instruments a Financial and liquidity risk The Group does not take trading risk and does not hold proprietary trading positions.
Consequently, the Group is exposed to trading book market risk only in relation to incidental positions in financial instruments arising as a result of the Groups failure to match clients orders precisely.
The Group has limited exposure to non-trading book market risk, specifically to interest rate risk and currency risk.
Thus the overall approach to the planning and management of the Groups capital and liquidity is to ensure the Groups solvency, i. e. its continued ability to conduct business, deliver returns to shareholders, and support growth and strategic initiatives.
This risk profile meets the necessary conditions for an investment firm consolidation waiver and the Group benefits from a waiver under the CRD IV provisions, the details of which are set out in the Regulatory Capital section of the Strategic report on page 36.
The Group seeks to ensure that it has access to an appropriate level of cash, other forms of marketable securities and liquidity facilities to enable it to finance its ongoing operations on cost effective terms.
Cash and cash equivalent balances are held with the primary objective of capital security and availability, with a secondary objective of generating returns.
Funding requirements are monitored by the Groups Finance and Treasury functions.
As a normal part of its operations, the Group faces liquidity risk through the risk of being required to fund transactions that fail to settle on the due date.
From a risk perspective, the most problematic scenario concerns fail to deliver transactions, where the business has received a security from the selling counterparty and has paid cash in settlement of the same but is unable to effect onward delivery of the security to the buying counterparty.
Such settlement fails give rise to a funding requirement, reflecting the value of the security which the Group has failed to deliver until such time as the delivery leg is finally settled, or the security sold, and the business has received the associated cash.
The Group has addressed this funding risk by arranging overdraft facilities to cover failed to deliver trades, either with the relevant settlement agent depository or with a clearing bank.
Under such arrangements, the facility provider will fund the value of any failed to deliver trades until delivery of the security is effected.
Certain facility providers require collateral such as a cash deposit or parent company guarantee to protect them from any adverse mark-to-market movement and some also charge a funding fee for providing the facility.
The Group is also exposed to potential margin calls.
Margin calls can be made by central counterparties under the Matched Principal broking model when not all legs of a matched principal trade are settled at the central counterparty or when there is a residual balance or confirmation error.
Margin calls can be made by the Groups clearers or correspondent clearers under the Executing Broker broking model when there is a trade error or a counterparty is slow to confirm their trade.
These margin calls occur mainly in the US and UK.
In the event of a liquidity issue arising, the firm has recourse to existing global cash resources, after which it could draw down on its 270m committed revolving credit facility as additional contingency funding.
b Capital management The Groups policy is to maintain a capital base and funding structure that maintains creditor, regulator and market confidence and provides flexibility for business development while also optimising returns to shareholders.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, as set out in Note 23, cash and cash equivalents, other current financial assets and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings asdisclosed in Notes 27 and 28.
The Group has an investment firm consolidation waiver under which it is required to monitor its compliance with a Financial Holding Company test which takes into account the Companys shareholders funds and the aggregated credit risk, market risk and fixed overhead requirements of the Companys subsidiaries.
A number of the Companys subsidiaries are individually regulated and are required to maintain capital that is appropriate to the risks entailed in their businesses according to definitions that vary according to each jurisdiction.
com 158 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 26.
Financial instruments continued c Categorisation of financial assets and liabilities FVTOCI FVTOCI Total debt equity Amortised Mandatorily carrying instruments instruments cost at FVTPL amount Financial assets IFRS 9 m m m m m 2018 Non-current financial assets measured at fair value Equity securities 18 18 Corporate debt securities 2 2 2 18 20 Current financial assets measured at fair value Derivative instruments 3 3 Government debt securities 84 84 Current financial assets not measured at fair value Term deposits 37 37 Restricted funds 12 12 Trade receivables 283 283 Settlement balances receivable 21,487 21,487 Deposits paid for securities borrowed 900 900 Cash and cash equivalents 667 667 84 23,386 3 23,473 Total financial assets 86 18 23,386 3 23,493 Available-forsale assets Financial Debt Equity Loans and assets at instruments instruments receivables FVTPL Total Financial assets IAS 39 m m m m m 2017 Other investments 2 17 19 Financial investments 86 53 139 Trade receivables 258 258 Settlement balances 33,640 33,640 Deposits paid for securities borrowed 681 681 Derivative instruments at FVTPL 12 12 Cash and cash equivalents 622 622 88 17 35,254 12 35,371 Mandatorily at FVTPL Other financial liabilities Total carrying Non-current Current Non-current Current amount Financial liabilities IFRS 9 m m m m m 2018 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Deferred consideration 26 15 41 Derivative instruments 3 3 26 18 44 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value Bank loan 52 52 Sterling Notes June 2019 80 80 Sterling Notes January 2024 498 12 510 Trade payables 19 19 Settlement balances payable 21,451 21,451 Deposits received for securities loaned 907 907 498 22,521 23,019 Total financial liabilities 26 18 498 22,521 23,063 1 Financial assets and liabilities not measured at fair value are only measured at fair value on initial recognition.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 159 26.
Financial instruments continued c Categorisation of financial assets and liabilities continued Financial liabilities Amortised at FVTPL cost m Total Financial liabilities IAS 39 m restated m 2017 Sterling Notes June 2019 80 80 Sterling Notes January 2024 509 509 Trade payables 14 14 Settlement balances 33,622 33,622 Deposits received for securities loaned 687 687 Deferred consideration 31 31 Derivative instruments at FVTPL 12 12 34,912 43 34,955 1 Financial liabilities have been restated to include deferred consideration.
d Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss include simultaneous back-to-back derivative transactions with counterparties which are reported as separate financial assets and financial liabilities in the statement of financial position.
These transactions are subject to ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association Master Netting Agreements which provide a legally enforceable right of offset on the occurrence of a specified event of default, or other events not expected to happen in the normal course of business, but are not otherwise enforceable.
Financial Financial Financial instruments subject to enforceable Master Netting Agreements assets liabilities and similar arrangements m m 2018 Derivatives at FVTPL 3 3 Related amounts not offset in the statement of financial position 3 3 Net position 2017 Derivatives at FVTPL 12 12 Related amounts not offset in the statement of financial position 12 12 Net position e Credit risk The Group is exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by counterparties in respect of its Name Passing, Matched Principal, Executing Broker and corporate treasury operations.
The Group does not bear any significant concentration risk to either counterparts ormarkets.
The credit risk in respect of the Name Passing business and the information sales and risk management services is limited to the collection ofoutstanding commission and transaction fees and this is managed proactively by the Groups accounts receivable functions.
As at the yearend, a majority of the Groups counterparty exposure is to investment grade counterparts rated BBBBaa3 or above Note 21.
The Matched Principal business involves the Group acting as a counterparty on trades which are undertaken on a delivery versus payment basis.
The Group manages its credit risk in these transactions through appropriate policies and procedures in order to mitigate this risk including stringent on-boarding requirements, setting appropriate credit limits for all counterparts which are closely monitored by the regional credit risk teams to restrict any potential loss through counterparty default.
Settlement of these transactions takes place according to the relevant market rules and conventions and the credit risk isconsidered to be minimal.
As at the year end, a majority of the Groups counterparty exposure is to investment grade counterparts Note 21.
The credit risk on cash, cash equivalents, and financial assets at amortised cost, FVTOCI or FVTPL, are subject to frequent monitoring.
All financial institutions that are transacted with are approved and internal limits are assigned to each one based on a combination of factors including external credit ratings.
As at the year end, a significant proportion of cash and cash equivalents is deposited with investment grade rated financial institutions.
com 160 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 26.
Financial instruments continued e Credit risk continued The maximum exposure to credit risk is the maximum exposure before taking account of any securities or collateral held, or other credit enhancements, unless such enhancements meet accounting offsetting requirements.
For financial assets recognised on the balance sheet, excluding equity instruments as they are not subject to credit risk, the maximum exposure to credit risk equals their carrying amount.
f Maturity profile of financial liabilities The table below reflects the contractual maturities, including future interest obligations, of the Groups financial liabilities as at 31 December: Due between 3 months Due Due within and between Due 3 months 12 months 1 year and after restated restated 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m 2018 Settlement balances 21,451 21,451 Deposits received for securities loaned 907 907 Derivatives at FVTPL 2 1 3 Trade payables 19 19 Bank loan 52 52 Sterling Notes January 2024 13 13 105 513 644 Sterling Notes June 2019 82 82 Deferred consideration 10 5 26 41 22,454 101 131 513 23,199 2017 Settlement balances 33,622 33,622 Deposits received for securities loaned 687 687 Financial liabilities at FVTPL 6 6 12 Trade payables 14 14 Sterling Notes January 2024 13 13 105 539 670 Sterling Notes June 2019 4 82 86 Deferred consideration 8 4 19 31 34,350 27 206 539 35,122 1 The maturity profile of Deposits received for securities loaned has been restated from due between 3 months and 12 months to due within 3 months.
g Foreign currency sensitivity analysis The table below illustrates the sensitivity of the profit for the year with regard to currency movements on financial assets and liabilities denominated inforeign currencies as at the year end.
The sensitivity of the Groups equity with regard to its net foreign currency investments at the year end is also shown below.
Based on a 10% weakening in the US Dollar and Euro exchange rates against Sterling, the effects would be as follows: 2018 2017 USD m EUR m USD m EUR m Change in foreign currency financial assets and liabilities profit or loss 3 3 5 3 Change in translation of foreign operations equity 78 4 79 3 The Group would experience equal and opposite foreign exchange movements should the US Dollar and Euro exchange rates strengthen against Sterling.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 161 26.
Financial instruments continued h Interest rate sensitivity analysis Interest on floating rate financial instruments is reset at intervals of less than one year.
The Groups exposure to interest rates arises on cash and cash equivalents and money market instruments.
The Sterling Notes are fixed rate financial instruments.
A 100 basis point change in interest rates, applied to average floating rate financial instrument assets and liabilities during the year, would result in the following impact on profit or loss: 2018 2017 100pts -100pts 100pts -100pts m m m m Income expense arising on: floating rate assets 6 6 7 7 floating rate liabilities Net income expense for the year 6 6 7 7 i Fair value measurements recognised in the statement of financial position The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset orliability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observablemarket data unobservable inputs.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m 2018 Financial assets measured at fair value Equity instruments 2 9 7 18 Corporate debt securities 2 2 Government debt securities 84 84 Derivative instruments 3 3 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Deferred consideration 41 41 Derivative instruments 3 3 86 9 32 63 2017 Financial assets measured at fair value Equity instruments 2 8 7 17 Corporate debt securities 2 2 Government debt securities 86 86 Derivatives instruments at FVTPL 12 12 Financial liabilities measured at fair value 1 Deferred consideration 31 31 Derivatives instruments at FVTPL 12 12 88 8 22 74 In deriving the fair value of derivative instruments valuation models were used which incorporated observable market data.
There were no significant inputs used in the models that were unobservable.
There were no transfers between Level 1 and 2 during the year.
1 Restated to include deferred consideration in the fair value table.
com 162 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 26.
Financial instruments continued i Fair value measurements recognised in the statement of financial position continued Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurements of financial assets: Equity Debt Deferred instruments securities consideration 2018 2017 at FVTOCI at FVTOCI at FVTPL Total Total m m m m m Balance as at 1 January 7 2 31 22 9 Net change in fair value included in administrative expenses 5 5 1 Acquisitions during the year 15 15 16 Amounts settled during the year 11 11 4 Disposals impairment 4 Effect of movements in exchange rates 1 1 2 Balance as at 31 December 7 2 41 32 22 27.
Reconciliation of shareholders funds a Share capital, Share premium account, Merger reserve Share Share premium Merger capital account reserve Total m m m m 2018 As at 1 January 2018 139 17 1,378 1,534 Issue of ordinary shares 2 6 8 As at 31 December 2018 141 17 1,384 1,542 2017 As at 1 January and 31 December 2017 139 17 1,378 1,534 Share capital Merger reserve On 26 March 2018 the Group issued 9,203,709 ordinary shares in settlement of deferred consideration and acquisition related share-based payment obligations relating to the Groups 2014 purchase of PVM Oil Associates Limited and its subsidiaries PVM.
The nominal value of the shares issued has been credited to share capital with a corresponding debit to retained earnings.
6m has been credited to the merger reserve representing the difference between the fair value of the deferred consideration and the nominal value of the shares issued to satisfy that obligation.
Costs associated with the share issue have been charged against the reserve.
As at 1 January 2017 the merger reserve related to prior share-based acquisitions andrepresented the difference between the value of those acquisitions and the amount required to be recorded in share capital.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 163 28.
Reconciliation of shareholders funds continued b Other reserves Reverse Hedging acquisition Revaluation and Own Other reserve reserve translation shares reserves m m m m m 2018 As at 1 January 2018 1,182 1 17 10 1,208 Equity investments at FVTOCI net change in fair value 7 7 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 48 48 Taxation on components of other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income 7 48 55 Gain on disposal of equity investments at FVTOCI 4 4 Share settlement of share-based payment awards 4 4 Own shares acquired for employee trusts 5 5 As at 31 December 2018 1,182 4 31 11 1,158 2017 As at 1 January 2017 1,182 2 75 6 1,111 Revaluation of available-for-sale investments 1 1 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 92 92 Taxation on components of other comprehensive income Total comprehensive loss 1 92 93 Own shares acquired for employee trusts 4 4 As at 31 December 2017 1,182 1 17 10 1,208 Reverse acquisition reserve The acquisition of Collins Stewart Tullett plc by Tullett Prebon plc in 2006 was accounted for as a reverse acquisition.
Under IFRS the consolidated accounts ofTullett Prebon plc are prepared as if they were a continuation of the consolidated accounts of Collins Stewart Tullettplc.
The reverse acquisition reserve represents the difference between the initial equity share capital of Tullett Prebon plc and the sharecapital and share premium of Collins Stewart Tullett plc atthe time of the acquisition.
This resulted in the consolidated net assets beforeand after the acquisition remaining unchanged.
Revaluation reserve The revaluation reserve represents the remeasurement of assets in accordance with IFRS that have been recorded in other comprehensive income.
Hedging and translation The hedging and translation reserve records revaluation gains and losses arising on net investment hedges and the effect of changes in exchange rates ontranslation of foreign operations recorded in other comprehensive income.
As at 31 December 2018, 10m relates to amounts arising on previous net investment hedges 2017: 10m.
Own shares As at 31 December 2018, the TP ICAP plc EBT formerly the Tullett Prebon plc Employee Benefit Trust 2007 held 2,609,004 ordinary shares 2017: 2,668,144 ordinary shares with a fair value of8m 2017: 14m.
During the year the Trust delivered 1,085,087 shares in satisfaction of vesting share-based awards and purchased 1,025,947 ordinary shares in the open market at a cost of 5m.
In 2017 the Trust purchased 740,569 ordinary shares in the open market at a cost of 4m.
com 164 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 28.
Reconciliation of shareholders funds continued c Total equity Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent NonTotal from Total from Retained controlling Total Note 28 a Note 28 b earnings Total interests equity m m m m m m 2018 As at 1 January 2018 1,534 1,208 1,494 1,820 13 1,833 Adjustment on initial application of IFRS 9 4 4 4 Profit for the year 32 32 3 35 Equity instruments at FVTOCI net change in fair value 7 7 7 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 48 48 1 49 Remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes 2 2 2 Taxation on components of other comprehensive income 1 1 1 Total comprehensive income 55 31 86 4 90 Issue of ordinary shares 8 2 6 6 Dividends paid 94 94 1 95 Gain on disposal of equity investments at FVTOCI 4 4 Share settlement of share-based payment awards 4 4 Own shares acquired for employee trusts 5 5 5 Credit arising on share-based payment awards Note 29 5 5 5 As at 31 December 2018 1,542 1,158 1,430 1,814 16 1,830 2017 As at 1 January 2017 1,534 1,111 1,475 1,898 21 1,919 Profit for the year 87 87 87 Revaluation of available-for-sale investments 1 1 1 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 92 92 1 93 Remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes 45 45 45 Taxation on components of other comprehensive income 16 16 16 Total comprehensive loss income 93 58 35 1 36 Dividends paid 58 58 1 59 Own shares acquired for employee trusts 4 4 4 Equity repayment to non-controlling interests 6 6 Credit arising on share-based payment awards Note 29 19 19 19 As at 31 December 2017 1,534 1,208 1,494 1,820 13 1,833 29.
Share-based payments Senior Manager Deferred Bonus Plan Annual awards are made under the Groups Senior Manager Deferred Bonus Plan that commenced in 2015.
Under this Plan, employees identified as senior managers have 20% of their annual discretionary bonus awarded in deferred shares.
Theseawards will be settled with TP ICAP plc shares and are subject to the completion of service conditions and the fulfilment of other conduct requirements.
The number of shares in respect of a bonus year is determined after the close period for that year at the then market price, and vest over three years from the grant.
The fair value of the shares equates to the monetary value of the awards at grant date and includes the value of expected dividends that will accrue to the beneficiaries.
As part of the introduction of the Deferred Bonus Plan in 2015, a Special Award was granted to eligible employees.
The Special Award vested in May 2018.
Awards will be settled by the TP ICAP plc Employee Benefit Trust formerly the Tullett Prebon plc Employee Benefit Trust 2007 from shares purchased by it in the open market.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 165 29.
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 2,520,855 1,780,285 Granted during the year 1,452,545 740,570 Expired during the year Settled during the year 1,085,087 Outstanding at the end of the year 2,888,313 2,520,855 At the year end closing share price of 301p the estimated total number of deferred shares for the 2018 bonus year was 2,068,631.
Executive Director Deferred Bonus Plan Annual awards are made under the Groups Executive Director Deferred Bonus Plan that commenced in 2017.
The Groups Executive Directors have 50% of their annual discretionary bonus awarded in deferred shares.
These awards are subject to the completion of service conditions and the fulfilment of other conduct requirements and will be settled with TP ICAP plc shares.
The number ofshares in respect of a bonus year is determined after the close period for that year at the market price, and vest three years from the date of the grant.
The fair value of the shares equates to the monetary value of the awards at grant date and includes the value of expected dividends that willaccrue to the beneficiaries.
Outstanding at the beginning of the year Granted during the year 243,191 Expired during the year Forfeited during the year 161,191 Settled during the year Outstanding at the end of the year 82,000 Awards will be settled by the TP ICAP plc Employee Benefit Trust from shares purchased by it in the open market.
At the year end closing share price of 301p the estimated total number of deferred shares for the 2018 bonus year was 136,398.
Transformation Long Term Incentive Plan T-LTIP The Transformation Long Term Incentive Plan commenced in 2017 as a one-off long-term plan aligned to the three year integration period for Tullett Prebon and ICAP January 2017 December 2019.
Awards are allocated between the Executive Directors and members of the Groups Global Executive Committee.
At the end of the performance period, the T-LTIP pool will be determined, based on absolute total shareholder return and earnings per share performance, and converted into awards of shares.
Shares will be subject to a holding period and will be released one third in April 2021, one third in April 2022 and one third in April 2023.
During the holding period, the shares cannot be sold other than to cover the cost of any applicable taxes.
Awards will be settled by the issue of new shares.
Acquisition related share-based payments As part of the acquisition of PVM, certain former shareholders were eligible to receive additional payments after three years service provided they remain as employees and PVM achieved revenue performance targets over that period.
InNovember 2017 the service term and revenue performance targets were fulfilled.
The Group recognised 36m US$51m as a share-based expense, through the income statement and equity, over the three year service term.
During 2018 the Group issued 7,626,506 ordinary shares to settle this obligation.
2018 2017 m m Charge arising from the Senior Manager Deferred Bonus Plan 5 4 Charge arising from the Executive Director Deferred Bonus Plan 1 Charge arising from the Transformation Long Term Incentive Plan 5 Charge arising from acquisition related share-based payments 9 5 19 www.
com 166 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 30.
Acquisitions a Acquisition of SCS Commodities Corp In January 2018, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of SCS Commodities Corp SCS.
Initial cash consideration was US$7m 5m and deferred contingent consideration is payable through to the fifth anniversary of completion.
The amount of deferred contingent consideration isdependent upon the performance of the business over the five year period and has a fair value estimated to be US$4m 3m.
The actual outcome may differ from this estimate.
The fairvalue of the net liabilities acquired were US$1m 1m.
Intangible assets, relating to customer relationships, are US$1m 1m with goodwill, representing the value of the established workforce and the businesss reputation, amounting to US$11m 8m.
Acquisition costs, included in administrative expenses, amounted to less than 1m in 2018. b Acquisition of Axiom In November 2018, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Axiom Refined Products, LLC, Atlas Commodity Markets, LLC, Atlas Petroleum Markets, LLC, and Atlas Physical Grains, LLC collectively Axiom, an energy and commodities brokerage firm in the US.
Initial cash consideration was US$17m 13m with deferred non-contingent consideration of US$3m 2m payable over three years.
Deferred contingent consideration is also payable through to the third anniversary of completion.
The amount of deferred contingent consideration isdependent upon the performance of the business over the three year period and has a fair value estimated to be US$12m 10m.
The initial accounting for the acquisition is provisional due to the proximity to the year end.
The estimated fair value of the net assets acquired were US$2m 1m.
Intangible assets, relating to customer relationships, are estimated to be US$2m 1m with provisional goodwill, representing the value of the established workforce and the businesss reputation, amounting to US$28m 23m.
Had Axiom been acquired on 1 January 2018 underlying operating profit would have been 2m higher and underlying earnings 1m higher.
Acquisition costs, included in administrative expenses, amounted to less than 1m in 2018. c Finalisation of the acquisition of Coex Partners Limited During 2018 the Group finalised the accounting for its acquisition of Coex Partners Limited and its subsidiaries COEX that it acquired in November 2017.
No changes have been required to the provisional accounting reported in 2017.
Cash consideration was 4m with deferred contingent consideration, at acquisition, of 16m.
The amount of deferred contingent consideration is dependent upon the performance of the business and is payable through to the third anniversary of completion.
The fair values of the net liabilities acquired were 3m.
The value of customer relationships, initially estimated at 3m have been finalised at 5m together with 1m of associated deferred tax liabilities.
Goodwill, representing the value of the established workforce and the businesss reputation, amounted to 19m.
d Analysis of deferred and contingent consideration in respect of acquisitions Certain acquisitions made by the Group are satisfied in part by deferred or contingent deferred consideration.
The Group has re-estimated the amounts due where necessary, with any corresponding adjustments being made to profit or loss.
2018 2017 m m At 1 January 31 21 Acquisitions during the year 15 16 Remeasurement charge credit taken to operating profit 5 1 Cash-settled 3 4 Equity-settled 8 Effect of movements in exchange rates 1 1 At 31 December 41 31 Amounts falling due within one year 15 12 Amounts falling due after one year 26 19 At 31 December 41 31 TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 167 31.
Reconciliation of operating result to net cash from operating activities 2018 2017 m m Operating profit 93 102 Adjustments for: Share-based payment charge 5 10 Pension schemes administration costs 1 1 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 13 12 Amortisation of intangible assets 26 29 Acquisition related share-based payment charge 9 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on consolidation 40 40 Impairment of intangible assets arising on consolidation 65 Loss on derecognition of intangible assets 1 Loss on disposal of associates 1 Impairment of associates 3 Remeasurement of deferred consideration 5 1 Gain on disposal of available-for-sale investments 1 Non-cash movement in FVTPL balances 1 Operating cash flows before movement in working capital 252 201 Increase in trade and other receivables 37 48 Increase in net settlement and trading balances 14 6 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 1 40 Decrease increase in provisions 1 18 Increase in non-current liabilities 13 11 Retirement benefit scheme contributions 1 Cash generated from operations 213 136 Income taxes paid 30 27 Interest paid 34 22 Net cash from operating activities 149 87 www.
com 168 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 32.
Analysis of net funds Exchange At Non-cash rate At 1 January Cash flow items movements 31 December m m m m m 2018 Cash 609 43 1 19 670 Cash equivalents 13 3 10 Overdrafts 13 13 Cash and cash equivalents 622 27 1 19 667 Financial investments 139 4 2 133 Total funds 761 23 1 17 800 Bank loan due within one year 52 52 Sterling Notes June 2019 80 4 4 80 Sterling Notes January 2024 509 26 27 510 Total debt 589 22 31 642 Total net funds 172 1 32 17 158 2017 Cash 657 21 27 609 Cash equivalents 41 27 1 13 Overdrafts 2 2 Cash and cash equivalents 696 46 28 622 Financial investments 90 54 5 139 Total funds 786 8 33 761 Bank loan due within one year 467 470 3 Sterling Notes June 2019 80 4 4 80 Sterling Notes January 2024 497 12 509 Total debt 547 23 19 589 Total net funds 239 15 19 33 172 Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and other short term highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months orless.
As at 31December 2018 cash and cash equivalents, net of overdrafts, amounted to 667m 2017: 622m.
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and threemonths depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short term deposit rates.
Financial investments comprise short term government securities, term deposits and restricted funds held with banks and clearing organisations.
Non-cash items represent accrued interest, the amortisation of debt issue costs and the impact of IFRS 9s expected credit loss requirements.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 169 33.
Contingent liabilities FCA investigation Tullett Prebon Europe Limited TPEL is currently under investigation by the FCA in relation to certain trades undertaken between 2008 and 2011, including trades which are risk free, which are alleged to have no commercial rationale or economic purpose, on which brokerage is paid, and trades on which brokerage may have been improperly charged.
As part of its investigation, the FCA is considering the extent to which during the relevant period i TPELs systems and controls were adequate to manage the risks associated with such trades and ii whether certain of TPELs managers were aware of, and or managed appropriately the risks associated with, the trades.
The FCA is also reviewing the circumstances surrounding a failure in 2011 by TPEL to discover certain audio files and produce them to the FCA in a timely manner.
As the investigation is ongoing, it is not possible to predict its ultimate outcome and accordingly any potential liability and or financial impact cannot currently be reliably estimated.
In connection with the investigation, the Group has undertaken its own review of the Groups previous systems and controls in relation to client gifts and hospitality.
Bank Bill Swap Reference Rate case On 16 August 2016, a litigation was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York naming the Group, ICAP plc, ICAP Australia Pty LTD and Tullett Prebon Australia Pty.
Limited as defendants together with various Bank Bill Swap Reference Rate BBSW setting banks.
The complaint alleges collusion by the defendants to fix BBSW-based derivatives prices through manipulative trading during the fixing window and false BBSW rate submissions.
On 26 November 2018, the Court dismissed all of the claims against the TP ICAP defendants and certain other defendants.
On 15 January 2019, Plaintiffs filed a Motion for Leave to Amend and File the Proposed Second Amended Class Action Complaint PSAC.
The Motion does not seek leave to amend with respect to the TP ICAP defendants and the PSAC does not contain any new allegations regarding the TP ICAP defendants.
The Plaintiffs have reserved the right to appeal the dismissal of the TP ICAP defendants but have not as yet done so.
It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of the litigation or to provide an estimate of any potential financial impact.
Labour claims ICAP Brazil ICAP do Brasil Corretora fide Ttulos e Varoles Mobilirios Ltda ICAP Brazil is a defendant in 19 pending lawsuits filed in the Brazilian Labour Court by persons formerly associated with ICAP Brazil seeking damages under various statutory labour rights accorded to employees and in relation to various other claims including wrongful termination, breach of contract and harassment together the Labour claims.
The Group estimates the maximum potential aggregate exposure in relation to the Labour claims, including any potential social security tax liability, to be BRL 67m 14m.
The Group is the beneficiary of an indemnity from NEX in relation to any outflow in respect of materially all of these Labour claims insofar as they relate to periods prior to completion of the Groups acquisition of ICAP.
Flow case Tullett Prebon Brazil In December 2012, Flow Participaes Ltda and Brasil Plural Corretora fide Cmbio, Ttulos e Valores Flow initiated a lawsuit against Tullett Prebon Brasil S. A. Corretora fide Valores e Cmbio and Tullett Prebon Holdings do Brasil Ltda alleging that the defendants have committed a series of unfair competition misconducts, such as the recruitment of Flows former employees, the illegal obtainment and use of systems and software developed by the plaintiffs, as well as the transfer of technology and confidential information from Flow and the collusion to do so in order to increase profits from economic activities.
The amount currently claimed is BRL 222m 45m.
The Group intends to vigorously defend itself but there is no certainty as to the outcome of these claims.
The case is currently in an early evidentiary phase and it is stayed pending discussion before the Superior Court of Justice regarding the production of evidence.
Therefore, the case is not anticipated to be resolved in 2019.
ISDA Fix The CFTC and other government agencies have requested information from the NEX Group in relation to the setting of the US Dollar segment of a benchmark known as ISDA Fix.
ICAP plcs successor firm, NEX, continues to cooperate with the agencies inquiries into the setting of that rate.
ICAP Capital Markets LLC ICM was the collection agent for ISDA Fix panel bank submissions in US Dollars, but was not a panel member itself.
Pursuant to the terms of the sale and purchase agreement between the Group and NEX it was agreed that ICM would transfer its activities and business to the Group but that ICM would not be transferred to the Groups ownership at completion.
It was further agreed that in the event of any claims or losses arising in relation to ISDA Fix, these would be for the account of NEX.
In September 2018, ICM entered into a settlement with the CFTC and agreed to pay a penalty of $50m.
At this time we do not expect the CFTC or other government agencies to pursue further action against the Group in respect of the ISDA fix matter.
com 170 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 33.
Contingent liabilities continued LIBOR Class actions The Group is currently defending two LIBOR related actions.
i Stichting LIBOR Class Action On 15 December 2017, the Stichting Elco Foundation, a Netherlands-based claim foundation, filed a writ initiating litigation in the Dutch court in Amsterdam on behalf of institutional investors against ICAP Europe Limited IEL, ICAP plc, Cooperative Rabobank U.
A. UBS AG, UBS Securities Japan Co. Ltd, Lloyds Banking Group plc, and Lloyds Bank plc.
The litigation alleges manipulation by the defendants of the JPY LIBOR, GBP LIBOR, CHF LIBOR, USD LIBOR, EURIBOR, TIBOR, SOR, BBSW and HIBOR benchmark rates, and seeks a declaratory judgment that the defendants acted unlawfully and conspired to engage in improper manipulation of benchmarks.
If the plaintiffs succeed in the action, the defendants would be responsible for paying costs of the litigation, but each allegedly impacted investor would need to prove its own actual damages.
It is not possible at this time to determine the final outcome of this litigation, but IEL has factual and legal defences to the claims and intends to defend the lawsuit vigorously.
A hearing is scheduled for June 2019.
The Group is covered by an indemnity from NEX in relation to any outflow in respect of the ICAP entities with regard to these matters.
ii Swiss LIBOR Class Action On 4 December 2017, a class of plaintiffs filed a Second Amended Class Action Complaint in the matter of Sonterra Capital Master Fund Ltd. et al.
v. Credit Suisse Group AG et al.
naming as defendants, among others, TP ICAP plc, Tullett Prebon Americas Corp. Tullett Prebon USA Inc. Tullett Prebon Financial Services LLC, Tullett Prebon Europe Limited, Cosmorex AG, ICAP Europe Limited, and ICAP Securities USA LLC together, the Companies.
The Second Amended Complaint generally alleges that the Companies conspired with certain bank customers to manipulate Swiss Franc LIBOR and prices of Swiss Franc LIBOR based derivatives by disseminating false pricing information in false run-throughs and false prices published on screens viewed by customers in violation of the Sherman Act anti-trust and RICO.
The Companies intend to contest liability in the matter and to vigorously defend themselves.
A briefing schedule has been agreed in connection with a motion to dismiss that the Companies intend to make on both jurisdictional and substantive grounds.
It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of this action or to provide an estimate of any potential financial impact.
General note From time to time the Groups subsidiaries are engaged in litigation in relation to a variety of matters, and it is required to provide information to regulators and other government agencies as part of informal and formal enquiries or market reviews.
The Groups reputation may also be damaged by any involvement or the involvement of any of its employees or former employees in any regulatory investigation and by any allegations or findings, even where the associated fine or penalty is not material.
Save as outlined above in respect of legal matters or disputes for which a provision has not been made, notwithstanding the uncertainties that are inherent in the outcome of such matters, there are no individual matters which are considered to pose a significant risk of material adverse financial impact on the Groups results or net assets.
In the normal course of business, certain of the Groups subsidiaries enter into guarantees and indemnities to cover trading arrangements and or the use of third party services or software.
The Group operates in a wide variety of jurisdictions around the world and uncertainties therefore exist with respect to the interpretation of complex tax laws and practices of those territories.
The Group establishes provisions for taxes other than current and deferred income taxes, based upon various factors which are continually evaluated, if there is a present obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
Operating lease commitments 2017 2018 restated m m Minimum operating lease payments recognised in the income statement 43 40 Sub-lease income received 1 1 1 2017 minimum operating lease payments increased by 8m for costs included in administrative expenses that related to operating leases.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 171 34.
Operating lease commitments continued At 31 December 2018 the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due asfollows: 2017 2018 restated Buildings Other Buildings Other m m m m Within one year 33 1 43 1 Within two to five years 102 1 94 1 Over five years 176 113 311 2 250 2 1 Restated to include 8m of operating lease commitments relating to buildings 9m due within one year, 4m due within two to five years and a reduction of 5m over five years.
At 31 December 2018 the Group had contracted with tenants for the following future minimum lease payments: 2018 2017 Buildings Other Buildings Other m m m m Within one year 1 1 Within two to five years 6 4 Over five years 3 4 10 9 35.
Retirement benefits a Defined benefit schemes The Group has a defined benefit pension scheme in the UK and a small number of schemes operated in other countries.
The overseas schemes are not significant in the context of the Group.
2018 2017 m m Defined benefit scheme surplus UK 55 57 Defined benefit schemes deficit Overseas 3 4 b UK defined benefit scheme The Groups UK defined benefit pension scheme is the defined benefit section of the Tullett Prebon Pension Scheme the Scheme.
The Scheme is a final salary, funded pension scheme that is closed to new members and future accrual.
For members still in service there is a continuing link between benefits and pensionable pay.
The Principal Employer is Tullett Prebon Group Limited.
The assets of the Scheme are held separately from those of the Group, either in separate Trustee administered funds or in contract-based policies of insurance.
The latest funding actuarial valuation of the Scheme was carried out as at 30 April 2016 by independent qualified actuaries.
The actuarial funding surplus of the Scheme at that date was 61m and under the agreed schedule of contributions the Group will continue not to make any payments into the Scheme.
During 2017, the Trustees of the Scheme purchased a bulk annuity policy with Rothesay Life, an insurance company, that covered all of the Schemes liabilities.
The policy isinthe name of the Scheme and is a Scheme asset.
The purchase of the policy represents a bulk annuity buy-in and has been accounted for in accordance with the requirements of IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
Under IAS 19, the accounting value of the purchased policy is set to be equal to the value of the liabilities covered, calculated using the current IAS 19 actuarial assumptions for the defined benefit obligation.
The Scheme is exposed to counterparty risk of Rothesay Life as the insurance policy makes up the majority of Scheme assets.
However, the Trustees of the Scheme are currently making arrangements for the transfer of the Schemes liabilities to the insurer to take on direct responsibility for the provision of benefits.
If implemented, this would permanently extinguish the Groups obligation to support the Scheme financially.
com 172 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 35.
Retirement benefits continued b UK defined benefit scheme continued The amounts included in the balance sheet arising from the Groups obligations in respect of the Scheme are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Fair value of Scheme assets 243 260 Present value of Scheme liabilities 188 203 Defined benefit scheme surplus 55 57 Deferred tax liability Note 20 19 20 The main financial assumptions used by the independent qualified actuaries of the Scheme to calculate the liabilities under IAS 19 were: 2018 2017 % % Key assumptions Discount rate 2.70 2.40 Expected rate of salary increases 4.75 4.75 1 Rate of increase in LPI pensions in payment 2.40 2.40 Inflation assumption 2.40 2.40 1 This applies to pensions accrued from 6 April 1997.
The majority of current and future pensions receive fixed increases in payment of either 0% or 2.5%.
The mortality assumptions are based on standard mortality tables and allow for future mortality improvements and are the same as those adopted for the 2016 funding valuation.
Assumptions for the Scheme are that a member who retires in 15 years time at age 60 will live onaverage for a further 31.4 years 2017: 31.3 years after retirement if they are male and for a further 32.8 years 2017: 32.7 years after retirement if they are female.
Current pensioners are assumed to have a generally shorter life expectancy based on their current age.
The valuation of the Scheme liabilities is sensitive to changes in the assumptions used.
The effect of changes in the discount rate, inflation and mortality assumptions, assuming an independent change in one assumption with all others held constant, on the liabilities is shown below: Scheme Scheme assets liabilities Surplus m m m As at 31 December 2018 243 188 55 Following a 0.25% decrease in the discount rate Change 3.7% 4.8% New value 252 197 55 Following a 0.25% increase in the inflation assumption Change 2.1% 2.7% New value 248 193 55 Life expectancy increases by 3 years Change 7.8% 10.1% New value 262 207 55 The above analysis does not reflect any inter-relationship between the assumptions.
The above changes have been derived by adjusting the actuarial calculation of the Schemes liabilities at 31 December 2018 to allow for the assumption change.
Changes to the risks inherent in the Scheme would result in changes to the Schemes carrying value.
However, as a result of the bulk annuity purchase, the value of the Schemes insurance asset matches changes in the insured liabilities.
The value of Schemes surplus assets will change as the market value of those investments change.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 173 35.
Retirement benefits continued b UK defined benefit scheme continued The amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of the Scheme were as follows: 2018 2017 m m Deemed interest arising on the defined benefit pension scheme surplus 1 3 Schemes administrative expenses 1 1 Deemed interest arising on the defined benefit pension scheme surplus has been included within finance income Note 8.
The amounts recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of the Scheme were as follows: 2018 2017 m m Return on Scheme assets excluding deemed interest income Trustee administered funds 2 19 Return on Scheme assets excluding deemed interest income revaluation of insurance policies 9 73 Actuarial gains losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 11 4 Actuarial losses gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions 1 2 Actuarial losses gains arising from experience adjustments 1 11 Remeasurement of the defined benefit pension scheme 2 45 Movements in the present value of the Scheme liabilities were as follows: 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 203 217 Deemed interest cost 5 5 Actuarial gains losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 11 4 Actuarial losses gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions 1 2 Actuarial losses gains arising from experience adjustments 1 11 Benefits paid transfers out 11 10 At 31 December 188 203 Movements in the fair value of the Scheme assets were as follows: 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 260 317 Deemed interest income 6 8 Return on Scheme assets excluding deemed interest income Trustee administered funds 2 19 Return on Scheme assets excluding deemed interest income revaluation of insurance policies 9 73 Benefits paid transfers out 11 10 Administrative expense 1 1 At 31 December 243 260 www.
com 174 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 35.
Retirement benefits continued b UK defined benefit scheme continued The major categories and fair values of the Scheme assets as at 31 December were as follows: 2018 2017 m m Cash and cash equivalents 3 20 Government bonds 51 36 Insurance policies 188 203 Other receivables 1 1 At 31 December 243 260 During 2017, as part of the arrangements for insuring the Schemes liabilities, the Trustees transferred all of the Schemes equity investments into fixed income securities and bonds.
The Scheme does not hedge against foreign currency exposures or interest rate risk.
The Scheme duration is an indicator of the weighted average time until benefit payments are made.
For the Scheme as a whole, the duration is around 20years reflecting the approximate split of the defined benefit liability between current employees duration of 25 years, deferred members duration of23years and current pensioners duration of 13 years.
The estimated amounts of contributions expected to be paid into the Scheme during 2019 is nil.
c Defined contribution pensions The Group operates a number of defined contribution schemes for qualifying employees.
The assets of these schemes are held separately from those of theGroup.
The defined contribution pension cost for the Group charged to administrative expenses was 15m 2017: 13m, of which 8m 2017: 7m related tooverseas schemes.
As at 31 December 2018, there was 1m outstanding in respect of the current reporting period that had not been paid over to the schemes 2017: 1m.
Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this Note.
The total amounts owed to and from associates and joint ventures at 31 December 2018, which also represent the value of transactions during the year, areset out below: Amounts owed by Amounts owed to related parties related parties 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Associates 3 3 Joint ventures 1 1 2 2 The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash.
No guarantees have been given or received.
No provisions have been made for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by related parties.
Directors Costs in respect of the Directors who were the key management personnel of the Group during the year are set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
Further information about the individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Report onDirectors Remuneration on pages 85 to 93.
2018 2017 m m Short term benefits 3 4 Social security costs 1 3 5 TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 175 37.
Principal subsidiaries At 31 December 2018, the following companies were the Groups principal subsidiary undertakings.
A full list of the Groups undertakings, thecountry of incorporation and the Groups effective percentage of equity owned is set out in the listing on pages 182 to 190.
All subsidiaries are involved in broking or information sales activities and have either a 31 December or 31 March year end as identified below.
Country of incorporation Issued ordinary and operation Principal subsidiary undertakings shares, all voting Australia ICAP Brokers Pty Limited 100% Bermuda operating in England PVM Oil Associates Limited 100% Brazil ICAP do Brasil Corretora fide Ttulos e Valores Mobilirios Ltda 100% Tullett Prebon Brasil S. A.
100% England ICAP Energy Limited 100% ICAP Europe Limited 100% ICAP Global Derivatives Limited 100% ICAP Information Services Limited 100% ICAP Management Services Limited 100% ICAP Securities Limited 100% ICAP WCLK Limited 100% iSwap Limited 50.1% The Link Asset and Securities Company Limited 100% Tullett Prebon Europe Limited 100% Tullett Prebon Securities Limited 100% PVM Oil Futures Limited 100% Coex Partners Limited 100% Guernsey operating in England Tullett Prebon Information Limited 100% Hong Kong ICAP Hong Kong Limited 100% ICAP Securities Hong Kong Limited 100% Tullett Prebon Hong Kong Limited 100% Indonesia PT.
Inti Tullett Prebon Indonesia 57.52% Japan Tullett Prebon Japan Limited 100% Singapore ICAP Singapore Limited formerly ICAP AP Singapore Pte.
Limited 100% TP ICAP Management Services Singapore Pte.
Ltd. 100% Tullett Prebon Energy Singapore Pte.
Ltd. 100% Tullett Prebon Singapore Limited 100% PVM Oil Associates Pte.
Ltd. 100% UAE Tullett Prebon Dubai Limited 100% United States ICAP Corporates LLC 100% ICAP Energy LLC 100% ICAP Information Services Inc. 100% ICAP Securities USA LLC 100% 1 ICAP SEF US LLC 100% Tullett Prebon Americas Corp. 100% Tullett Prebon Financial Services LLC 100% PVM Futures Inc 100% Coex Partners Inc 100% Tullett Prebon Information Inc 100% 1 31 March year end.
As at 31 December 2018, 16m 2017: 13m is due to non-controlling interests relating to those subsidiaries that are not wholly owned.
Movements in non-controlling interests are set out in Note 28 c. No individual non-controlling interest is material to the Group.
There are no significant restrictions on the ability of the Group to access or use assets and settle liabilities relating to these subsidiaries.
