qxp 08 06 2018 14:19 Page 63 Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 have been prepared on a going concern basis, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, together with interpretations of the International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee IASC that remain in effect, to the extent that they have been adopted by the European Union and as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP, Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts, to the extent that it is consistent with IFRS.
The Group and Company financial statements are expressed in Sterling, which is their functional and presentational currency.
Sterling is the functional currency because it is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except where otherwise indicated.
The preparation of the financial statements necessarily requires the exercise of judgement, both in application of accounting policies, which are set out below, and in the selection of assumptions used in the calculation of estimates.
These estimates and judgements are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are continually evaluated based on historical experience and other factors.
However, actual results may differ from these estimates.
Such judgements are discussed further in section f of this note.
a Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries to 31 March 2018.
All the subsidiaries of the Company have been consolidated in these financial statements.
In accordance with IFRS10 the Company has been designated as an investment entity on the basis that: l It obtains funds from investors and provides those investors with investment management services: l It commits to its investors that its business purpose is to invest solely for returns from capital appreciation and investment income: and l It measures and evaluates performance of substantially all of its investments on a fair value basis.
Each of the subsidiaries of the Company was established for the sole purpose of operating or supporting the investment operations of the Company including raising additional nancing, and is not itself an investment entity.
IFRS 10 sets out that in the case of controlled entities that support the investment activity of the investment entity, those entities should be consolidated rather than presented as investments at fair value.
Accordingly the Company has consolidated the results and financial positions of those subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Company obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
The financial statements of subsidiaries used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are based on consistent accounting policies.
All intra-group balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising therefrom, are eliminated.
This is consistent with the presentation in previous years.
b Income Dividends receivable on equity shares are treated as revenue for the year on an ex-dividend basis.
Where no ex-dividend date is available, dividends receivable on or before the year end are treated as revenue for the year.
Provision is made for any dividends not expected to be received.
Where the Group has elected to receive these dividends in the form of additional shares rather than cash the amount of cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
Differences between the value of shares received and the cash dividend foregone are recognised in the capital returns of the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The xed returns on debt securities are recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reect the effective yield on each such security.
Interest receivable from cash and short term deposits is accrued to the end of the year.
Stock lending income is recognised on an accruals basis.
Underwriting commission is taken to revenue, unless any shares underwritten are required to be taken up, in which case the proportionate commission received is deducted from the cost of the investment.
Recognition of property rental income is set out in section f of this note.
c Expenses All expenses and finance costs are accounted for on an accruals basis.
An analysis of retained earnings broken down into revenue and capital items is given in note 16.
In arriving at this breakdown, expenses have been presented as revenue items except as follows: l Expenses which are incidental to the acquisition or disposal of an investment: TR Property Investment Trust 63 TR Property pp59-88.
qxp 08 06 2018 14:19 Page 64 Notes to the Financial Statements continued continued 1 Accounting policies l Expenses are presented as capital where a connection with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of the investments can be demonstrated, this includes irrecoverable VAT incurred on costs relating to the extension of residential leases as premiums received for extending or terminating leases are recognised in the capital account: l One quarter of the base management fee is charged to revenue, with three quarters allocated to capital return to reect the Boards expectations of long term investment returns.
All performance fees are charged to capital return: l The fund administration, depositary, custody and company secretarial services are charged directly to the Company and are included within Other administrative expenses in note 6.
These expenses are charged on the same basis as the base management fee: one quarter to income and three quarters to capital.
d Finance costs The finance cost in respect of capital instruments other than equity shares is calculated so as to give a constant rate of return on the outstanding balance.
One quarter of the finance cost is charged to revenue and three quarters to capital return.
e Taxation Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity.
Otherwise income tax is recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The tax effect of different items of expenditure is allocated between capital and revenue using the Groups effective rate of tax for the year.
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of temporary differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
In accordance with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation method used to calculate tax relief on expenses presented against capital returns in the supplementary information in the Statement of Comprehensive Income is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable income is capable of being offset entirely by expenses presented in the revenue return column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income, then no tax relief is transferred to the capital column.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the Balance Sheet and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
The Company is an investment trust under s. 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and, as such, is not liable for tax on capital gains.
Capital gains arising in subsidiary companies are subject to capital gains tax.
f Investment property Investment property is measured initially at cost including transaction costs.
Transaction costs include transfer taxes, professional fees for legal services and initial leasing commissions to bring the property to the condition necessary for it to be capable of operating.
The carrying amount also includes the cost of replacing part of an existing investment property at the time that cost is incurred if the recognition criteria are met.
The purchase and sale of properties is recognised to be effected on the date unconditional contracts are exchanged.
Subsequent to initial recognition, investment property is stated at fair value.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair values are included in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income in the year in which they arise.
Investment property is derecognised when it has been disposed of or permanently withdrawn from use and no future economic benefit is expected from its disposal.
Any gains or losses are recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income in the year of disposal.
Gains or losses on the disposal of investment property are determined as the difference between net disposal proceeds and the carrying value of the asset at the date of disposal.
Revaluation of investment properties The Group carries its investment properties at fair value in accordance with IFRS 13, revalued twice a year, with changes in fair values being recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The Group engaged Knight Frank LLP as independent valuation specialists to determine fair value as at 31 March 2018.
TR Property Investment Trust 64 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TR Property pp59-88.
qxp 08 06 2018 14:19 Page 65 Notes to the Financial Statements continued continued 1 Accounting policies Valuations of investment properties Determination of the fair value of investment properties has been prepared on the basis dened by the RICS Valuation Standards 6th Edition The Red Book as follows: The estimated amount for which a property should exchange on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
The valuation takes into account future cash ow from assets such as lettings, tenants proles, future revenue streams, capital values of xtures and ttings, plant and machinery, any environmental matters and the overall repair and condition of the property and discount rates applicable to those assets.
These assumptions are based on local market conditions existing at the balance sheet date.
In arriving at their estimates of fair values as at 31 March 2018, the valuers have used their market knowledge and professional judgement and have not only relied solely on historical transactional comparables.
Examples of inputs to the valuation can be seen in the sensitivity analysis disclosed in note 10 f. Rental income Rental income receivable under operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, except for contingent rental income which is recognised when it arises.
Incentives for lessees to enter into lease agreements are spread evenly over the lease term, even if the payments are not made on such a basis.
The lease term is the non-cancellable period of the lease together with any further term for which the tenant has the option to continue the lease, where, at the inception of the lease, the directors are reasonably certain that the tenant will exercise that option.
Premiums received to terminate or extend leases are recognised in the capital account of the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income when they arise.
Service charges and expenses recoverable from tenants Income arising from expenses recharged to tenants is recognised in the period in which the expense can be contractually recovered.
Service charges and other such receipts are included gross of the related costs in revenue as the directors consider that the Group acts as principal in this respect.
g Investments When a purchase or sale is made under contract, the terms of which require delivery within the timeframe of the relevant market, the investments concerned are recognised or derecognised on the trade date.
All the Groups investments are dened under IFRS as investments designated as fair value through profit or loss but are also described in these financial statements as investments held at fair value.
All investments are designated upon initial recognition as held at fair value, and are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value, which, for quoted investments, is deemed to be closing prices for stocks sourced from European stock exchanges and for SETS stocks sourced from the London Stock Exchange.
SETS is the London Stock Exchange electronic trading service covering most of the market including all the FTSE AllShare and the most liquid AIM constituents.
Unquoted investments or investments for which there is only an inactive market are held at fair value which is based on valuations made by the directors in accordance with IPEVCA guidelines and using current market prices, trading conditions and the general economic climate.
In its financial statements the Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at adjusted net asset value.
The subsidiaries have historically been holding vehicles for direct property investment or nancing vehicles.
No assets are currently held through the subsidiary structure and all nancing instruments are directly held by the company.
Changes in the fair value are recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
On disposal, realised gains and losses are also recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Derivatives Derivatives are held at fair value based on traded prices.
Gains and losses on derivative transactions are recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Gains and losses on CFDs resulting from movements in the price of the underlying stock are treated as capital.
Dividends from the underlying investment and nancing costs of CFDs are treated as revenue revenue expenses.
Gains and losses on forward currency contracts used for capital hedging purposes are treated as capital.
TR Property Investment Trust 65 TR Property pp59-88.
qxp 08 06 2018 14:19 Page 66 Notes to the Financial Statements continued continued 1 Accounting policies Contracts for Difference CFDs are synthetic equities and are valued by reference to the investments underlying market values.
The sources of the returns under the derivative contract e. g. notional dividends, nancing costs, interest returns and capital changes are allocated to the revenue and capital accounts in alignment with the nature of the underlying source of income and in accordance with the guidance given in the AIC SORP.
Notional dividend income or expenses arising on long or short positions are apportioned wholly to the revenue account.
Notional interest expense on long positions is apportioned between revenue and capital in accordance with the Boards long term expected returns of the Company currently determined to be 25% to the revenue account and 75% to capital reserves.
Changes in value relating to underlying price movements of securities in relation to CFD exposures are allocated wholly to capital reserves.
h Borrowings, loan notes and debentures All loans and debentures are initially recognised at cost, being the fair value of the consideration received, less issue costs where applicable.
After initial recognition, all interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on settlement.
The costs of arranging any interest bearing loans are capitalised and amortised over the life of the loan on an effective interest rate basis.
i Foreign currency translation Transactions involving foreign currencies are converted at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated into Sterling at the rate ruling on the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences are recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
j Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and demand deposits.
k Dividends payable to shareholders Interim dividends are recognised in the period in which they are paid and final dividends are recognised when approved by shareholders.
l Adoption of new and revised Standards Standards and Interpretations effective in the current period The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous consolidated financial statements.
Early adoption of standards and interpretations The standards issued before the reporting date that become effective after 31 March 2018 will not have a material effect on equity or profit for the subsequent period.
The Group has not early adopted any new International Financial Reporting Standard or Interpretation Standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not yet effective up to the date of issuance of the Group financial statements are listed below: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 2014 replaces IAS 39 and deals with a package of improvements including principally a revised model for classication and measurement of financial instruments, a forward looking expected loss impairment model and a revised framework for hedge accounting.
In terms of classication and measurement the revised standard is principles based depending on the business model and nature of cash ows.
Under this approach, instruments are measured at either amortised cost or fair value, though the standard retains the fair value option allowing designation of debt instruments at initial recognition to be measured at fair value.
The standard is effective from 1 January 2018 with earlier application permitted.
The Group has not early adopted this standard and expects the eventual impact to be insignicant for its current investment portfolio, which is substantially comprised of quoted equities.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective 1 January 2018 species how and when an entity should recognise revenue and enhances the nature of revenue disclosures.
Given the nature of the Group's revenue streams from financial instruments, the provisions of this standard are not expected to have a material impact.
Amendments to IFRS 2 Classication and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions effective 1 January 2018.
The amendments relate to specic areas of classication and measurement and are not expected to have a material impact on the Group's financial statements as such transactions are not undertaken.
TR Property Investment Trust 66 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
