SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION TR Property pp89-100 08 06 2018 14:19 Page 93 Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting This authority will expire at the earlier of close of business Resolutions 1, 2 and 3: Accounts, on 24 October 2019 and the conclusion of the annual Directors Remuneration Report and General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2019. Dividend Resolution 12: Disapplication of statutory These are the resolutions which deal with the presentation of the audited accounts, the approval of the Directors pre-emption rights Remuneration Report and the declaration of the final This resolution would give the directors the authority to dividend.
The vote to approve the remuneration report allot shares or sell any shares which the Company elects is advisory only and will not require the Company to to hold in treasury for cash without first offering them to alter any arrangements detailed in the report should the existing shareholders in proportion to their existing resolution not be passed.
Resolutions 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8: Election and This authority would be limited to allotments or sales in connection with pre-emptive offers and offers to holders Re-election of directors of other equity securities if required by the rights of those These resolutions deal with the re-election of Simon shares or as the board otherwise considers necessary, or Marrison, Suzie Procter, Hugh Seaborn and David Watson.
otherwise up to an aggregate nominal amount of This being the Companys first AGM since Tim Gillbanks 3,966,887.
This aggregate nominal amount represents appointment, he will seek election by Shareholders.
5% of the total issued share capital of the Company as at In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all 5 June 2018, the latest practicable date prior to directors will retire on an annual basis and have confirmed publication of this Notice.
In respect of this aggregate that they will offer themselves for re-election.
nominal amount, the directors confirm their intention to follow the provisions of the Pre-Emption Groups A performance evaluation has been completed and your Statement of Principles regarding cumulative usage of Board has determined that each of the directors continues authorities within a rolling 3-year period where the to be effective and demonstrates their commitment to Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% should not their role.
take place without prior consultation with shareholders.
Resolutions 9 and 10: Auditors The authority will expire at the earlier of close of business on 24 October 2019 and the conclusion of the Annual These deal with the reappointment of the auditors, KPMG General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2019.
LLP, and the authorisation for the directors to determine their remuneration.
Resolution 13: Authority to make Market Purchases of the Companys Ordinary Resolution 11: Allotment of share capital shares Our Board considers it appropriate that an authority be granted to allot shares in the capital of the Company up At the AGM held on 25 July 2017, a special resolution was to a maximum nominal amount of 26,181,455 proposed and passed, giving the directors authority, until representing approximately 33% of the Companys the conclusion of the AGM in 2018, to make market issued share capital as at 5 June 2018, being the latest purchases of the Companys own issued shares up to practical date prior to publication of this Notice of the a maximum of 14.99% of the issued share capital.
As at the date of this notice the Company does Your Board is proposing that they should be given not hold any shares in treasury.
renewed authority to purchase Ordinary shares in the market.
Your Board believes that to make such purchases The directors have no present intention of exercising this in the market at appropriate times and prices is a suitable authority and would only expect to use the authority if method of enhancing shareholder value.
The Company shares could be issued at, or at a premium to, the Net would, within guidelines set from time to time by the Asset Value per share.
TR Property Investment Trust 93 TR Property pp89-100 08 06 2018 14:19 Page 94 Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Board, make either a single purchase or a series of Recommendation purchases, when market conditions are suitable, with Your Board believes that the resolutions contained in this the aim of maximising the benets to shareholders.
Notice of Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and shareholders as a whole and Where purchases are made at prices below the prevailing recommends that you vote in favour of them as your Net Asset Value per share, this will enhance the Net Asset Directors intend to do in respect of their beneficial Value for the remaining shareholders.
intended that purchases would only be made at prices below Net Asset Value.
Your Board considers that it will be most advantageous to shareholders for the Company to be able to make such purchases as and when it considers the timing to be favourable and therefore does not propose to set a timetable for making any such purchases.
The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 enable companies in the United Kingdom to hold in treasury any of their own shares they have purchased with a view to possible resale at a future date, rather than cancelling them.
If the Company does re-purchase any of its shares, the directors do not currently intend to hold any of the shares re-purchased in treasury.
The shares so re-purchased will continue to be cancelled.
The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority limit the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for any such share.
It shall not be more than the higher of: i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary share as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the Company agrees to buy shares concerned: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid for an Ordinary share in the Company on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
The minimum price to be paid will be 25p per Ordinary share being the nominal value.
The Listing Rules also limit a listed company to purchases of shares representing up to 15% of its issued share capital in the market pursuant to a general authority such as this.
For this reason, the Company is limiting its authority to make such purchases to 14.99% of the Companys Ordinary shares in issue at the date of the AGM: this is equivalent to 47,570,911 Ordinary shares of 25p each nominal value 11,892,727 at 5 June 2018, the latest practicable date prior to publication this Notice.
The authority will last until the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2019.
TR Property Investment Trust 94 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
