qxp 08 06 2018 14:20 Page 35 Report of the Directors The Directors present the audited financial statements of the Group and the Company and their Strategic Report and Report of Directors for the year ended 31 March 2018.
The Group comprises TR Property Investment Trust plc and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
As permitted by legislation, some matters normally included in the Report of the Directors have been included in the Strategic Report because the Board considers them to be of strategic importance.
Therefore review of the business of the Company, recent events and outlook can be found on pages4to 32.
Status The Company is an investment company, as dened in Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006, and operates as an investment trust in accordance with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The Company has a single share class, Ordinary shares, with a nominal value of 25p each which are premium listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company has received conrmation from HM Revenue & Customs that the Company has been accepted as an approved investment trust for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 April 2012 subject to the Company continuing to meet the eligibility conditions of Section 1158 Corporation Tax Act 2010 and the ongoing requirements for approved companies in Chapter 3 of Part 2 Investment Trust Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011 Statutory Instrument 2011 2999.
The Directors are of the opinion that the Company has conducted and will continue to conduct its affairs so as to maintain investment trust status.
The Company has also conducted its affairs, and will continue to conduct its affairs, in such a way as to comply with the Individual Savings Accounts Regulations.
The Ordinary shares can be held in Individual Savings Accounts ISAs.
Results and Dividends At 31 March 2018 the net assets of the Company amounted to 1,256m 2017: 1,118m, on a per share basis 395.64p 2017: 352.42p per share.
Revenue earnings for the year amounted to 13.22p 2017: 11.38p and the Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 7.55p 2017: 6.40p per share bringing the total dividend for the year to 12.20p 2017: 10.50p, an increase of 16.2% for the full year.
In arriving at their dividend proposal, the Board also reviewed the income forecasts for the year to March 2019.
Performance details are set out in the Financial Highlights on page1 and the outcome of what the Directors consider to be the Key Performance Indicators on pages 26 to 27.
The Chairmans Statement and the Managers Report give full details and analysis of the results for the year.
Share Capital and Buy-back Activity At 1 April 2018 the Company had 317,350,980 2017: 317,350,980 Ordinary shares in issue.
At the AGM in 2017 the Directors were given power to buy back 47,570,911 Ordinary shares.
Since this AGM the Directors have not bought back any Ordinary shares at the nominal value of 25p each under this authority.
The outstanding authority is therefore 47,570,911 shares.
This authority will expire at the 2018 AGM.
The Company will seek to renew the power to make market purchases of Ordinary shares at this years AGM.
Since 1 April 2018 to the date of this report, the Company has made no market purchases for cancellation.
The Board has not set specic discount at which shares will be repurchased.
TR Property Investment Trust 35 TR Property pp33-58.
qxp 08 06 2018 14:20 Page 36 Report of the Directors continued Management Arrangements and Fees Details of the management arrangements and fees are set out in the Report of the Management Engagement Committee beginning on page 46.
Total fees paid to the Manager in any one year Management and Performance Fees may not exceed 4.99% of Group Equity Shareholders Funds.
Total fees payable for the year to 31 March 2018 amount to 1.2% 2017: 0.6% of Group Equity Shareholders Funds.
Included in this were performance fees earned in the year ended 31 March 2018 of 10,188,000 2017: 1,148,000.
Basis of Accounting and IFRS The Group and Company financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 have been prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, together with interpretations of the International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee IASC that remain in effect, to the extent that they have been adopted by the European Union and as regards the Group and Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The accounting policies are set out in note 1 to the Financial Statements on pages 63 to 67.
Going Concern The Directors assessment of the longer-term viability of the Company is set out on page 31.
As the Board is of the opinion that the Company can continue in operation for the foreseeable future, being for a period of at least 12 months from the date that these financial statements were approved, it has been concluded that the going concern basis should be adopted for the preparation of the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2018.
Internal Controls The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The Portfolio Manager is responsible for the day to day investment management decisions on behalf of the Group.
Accounting and company secretarial services have both been outsourced.
The internal controls aim to ensure that the assets of the Group are safeguarded, proper accounting records are maintained, and the financial information used within the business and for publication is reliable.
Control of the risks identied, covering financial, operational, compliance and risk management, is embedded in the controls of the Group by a series of regular investment performance and attribution statements, financial and risk analyses, AIFM and Portfolio Manager reports and quarterly control reports.
Key risks have been identied and controls put in place to mitigate them, including those not directly the responsibility of the AIFM or Portfolio Manager.
The key risks are explained in more detail in the Strategic Report on pages 28 to 30.
The effectiveness of each third party providers internal controls is assessed on a continuing basis by the Compliance and Risk departments of the AIFM and Portfolio Manager, the Administrator and the Company Secretary.
Each maintains its own system of internal controls, and the Board and Audit Committee receive regular reports from them.
The control systems are designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss and to manage, rather than eliminate, risk of failure to achieve objectives.
TR Property Investment Trust 36 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE TR Property pp33-58.
qxp 08 06 2018 14:20 Page 37 Report of the Directors continued As the Company has no employees and its operational functions are undertaken by third parties, the Audit Committee does not consider it necessary for the Company to establish its own internal audit function.
Instead, the Audit Committee relies on internal control reports received from its principal service providers to satisfy itself as to the controls in place.
The Board has established a process for identifying, evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the Group.
The Board undertakes an annual review of the Groups system of internal controls in line with the Turnbull guidance.
Business risks have also been analysed by the Board and recorded in a risk map that is reviewed regularly.
Each quarter the Board receives a formal report from each of the AIFM, Portfolio Manager, the Administrator and the Company Secretary detailing the steps taken to monitor the areas of risk, including those that are not directly their responsibility, and which report the details of any known internal control failures.
The Board also considers the ow of information and the interaction between the third party service providers and the controls in place to ensure accuracy and completeness of the recording of assets and income.
The Board receives a report from the Portfolio Manager setting out the key controls and the results of the audit testing of these.
The Board also has direct access to company secretarial advice and services provided by Link Company Matters previously called Capita Company Secretarial Services which, through its nominated representative, is responsible for ensuring that the Board and Committee procedures are followed and that applicable regulations are complied with.
These controls have been in place throughout the period under review and up to the date of signing the accounts.
Key risks identied by the Auditors are considered by the Audit Committee to ensure robust internal controls and monitoring procedures are in place in respect of these risks on an ongoing basis.
Annual General Meeting the AGM The AGM will be held on 24 July 2018 at 2pm.
The Notice of AGM is set out on pages 89 to 90.
The full text of the resolutions and an explanation of each is contained in the Notice of AGM and explanatory notes on pages 93 to 94.
Material Interests There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of the year in which a director of the Company is or was materially interested and which is or was significant in relation to the Companys business.
No Director has a contract of service with the Company.
Further details regarding the appointment letters can be found on page 44.
Donations The Company made no political or charitable donations during the year 2017: nil.
TR Property Investment Trust 37 TR Property pp33-58.
qxp 08 06 2018 14:20 Page 38 Report of the Directors continued Voting Interests Rights and Obligations Attaching to Shares Subject to applicable statutes and other shareholders rights, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make specic provision as the Board may decide.
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and other shareholders rights, unissued shares are at the disposal of the Board.
Voting At a general meeting of the Company, when voting is by a show of hands, each share affords its owner one vote.
Restrictions on Voting No member shall be entitled to vote if he has been served with a restriction notice as dened in the Articles after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act 2006.
Deadlines for Voting Rights Votes are exercisable at the general meeting of the Company in respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by corporate representatives.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less than 48 hours or such shorter time as the Board may determine before the meeting not excluding non-working days.
Transfer of Shares Any shares in the Company may be held in uncerticated form and, subject to the Articles, title to uncerticated shares may be transferred by means of a relevant system.
Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of his certicated shares by an instrument of transfer in any usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
significant Voting Rights At 31 March 2018, no shareholders held over 3% of voting rights on a discretionary basis.
However, at 31 March 2018 the following shareholders held over 3% of the voting rights on a non-discretionary basis: % of Ordinary share voting rights Shareholder Brewin Dolphin Ltd 8.6% Alliance Trust plc 7.0% Rathbone Investment Management Ltd 6.0% Quilter Cheviot Investment Management Ltd 5.4% Investec Wealth & Investment Ltd 5.2% Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Ltd 4.1% Charles Stanley Group plc 3.1% See above for further information on the voting rights of Ordinary shares.
Since 31 March 2018 to the date of this report, the Company has not been informed of any notiable changes with respect to the Ordinary shares.
TR Property Investment Trust 38 GOVERNANCE
