qxp 08 06 2018 14:19 Page 88 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 23 Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD In accordance with the AIFMD, information in relation to the Companys leverage and remuneration of the Companys AIFM, F&C Investment Business Limited, is required to be made available to investors.
Detailed regulatory disclosures including those on the AIFMs remuneration policy are available on the F&C website or from F&C on request.
The numerical remuneration disclosures in relation to the AIFMs first relevant accounting period will be made available in due course.
Leverage Under the AIFM Directive, it is necessary for AIFs to disclose their leverage in accordance with prescribed calculations.
Although leverage is often used as another term for gearing, under the AIFMD leverage is specically dened.
Two types of leverage calculations are dened: the gross and commitment methods.
These methods summarily express leverage as a ratio of the exposure of the AIF against its net asset value.
Exposure typically includes debt, the value of any physical properties subject to mortgage, nonsterling currency, equity or currency hedging at absolute notional values even those held purely for risk reduction purposes, such as forward foreign exchange contracts held for currency hedging and derivative exposure converted into the equivalent underlying positions.
The commitment method nets off derivative instruments, while the gross method aggregates them.
The table below sets out the current maximum permitted limit and the actual level of leverage for the Company as at 31 March 2018: Leverage exposure Gross method Commitment method Maximum permitted limit 200% 200% Actual 127% 125% The leverage limits are set by the AIFM and approved by the Board and are in line with the limits set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
This should not be confused with the gearing set out in the Financial Highlights which is calculated under the traditional method set out by the Association of Investment Companies.
The AIFM is also required to comply with the gearing parameters set by the Board in relation to borrowings.
TR Property Investment Trust 88 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
