TR Property pp89-100 08 06 2018 14:19 Page 96 General Shareholder Information Release of Results Benchmark The half year results are announced in late November.
The Details of the benchmark is given in the Strategic Report full year results are announced in early June.
on page 24 of this Report and Accounts.
The benchmark index is published daily and can be found on Bloomberg: Annual General Meeting FTSE EPRA NAREIT Developed Europe Capped Net Total The AGM is held in London in July.
Return Index in Sterling Bloomberg: TR0RAG Index Dividend Payment Dates Internet Dividends are usually paid on the Ordinary shares as follows: Details of the market price and Net Asset Value of the Interim: January Ordinary shares can be found on the Companys website Final: August at www.
Dividend Payments Shareholders who hold their shares in certicated form can check their holdings with the Registrar, Computershare Dividends can be paid to shareholders by means of BACS Investor Services PLC, via www.
Bankers Automated Clearing Services : mandate forms Please note that to gain access to your details on the for this purpose are available from the Registrar.
Computershare site you will need the holder reference Alternatively, shareholders can write to the Registrar number stated on the top left hand corner of your the address is given on page 95 of this report to give share certicate.
their instructions: these must include the bank account number, the bank account title and the sort code of the Disability Act bank to which payments are to be made.
Copies of this Report and Accounts and other documents Dividend Re-investment Plan DRIP issued by the Company are available from the Company Secretary.
If needed, copies can be made available in TR Property Investment Trust plc now offers shareholders a variety of formats, including Braille, audio tape or larger the opportunity to purchase further shares in the company type as appropriate.
DRIP forms may be obtained from Computershare Investor Services PLC through their You can contact the Registrar, Computershare Investor secure website www.
co. uk, or by phoning Services PLC, which has installed textphones to allow 0370 707 1694.
Charges do apply: dealing commission speech and hearing impaired people who have their own of 0.5% subject to a minimum of 1.00.
Government textphone to contact them directly, without the need for stamp duty of 0.5% also applies.
an intermediate operator, by dialling 0870 702 0005.
Specially trained operators are available during normal Share Price Listings business hours to answer queries via this service.
The market prices of the Companys shares are published Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk daily in The Financial Times.
Some of the information is operator provided by the Royal National Institute for Deaf published in other leading newspapers.
The Financial People you should dial 18001 followed by the number Times also shows gures for the estimated Net Asset you wish to dial.
Values and the discounts applicable.
Share Price Information ISIN GB0009064097 SEDOL 0906409 Bloomberg TRY.
L Datastream TRY TR Property Investment Trust 96 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION TR Property pp89-100 08 06 2018 14:19 Page 97 General Shareholder Information continued Nominee Share Code Where notication has been provided in advance, the Company will arrange for copies of shareholder communications to be provided to the operators of nominee accounts.
Nominee investors may attend general meetings and speak at meetings when invited to do so by the Chairman.
CGT Base Cost Taxation of capital gains for shareholders who formerly held Sigma shares Upon a disposal of all or part of a shareholders holding of Ordinary shares, the impact on the shareholders capital gains tax base cost of the conversion to Sigma shares in 2007 and the redesignation to Ordinary shares in 2012 should be considered.
In respect of the conversion to Sigma in 2007, agreement was reached with HM Revenue & Customs HMRC to base the apportionment of the capital gains tax base cost on the proportion of Ordinary shares that were converted by a shareholder into Sigma shares on 25 July 2007.
Therefore, if an Ordinary shareholder converted 20% of their existing Ordinary shares into Sigma shares on 25 July 2007, the capital gains tax base cost of the new Sigma shares acquired would be equal to 20% of the original capital gains tax base cost of the Ordinary shares that they held pre-conversion.
The base cost of their remaining holding of Ordinary shares would then be 80% of the original capital gains tax base cost of their Ordinary shares held pre-conversion.
As part of the re-designation of the Sigma shares into Ordinary shares in December 2012, a further agreement was reached with HMRC that a shareholders capital gains tax base cost in their new Ordinary shares should be equivalent to their capital gains base cost in the pre-existing Sigma shares i. e. their capital gains base cost under the existing agreement if applicable.
If in doubt as to the consequences of this agreement with HMRC, shareholders should consult with their own professional advisors.
