NOTICE OF AGM TR Property pp89-100 08 06 2018 14:19 Page 89 Notice of Annual General Meeting THIS NOTICE IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take you should seek your own advice from a stockbroker, solicitor, accountant or other independent professional adviser.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares, please pass this document, together with the accompanying documents to the purchaser, or transferee, or to the person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of to any such offers or agreements as if this authority had not TR Property Investment Trust plc the Company will be held at expired.
2.00 pm on 24 July 2018 at Royal Automobile Club, 89 91 12 THAT Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5HS for the purpose of transacting the a subject to the passing of Resolution 11 set out above the following business: directors be empowered pursuant to Section 570 and To consider and, if thought t, pass the following Resolutions, Section 573 of the Act to allot equity securities as dened of which Resolutions 1 to 11 will be proposed as Ordinary in Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority Resolutions and Resolutions 12 and 13 shall be proposed as conferred by Resolution 11 above and or to sell shares Special Resolutions.
held by the Company as treasury shares for cash as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such To receive the Report of the Directors and the Audited 1 allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018. i the allotment of equity securities and sale of treasury 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year shares for cash in connection with an offer of, or ended 31 March 2018. invitation to apply for, equity securities: 3 To declare a final dividend of 7.55p per Ordinary share.
aa to shareholders in proportion as nearly as may 4 To re-elect Simon Marrison as a director.
be practicable to their existing holdings: and 5 To re-elect Suzie Procter as a director.
bb to holders of other equity securities, as required by the rights of those securities, or as the Board 6 To re-elect Hugh Seaborn as a director.
otherwise considers necessary, To re-elect David Watson as a director.
7 and so that the Board may impose any limits or To elect Tim Gillbanks as a director.
8 restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury 9 To re-appoint KPMG LLP as auditors of the Company to hold shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, ofce until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, of the Company.
any territory or any other matter: and 10 To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of ii in the case of the authority granted under Resolution 11 the auditors.
and or in the case of any sale of treasury shares for THAT the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised 11 cash, to the allotment otherwise than under pursuant to and in accordance with Section 551 of the paragraph i above of equity securities or sale of Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of the treasury shares up to a nominal amount of 3,966,887 Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to being approximately 5% of the total issued share subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares in the capital of the Company as at the latest practicable date Company up to a nominal value of 26,181,455 being prior to publication of the notice of meeting, approximately 33% of the total issued share capital of the b the power given by this resolution shall expire upon the Company as at the latest practicable date prior to publication of expiry of the authority conferred by Resolution 11 above, this Notice provided that this authority shall expire at the date of save that the Company shall be entitled to make offers or the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, at agreements before the expiry of such power which would the close of business on 24 October 2019, save that the or might require equity securities to be allotted after such Company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before expiry and the directors shall be entitled to allot equity the expiry of this authority which would or might require shares securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if to be allotted or rights to be granted after such expiry and the the power conferred hereby had not expired.
directors shall be entitled to allot shares and grant rights pursuant TR Property Investment Trust 89 TR Property pp89-100 08 06 2018 14:19 Page 90 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued c the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may 13 THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and be paid for an Ordinary share shall be 25p, being the unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 nominal value per Ordinary share: and of the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Act of Ordinary shares of 25p each d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the in the capital of the Company on such terms and in such conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the manner as the directors may from time to time determine Company in 2019, save that the Company shall be provided that: entitled to enter into a contract to purchase Ordinary shares which will, or may, be completed or executed a the maximum number of Ordinary shares hereby wholly or partly after the power expires and the Company authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the may purchase Ordinary shares pursuant to such contract Companys Ordinary shares in issue at the date of the Annual General Meeting equivalent to 47,570,911 as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
Ordinary shares of 25p each at 5 June 2018, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice : b the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for any such share shall not be more than the higher of: Registered Ofce: Registered in England No: 84492 i 105% of the average of the middle market 1112 Hanover Street quotations for an Ordinary share as taken from the London London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the W1S 1YQ five business days immediately preceding the date on which the Company agrees to buy the shares By Order of the Board concerned: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid for an Ordinary share in the Company on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out at the relevant time: For and on behalf of Link Company Matters Secretary 6 June 2018 TR Property Investment Trust 90 NOTICE OF AGM NOTICE OF AGM TR Property pp89-100 08 06 2018 14:19 Page 91 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued date two days before any adjourned meeting.
Changes to Directions Pall Mall Clubhouse entries on the Register of Members after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
3 Shareholders should note that it is possible that, pursuant to requests made by shareholders of the Company under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold ofce since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website The Royal Automobile Club has a dress code: Jacket under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must and tie forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required 1 Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf a website.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting AGM 4 Any corporation which is a member of the Company can provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights appoint one or more corporate representatives who may attached to a different share or shares held by that exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
To appoint more than one proxy, the proxy form should be photocopied and the name of the proxy to be 5 The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose appointed indicated on each proxy form together with the shares are held on their behalf by another person and who number of shares that such proxy is appointed in respect of.
have been nominated to receive communication from the Company in accordance with Section 146 of the Companies To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may a proxy must be returned by post, by courier or by hand to the have a right under an agreement with the registered Companys Registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, shareholder who holds shares on their behalf to be appointed The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY, or or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, alternatively, by going to www.
com and if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish following the instructions provided.
All proxies must be to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement appointed by no later than 48 hours before the time of the to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the AGM.
The return of a completed proxy form or other such exercise of voting rights.
instrument will not prevent a shareholder attending the AGM and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
6 CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may In order to be able to attend and vote at the AGM or any 2 do so for the AGM to be held on 24 July 2018 and any adjourned meeting and also for the purpose of calculating adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in how many votes a person may cast, a person must have the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST his her name entered on the Register of Members of the sponsored members, and those CREST members who have Company by 6.00 pm on 22 July 2018 or 6.00 pm on the appointed a voting service provider should refer to their TR Property Investment Trust 91 TR Property pp89-100 08 06 2018 14:19 Page 92 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued CREST sponsors or voting service provider s, who will be able 9 Members satisfying the thresholds in section 338 of the to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
Companies Act 2006 may require the Company to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made by means AGM, notice of a resolution which those members intend to of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message move and which may properly be moved at the AGM.
a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in A resolution may properly be moved at the AGM unless: accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specications i it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of any and must contain the information required for such instructions, inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys as described in the CREST Manual.
The message must be constitution or otherwise : ii it is defamatory of any person: transmitted so as to be received by the Companys agent, or iii it is frivolous or vexatious.
A request made pursuant to Computershare Investor Services PLC CREST Participant ID: this right may be in hard copy or electronic form, must identify 3RA50, no later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the resolution of which notice is to be given, must be the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken authenticated by the person s making it and must be to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the received by the Company not later than six weeks before the message by the CREST Application Host from which the date of the AGM.
Companys agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
10 Members satisfying the thresholds in section 338A of the Companies Act 2006 may request the Company to include in CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsor the business to be dealt with at the AGM any matter other or voting service provider should note that Euroclear UK & than a proposed resolution which may properly be included Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in in the business at the AGM.
A matter may properly be CREST for any particular messages.
included in the business at the AGM unless: i it is defamatory of any person: or ii it is frivolous or vexatious.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in A request made pursuant to this right may be in hard copy or relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the electronic form, must identify the matter to be included in the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if business, must be accompanied by a statement setting out the the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored grounds for the request, must be authenticated by the member or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure person s making it and must be received by the Company that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider takes such not later than six weeks before the date of the AGM.
action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular 11 Biographical details of the directors are shown on page 33 of time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where the Annual Report & Accounts.
applicable, their CREST sponsor or voting service provider are referred in particular to those sections of the CREST Manual 12 As at 5 June 2018 being the latest practicable day prior to concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and publication of this Notice, the issued share capital of the timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Company is 317,350,980 Ordinary shares of 25p each.
Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a Therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Company at of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001.
7 Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask 13 The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, the questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such Management Engagement Committee, the Nomination question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting Committee and the Letters of Appointment for directors will but no such answer need be given if: a to do so would interfere be available for inspection for at least 15 minutes prior to and unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the during the Companys AGM.
disclosure of condential information: b the answer has already 14 You may not use any electronic address provided either in this been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: Notice or any related documents to communicate for any or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the purposes other than those expressly stated.
good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
8 A copy of this notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at www.
TR Property Investment Trust 92 NOTICE OF AGM
