Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Other shareholder information Financial diary Annual Report The Annual Report is published on our website and a hard copy Ex-dividend date 4 April 2019 will be posted to shareholders who have requested it in paper Record date 5 April 2019 copy format.
All other shareholders will be notified of its availability on the website, either in writing or by email.
A paper copy is Annual General Meeting 8 May 2019 available by writing to the Company Secretary at the Companys Trading statement 8 May 2019 registered office: Payment of final dividend 17 May 2019 Lodge Way House Lodge Way Annual General Meeting AGM Harlestone Road Northampton The AGM will be held on Wednesday 8 May 2019 at 12:30 at: NN5 7UG Northampton Rugby Football Club Email: cosec@travisperkins.
co. uk Franklins Gardens Weedon Road Electronic Shareholder Communications Northampton The Company prefers that you receive your shareholder NN5 5BG communications electronically.
This is a faster, more  and more effective way to communicate Registrars with you.
If you have received a hard copy of this report or For Information about shareholdings and dividends and to report notification of its availability by post and would like to receive fully changes to your address, bank details or any other account electronic communication, please register your preference on the information please contact the Companys registrars: shareholder portal.
Link Asset Services Shareholder services The Registry 34 Beckenham Road The Companys registrars provide a number of other services Beckenham that, as a shareholder, might be useful to you: Kent Duplicate Share Register Accounts BR3 4TU If you are receiving more than one copy of our report, it may be Email: enquiries@linkgroup.
co. uk that your shares are registered in two or more accounts on our Telephone: 44 0 371 664 0300 register of members.
If that is not your intention you may wish to consider merging the accounts into one single entry.
Please You can view and manage your shareholder account online via contact Link Asset Services who will be pleased to help you.
You will need to register to use this service and to do so you will require Dividend Re-Investment Plan DRIP your unique investor code IVC, which can be found on your This is a scheme which allows you to use your dividends to buy share certificate or dividend confirmation.
For any shareholders who wish to reinvest dividend payments in the Company, a facility is provided Dividends by Link Market Services Trustees Limited in conjunction with the It is more secure to have your dividends paid directly into your bank Companys Registrar.
Full details are available by calling Link account than by cheque.
If you do not already have your dividends Asset Services on 44 0 371 664 0381.
Alternatively, paid directly into your account and would like to do so, you can you can sign up for this service on the shareholder portal do this on the shareholder portal or you can contact Link Asset by clicking on Manage your account followed by Dividend Services and they will send you the relevant form to complete.
payments and following the on screen instructions.
Shareholder communications Share dealing services Company Website Share dealing services are available from the Companys Registrar.
Travis Perkins plc Annual and Interim Reports, results For on-line dealing: www.
com announcements and presentations are available on the Investor For telephone dealing: 44 0 371 664 0445 Relations section of our website www.
These services are only available to private shareholders resident in The website also carries a range of information about the Group the EEA, the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man.
and its principal brands, products and services which can be accessed via the Our Businesses section.
Calls will be charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.
Calls from outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international rate: lines are open 9.00am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday with the exception of share dealing lines which are open from 8.00am to 4.30pm.
176 Above anticlockwise : Vanessa Bromham Travis Perkins, Gowerton Road Richard Sutton Travis Perkins, Gowerton Road Bill Battison Travis Perkins, Gowerton Road Luke Henry Travis Perkins, Gowerton Road Travis Perkins plc Lodge Way House, Harlestone Road, Northampton.
com The papers used in this document are FSC mixed sources certified.
The stock is derived from well managed forests and controlled sources.
They are manufactured at mills which carry ISO 14001 certification.
Designed by Design Print & Digital, part of Travis Perkins plc.
