Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Statement of Directors responsibilities For the year ended 31 December 2018 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law of the corporate and financial information included on the and regulations.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Directors responsibility statement IFRS as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the Company We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: financial statements under IFRS as adopted by the European 1.
The financial statements, prepared in accordance with Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted accounts unless they are satisfied that they give by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and financial position and profit or loss of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing the undertakings included in the consolidation taken these financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 as a whole:and requires that Directors.
The Strategic Report, which is incorporated into the Directors Select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently Report, includes a fair review of the development and Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable performance of the business and the position of the Company andprudent and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks State whether the financial statements have been prepared in and uncertainties that they face.
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU 3.
The annual report and financial statements taken as a Assess the Group and Companys ability to continue as a going whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going the information necessary for shareholders to assess the concern: and Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease Declaration operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting We consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, when records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess time the financial position of the Company and enable them to the Groups position, performance, business model and strategy.
ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for such internal control The Statement of Directors Responsibilities has been approved as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of by the Board of Directors and is signed on its behalf by: financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and otherirregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also John Carter Alan Williams responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, a Directors Report, Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer a Directors Remuneration and a Corporate Governance 25 February 2019 25 February 2019 statement, which comply with that law and those regulations.
96 Financial statements 98 Independent auditors report 106 Financial statements 116 Income and Expenses 126 Assets and Liabilities 142 Capital 152 Risks 158 Group Structure 165 People 169 Other Nicole Dambra - Wickes, Cricklewood 97 97
