Income and Expenses Assets and Liabilities Capital Risks Group Structure People Other Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial statements 37.
Related party transactions The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, its Directors and with its pension schemes note 16.
Transactions between Group companies, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are disclosed below.
In addition the remuneration of the Directors, and the details of their interests in the share capital of the Company are provided in the audited part of the remuneration report on pages 78 to 85.
The Company undertakes the following transactions with its active subsidiaries: Providing day-to-day funding from its UK banking facilities Paying interest to members of the Group totalling 23.3m 2017: 20.5m Receiving annual dividends totalling 385.8m 2017: 323.7m Details of balances outstanding with subsidiary companies are shown in note 12 and in the Balance Sheet on pages 107 and 111.
Other than the payment of remuneration there have been no related party transactions with Directors.
The Group advanced a total of 21.0m 2017: 11.3m to all the Groups associate companies in 2018.
Operating transactions with the associates during the year were not significant.
N ew and amended standards adopted by the Group A number of new or amended standards became applicable for the current reporting period and as a result the Group has applied the following standards: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Annual Improvements to IFRS 20142016 cycle Amendments to IAS 40: Transfers of Investment Property Amendments to IFRS 2: Amendments to clarify the classification and measurement of share-based paymenttransactions IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and AdvanceConsideration The below explains the impact of the adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers on the Groups financial statements.
The new standards, other than described below, did not have a material impact on the Group and have been adopted without restating comparative information.
a. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments The reclassifications and the adjustments arising from the new impairment rules are not reflected in a restated balance sheet as at 31December 2017, but are recognised in the closing balance sheet as at 31 December 2018 or, for the change to the Groups financial asset impairment model necessitated by IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, have been recognised in the opening Balance Sheet at 1January 2018.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces the provisions of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement that relate to the recognition, classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities, derecognition of financial instruments, impairment of financial assets and hedge accounting.
The adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments from 1 January 2018 resulted in changes in accounting policies and adjustments to the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
The new accounting policies are set out in note 26.
In accordance with the transitional provisions in IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, comparative figures have not beenrestated.
169 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial statements Financial statements 38.
N ew and amended standards adopted by the Group continued a. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments continued Classification and measurement On 1 January 2018 the date of initial application of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, the Groups management has assessed which business models apply to the financial assets held by the Group and has classified its financial instruments into the appropriate IFRS 9 Financial Instruments categories.
The main effects resulting from this reclassification are as follows: Note Original classification New classification under Old carrying New carrying Difference IFRS 9 - amount amount m Financial Instruments under IFRS 9 Financial Assets: Derivative financial a Designated as FVTPL Mandatorily at FVTPL - - - instruments Cash and cash Available-for-sale Amortised cost 276.8 276.8 - equivalents Trade and other b Loans and receivables Amortised cost 1,049.2 1,046.8 2.4 receivables Available-for-sale c Available - for-sale Designated instrument 4.7 4.7 - investments by instrument as either FVOCI or FVTPL Financial Liabilities: Derivative financial a Designated as FVTPL Mandatorily at FVTPL 1.2 1.2 - instruments a Under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, these foreign currency forward contracts were designated as fair value through profit and loss FVTPL because they were managed on a fair value basis and their performance was monitored on this basis.
These assets have been classified as mandatorily measured at FVTPL under IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
b Trade and other receivables that were classified as loans and receivables under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement are now classified at amortised cost as the business model is to hold the financial asset to collect contractual cash flows which represent solely the payment of principal and interest.
An increase of 2.4m in the allowance for impairment over these receivables was recognised in opening retained earnings at 1 January 2018 on transition to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
c These equity securities represent investments that the Group intends to hold for the long-term for strategic purposes.
As permitted by IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, the Group has designated these investments on a instrument by instrument basis as either fair value through other comprehensive income FVTOCI or FVTPL.
Impairment of financial assets Trade receivables are subject to the new expected credit loss model in IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and therefore the Group has revised its impairment methodology, as explained in the note 12. b. IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Impact of adoption The Group has adopted IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers from 1 January 2018 which resulted in changes in accounting policies and the reclassification of amounts recognised in the financial statements, as explained in note 12.
None of the adjustments impacted the Groups retained earnings and this standard does not have a significant impact on the Group.
The new accounting policy is included in note 1.
Provisions for customer returns were previously presented on a net basis, as part of accruals and deferred income.
Following adoption of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers they are now shown on a gross basis and liabilities for the full amount expected to be refunded to customers 7.7m as at 1 January 2018 are included in trade and other payables.
Subsequently assets for the value of goods expected to be returned are included in trade and other receivables 1.3m as at 1 January 2018.
170 Income and Expenses Assets and Liabilities Capital Risks Group Structure People Other Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial statements 39.
Impact of standards issued but not yet applied by the entity A number of new standards are effective for annual periods ii.
Leases in which the Group is a lessor beginning after 1 January 2018 and earlier application is No significant impact is expected for leases in which the Group is permitted: however, the Group has not early adopted the new a lessor.
or amended standards in preparing these consolidated financial iii.
Of those standards that are not yet effective, IFRS The Group plans to apply IFRS 16 Leases initially on 1 January 16 Leases is expected to have a material impact on the Groups 2019 using the modified retrospective approach as described financial statements in the period of initial application.
in paragraph C5 b of the standard.
Therefore the cumulative a. IFRS 16 Leases effect of adopting IFRS 16 will be recognised as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings at 1 January 2019, In January 2016 the IASB issued IFRS 16 Leases and this with no restatement of comparative information.
On transition the was endorsed by the European Union in October 2017.
It will Groups intention is to measure the right-of-use on a retrospective be effective from 1 January 2019.
This Standard will have a basis for circa 300 of the Groups most material property leases material effect on the Group because the value of the operating and measure the right-of-use of the remaining leases on a fully leases it has entered into will be included in the balance sheet prospective basis.
The Group has a project team working to implement the processes and systems necessary to comply with The Group plans to apply the practical expedient to grandfather itsrequirements.
the definition of a lease on transition.
This means that it will apply IFRS 16 Leases to all contracts entered into before 1 January The impact of adopting the standard on 1 January 2019 may 2019 and identified as leases in accordance with IAS 17 Leases.
change from current estimates because: The Group will elect to apply the practical expedient available for short-term leases and leases of low-value items and recognise the Groups lease portfolio is frequently changing the lease payments associated with these leases as an expense the new accounting policies are subject to change until the on a straight-line basis without recognising a right-of-use asset or Group presents its first financial statements that include the a lease liability.
date of initial application iv.
Impact of the new standard IFRS 16 Leases introduces a single, on-balance sheet lease Given the complexity of the Standard and the number of leases accounting model for lessees.
A lessee recognises a right-of-use held by the Group, the implementation project is not fully asset representing its right to use the underlying asset and a completed at the date of these financial statements.
However, lease liability representing its obligation to make lease payments.
based on the information and modelling currently available, the There are elective recognition exemptions for short-term leases Group has estimated the potential impact that initial application and leases of low-value items.
Lessor accounting remains similar of IFRS 16 Leases will have on key financial metrics including to the current standard: lessors continue to classify leases as its return on capital employed.
This modelling has assumed: finance or operating leases.
IFRS 16 Leases has been effective from 1 January 2018 IFRS 16 Leases replaces existing leases guidance including IAS 17 Leases and IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement The transition options set out in this note contains a Lease.
Incremental borrowing rates calculated on the basis of market conditions on 1 January 2018 i.
Leases in which the Group is a lessee The Group will recognise new assets and liabilities for its The modelling has not taken into account any interactions operating leases of properties, vehicles and tool hire assets.
between IFRS 16 Leases and the Groups existing onerous lease Thenature of the expenses recognised in respect of these leases provisions nor has it considered the impact of the new standard will change because the Group will recognise a depreciation on rent reviews.
charge for right-of-use assets and an interest expense on Using lease data from 1 January 2018 rolled forward to the leaseliabilities.
year end, the expected impact on the balance sheet position Previously the Group recognised operating lease expense on is the recognition of a right of use asset of circa 1.2bn and a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, and recognised an additional lease liability of circa 1.35bn, with an expected assets and liabilities only to the extent that there was a timing tolerance of circa plus or minus 50m on these amounts.
difference between actual lease payments and the expense Profits on the disposal of properties recognised as a result of recognised.
In addition, the Group will no longer recognise sale and leaseback transactions will be lower under the new provisions for operating leases that it assesses to be onerous as measurement rules of IFRS 16 Leases.
described in note 13 and will instead recognise an impairment of the right-of-use asset.
This modelling indicates that the Groups return on capital employed would have been broadly in line with the currently No significant impact is expected for the Groups finance leases.
disclosed lease adjusted return on capital employed.
171 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial statements Financial statements 39.
Impact of standards issued but not yet applied by the entity continued a. IFRS 16 Leases continued Impact on return on capital employed Current basis Indicative IFRS 16 m note 25 Leases basis Adjusted operating profit 375 430 50% of property operating lease rentals 92 - Lease-adjusted operating profit 467 430 Average capital employed 2,989 4,189 Property operating lease rentals x8 1,479 - Lease-adjusted capital employed 4,468 4,189 Lease-adjusted return on capital employed 10.5% 10.3% Impact on income statement Current Remove Add depreciation Indicative IFRS 16 - m basis rent and interest Leases basis Revenue 6,741 - - 6,741 Gross profit 1,917 - - 1,917 Adjusted operating profit 375 210 155 430 Share of associates results 4 - - 4 Interest 24 - 60 84 Adjusted profit before tax 347 210 215 342 b.
Other standards The following amended standards and interpretations are not Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement expected to have a significant impact on the Groups consolidated Amendments to IAS 19. financial statements.
Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 20152017 Cycle various standards.
IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Tax Treatments.
Amendments to References to Conceptual Framework Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation in IFRS Standards.
Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures Amendments to IAS 28.
172 Shareholder information 174 Five-year summary 176 Other shareholder information From left to right: Emma Borton, -Travis Perkins, Salthouse Road Theresa Costello - Travis Perkins, Salthouse Road 173
