STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Additional Information Financial Calendar 6 March2019 Announcement of Full YearResults 15 May2019 Annual GeneralMeeting 30June2019 Half YearEnd August2019 Announcement of Half YearResults 31December2019 Full YearEnd Cautionary Statement This Annual Report and the Tritax Big Box REIT plc website may contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to Tritax Big Box REIT plcs Company financial condition, results of its operations and business, and certain plans, strategy, objectives, goals and expectations with respect to these items and the economies and markets in which the Company operates.
Forward-looking statements are sometimes, but not always, identified by their use of a date in the future or such words as anticipates, aims, due, could, may, should, will, would, expects, believes, intends, plans, targets, goal or estimates or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance.
By their very nature forward-looking statements are inherently unpredictable, speculative and involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
Many of these assumptions, risks and uncertainties relate to factors that are beyond the Companys ability to control or estimate precisely.
There are a number of such factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in the economies and markets in which the Company operates: changes in the legal, regulatory and competition frameworks in which the Company operates: changes in the markets from which the Company raises finance: the impact of legal or other proceedings against or which affect the Company: changes in accounting practices and interpretation of accounting standards under IFRS, and changes in interest and exchange rates.
Any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report or Tritax Big Box REIT plc website, or made subsequently, which are attributable to the Company, or persons acting on their behalf, are expressly qualified in their entirety by the factors referred to above.
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date it is made.
Except as required by its legal or statutory obligations, the Company does not intend to update any forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report or the Tritax Big Box REIT plc website should be construed as a profit forecast or an invitation to deal in the securities of the Company.
Designed and produced by Bruce Associates Printed in England by Cousin Both paper mill and printer have ISO14001 Environmental accreditation.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 165 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Standbrook House, 4th Floor, 2-5 Old Bond Street, Mayfair, London W1S 4PD www.
