STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Additional Information Glossary of Terms Adjusted Earnings post tax earnings attributable to Shareholders, Development pipeline The Groups current programme of adjusted to include licence fees receivable on forward funded developments authorised or in the course of construction at development assets and adjusts for other earnings not supported the balance sheet date, together with potential schemes not yet by cash flows.
commenced on land owned or controlled by the Group.
Big Box a Big Box property or asset refers to a specific subDirectors the Directors of the Company as of the date of this segment of the logistics sector of the real estate market, relating report being Sir Richard Jewson, Jim Prower, Aubrey Adams, to very large logistics warehouses each with typically over Susanne Given, Richard Laing and Alastair Hughes.
500,000 sg ft of floor area with the primary function of holding Development Management Agreement the development and distributing finished goods, either downstream in the supply management agreement between Tritax Symmetry and the DBS chain or direct to consumers, and typically having the following Management Company.
characteristics: generally a modern constructed building with eaves height exceeding 12 metres: let on long leases with institutionalEPRA European Public Real Estate Association.
grade tenants: with regular, upward only rental reviews: having EPRA Earnings Earnings from operational activities which a prime geographical position to allow both efficient stocking excludes the licence fees receivable on our forward funded generally with close links to sea ports or rail freight hubs and development assets.
efficient downstream distribution: and typically with sophisticated automation systems or a highly bespoke fit out.
EPRA NAV or EPRA Net Asset Value the Basic Net Asset Value adjusted to meet EPRA Best Practices Recommendations Board the directors of the Company.
Guidelines 2016 requirements by excluding the impact of any BREEAM Building Research Establishments Environmental fair value adjustments to debt and related derivatives and other Assessment Method is a recognised environmental assessment adjustments and reflecting the diluted number of Ordinary Shares method and rating system for best practice in sustainable building in issue.
design, construction and operation measuring a buildings EPRA Triple Net Asset Value NNNAV EPRA NAV adjusted to environmental performance.
A BREEAM assessment evaluates include the fair values of financial instruments, debt and, deferred a buildings specification, design, construction and use, such taxes.
as energy and water use, the internal environment health and well-being, pollution, transport, materials, waste, ecology and EPRA Net Initial Yield NIY Annualised rental income based management processes.
on the cash rents passing at the balance sheet date, less nonrecoverable property operating expenses, divided by the market Bridge Facility the 250 million single currency revolving credit value of the property, increased with estimated purchasers costs.
EPRA Topped-Up NIY This measure incorporates an adjustment Company Tritax Big Box REIT plc company number 8215888. to the EPRA NIY in respect of the expiration of rent-free periods or Company Secretary the Manager.
other unexpired lease incentives, such as discounted rent periods and step rents.
CPI consumer price index, a measure that examines the weighted average of prices of a basket of consumer goods and services, EPRA Vacancy Estimated market rental value ERV of vacant such as transportation, food and medical care as calculated on space divided by the ERV of the whole portfolio.
a monthly basis by the Office of National Statistics.
EPRA Cost Ratio Administrative and operating costs including CREST the computerised settlement system operated by and excluding costs of direct vacancy divided by gross rental Euroclear which facilitates the transfer of title to shares in income.
Estimated cost to completion Costs still to be expended on CTA 2010 the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and any statutory a development or redevelopment to practical completion, including modification or re-enactment thereof for the time being in force.
db symmetry or DBS Group db symmetry Group Ltd and Estimated rental value ERV The estimated annual market rental db symmetry BVI Limited, together with their subsidiary value of lettable space as determined biannually by the Groups undertakings and joint venture interests which are the subject valuers.
This will normally be different from the rent being paid.
of the Share Purchase Agreement.
Existing Shares Ordinary Shares existing at the Record Date.
DBS Senior Management the senior management team of FATCA the U. S. Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act.
db symmetry, namely, Richard Bowen, Christian Matthews, Henry Chapman and Andrew Dickman.
FCA the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority or any successor entity or entities.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 161 Additional Information: Glossary of Terms Forward Funded Developments a pre-let forward funded London Stock Exchange London Stock Exchange plc.
Manager Tritax Management LLP partnership number Foundation Asset provide the core, low-risk income that 0C326500.
They are usually let on long leases to Net equivalent yield The internal rate of return from an Customers with excellent covenant strength.
Then buildings are investment property, based on the value of the property assuming commonly new or modern and in prime locations, and the leases the current passing rent reverts to ERV and assuming the property have regular upward-only rent reviews, often either fixed or linked becomes fully occupied over time.
Net Initial Yield the annual rent from a property divided by the FTSE Tenant any tenant which is, or whose parent company is, combined total of its acquisition price and expenses.
at the time of investment, included in the FTSE 350 or within the top 350 companies included in any non-UK index which is, in the Net rental income Gross Rental Income less ground rents paid, reasonable opinion of the Board, comparable to FTSE.
net service charge expenses and property operating expenses.
FRI Lease Full Repairing and Insuring Lease.
The tenant is NonPID Dividend a dividend received by a shareholder of the responsible for all repairs and decoration to the property, inside and principal company that is not a PID.
And the building insurance premium is recoverable from the Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares of 0.01 each in the capital of tenant.
Gearing Net borrowings divided by total shareholders equity Passing rent The annual rental income currently receivable on excluding intangible assets and deferred tax provision.
a property as at the balance sheet date which may be more or less GIA Under the RICS Code of Measuring Practice 6th Edition than the ERV.
Excludes rental income where a rent free period is the Gross Internal Area GIA is the basis of measurement for in operation.
Excludes service charge income which is netted off valuation of industrial buildings including ancillary offices and against service charge expenses.
The area of a building measured to the internal face PID or Property Income Distribution a dividend received by of the perimeter walls at each floor level including the thickness a shareholder of the principal company in respect of profits and of any internal walls.
gains of the Property Rental Business of the UK resident members Gross rental income Contracted rental income recognised in of the REIT Group or in respect of the profits or gains of a non-UK the period, in the income statement, including surrender premiums resident member of the REIT Group insofar as they derive from their and interest receivable on finance leases.
Lease incentives, initial UK Property Rental Business.
costs and any contracted future rental increases are amortised on Portfolio the investment portfolio of the Company.
a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Prelet A lease signed with an occupier prior to completion of Growth Covenant Asset These are fundamentally sound assets a development.
in good locations, let to Customers we perceive to be undervalued at the point of purchase and who have the potential to improve their REIT A qualifying entity which has elected to be treated as financial strength, such as young e-retailers or other companies a Real Estate Investment Trust for tax purposes.
In the UK, such with growth prospects.
These assets offer value enhancement entities must be listed on a recognised stock exchange, must be through yield compression.
predominantly engaged in property investment activities and must meet certain ongoing qualifications.
InstitutionalGrade Tenants tenants of sufficient size and stature that they merit attention by large national or international investors.
REIT Group the Company and all of its subsidiary undertakings.
Investment property Completed land and buildings held for Rent Roll see Passing Rent.
rental income return and or capital appreciation.
RPI retail price index, an inflationary indicator that measures the LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate.
change in the cost of a fixed basket of retail goods as calculated on a monthly basis by the Office of National Statistics.
Link or Link Asset Services a trading name of Link Market Services Limited company number 2605568.
SDLT Stamp Duty Land Tax the tax imposed by the UK Government on the purchase of land and properties with values Listing Rules the listing rules made by the UK Listing Authority over a certain threshold.
Shareholders the holders of Ordinary Shares.
Loan Notes the loan notes issued by the Company on 4 December 2018.
Speculative development Where a development has commenced prior to a lease agreement being signed in relation to Loan to Value LTV The proportion of our gross asset value that development.
including cash that is funded by borrowings.
162 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Additional Information: Glossary of Terms sq ft square foot or square feet, as the context may require.
Strategic Land Opportunities identified in strategic land which the Manager believes will enable the Company to secure, typically, pre-let forward funded developments in locations which might otherwise attract lower yields than the Company would want to pay, delivering enhanced returns but controlling risk.
Topped up net initial yield Net initial yield adjusted to include notional rent in respect of let properties which are subject to a rentfree period at the valuation date.
This is in accordance with EPRAs Best Practices Recommendations.
Total Expense Ratio or TER The ratio of total administration and property operating costs expressed as a percentage of average net asset value throughout the period.
Total Return net total shareholder return, being the change in EPRA NAV over the relevant period plus dividends paid.
Total Shareholder Return A measure of the return based upon share price movement over the period and assuming reinvestment of dividends.
UK AIFMD Rules the laws, rules and regulations implementing AIFMD in the UK, including without limitation, the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Regulations 2013 and the Investment Funds sourcebook of the FCA.
UKLA or UK Listing Authority the FCA acting in its capacity asthe UK Listing Authority.
Value Add Asset These assets ae typically let to Customers with good covenants and offer the chance to grow the assets capital value or rental Income, through lease engineering or physical improvements to the property.
We do this using our asset management capabilities and understanding of customer requirements.
These are usually highly re-lettable.
WAULT or Weighted Average Unexpired Lease Term the average remaining life of the leases within the portfolio.
In respect of forward funded developments, the unexpired term from lease startdate.
Yield on Cost The expected gross yield based on the estimated current market rental value ERV of the developments when fully let, divided by the book value of the developments at the earlier of commencement of the development or the balance sheet date plus future development costs and estimated finance costs tocompletion.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 163
