INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FOR THE GROUP AND COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion In our opinion: - the Financial Statements of Tullow Oil plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group give a true and fair view ofthe state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: - the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: - the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and - the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the Financial Statements which comprise: - the Group income statement: - the Group statement of comprehensive income and expense: - the Group and Parent Company balance sheets: - the Group and Parent Company statements of changes in equity: - the Group cash flow statement: - the Group and Parent Company statements of accounting policies: - the related notes 1 to 32 to the Group Financial Statements: and - the related notes 1 to 8 to the Parent Company Financial Statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to ouraudit of the Financial Statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils FRCs Ethical Standard asapplied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Grouporthe Parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
com 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FOR THE GROUP AND COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: - the carrying value of exploration and evaluation E&E assets: and - the carrying value of property, plant and equipment PP&E.
- Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year identified with.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group Financial Statements was $50 million which represents approximately 2 per cent of net assets and approximately 3 per cent of Adjusted EBITDAX.
Scoping The Group comprises three reporting units and the corporate business unit, all of which were included in our assessment of the risks of material misstatement.
Full scope audits were performed on those operations audited by the Group team and by the component teams in Ghana and Gabon.
Specified audit procedures were performed in all of the Groups other locations.
Significant changes There have been no significant changes to our approach to the audit, aside from our conclusion inourapproach that the provision for onerous service contracts was not a key audit matter for this years audit.
Following the settlement of the Seadrill case in the current year and following reduced levels ofuncertainty with regards to the onerous service contracts during 2018 we concluded that the provision for onerous contracts was not a key audit matter for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We confirm that we have We have reviewed the Directors statement on page 37 about whether they considered it appropriate nothing material to report, to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any add or draw attention to in material uncertainties to the Groups and Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at respect of these matters.
least 12 months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements.
We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the Group, its business model and related risks including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the Directors assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, and evaluated the Directors plans for future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we have Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether they were consistent nothing material to report, withthe knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the add or draw attention to in evaluation of the Directors assessment of the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a respect of these matters.
going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: - the disclosures on pages 54 to 57 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: - the Directors confirmation on page 75 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or - the Directors explanation on page 58 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether theyhave a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue inoperation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
110 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the Financial Statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Carrying value of exploration and evaluation E&E assets Key audit matter The carrying value of E&E assets as at 31 December 2018 is $1,898.6 million 2017: $1,933.4 million description and the Group has written off E&E expenditure totalling $295.2 million 2017: $143.4 million in the year then ended.
The assessment of the carrying value of E&E assets requires management to exercise judgement asdescribed in the critical accounting judgements section of the Annual Report and Accounts on page126.
Managements assessment requires consideration of a number of factors, including, butnot limited to, the Groups intention to proceed with a future work programme for a prospect or licence, the likelihood of licence renewal and the success of drilling and geological analysis to date.
We have pinpointed the key audit matter in this area to those E&E assets in the Groups portfolio which are at higher risk of impairment, specifically those in Kenya.
Following $140 million of exploration write off in respect of Wawa and Akasa in Ghana in 2018, we no longer considered the Ghana E&E assets to be at higher risk of future impairment.
The costs capitalised in respect of Kenya constitute $1,098 million of the Groups E&E assets.
Please refer to note 10 on pages 134 and 135 of the Annual Report and Accounts and the AuditCommittee Report on pages 70 to 76 for further information.
How the scope of our We evaluated managements assessment of E&E assets held on the balance sheet at 31 December auditresponded to the 2018 with reference to the criteria of IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources keyaudit matter and the Groups accounting policy see page 123.
Our work to assess the assets at higher risk of impairment included, but was not limited to, the following audit procedures: - participating in meetings with operational and finance staff in Kenya and London to discuss Exploration and Appraisal activities: - obtaining confirmations of budget allocations, confirmations of the licence phase and ongoing appraisal activity: and - obtaining evidence in respect of the continuance or otherwise of appraisal activity, licence validity, the status of applications for licence extensions and managements expectations of approval, its consideration of the likelihood of recovery of the balance sheet value and its conclusion on commerciality where relevant.
Key observations We are satisfied that the assets have been treated in accordance with the criteria of IFRS 6 and Tullows E&E accounting policy.
In some circumstances the costs of wells from exploration continue to be held on the balance sheet for a significant period of time while development plans are finalised and government consent is obtained, for example in Kenya.
Based on the audit evidence gathered, we are satisfied that the judgements made by management are reasonable.
com 111 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FOR THE GROUP AND COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Carrying value of Property, Plant and Equipment PP&E Key audit matter In 2018 Tullow recognised a net impairment charge of $18.2 million 2017: $539.1 million description impairment against the value of its PP&E assets, of which $13.3 million 2017: $535.5 million impairment relates to the impairment reversal in the TEN asset.
Please refer to note 11 and the Audit Committee Report on pages 70 to 76 for further details.
As described in the key sources of estimation uncertainty section of the Annual Report and Accounts on page 127, the assessment of the carrying value of PP&E assets requires management to compare it against the recoverable amount of the asset.
The calculation of the recoverable amount requires judgement in estimating future oil and gas prices, the applicable asset discount rate and the cost and production profiles of reserves estimates.
We have identified the TEN asset in Ghana as the Groups only field whose impairment assessment represents a key audit matter as a result of its material size and sensitivity to changes in underlying assumptions.
Given the assets importance to the Group in terms of future production and the estimation uncertainty in the determination of its recoverable amount, we also considered there to be a fraud risk that the assumptions applied to the valuation are inappropriate.
Management has disclosed the impact of sensitivities of both the discount rate and commodity prices in the PP&E note on pages 135 and 136.
How the scope of our We examined managements assessment of impairment and impairment reversal indicators, auditresponded to the which concluded that an increase in the forecast oil price assumption and the positive revisions keyaudit matter tothe production profiles during the year represented an indicator of impairment reversals for theGroups oil and gas assets.
The assumptions that underpin managements calculation of the recoverable amounts of the TENasset are inherently judgemental.
Our audit work therefore assessed the reasonableness ofmanagements key assumptions when calculating its recoverable amount.
Specifically our work included, but was not limited to, the following procedures: - benchmarking and analysis of oil price assumptions against forward curves and other marketdata: - agreement of hydrocarbon production profiles and proven and probable reserves to third-party reserve reports and evaluated the competence, capabilities and objectivity of the third-party reserve auditors: - verification of estimated future costs by agreement to approved budgets and assessment of their appropriateness with reference to field production profiles, with involvement from Deloitte petroleum engineering experts: - recalculation and benchmarking of discount rates applied, with involvement from Deloitte industry valuation specialists: and - consideration of evidence of management bias in the assumptions selected and the application of professional scepticism to address the risk of fraud.
Key observations The assumptions made by management when determining the TEN assets recoverable amount fall within a reasonable range.
Overall, we are satisfied that the recoverable amount of the assets have been determined and impairment charges and reversals have been recognised in accordance with the requirements ofIAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
112 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 97 Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Group Financial Statements Materiality Group: $50 million 2017: $50 million.
Basis for determining Group: Approximately 2 per cent of Group net assets, consistent with the prior year approach materiality 2017: approximately 2 per cent of Group net assets, consistent with the prior year approach.
Parent Company: Approximately 1 per cent of the Parent Companys net assets 2017:approximately 1 per cent of the Parent Companys net assets.
Rationale for the Group: We have determined materiality based on the net asset position of the Group, reflecting the benchmark applied long-term value of the Group in its portfolio of exploration and development assets and their associated reserves and resources.
We have determined that using a balance sheet metric, rather than profit-based metric, will provide a more stable base for materiality.
However, for reference we note that materiality equates to approximately 3 per cent of the alternative performance measure Adjusted EBITDAX.
Management has presented a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDAX to profit from continuing activities on page 39 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Parent Company: We have determined materiality based on the net asset position of the Company as its principal activity is to hold investments in subsidiaries and external debt.
Group materiality $50m Net assets $2,893m Component materiality range $40m to $25m Net assets Group materiality 3Audit Committee reporting threshold $2.5m We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $2.5 million 2017:$2.5 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Wealso report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit The Group comprises three reporting units and the corporate business unit, all of which were included in our assessment of the risks of material misstatement.
Specified audit procedures were performed at the Groups other locations.
The materialities applied to components ranged from $25 million to $40 million 2017: $25 million to $40 million.
The Group team took direct responsibility for the audit work in certain locations including the UK, Kenya and Uganda as well as the consolidation process.
The Group team planned and oversaw the work performed by component auditors: the level of direct involvement varied by location and included, at a minimum, a review of the reports provided on the results of the work undertaken by the component audit teams.
In addition, the senior statutory auditor and senior members of his Group audit team visited Ghana and Kenya to direct and review the audit work performed by the component auditors.
com 113 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FOR THE GROUP AND COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information We have nothing to included in the Annual Report, other than the Financial Statements and our Auditors Report thereon.
report in respect ofthese matters.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required todetermine whether there is a material misstatement in the Financial Statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there isa material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: - Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or - Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or - Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of Financial Statements that are free from material misstatement, whether dueto fraud or error.
In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability tocontinue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Financial Statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Financial Statements.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
114 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: - enquiring of management, internal audit, the Group Ethics and Compliance Manager and the Audit Committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the Groups policies and procedures relating to: - identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance: - detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: - the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations: - discussing among the engagement team including significant component audit teams and involving relevant internal specialists, including tax, valuations, IT and industry specialists regarding how and where fraud might occur in the Financial Statements and any potential indicators of fraud.
As part of this discussion, we identified potential for fraud in the following areas: Carrying value of exploration and evaluation E&E assets and Carrying value of Property, Plant and Equipment PP&E : and - obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework that the Group operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the Financial Statements or that had a fundamental effect on the operations of the Group.
The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included the UK Companies Act 2006, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and the relevant tax compliance regulations in the jurisdictions in which Tullow operates.
Audit response to risks identified As a result of performing the above, we identified carrying value of exploration and evaluation assets and carrying value of property, plant and equipment as key audit matters.
The key audit matters section of our report explains the matters in more detail and also describes the specific procedures we performed in response to those key audit matters.
In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: - reviewing the Financial Statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and regulations discussed above: - enquiring of management, the Audit Committee and in-house legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation andclaims: - performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud: - reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, reviewing internal audit reports and reviewing correspondence with HMRC and local tax and regulatory authorities in the countries in which Tullow operates: and - in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments: assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias: and evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members including internal specialists and significant component audit teams, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
com 115 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FOR THE GROUP AND COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: - the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and - the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: ofthese matters.
- we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or - adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or - the Parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report in respect Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion of these matters.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement withthe accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Directors on 1 August 2002 to audit the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2002 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and re-appointments of the firm is 16 years, covering the years ended 31 December 2002 to 31 December 2018.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Dean Cook MA FCA Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 12 February 2019 116 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts
