NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNILEVER GROUP CONTINUED 18.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FAIR VALUE RISK CONTINUED OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES FAIR VALUES FOR DISCLOSURE PURPOSES ONLY Cash and cash equivalents, trade and other current receivables, bank loans and overdrafts, trade payables and other current liabilities have fair values that approximate to their carrying amounts due to their short-term nature.
The fair values of preference shares and listed bonds are based on their market value.
Non-listed bonds, other loans, bank loans and non-current receivables and payables are based on the net present value of the anticipated future cash flows associated with these instruments using rates currently available for debt on similar terms, credit risk and remaining maturities.
Fair values for finance lease creditors have been assessed by reference to current market rates for comparable leasing arrangements.
POLICIES AND PROCESSES USED IN RELATION TO THE CALCULATION OF LEVEL 3 FAIR VALUES Assets valued using Level 3 valuation techniques are primarily made up of long-term cash receivables and unlisted investments.
Valuation techniques used are specific to the circumstances involved.
Unlisted investments include 254 million 2017: 195 million of investments within Unilever Ventures companies.
PROVISIONS Provisions are recognised where a legal or constructive obligation exists at the balance sheet date, as a result of a past event, where the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated and where the outflow of economic benefit is probable.
million million Provisions 2018 2017 Due within one year 624 525 Due after one year 697 794 Total provisions 1,321 1,319 million million million million million Brazil Movements during 2018 Restructuring Legal indirect taxes Other Total 1 January 2018 352 192 356 419 1,319 Income Statement: Charges 320 90 26 164 600 Releases 51 10 55 116 232 Utilisation 161 130 10 26 327 a Reclassification 7 16 85 76 Currency translation 8 15 29 13 39 31 December 2018 445 143 203 530 1,321 a Includes amounts transferred between classes of provisions.
Restructuring provisions primarily include people costs such as redundancy costs and cost of compensation where manufacturing, distribution, service or selling agreements are to be terminated.
The group expects these provisions to be substantially utilised within the next few years.
The Group is involved from time to time in legal and arbitration proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business.
As previously disclosed, along with other consumer products companies and retail customers, Unilever is involved in a number of ongoing investigations by national competition authorities.
These proceedings and investigations are at various stages and concern a variety of product markets.
Where specific issues arise, provisions are made to the extent appropriate.
Due to the nature of the legal cases, the timing of utilisation of these provisions is uncertain.
In 2018 the group paid 104 million for legal cases in relation to investigations by national competition authorities, of which 76 million was provided in previous years.
Provisions for Brazil indirect taxes are comprised of disputes with Brazilian authorities, in particular relating to tax credits that can be taken for the PIS and COFINS indirect taxes.
These provisions are separate from the matters listed as contingent liabilities in note 20: Unilever does not have provisions and contingent liabilities for the same matters.
Due to the nature of disputed indirect taxes the timing of utilisation of these provisions is uncertain.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are initially recognised at the lower of fair value at the date of commencement of the lease and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Subsequent to initial recognition, these assets are accounted for in accordance with the accounting policy relating to that specific asset.
The corresponding liability is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance costs in the income statement and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Lease payments under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Contingent liabilities are either possible obligations that will probably not require a transfer of economic benefits, or present obligations that may, but probably will not, require a transfer of economic benefits.
It is not appropriate to make provisions for contingent liabilities, but there is a chance that they will result in an obligation in the future.
Assessing the amount of liabilities that are not probable is highly judgemental so contingent liabilities are disclosed on the basis of the known maximum exposure.
120 Financial Statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018
