Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 144 Financial statements Statement of accounting policies FOR THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS A summary of the Companys principal accounting policies, all of which Investments have been applied consistently throughout the year and preceding year Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
in the separate financial information presented for the Company, are set Assessment of impairments requires estimates to be made of the out below: value-in-use of the underlying investments.
These value-in-use calculations are dependent on estimates of future cash flows and Basis of accounting long-term growth rates.
The criteria used in this assessment are The Company accounts have been prepared under the historical cost consistent with those set out in note 14 and the critical accounting convention and in accordance with FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure estimates and assumptions as set out below.
No profit and loss account is presented for the Company, as permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
As permitted Going concern by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a exemptions available under that standard in relation to share-based reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to payments, financial instruments, capital management, presentation of a continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing cash flow statement and certain related-party transactions.
Further detail is contained in the Strategic Companys retained profit for the year is disclosed in note 47.
Fixed assets and depreciation Foreign currency Property, plant and equipment are shown at original historical cost, net Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the local of depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is currency at the actual exchange rate at the date of the transaction or, provided at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual where appropriate, at the rate of exchange in a related forward value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life exchange contract.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in as follows: foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date or, where appropriate, at the rate of exchange in a related forward exchange contract.
Any gain or loss Plant and machinery 3 to 20 years arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in the profit and loss Taxation account.
UK Corporation tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or Share-based payments substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that value at the date of the grant.
The fair value determined at the grant have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in on the Companys estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Further the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future, have occurred at the disclosure in relation to share-based payments is given in note 26. balance sheet date.
Temporary differences are differences between the Companys taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial Related parties statements.
These arise from including gains and losses in tax The Remuneration of the Directors, who are considered to be the key assessments in different periods from those recognised in the financial management personnel of the Company, is disclosed in the audited part statements.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable, and of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 7071. therefore recognised, only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable Loans and overdrafts taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds difference can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the average received, net of direct issue costs where there is a facility commitment.
tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing In these circumstances, issue costs are deducted from the value of the differences are expected to reverse based on tax rates and laws that loan and amortised over the life of the commitment.
Where there is no have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
facility commitment, issue costs are written off as incurred.
Finance Deferred tax is not discounted.
charges including premiums payable on settlement or redemption are accounted for on an accruals basis in profit or loss using the effective Retirement benefit costs interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the The Company participates in a defined benefit plan that shares risks instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which between entities under common control.
The details of this UK scheme, they arise.
for which Ultra Electronics Limited is the sponsoring employer, are set out in note 30.
There is no contractual agreement or stated policy for charging the net benefit cost to Ultra Electronics Holdings plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 145 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of Critical accounting estimation and assumptions estimation uncertainty Impairments to investments in subsidiary undertakings In the application of the Companys accounting policies, the Directors Following the review of the recoverability of investments within the are required to make judgements other than those involving estimates corporate company structure, an impairment was identified due that have a significant impact on the accounts recognised and to make to the calculated value-in-use being in excess of the book value of estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and certain investments.
The value-in-use is calculated by discounting liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates the forecast cash flows of each investment to present value.
The and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and Directors consider the investments in the US business to be most other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may sensitive to the achievement of the forecast cash flows and to the differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions discount rate applied in calculating the present value of the future are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are cash flows.
A 0.1% increase in the discount rate would increase the recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision impairment charge by 3.6m, and a 1% reduction in forecast future affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future cash flows would increase the impairment charge by 5.9m.
periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Critical accounting judgements in applying the Companys accounting policies There were no critical accounting judgements that would have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Parent Company financial statements.
Footnote The narrative in some of this report includes two figures for underlying profit before tax is before the S3 programme, underlying order book growth excludes the impact of 2017 revenue and underlying operating profit to present the amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition, foreign exchange and the order book arising on acquisition.
result as stated in the 2017 annual report, and the result as if impairment charges, fair value movements on derivatives presented under IFRS 15.
A reconciliation is and the loss on closing out a foreign currency derivative underlying order intake includes orders from acquisitions set out in note 2 between operating profit and underlying contract, defined benefit pension finance charges and GMP since acquisition date.
operating profit, between profit before tax and underlying equalisation, acquisition and disposal related costs net of profit before tax and between cash generated by operations contingent consideration adjustments, loss on disposal, and underlying earnings per share is before the S3 and underlying operating cash flow.
The calculation for significant legal charges and expenses.
programme, amortisation of intangibles arising on underlying earnings per share is set out in note 13.
Further acquisition, impairment charges, fair value movements on detail on non-statutory performance measures is set out on underlying tax is the tax charge on underlying profit before derivatives and the loss on closing out a foreign currency page 138. tax.
The underlying tax rate is underlying tax expressed as a derivative contract, defined benefit pension finance charges percentage of underlying profit before tax.
and GMP equalisation, acquisition and disposal related costs underlying operating profit is before the S3 programme, net of contingent consideration adjustments, loss on amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition, underlying operating cash flow is cash generated by disposal, significant legal charges and expenses and before impairment charges, acquisition and disposal related costs operations and dividends from associates, less net capital related taxation.
net of contingent consideration adjustments, and significant expenditure, R&D, and excluding the cash outflows from the legal charges and expenses.
IFRS operating profit was S3 programme, acquisition and disposal related payments ROIC is calculated as underlying operating profit expressed 65.3m 2017: 61.5m.
and significant legal charges and expenses.
as a percentage of average invested capital calculated as an average of the opening and closing balance sheets.
Average organic growth of revenue, profit or orders is the annual operating cash conversion is underlying operating cash invested capital is calculated as net assets after adjusting for rate of increase that was achieved at constant currencies, flow as a percentage of underlying operating profit.
exchange rate fluctuations adjusted for amortisation and assuming that acquisitions made during the prior year were impairment charges arising on acquired intangible assets and only included for the same proportion of the current year, total shareholder return is annual shareholder return goodwill, and the add-back of other non-underlying and adjusted for disposals made during the prior year to capital growth plus dividends paid, assuming dividends performance items, such as tax, fair value movements on reflect the comparable period of ownership.
reinvested over a rolling five-year period.
derivatives, the S3 programme, acquisition and disposal related costs and the Ithra Oman contract, impacting the underlying operating margin is the underlying operating net debt comprises loans and overdrafts less cash and cash balance sheet.
profit as a percentage of revenue.
net finance charges exclude fair value movements on bank interest cover is the ratio of underlying operating derivatives, defined benefit pension interest charges and profit to finance costs associated with borrowings.
