NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS UNILEVER PLC ACCOUNTING INFORMATION AND POLICIES FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Companys accounting policies are the same as the Unilever BASIS OF PREPARATION Groups and comply with International Accounting Standard 32 These financial statements were prepared on the going concern basis Financial Instruments: Presentation IAS 32, IFRS 9 Financial and in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Instruments and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
The Disclosure Framework FRS 101 and the UK Companies Act 2006. policies are set out under the heading Capital and funding in note The Companies, Partnership and Groups Accounts and Reports 15 to the consolidated accounts on pages 104 to 109.
Unilever PLC is Regulations 2015 have been adopted from 1 January 2015.
No profit taking the exemption for financial instruments disclosures, because and loss account is presented by Unilever PLC the Company as IFRS 7 disclosures are given in notes 15 to 18 to the consolidated permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. accounts on pages 104 to 120.
The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention, NON-DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS except for the revaluation of financial assets classified as fair value Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity through other comprehensive income or fair value through profit or and debt securities, trade and other receivables, cash and cash loss, as well as derivative financial instruments, which are reported equivalents, loans and borrowings, and trade and other payables.
in accordance with the accounting policies set out below.
These have Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value.
been consistently applied to all periods presented.
Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses.
Trade Unilever PLC is included within the consolidated financial statements and other payables are recognised initially at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group to initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost using the are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting effective interest method.
Standards as issued by the IASB and as adopted by the European Union.
DEFERRED TAXATION As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method on taxable disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to temporary differences between the tax base and the accounting share based payments, financial instruments, capital management, base of items included in the balance sheet of the Company.
Certain presentation of comparative information in respect of certain assets, temporary differences are not provided for as follows: presentation of a cash flow statement, impairment of assets, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither non-current assets for sale, discontinued operations, business accounting nor taxable profit: and combinations, related party transactions and standards not yet differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that effective.
Where required equivalent disclosures are given in the group they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
accounts of Unilever, which are publicly available.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of ACCOUNTING POLICIES realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, The principal accounting policies are as follows: using tax rates enacted, or substantively enacted, at the year end.
FOREIGN CURRENCY A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable The Company's functional and presentational currency is Pound that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can Sterling.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no Companys functional currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities TREASURY SHARES denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are Shares held to satisfy options are accounted for in accordance with retranslated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation.
All differences between rate ruling at that date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that the purchase price of the shares held to satisfy options granted and are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are the proceeds received for the shares, whether on exercise or lapse, translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are retranslated to the functional currency PROVISIONS at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was Provisions are recognised where a legal or constructive obligation determined.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are exists at the balance sheet date, as a result of a past event, where recognised in the profit and loss account.
the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated and where the outflow of economic benefit is probable.
TAXATION Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the DIVIDENDS period, using the tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the Under IAS 10 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, proposed dividends balance sheet date, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of do not meet the definition of a liability.
Therefore, we do not recognise previous periods.
a liability in any period for dividends that have been proposed but will not be approved until after the balance sheet date.
This holds for INTANGIBLE ASSETS Finite-life intangible assets mainly comprise licences.
These assets external dividends as well as intra-group dividends paid to the parent company.
are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis in the profit and loss account over the period of their expected useful lives, or FINANCIAL GUARANTEES the period of legal rights if shorter.
None of the amortisation periods Where the Company enters in financial guarantee contracts to exceed 15 years.
Indefinite-life intangible assets mainly comprise guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its group, the trademarks and brands.
These assets are capitalised at cost but not Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts amortised.
They are subject to a review for impairment annually, or for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee more frequently if events or circumstances indicate this is necessary.
contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes Any impairment is charged to the profit and loss account as it arises.
probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES Shares in group companies are stated at amortised cost less any amounts written off to reflect impairment.
Any impairment is charged to the profit and loss account as it arises.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 135
