Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 130 Financial statements Statement of accounting policies IN RESPECT OF THE GROUPS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A summary of the Groups principal accounting policies, all of which Basis of consolidation have been applied consistently across the Group throughout the current The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial and preceding year, is set out below: statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved Basis of accounting when the Company: The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with has the power over the investee: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
The financial is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted with the investee: and by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts The consolidated financial information has been prepared on the and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of historical cost basis except for certain assets and liabilities which are the three elements of control listed above.
measured at fair value, see note 23.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Company obtains control Adoption of new and revised standards over the subsidiary and ceases when the Company loses control of the The following IFRIC interpretations, amendments to existing standards subsidiary.
Specifically, income and expenses of subsidiaries acquired or and new standards have been adopted in the current year but have not disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated statements impacted the reported results or the financial position: of profit or loss and other comprehensive income from the date the None.
Company gains control until the date when the Company ceases to control the subsidiary.
The following standards were also adopted in the current year and have had the impact as set out below: Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income are IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-controlling IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers.
Total comprehensive income of subsidiaries is attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-controlling interests even if this The impact of IFRS 15 on the accounts has been set out in note 37.
The results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
adoption of IFRS 9 has not had a financial impact.
Further detail is provided on page 136.
When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with the Groups At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following accounting policies.
standards and interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: All intra-Group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash IFRS 16 Leases.
flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the Changes in the Groups interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a financial statements of the Group, except for: loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
The carrying IFRS 16 Leases The new standard requires all leases to be amounts of the Groups interests and the non-controlling interests are recognised on the balance sheet with the exception of short-term adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the and immaterial leases.
IFRS 16 is effective from 1 January 2019.
Any difference between the amount by which the nonproject has been undertaken to determine the impact of IFRS 16. controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration The key findings and determination of the impact are set out in note paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the 38.
The Group will recognise the cumulative effect of applying IFRS owners of the Company.
16 at the 1 January 2019 transitional date.
The prior period will not be restated.
When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between i the aggregate of the Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a detailed retained interest and ii the previous carrying amount of the assets review has been completed.
including goodwill and liabilities of the subsidiary and any noncontrolling interests.
Amounts previously recognised in other Going concern comprehensive income in relation to the subsidiary are accounted for The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a i. e. reclassified to profit or loss or transferred directly to retained reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to earnings in the same manner as would be required if the relevant continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing assets or liabilities were disposed of.
The fair value of any investment the financial statements.
Further detail is contained in the Strategic retained in the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost is Report on page 42. regarded as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting or, when applicable, the cost on initial recognition of an investment in an associate or jointly controlled entity.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 131 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of Owing to the complexity of some of the contracts undertaken by the estimation uncertainty Group, the cost estimation process and the allocation of costs and In the application of the Groups accounting policies, the Directors are revenue to each performance obligation are carried out using the required to make judgements other than those involving estimations experience of the Groups engineers, project managers and finance and that have a significant impact on the amounts recognised and to make commercial professionals.
Cost estimates are reviewed and updated on estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and a regular basis using the Groups established project management liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Some of the factors that will impact upon cost estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and include the availability of suitably qualified labour, the nature and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may complexity of the work to be performed, the availability of materials, differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions the impact of change orders and the performance of sub-contractors.
are reviewed on an ongoing basis and, in 2018, included consideration of the potential impacts of Brexit.
Revisions to accounting estimates are The transaction price is typically allocated to each performance recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision obligation on the basis of the relative stand-alone selling prices of each affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future distinct good or service performance obligations promised in the periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
If a stand-alone selling price is not observable then an estimate is calculated, which may use market data, a cost plus margin Critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies approach or other reliable data available.
Discounts are generally The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving allocated to all performance obligations based on the transaction price estimations which are dealt with separately below, that the Directors applied to the performance obligation.
Variable consideration for have made in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies example discounts dependent on sales levels, returns, refunds, rebates and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in and other incentives is analysed to determine if it should be applied financial statements.
against one or more of the performance obligations based on the terms of the consideration and the contract.
The variable consideration Oman Airport IT contract amount is estimated using an expected value method or applying the The Oman Airport IT contract was terminated in February 2015.
The estimated amount of variable consideration is 4 March 2015, Ithra Ultra Electronics in collaboration with Oman included in the transaction price only to the extent that it is highly Investment Corporation LLC, the legal entity established with the sole probable that a significant reversal in revenue will take place.
Therefore purpose of delivering the Oman Airport IT contract, was placed into this method is used to ensure the transaction price is constrained to the voluntary liquidation.
There are various proceedings in relation to that amount that is highly probable to be received.
There remains significant uncertainty regarding the likely outcome of these proceedings.
Material items have A warranty may represent a separate performance obligation if it is been disclosed separately within the financial statements.
In accordance distinct from the other elements of the contract i. e. it can be sold with IAS 37, it is managements judgement that no provision is required separately and provides additional goods and services beyond the at the balance sheet date.
agreed-upon specifications, otherwise it is treated as a provision.
If it is a separate performance obligation then the revenue is recognised when Critical accounting estimates and assumptions the control of the additional good or service under the warranty is The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of passed to the customer.
estimation uncertainty at the reporting period, that may have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts Retirement benefit plans of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed The Group accounts for its post-retirement pension plans in accordance below.
Contract revenue and profit recognition The main assumptions used in determining the defined benefit A significant proportion of the Groups activities are conducted under post-retirement obligation include the discount rate used in discounting long-term contract arrangements and are accounted for in accordance scheme liabilities, the inflation rate, the expected rate of future pension with IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers.
This revenue is increases, expected returns on scheme assets and future mortality derived from a large number of individual contracts across the Group.
For each of these assumptions, there is a range of possible values.
Relatively small changes in some of these variables can have a Revenue and profit on such contracts are recognised in relation to significant impact on the level of the total obligation.
estimates of the stage of completion of the contract performance obligation activity at the balance sheet date.
Refer to our accounting The valuation of pension scheme assets and liabilities at a specific point policies on page 133 for more details on determining performance in time rather than over a period of time can lead to significant annual obligations.
Revenue and profit are calculated by reference to reliable movements in the pension scheme deficit as calculated under IAS 19, estimates of transaction price and total expected costs.
The transaction but it has no impact on short-term cash contributions since these are price is allocated to each performance obligation based on relative based upon separate independent actuarial valuations.
standalone selling prices of all items in the contract.
Refer to our accounting policies on page 133 for more details on allocating the In 2018, judgement has been applied with respect to determining how transaction price.
The revenue and costs of the contract are then to estimate the impact of GMP Equalisation as set out in note 30. applied to each individual performance obligation, which requires judgement by the Group.
When the contract outcome cannot be Details of the pension scheme estimates, assumptions and obligations reliably estimated, revenue is recognised to match costs until such time at 31 December 2018 are provided in note 30. as this can be reliably estimated.
Expected costs are calculated after taking account of the perceived contract risks related to performance not yet proven.
Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 132 Financial statements Statement of accounting policies continued IN RESPECT OF THE GROUPS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Impairment testing adjustments that arise from additional information obtained during the Each year, the Group carries out impairment tests of its goodwill measurement period which cannot exceed one year from the balances which requires estimates to be made of the value-in-use of its acquisition date about facts and circumstances that existed at the cash generating units CGUs.
These value-in-use calculations are acquisition date.
dependent on estimates of future cash flows and long-term growth rates of the CGUs.
Further details on these estimates are provided in The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the note 14. contingent consideration that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments depends on how the contingent consideration is classified.
Proxy Board Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured Certain Group companies in the US undertake work of importance to at subsequent reporting dates and its subsequent settlement is US national security: consequently activities are conducted under accounted for within equity.
Contingent consideration that is classified foreign ownership regulations, which require operation under a Proxy as an asset or a liability is remeasured at subsequent reporting dates in Agreement.
The regulations are intended to insulate these activities accordance with IFRS 9, or IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and from undue foreign influence as a result of foreign ownership.
The Contingent Assets, as appropriate, with the corresponding gain or loss entity that is operated under the management of a Proxy Board is Ultra being recognised in profit or loss.
Electronics Advanced Tactical Systems Inc. ATS.
When a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups The Directors consider that the Group has control over the operating previously held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured to their and financial policies and results of this entity and therefore they are acquisition date fair value and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is consolidated in the Group consolidated accounts in accordance with recognised in profit or loss.
Amounts arising from interests in the IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements.
acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or Business combinations loss, where such treatment would be appropriate if that interest were Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the disposed of.
The consideration transferred in a business combination is measured at fair value, which is calculated as the sum of If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the the acquisition-date fair values of assets transferred by the Group, end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group liabilities incurred by the Group to the former owners of the acquiree reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is and the equity interest issued by the Group in exchange for control of incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the the acquiree.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in profit or loss as measurement period see above, or additional assets or liabilities are incurred.
recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, At the acquisition date, the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date.
assumed are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that: Goodwill deferred tax assets or liabilities and assets or liabilities related to Goodwill is initially recognised and measured as set out above.
Goodwill employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is respectively: and not subsequently reversed.
assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the standard.
Cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the acquiree if any over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
If, after goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit reassessment, the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed exceeds the sum of An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling subsequent period.
interests in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held interest in the acquiree if any, the excess is recognised Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain.
has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves When the consideration transferred by the Group in a business under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and will not be combination includes an asset or liability resulting from a contingent included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
consideration arrangement, the contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition-date fair value and included as part of the consideration transferred in a business combination.
Changes in fair value of the contingent consideration that qualify as measurement period adjustments are adjusted retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments against goodwill.
Measurement period adjustments are Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 133 Revenue recognition Where the outcome of a long-term contract cannot be estimated IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers was adopted on reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs 1 January 2018.
The Group has recognised the cumulative effect of incurred that it is probable will be recoverable.
Contract costs are applying IFRS 15 at the 1 January 2018 transitional date.
The prior recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
period has not been restated: the adjustment to opening retained earnings of 9.9 m at 1 January 2018 is reflected in the Consolidated When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract Statement of Changes in Equity.
Refer to note 37 for details on the revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
adjustment to opening retained earnings.
The revenue recognition policy adopted from 1 January 2018 is as follows: Point in time If performance obligations do not meet the criteria to recognise revenue The Group recognises revenue from the sales of goods and from over time, then revenue from the sale of goods or services is recognised long-term contracts.
Revenue is measured based on the consideration at a point in time.
This is measured at the fair value of the consideration specified in a contract.
Revenue is recognised either when the received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods or performance obligation in the contract has been performed, i. e. point services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, in time recognition, or, over time, as control of the performance VAT and other sales related taxes.
Revenue is normally recognised when obligation is transferred to the customer.
Under a book-and-hold control of the goods or services have transferred to the customer.
This agreement with a customer, the Group may have physical possession of may be: an asset that the customer controls, therefore the revenue is recognised at the point of physical delivery of goods and acceptance by the when the customer has control of the asset.
The Group follows the customer: five step model as set out in IFRS 15 to ensure revenue is recognised when the customer has legal title to the asset: at the appropriate point whether over time or at a point in time: the five when the customer has the significant risks and rewards of steps are: ownership of the asset: or 1.
Identify the contract s with a customer.
when customer specific acceptance criteria have been met e. g. when 2.
product testing has been completed.
Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations.
Recognise revenue as performance obligations are satisfied.
Amounts payable to over time contract customers relates to payments received from customers in relation to the contract prior to the work For each performance obligation, the Group determines if revenue will being completed and the revenue recognised.
Amounts receivable from be recognised over time or at a point in time.
over time contract customers relates to work performed and revenue recognised on agreed contracts prior to the customer being invoiced.
Over time Revenue that is recognised over time is determined by reference to the For contracts where revenue is recognised at a point in time, deferred stage of completion of the performance obligation.
For each income recorded on the balance sheet represents payments received performance obligation to be recognised over time, revenue and from customers prior to the work being completed and the revenue attributable margin are calculated by reference to reliable estimates of recognised, and accrued income recorded on the balance sheet transaction price and total expected costs, after making suitable represents any revenue recognised on agreed contracts prior to the allowances for technical and other risks, except in limited scenarios customer being invoiced.
where the proportion of costs incurred would not be representative of the stage of completion.
Revenue and associated margin are recognised When a good or service provided is returned or to be refunded the progressively as costs are incurred and as risks have been mitigated or revenue is reversed equal to the amount originally recognised as retired.
revenue for that good or service.
Consideration of returns and refunds is made when calculating the transaction price to be allocated to the Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included performance obligation.
For more details on this variable consideration to the extent that they have been agreed with the customer, or when it refer to the Critical accounting judgements and key sources of is considered probable that the customer will approve the variation and estimation uncertainty section on page 131. the amount of revenue arising from the variation.
For contracts with multiple activities or deliverables, management applies judgement to The revenue recognition policy applied up to 31 December 2017 was as consider whether those promised goods and services are: i distinct to follows: be accounted for as separate performance obligations: ii not distinct to be combined with other promised goods or services until a bundle Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the is identified that is distinct: or iii part of a series of distinct goods and consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable services that are substantially the same and have the same pattern of for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of transfer to the customer.
discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes.
Sales of goods are normally recognised when substantially all of the risks and rewards of The transaction price is allocated to each performance obligation based ownership have transferred to the customer.
on relative standalone selling prices of all items in the contract, this could be based on list prices, external market evidence or where Revenue from contracts to provide services is recognised by reference to individual tailored products are concerned, based on the estimated the stage of completion of the contracts in the same way as for expected costs to produce the item or deliver the services, plus a long-term contracts.
This is normally measured by the proportion that reasonable margin to reflect the risk of delivering the product or contract costs incurred for work performed to date bear to the service.
On complex contracts, judgement will be required to select estimated total contract costs, except where this would not be appropriate inputs and estimates when determining the standalone representative of the stage of completion.
selling price for each performance obligation.
Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 134 Financial statements Statement of accounting policies continued IN RESPECT OF THE GROUPS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Revenue from long-term contracts is recognised in accordance with the Intangible assets arising from a business combination whose fair value Groups accounting policy on long-term contracts see below.
can be reliably measured are separated from goodwill and amortised over their remaining estimated useful lives.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Impairment of fixed assets At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of Long-term contracts its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any The accounting policy applied up to 31 December 2017 for long-term indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any contracts is noted below.
This was replaced by IFRS 15, which is such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated discussed above.
in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other Where the outcome of a long-term contract can be estimated reliably, assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This is indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever normally measured by the proportion that contract costs incurred for there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
work performed to date bear to the estimated total contract costs, except where this would not be representative of the stage of Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and completion.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments value in use.
In assessing the value in use, the estimated future cash are included to the extent that they have been agreed with the flows are discounted to their present value.
If the recoverable amount customer, or when it is considered probable that the customer will of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying approve the variation and the amount of revenue arising from the amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount.
impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Where the outcome of a long-term contract cannot be estimated Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable incurred that it is probable will be recoverable.
Contract costs are amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
A reversal of an When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, except for revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Research and development Property, plant and equipment Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the Property, plant and equipment is shown at original historical cost, net of period in which it is incurred.
depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Any internally generated intangible asset arising from development Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost, less activities is recognised only if an asset is created that can be identified, estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic expected useful life as follows: benefit and the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Freehold buildings 40 to 50 years Internally generated assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over Short leasehold improvements over remaining period of lease their useful lives.
Where no internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in Plant and machinery 3 to 20 years the period in which it is incurred.
Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated.
Other intangible assets Costs associated with producing or maintaining computer software Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected programmes for sale are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Costs useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over that are directly associated with the development of identifiable and the term of the relevant lease.
unique software products controlled by the Group, that will generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year and that can be Leases measured reliably, are recognised as intangible assets.
Capitalised Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease software development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is provided on a lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
straight line basis over the estimated useful life of the related asset see note 15.
Rentals under operating leases, where the Group acts as either lessee or lessor, are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term, even if Acquired computer software licences for use within the Group are the payments are not made on such a basis.
Initial direct costs incurred capitalised as intangible assets on the basis of the costs incurred to in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the acquire and bring to use the specific software.
carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Patents and trademarks are stated initially at historical cost.
Patents and trademarks have definite useful lives and are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 135 Leases continued Foreign currency Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the local at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease currency at the actual exchange rates at the date of the transactions.
payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a balance sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between that date.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an exchange constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
gain or loss in the income statement.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
The trading results and cash flows of overseas undertakings are Inventories translated into Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Inventories are valued at the lower of cost determined on a first-in, Company, using the average rates of exchange during the relevant first-out basis and including an appropriate proportion of overheads financial period.
The balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and are translated into Sterling at the rates ruling at the year end.
Exchange condition and net realisable value.
Provision is made for any obsolete, differences arising from the retranslation of the opening balance sheets slow-moving or defective items.
and results are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are initially measured at fair value then subsequently Goodwill and fair value adjustments on the acquisition of foreign remeasured at amortised cost less any impairment.
Appropriate entities are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in profit translated at the closing rate.
The Group has elected to treat goodwill or loss when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
and fair value adjustments arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs as Sterling denominated assets and liabilities.
Amounts receivable from over time contract customers For a contract recognised over time under IFRS 15 the control of the Borrowing costs product may be passed to the customer before the customer is Borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which invoiced.
At this point revenue is recognised and an asset is recorded on they are incurred, except where they relate to qualifying assets, in the balance sheet as an amount receivable from over time contract which case they are capitalised.
The amount receivable from over time contract customers is classified as a current asset when it is to be invoiced within twelve Government grants months, otherwise it is recorded as a non-current asset.
This asset is Government grants are recognised in the income statement so as to transferred to trade receivables once the customer is invoiced, following match them with the expenditure towards which they are intended to which cash is expected to be received per the agreed contractual terms.
contribute, to the extent that the conditions for receipt have been met Refer to note 19 for details on the average debtor days.
and there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received.
Amounts due to over time contract customers Government assistance provided in the form of below-market rate of For a contract recognised over time under IFRS 15, a payment may be interest loans are treated as government grants.
The benefit of the received from the customer before the control of the product is passed below-market rate of interest is calculated as the difference between to the customer.
At this point a liability is recorded on the balance sheet the proceeds received and the fair value of the loan and is matched as an amount due to over time contract customers, which is recognised against the related expenditure.
The fair value of the loan is calculated net of any refunds expected to be paid.
This liability is derecognised using prevailing market interest rates.
when the control is passed to the customer and revenue can be recorded.
Amounts due to over time contract customers is recorded as Retirement benefit costs a current liability when the revenue is expected to be recognised within The Group provides pensions to its employees and Directors through the next 12 months, otherwise it is classified as a non-current liability.
defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
The schemes are funded and their assets are held independently of the Cash and cash equivalents Group by trustees.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, call deposits and bank overdrafts, where there is right of set off.
Bank overdrafts are For defined benefit retirement schemes, the cost of providing benefits is presented as current liabilities to the extent that there is no right of determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial offset with cash balances.
valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
The actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
Assets held for sale They are recognised outside the income statement and presented in the Assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying statement of comprehensive income.
amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straightrecovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present Curtailment gains or losses are recognised immediately in the income condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should statement.
be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 136 Financial statements Statement of accounting policies continued IN RESPECT OF THE GROUPS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Retirement benefit costs continued taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as balance sheet date.
adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the Payments to defined contribution retirement schemes are charged as an financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the expense as they fall due.
computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised Trade payables for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are Trade payables are initially measured at fair value then subsequently recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be remeasured at amortised cost.
available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary Loans and overdrafts difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a received, net of direct issue costs where there is a facility commitment.
transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
In these circumstances, issue costs are deducted from the value of the loan and amortised over the life of the commitment.
Where there is no Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences facility commitment, issue costs are written off as incurred.
Finance arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the Group is able to charges including premiums payable on settlement or redemption are control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that accounted for on an accruals basis in profit or loss using the effective the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance they arise.
sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset Share-based payments to be recovered.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date is the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the effect of non-market-related conditions.
deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Fair value is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model for the share Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally option plans and a stochastic model for awards made under the 2007 enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax Long-Term Incentive Plan.
liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets The credits in respect of equity-settled amounts are included in equity.
Provisions Derivative financial instruments Provisions, including property-related and contract-related provisions, IFRS 9 are recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a legal or The Group applied IFRS 9 Financial Instruments from 1 January 2018. constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and where it is IFRS 9 replaces the multiple classification and measurement models in probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Management have considered and assessed the expected credit loss requirements applicable to financial assets under IFRS 9 and have Provision is made for the anticipated cost of repair and rectification of concluded that there is no material impact arising from the adoption of products under warranty, based on known exposures and historical an expected credit loss model.
This is due to the nature of the Groups occurrences.
Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when the customer base which includes a significant proportion from government Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been agencies in major economies for which the expected credit loss is communicated to affected parties.
Furthermore, the adoption of IFRS 9, based on financial instruments and hedging relationships as at the date of initial Equity instruments application of IFRS 9 did not have a material impact on the Group Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds Consolidated Financial Statements.
There is therefore no adjustment to received, net of direct issue costs.
opening retained earnings arising from the adoption of IFRS 9 using the modified retrospective approach.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax payable and The policy adopted from 1 January 2018 is as follows: deferred tax.
Ultra uses derivative financial instruments, principally forward foreign The current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable currency contracts and interest rate swaps, to reduce its exposure to profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement exchange rate and interest rate movements.
Ultra does not hold or issue because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 137 Derivative financial instruments continued Where the hedging relationship is classified as a cash flow hedge or as a From 1 January 2019 the Group has revised its hedging strategy under net investment hedge, to the extent that the hedge is effective, changes IFRS 9 to reduce income statement volatility from re-valuation of US in the fair value of the hedging instrument will be recognised directly in dollar assets and liabilities held on the UK balance sheet.
Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised Group has forward foreign exchange contracts in place to reduce the immediately in the income statement.
For cash flow hedges of currency exposure arising from the net US dollar cash generation of its forecasted future transactions, when the hedged item is recognised in UK businesses, the balance sheet, which has carried increasing US dollar the financial statements, the accumulated gains and losses recognised denominated assets from certain long-term programmes, has not been in equity will be either recycled to the income statement or, if the hedged prior to the conversion of those assets into cash.
From hedged items result in a non-financial asset, will be recognised as 1 January 2019 the net investment hedge has been revised to eliminate adjustments to its initial carrying amount.
Impairment Classification and measurement The amount of expected credit losses is updated at each reporting date.
All financial instruments are initially measured at fair value plus or minus, in the case of a financial asset or financial liability not at fair For the year ended 31 December 2017, derivative financial instruments value through profit or loss, transaction costs.
were accounted for according to IAS 39: the 2017 accounting policy is noted below.
IFRS 9 divides all financial assets that were previously in the scope of IAS 39 into two classifications those measured at amortised cost and Ultra uses derivative financial instruments, principally forward foreign those measured at fair value.
Where assets are measured at fair value, currency contracts and interest rate swaps, to reduce its exposure to gains and losses are either recognised entirely in profit or loss fair value exchange rate and interest rate movements.
Ultra does not hold or issue through profit or loss, FVTPL, or recognised in other comprehensive derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
income fair value through other comprehensive income, FVTOCI.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and liabilities A debt instrument is measured at amortised cost if: a the objective is to and measured at their fair values at the balance sheet date.
Changes in hold the financial asset for the collection of the contractual cash flows, their fair values are recognised in the income statement and this is likely and b the contractual cash flows under the instrument solely represent to cause volatility in situations where the carrying value of the hedged payments of principal and interest.
A debt instrument is measured at item is not adjusted to reflect fair value changes arising from the FVTOCI if: a the objective is to hold the financial asset both for the hedged risk.
Provided the conditions specified by IAS 39 are met, hedge collection of the contractual cash flows and selling financial assets, and accounting may be used to mitigate this income statement volatility.
b the contractual cash flows under the instrument solely represent Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not payments of principal and interest.
All other debt instruments must be qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as measured at FVTPL.
Hedge accounting Hedge accounting will not generally be applied to transactional hedging Hedge accounting will not generally be applied to transactional hedging relationships, such as hedges of forecast or committed transactions.
relationships, such as hedges of forecast or committed transactions.
However, hedge accounting will be applied to translational hedging However, hedge accounting will be applied to translational hedging relationships where it is permissible under IAS 39.
When hedge relationships where it is permissible under IFRS 9.
When hedge accounting is used, the relevant hedging relationships will be classified accounting is used, the relevant hedging relationships will be classified as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or net investment hedges.
as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or net investment hedges.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the hedge relationship must Where the hedging relationship is classified as a fair value hedge, the meet the following effectiveness criteria at the beginning of each carrying amount of the hedged asset or liability will be adjusted by the hedged period: increase or decrease in the fair value attributable to the hedged risk and there is an economic relationship between the hedged item and the the resulting gain or loss will be recognised in the income statement hedging instrument: where, to the extent that the hedge is effective, it will be offset by the the effect of credit risk does not dominate the value changes that change in the fair value of the hedging instrument.
result from that economic relationship: and the hedge ratio of the hedging relationship is the same as that Where the hedging relationship is classified as a cash flow hedge or as a actually used in the economic hedge.
net investment hedge, to the extent that the hedge is effective, changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument will be recognised directly in If a hedging relationship ceases to meet the hedge effectiveness equity rather than in the income statement.
Any gain or loss relating to requirement relating to the hedge ratio but the risk management the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income objective for that designated hedging relationship remains the same, statement.
For cash flow hedges of forecasted future transactions, the hedge ratio of the hedging relationship is adjusted so that it meets when the hedged item is recognised in the financial statements, the the qualifying criteria.
accumulated gains and losses recognised in equity will be either recycled to the income statement or, if the hedged items result in a Where the hedging relationship is classified as a fair value hedge, the non-financial asset, will be recognised as adjustments to its initial carrying amount of the hedged asset or liability will be adjusted by the carrying amount.
increase or decrease in the fair value attributable to the hedged risk and the resulting gain or loss will be recognised in the income statement Income statement where permissible under IFRS 9.
Additional line items are disclosed in the consolidated income statement when such presentation is relevant to an understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 138 Financial statements Statement of accounting policies continued IN RESPECT OF THE GROUPS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Operating profit creates volatility in the valuation of the outstanding instruments as Operating profit is stated after charging restructuring costs but before exchange rates move over time.
This has a minimal impact on profit investment income and finance costs.
over the full term of the instruments, but can cause significant volatility on particular balance sheet dates.
Consequently, the gain Exceptional items or loss is presented separately.
When items of income or expense are material and they are relevant to The defined benefit pension net interest charge arising in an understanding of the entitys financial performance, they are accordance with IAS 19 is presented separately.
disclosed separately within the financial statements.
Such exceptional items include material costs or reversals arising from a restructuring of The related tax effects of the above items are reflected when the Groups operations, material creation or reversals of provisions, and determining underlying earnings per share, as set out in note 13. material litigation settlements.
The Group is cash-generative and reinvests funds to support the Non-statutory and underlying performance measures continuing growth of the business.
It seeks to use an accurate and In the analysis of the Groups operating results, earnings per share and appropriate measure of the funds generated internally while sustaining cash flows, information is presented to provide readers and this growth.
For this, the Group uses underlying operating cash flow, stakeholders with additional performance indicators that are prepared rather than cash generated by operations, as its preferred indicator of on a non-statutory basis.
This underlying presentation is regularly cash generated and available to cover non-operating expenses such as reviewed by management to identify items that are unusual and other tax and interest payments.
Management believes that using cash items relevant to an understanding of the Groups performance and generated by operations, with the exclusion of net expenditure on long-term trends with reference to their materiality and nature.
The property, plant and equipment and outflows for capitalised product non-statutory performance measures are consistent with how business development and other intangibles, would result in an under-reporting performance is planned and reported within the internal management of the true cash cost of sustaining a growing business.
reporting to the divisional management teams, Executive Committee and to the Board.
Some of the measures are used for setting EBITDA is the underlying operating profit before depreciation charges remuneration targets.
The Group also uses organic performance and before amortisation arising on internally generated intangible measures for the order book, order intake and the income statement.
assets and on other, non-acquired, intangible assets.
The figure is Explanations of how they are determined, and how they reconcile to adjusted to remove the EBITDA generated by businesses up to the date IFRS statutory measures, are set out below.
This additional nonof their disposal in the period.
statutory information is not uniformly defined by all Companies and may not be comparable with similarly titled measures and disclosures by Net debt comprises loans and overdrafts less cash and cash equivalents.
The determination of net debt is set out in note 28.
The non-statutory disclosures should not be viewed in isolation or as an Total shareholder return is annual shareholder return capital growth alternative to the equivalent statutory measure.
Information for plus dividends paid, assuming dividends reinvested over a rolling five separate presentation is considered as follows: year period.
Contract losses arising in the ordinary course of trading are not separately presented: however, losses and subsequent reversals are ROIC is calculated as underlying operating profit expressed as a separately disclosed in situations of a material dispute which are percentage of average invested capital calculated as an average of the expected to lead to arbitration or legal proceedings.
Significant legal opening and closing balance sheets.
Average invested capital is charges and expenses are also separately disclosed: these are the calculated as net assets after adjusting for exchange rate fluctuations charges arising from investigations and settlement of litigation that adjusted for amortisation and impairment charges arising on acquired are not in the normal course of business.
intangible assets and goodwill, and the add-back of other nonOne-off GMP Equalisation charge arising on defined benefit pension underlying performance items, such as tax, fair value movements on scheme.
derivatives, the S3 programme, acquisition-and disposal-related costs Material costs or reversals arising from a significant restructuring of and the Ithra Oman contract, impacting the balance sheet.
the Groups operations, such as the S3 programme and costs of closure of product lines, businesses or facilities, are presented Organic measures separately.
The divisional management teams, the Executive Team and the Board Disposals of entities or investments in associates or joint ventures, or review and compare current and prior year Group and divisional impairments of related assets are presented separately.
revenue and underlying operating profit at constant exchange rates and The amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions and exclude the impact of acquisitions and disposals from these organic impairment of goodwill or intangible assets are presented separately.
The order intake and order book are also Other matters arising due to the Groups acquisitions such as reviewed and compared in the same way.
adjustments to contingent consideration, payment of retention bonuses, acquisition and disposal-related costs and fair value The constant exchange comparison retranslates the prior year reported adjustments for acquired inventory made in accordance with IFRS 13 results from the prior years average exchange rates into the current are separately disclosed in aggregate.
years average exchange rates, and in the case of underlying operating Furthermore, IAS 37 requires the Group to discount provisions using profit adjusts for the impact of exchange rate movements on prior a pre-tax discount rate that reflects the current assessment of the year-end US dollar net assets held in GBP functional currency entities.
time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
This discount unwind is presented separately when the provision relates The impact of business acquisitions is excluded for the first 12 months to acquisition contingent consideration.
of ownership, from the date of completion of purchase.
For disposals, Derivative instruments used to manage the Groups foreign comparative figures are adjusted to reflect the comparable period of exchange exposures are fair valued in accordance with IFRS 9.
