NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNILEVER GROUP currency into euros.
Apart from the financial statements of group 1.
ACCOUNTING INFORMATION AND POLICIES companies in hyperinflationary economies see below, the income The accounting policies adopted are the same as those which were statement, the cash flow statement and all other movements in assets applied for the previous financial year, except as set out below under and liabilities are translated at average rates of exchange as a proxy for the heading Recent accounting developments.
the transaction rate, or at the transaction rate itself if more appropriate.
Assets and liabilities are translated at year-end exchange rates.
UNILEVER The financial statements of group companies whose functional currency The two parent companies, NV and PLC, together with their group is the currency of a hyperinflationary economy are adjusted for inflation companies, operate as a single economic entity the Unilever Group, and then translated into euros.
Amounts shown for prior years for also referred to as Unilever or the Group.
NV and PLC have the same comparative purposes are not modified.
To determine the existence Directors and are linked by a series of agreements, including an of hyperinflation, the Group assesses the qualitative and quantitative Equalisation Agreement, which are designed so that the positions of characteristics of the economic environment of the country, such as the the shareholders of both companies are as closely as possible the cumulative inflation rate over the previous three years.
same as if they held shares in a single company.
The ordinary share capital of NV and PLC is translated in accordance The Equalisation Agreement provides that both companies adopt the with the Equalisation Agreement.
The difference between the value for same accounting principles.
It also requires that dividends and other PLC and the value by applying the year-end rate of exchange is taken rights and benefits attaching to each ordinary share of NV, be equal in to other reserves see note 15B on page 106. value to those rights and benefits attaching to each ordinary share of PLC, as if each such unit of capital formed part of the ordinary share The effect of exchange rate changes during the year on net assets of capital of one and the same company.
foreign operations is recorded in equity.
For this purpose net assets include loans between group companies and any related foreign BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION exchange contracts where settlement is neither planned nor likely to Due to the operational and contractual arrangements referred to occur in the foreseeable future.
above, NV and PLC form a single reporting entity for the purposes The Group applies hedge accounting to certain exchange differences of presenting consolidated financial statements.
Accordingly, the arising between the functional currencies of a foreign operation and financial statements of Unilever are presented by both NV and PLC as NV or PLC as appropriate, regardless of whether the net investment their respective consolidated financial statements.
Group companies is held directly or through an intermediate parent.
Differences arising included in the consolidation are those companies controlled by NV on retranslation of a financial liability designated as a foreign currency or PLC.
Control exists when the Group has the power to direct the net investment hedge are recorded in equity to the extent that the activities of an entity so as to affect the return on investment.
These differences are reported within profit or loss The net assets and results of acquired businesses are included in to the extent that the hedge is ineffective.
the consolidated financial statements from their respective dates of Cumulative exchange differences arising since the date of transition acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control.
The to IFRS of 1 January 2004 are reported as a separate component of results of disposed businesses are included in the consolidated financial other reserves.
In the event of disposal or part disposal of an interest statements up to their date of disposal, being the date control ceases.
in a group company either through sale or as a result of a repayment of Intra-group transactions and balances are eliminated.
capital, the cumulative exchange difference is recognised in the income statement as part of the profit or loss on disposal of group companies.
COMPANIES LEGISLATION AND ACCOUNTING STANDARDS The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in CLASSIFICATION OF ARGENTINA AS accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS A HYPER-INFLATIONARY ECONOMY as adopted by the European Union EU, IFRIC Interpretations and in The Argentinian economy was designated as hyperinflationary from accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands 1 July 2018.
As a result, application of IAS 29 Financial Reporting in and the UK Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting Hyperinflationary Economies has been applied to all Unilever entities under IFRS.
They are also in compliance with IFRS as issued by the whose functional currency is the Argentinian Peso.
IAS 29 requires International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
that adjustments are applicable from the start of the relevant entitys reporting period.
For Unilever that is from 1 January 2018.
The These financial statements are prepared under the historical cost application of IAS 29 includes: convention unless otherwise indicated.
Adjustment of historical cost non-monetary assets and liabilities for These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern the change in purchasing power caused by inflation from the date of basis.
Refer to the going concern statement on page 66. initial recognition to the balance sheet date: Adjustment of the income statement for inflation during the ACCOUNTING POLICIES reporting period: Accounting policies are included in the relevant notes to the The income statement is translated at the period end foreign consolidated financial statements.
These are presented as text exchange rate instead of an average rate: and highlighted in grey on pages 79 to 127.
The accounting policies below Adjustment of the income statement to reflect the impact of are applied throughout the financial statements.
inflation and exchange rate movement on holding monetary assets and liabilities in local currency.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES The main effects on the Group consolidated financial statements for The consolidated financial statements are presented in euros.
The 2018 are: functional currencies of NV and PLC are euros and sterling respectively.
Total assets increased by 538 million driven by an increase of 369 Items included in the financial statements of individual group companies million to goodwill see note 9 and 171 million due to property, are recorded in their respective functional currency which is the currency plant and equipment see note 10 : of the primary economic environment in which each entity operates.
Opening retained profit increased by 393 million reflecting the Foreign currency transactions in individual group companies are impact of adjusting the historical cost of non-monetary assets and translated into functional currency using exchange rates at the date of liabilities from the date of their initial recognition to 1 January 2018 the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses from settlement for the effect of inflation: of these transactions, and from translation of monetary assets and Turnover is reduced by 75 million: liabilities at year-end exchange rates, are recognised in the income Operating profit is reduced by 37 million: and statement except when deferred in equity as qualifying hedges.
A net monetary gain of 122 million is recognised from the inflation In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the balances and exchange rate movements in the year on the net monetary in individual group companies are translated from their functional items held in Argentinian Peso.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 79
