FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES ANNUAL ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT The Directors are required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Each of the Directors confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge: Netherlands and by the UK Companies Act 2006 to prepare accounts The Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018, taken as a whole, for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information affairs of the Unilever Group, and the NV and PLC entities, as at the necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and end of the financial year and of the profit or loss and cash flows for performance, business model and strategy: that year.
The financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts, the Group EU and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and the NV and PLC entities have used the most appropriate in the case of the consolidated financial statements and Financial accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101 and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all International and UK accounting standards and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU and as issued Code in the case of the NV parent company accounts, give a true by the International Accounting Standards Board in the case of the and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or consolidated financial statements, Financial Reporting Standard 101 loss of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101 and Dutch law in the taken as a whole: and case of the NV parent company accounts which they consider to be The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and applicable have been followed.
performance of the business and the position of the Group and The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that NV and PLC keep the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy their together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties financial position and which enable the Directors to ensure that the that they face.
accounts comply with the relevant legislation.
They also have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to The Directors and their roles are listed on pages 3 and 36. safeguard the assets of the Group, and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
GOING CONCERN The activities of the Group, together with the factors likely to affect This statement, which should be read in conjunction with the its future development, performance, the financial position of the Independent Auditors reports, is made with a view to distinguishing Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and described on pages 1 to 26.
In addition, we describe in notes 15 to 18 of the auditors in relation to the accounts.
on pages 104 to 120 the Groups objectives, policies and processes A copy of the financial statements of the Unilever Group is placed on for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: our website at www.
The maintenance details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and its and integrity of the website are the responsibility of the Directors, and exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
Although not assessed over the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of the same period as going concern, the viability of the Group has these matters.
Accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for been assessed on page 28. any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since The Group has considerable financial resources together with they were initially placed on the website.
Legislation in the UK and the established business relationships with many customers and Netherlands governing the preparation and dissemination of financial suppliers in countries throughout the world.
As a consequence, the statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain outlook.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS AND DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS After making enquiries, the Directors consider it appropriate to adopt UK law sets out additional responsibilities for the Directors of PLC the going concern basis of accounting in preparing this Annual Report regarding disclosure of information to auditors.
To the best of each and Accounts.
of the Directors knowledge and belief, and having made appropriate enquiries, all information relevant to enabling the auditors to provide INTERNAL AND DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES their opinions on PLCs consolidated and parent company accounts Please refer to pages 28 and 29 for a discussion of Unilevers principal has been provided.
Each of the Directors has taken all reasonable risk factors and to pages 29 to 33 for commentary on the Groups steps to ensure their awareness of any relevant audit information approach to risk management and control.
and to establish that Unilever PLCs auditors are aware of any such information.
66 Financial Statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018
