NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS UNILEVER N. V. assumed.
Goodwill is not amortised but it is tested for impairment annually, ACCOUNTING INFORMATION AND POLICIES or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that it BASIS OF PREPARATION might be impaired, and is carried at cost less accumulated losses.
Any The company accounts of Unilever N. V. the Company were prepared impairment is charged to the income statement as it arises.
on the going concern basis and comply in all material respects with legislation in the Netherlands.
As allowed by Article 2:362.1 of the INTANGIBLE ASSETS Dutch Civil Code, the company accounts are prepared in accordance Finite life intangible assets mainly comprise patented and non-patented with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure technology, licences and software including intangible assets acquired Framework FRS 101, unless such standards conflict with the Dutch from the Group companies.
These assets are capitalised and amortised Civil Code which would in such case prevail.
on a straight-line basis in the income statement over the period of their expected useful lives, or the period of legal rights if shorter.
None of the The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention, except amortisation periods exceeds 15 years.
Indefinite-life intangible assets for the revaluation of financial assets classified as fair value through mainly comprise trademarks and brands.
These assets are capitalised at other comprehensive income or fair value through profit or loss, pension cost but not amortised.
They are subject to a review for impairment annually, assets, as well as derivative financial instruments, which are reported in or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate this is necessary.
Any accordance with the accounting policies set out below.
These have been impairment is charged to the income statement as it arises.
consistently applied to all periods presented.
INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES Unilever N. V. is included within the consolidated financial statements Shares in group companies are stated at amortised cost less any of the Group.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group amounts written off to reflect impairment.
Any impairment is charged are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting to the profit and loss account as it arises.
Standards as issued by the IASB and as adopted by the European Union.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure Cash is represented by cash in hand and deposits with financial institutions exemptions available under that standard in relation to share-based repayable without penalty on notice of not more than 24 hours.
Cash payments, financial instruments, capital management, presentation of equivalents are highly liquid investments that mature in no more than three comparative information in respect of certain assets, presentation of a cash months from the date of acquisition and that are readily convertible to flow statement, impairment of assets, non-current assets held for sale, known amounts of cash with insignificant risk of change in value.
discontinued operations, business combinations, related-party transactions and standards not yet effective.
Where required equivalent disclosures are FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS given in the group accounts of Unilever, which are available within this report.
The Companys accounting policies are the same as the Unilever Groups and comply with International Accounting Standard 32 Financial ACCOUNTING POLICIES Instruments: Presentation IAS 32, IFRS 9 'Financial Instruments' and The principal accounting policies are as follows: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
The policies are set out under the heading Capital and funding in note 15 to the consolidated FOREIGN CURRENCY accounts on page 104.
Unilever N. V. is taking the exemption for financial The Company's functional and presentational currency is the euro.
instruments disclosures, because IFRS 7 disclosures are given in notes Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the Companys functional 15 to 18 to the consolidated accounts on pages 104 to 120. currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the NON-DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS balance sheet date are retranslated to the functional currency at the foreign Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity and exchange rate ruling at that date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that debt securities, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated loans and borrowings, and trade and other payables.
Trade and other using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets receivables are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value recognition they are measured at amortised cost using the effective are retranslated to the functional currency at foreign exchange rates ruling interest method, less any impairment losses.
Trade and other payables at the dates the fair value was determined.
Foreign exchange differences are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition they arising on translation are recognised in the profit and loss account except are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
for differences arising on the retranslation of qualifying cash flow hedges, DEFERRED TAXATION which are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method on taxable TURNOVER temporary differences between the tax base and the accounting Turnover excludes value added tax and comprises royalties and service fees base of items included in the balance sheet of the Company.
Certain received from Group companies.
Unilever N. V. recognises turnover based temporary differences are not provided for as follows: on the criteria of a full performance of a contract or delivery of services.
goodwill not deductible for tax purposes: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither OPERATING PROFIT LOSS accounting nor taxable profit: and The operating profit loss is stated after deducting the costs that are differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that mainly related to the royalties and delivered services.
Expenses are they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
allocated to the period in which they relate.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of NET FINANCE COSTS realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, Net finance costs are comprised of finance costs and finance income, using tax rates enacted, or substantively enacted, at the year end.
including net finance costs in relation to pensions and similar obligations.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable TAXATION that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can Unilever N. V. together with certain of its subsidiaries, is part of a tax be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no grouping for Dutch corporate income tax purposes.
Unilever N. V. is the longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
The members of the fiscal unity are jointly and severally liable for any taxes payable by the Dutch tax grouping.
GOODWILL Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition accounting method as at the acquisition date which is the date at which control was transferred to Unilever.
Goodwill is measured at the acquisition date as the fair value of consideration transferred, plus non-controlling interests and the fair value of any previously-held equity interests less the net recognised amount which is generally fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities 130 Financial Statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018
