NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNILEVER GROUP currency into euros.
Apart from the financial statements of group 1.
ACCOUNTING INFORMATION AND POLICIES companies in hyperinflationary economies see below, the income The accounting policies adopted are the same as those which were statement, the cash flow statement and all other movements in assets applied for the previous financial year, except as set out below under and liabilities are translated at average rates of exchange as a proxy for the heading Recent accounting developments.
the transaction rate, or at the transaction rate itself if more appropriate.
Assets and liabilities are translated at year-end exchange rates.
UNILEVER The financial statements of group companies whose functional currency The two parent companies, NV and PLC, together with their group is the currency of a hyperinflationary economy are adjusted for inflation companies, operate as a single economic entity the Unilever Group, and then translated into euros.
Amounts shown for prior years for also referred to as Unilever or the Group.
NV and PLC have the same comparative purposes are not modified.
To determine the existence Directors and are linked by a series of agreements, including an of hyperinflation, the Group assesses the qualitative and quantitative Equalisation Agreement, which are designed so that the positions of characteristics of the economic environment of the country, such as the the shareholders of both companies are as closely as possible the cumulative inflation rate over the previous three years.
same as if they held shares in a single company.
The ordinary share capital of NV and PLC is translated in accordance The Equalisation Agreement provides that both companies adopt the with the Equalisation Agreement.
The difference between the value for same accounting principles.
It also requires that dividends and other PLC and the value by applying the year-end rate of exchange is taken rights and benefits attaching to each ordinary share of NV, be equal in to other reserves see note 15B on page 106. value to those rights and benefits attaching to each ordinary share of PLC, as if each such unit of capital formed part of the ordinary share The effect of exchange rate changes during the year on net assets of capital of one and the same company.
foreign operations is recorded in equity.
For this purpose net assets include loans between group companies and any related foreign BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION exchange contracts where settlement is neither planned nor likely to Due to the operational and contractual arrangements referred to occur in the foreseeable future.
above, NV and PLC form a single reporting entity for the purposes The Group applies hedge accounting to certain exchange differences of presenting consolidated financial statements.
Accordingly, the arising between the functional currencies of a foreign operation and financial statements of Unilever are presented by both NV and PLC as NV or PLC as appropriate, regardless of whether the net investment their respective consolidated financial statements.
Group companies is held directly or through an intermediate parent.
Differences arising included in the consolidation are those companies controlled by NV on retranslation of a financial liability designated as a foreign currency or PLC.
Control exists when the Group has the power to direct the net investment hedge are recorded in equity to the extent that the activities of an entity so as to affect the return on investment.
These differences are reported within profit or loss The net assets and results of acquired businesses are included in to the extent that the hedge is ineffective.
the consolidated financial statements from their respective dates of Cumulative exchange differences arising since the date of transition acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control.
The to IFRS of 1 January 2004 are reported as a separate component of results of disposed businesses are included in the consolidated financial other reserves.
In the event of disposal or part disposal of an interest statements up to their date of disposal, being the date control ceases.
in a group company either through sale or as a result of a repayment of Intra-group transactions and balances are eliminated.
capital, the cumulative exchange difference is recognised in the income statement as part of the profit or loss on disposal of group companies.
COMPANIES LEGISLATION AND ACCOUNTING STANDARDS The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in CLASSIFICATION OF ARGENTINA AS accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS A HYPER-INFLATIONARY ECONOMY as adopted by the European Union EU, IFRIC Interpretations and in The Argentinian economy was designated as hyperinflationary from accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands 1 July 2018.
As a result, application of IAS 29 Financial Reporting in and the UK Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting Hyperinflationary Economies has been applied to all Unilever entities under IFRS.
They are also in compliance with IFRS as issued by the whose functional currency is the Argentinian Peso.
IAS 29 requires International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
that adjustments are applicable from the start of the relevant entitys reporting period.
For Unilever that is from 1 January 2018.
The These financial statements are prepared under the historical cost application of IAS 29 includes: convention unless otherwise indicated.
Adjustment of historical cost non-monetary assets and liabilities for These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern the change in purchasing power caused by inflation from the date of basis.
Refer to the going concern statement on page 66. initial recognition to the balance sheet date: Adjustment of the income statement for inflation during the ACCOUNTING POLICIES reporting period: Accounting policies are included in the relevant notes to the The income statement is translated at the period end foreign consolidated financial statements.
These are presented as text exchange rate instead of an average rate: and highlighted in grey on pages 79 to 127.
The accounting policies below Adjustment of the income statement to reflect the impact of are applied throughout the financial statements.
inflation and exchange rate movement on holding monetary assets and liabilities in local currency.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES The main effects on the Group consolidated financial statements for The consolidated financial statements are presented in euros.
The 2018 are: functional currencies of NV and PLC are euros and sterling respectively.
Total assets increased by 538 million driven by an increase of 369 Items included in the financial statements of individual group companies million to goodwill see note 9 and 171 million due to property, are recorded in their respective functional currency which is the currency plant and equipment see note 10 : of the primary economic environment in which each entity operates.
Opening retained profit increased by 393 million reflecting the Foreign currency transactions in individual group companies are impact of adjusting the historical cost of non-monetary assets and translated into functional currency using exchange rates at the date of liabilities from the date of their initial recognition to 1 January 2018 the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses from settlement for the effect of inflation: of these transactions, and from translation of monetary assets and Turnover is reduced by 75 million: liabilities at year-end exchange rates, are recognised in the income Operating profit is reduced by 37 million: and statement except when deferred in equity as qualifying hedges.
A net monetary gain of 122 million is recognised from the inflation In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the balances and exchange rate movements in the year on the net monetary in individual group companies are translated from their functional items held in Argentinian Peso.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 79 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNILEVER GROUP CONTINUED 1.
ACCOUNTING INFORMATION AND POLICIES CONTINUED CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS are provided: if the likelihood is not remote then judgement is used The preparation of financial statements requires management to to determine the contingent liability disclosed.
Unilever does not have make judgements and estimates in the application of accounting provisions and contingent liabilities for the same matters.
External policies that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income advice is obtained for any material cases.
See notes 6A, 19 and 20. and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The following estimates are those that management believe have the Estimates and judgements are continuously evaluated and are based most significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying on historical experience and other factors, including expectations amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are: of future events that are believed to be reasonable.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the Measurement of defined benefit obligations the valuations of the estimate is revised and in any future period affected.
Groups defined benefit pension plan obligations are dependent on a number of assumptions.
These include discount rates, inflation and The following judgements are those that management believe have life expectancy of scheme members.
Details of these assumptions the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Groups and sensitivities are in note 4B.
financial statements: Assumptions used in discounted cash flow projections estimates Separate presentation of items in the income statement certain of future business performance, cash generation, long-term growth items of income or expense are presented separately as nonand discount rates are used in our assessment of impairment of underlying items.
These are excluded in several of our performance assets at the balance sheet date.
Details of the estimates used in measures, including underlying operating profit and underlying the impairment reviews for significant cash generating units are set earnings per share due to their nature and or frequency of out in note 9: no reasonably plausible changes in a key assumption occurrence.
See note 3 for further details.
Utilisation of tax losses and recognition of other deferred tax assets Measurement of consideration and assets and liabilities acquired The Group operates in many countries and is subject to taxes in as part of business combinations contingent consideration numerous jurisdictions.
Management uses judgement to assess the depends on an acquired business achieving targets within a fixed recoverability of tax assets such as whether there will be sufficient period.
Estimates of future performance are required to calculate future taxable profits to utilise losses see note 6B.
the obligations at the time of acquisition and at each subsequent Likelihood of occurrence of provisions and contingent liabilities events reporting date.
See note 21 for further information.
Additionally, can occur where there is uncertainty over future obligations.
Judgement estimates are required to value the assets and liabilities acquired is required to determine if an outflow of economic resources is probable, in business combinations.
Intangible assets such as brands are or possible but not probable.
Where it is probable, a liability is recognised commonly a core part of an acquired business as they allow us to and further judgement is used to determine the level of the provision.
obtain more value than would otherwise be possible.
Where it is possible but not probable, further judgement is used to determine if the likelihood is remote, in which case no disclosures RECENT ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS ADOPTED BY THE GROUP The Group applied for the first-time amendments to the following standards from 1 January 2018.
APPLICABLE KEY REQUIREMENTS IMPACT ON GROUP STANDARD IFRS 9 This standard introduces new requirements On 1 January 2018, the Group adopted IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, Financial Instruments in three areas: which replaced IAS 39 Financial Instruments Recognition and Measurement.
As there was no material impact from the adoption Classification and measurement: of this standard, the Group has not restated the comparative Financial assets are now classified based on information relating to prior years.
1 the objective of the Group in holding the asset and Classification and measurement: 2 the contractual cash flows.
On 1 January 2018, the Group reclassified its financial assets to the new categories based on the Groups reason for holding the assets Impairment: and the nature of the cash flows from the assets.
See note 17A for A new expected credit loss model is used for further information.
There were no changes to the classification or calculating impairment on financial assets.
measurement of the Groups financial liabilities.
A loss event does not have to occur before credit losses are recognised.
Impairment: From 1 January 2018, the Group implemented an expected credit Hedge accounting: loss impairment model for financial assets.
For trade receivables, the New general hedge accounting calculation methodology has been updated to consider expected losses requirements allow hedge accounting based based on ageing profile.
The adoption of the expected loss approach on the Groups risk management policies has not resulted in a material change in impairment provision for any rather than only prescribed scenarios.
Hedge accounting: The Group applied the hedge accounting requirements of IFRS 9 prospectively.
At the date of initial application all of the Groups existing hedge relationships were eligible to be treated as continuing hedge relationships.
80 Financial Statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 1.
ACCOUNTING INFORMATION AND POLICIES CONTINUED APPLICABLE KEY REQUIREMENTS IMPACT ON GROUP STANDARD IFRS 15 Revenue The standard clarifies the accounting for On 1 January 2018 the Group adopted IFRS 15 Revenue from from Contracts with bundled services and identifying each Contracts with Customers with no impact as the accounting Customers performance obligation in contractual policies were already in line with the new standard.
It also provides more guidance on the measurement of revenue contracts which have discounts, rebates, payments to suppliers and consignment stock.
All other standards or amendments to standards that have been issued by the IASB and were effective by 1 January 2018 were not applicable to Unilever.
NEW STANDARDS, AMENDMENTS AND INTERPRETATIONS OF EXISTING STANDARDS THAT ARE NOT YET EFFECTIVE AND HAVE NOT BEEN EARLY ADOPTED BY THE GROUP The following new standards have been released but are not yet adopted by the Group.
The expected impact and progress is shown below.
APPLICABLE KEY REQUIREMENTS OR IMPLEMENTATION PROGRESS STANDARD CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICY AND EXPECTED IMPACT IFRS 16 Leases This standard changes the recognition, The preparations for this standard are substantially complete.
measurement, presentation and disclosure The Group intends on adopting the full retrospective approach and Effective from the of leases.
In particular it requires lessees in our 2019 reporting the comparative information relating to prior year ended to record all leases on the balance sheet years will be restated.
31 December 2019 with exemptions available for low value and The Group has reviewed all relevant contracts to identify leases.
At the commencement The standard has been review included an assessment about whether the contract depends of a lease, a lessee will recognise lease endorsed by the EU on a specific asset, whether the Group obtains substantially all the payments lease liability and an asset economic benefits from the use of that asset and whether the Group representing the right to use the asset has the right to direct the use of that asset.
Based on this assessment, during the lease term right-of-use asset.
we calculated the restatement impact as at the transition date.
From Lessees will subsequently reduce the 1 January 2019 the Group will focus on ensuring that the revised lease liability when paid and recognise process for identifying and accounting for leases is followed.
depreciation on the right-of-use asset.
The Group intends to use the exemptions provided by IFRS 16 for A lease liability is remeasured upon the short-term leases less than a year and leases for low-value assets.
occurrence of certain events such as a change in the lease term or a change in The estimated impact of IFRS 16 on the Groups financial an index or rate used to determine lease statements at 31 December 2018 is as follows: payments.
The remeasurement normally Balance sheet: also adjusts the right-of-use asset.
The Group estimates that the adoption of IFRS 16 will result in The standard has no impact on the actual an increase in total assets of approximately 1.7 billion, split cash flows of a group.
However the between land and buildings of 1.3 billion and plant and machinery standard requires the capitalisation, and of 0.4 billion.
subsequent depreciation, of costs that are Based on the geographies, this is approximately 0.5 billion in currently expensed as paid which impacts Europe, 0.5 billion in The Americas and 0.7 billion in Asia AMET disclosures of cash flows within the cash RUB.
The amounts currently expensed as operating cash outflows which Financial liabilities are expected to increase by approximately will instead be capitalised are presented as 1.9 billion.
Income statement: The Group estimates that the adoption of IFRS 16 will result in increased depreciation of approximately 470 million from the right-of-use assets.
This will offset the reduction in operating lease expenses of around 550 million per year, resulting in an overall increase in operating profit of 80 million.
Finance costs are expected to increase by approximately 90 million per year due to the interest recognised on lease liabilities.
Statement of Cash Flows: The Group estimates that the adoption of IFRS 16 will increase cash flows from operating activities by approximately 550 million with a related increase in cash flows used in financing activities of 550 million which relates to lease payments previously expensed as paid.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 81
