Other information NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of The Unite Group plc the Company will be held at the Companys registered office at South Quay, Temple Back, Bristol BS1 6FL at 9.30 a. m. on 9 May 2019 for the purpose of considering and, if thought fit, passing Resolutions 1 to 15 as ordinary resolutions and Resolutions 16 to 18 as special resolutions.
Ordinary resolutions Annual Report and Accounts 1.
To receive the audited annual accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 together with the Directors report, the strategic report and the auditors report on those annual accounts the Annual Report and Accounts.
T o approve the Directors Remuneration Policy set out on pages 79 to 85 in the Annual Report and Accounts.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 86 to 95 in the Annual Report and Accounts.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 19.5p per ordinary share payable on 17 May 2019 to shareholders on the register of members of the Company at the close of business on 12 April 2019.
To re-elect Mr Phil White as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Richard Smith as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Joe Lister as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Sir Tim Wilson as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Ms Elizabeth McMeikan as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Ross Paterson as a Director of the Company.
To elect Mr Richard Akers as a Director of the Company.
To elect Mrs Ilaria del Beato as a Director of the Company.
T o reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next General Meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the auditor.
T HAT, in substitution for any equivalent authorities and powers granted to the Directors prior to the passing of this Resolution, the Directors be and are generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act : a To exercise all powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company, and grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares of the Company such shares, and rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares of the Company being relevant securities, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 21,961,391 representing approximately one-third of the nominal value of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at the date of this notice, such amount to be reduced by the nominal amount of any allotments or grants made under paragraph b below in excess of 21,961,391: b To allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 1 of the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 43,922,782 representing approximately two-thirds of the nominal value of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at the date of this notice such amount to be reduced by the nominal amount of any allotments or grants made under paragraph a above in connection with an offer by way of rights issue: i In favour of holders of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company at such record date as the directors may determine, where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of such holders are proportionate as nearly as practicable to the respective number of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company held by them on any such record date: ii To holders of any other equity securities as required by the rights of those securities or as the Directors otherwise consider necessary, in each case subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with in relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements or legal, regulatory or practical problems arising under the laws or requirements of any overseas territory or by virtue of shares being represented by depository receipts or the requirements of any relevant regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter whatsoever, provided that this authority shall expire unless previously renewed, varied, extended or revoked by the Company in general meeting on the date falling 15 months from the passing of this Resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held following the passing of this Resolution, save that the Company may at any time before such expiry make an offer or enter into an agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot relevant securities pursuant to such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired.
156 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategic report p0151 Corporate governance p5299 Financial statements p100155 Other information p156160 Special resolutions Authority to disapply pre-emption rights 16.
T hat if Resolution 15 Authority to allot shares is passed, the Board be authorised pursuant to section 570 and section 573 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities as defined in the Companies Act 2006 for cash under the authority given by that resolution and or to sell ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares for cash as if section 561 1 of the Companies Act 2006 did not apply to any such allotment or sale, such authority to be limited: a To the allotment of equity securities or sale of treasury shares in connection with an offer of securities but in the case of the authority granted under paragraph b of Resolution 15 by way of rights issue only in favour of holders of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company at such record date as the Directors may determine and other persons entitled to participate therein where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of such holders are proportionate as nearly practicable to the respective number of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company held by them on any such record date, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with in relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements or legal, regulatory or practical problems arising under the laws or requirements of any overseas territory or by virtue of shares being represented by depository receipts or the requirements of any relevant regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter whatsoever: and b To the allotment of equity securities or sale of treasury shares otherwise than under paragraph a above up to a nominal amount of 3,294,208 this amount representing not more than 5 per cent of the nominal value of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at the date of this notice, such authority to expire at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, at the close of business on 8 August 2020, this being the date which is fifteen months after the date of this meeting but, in each case, prior to its expiry the Company may make offers, and enter into agreements, which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted and treasury shares to be sold after the authority expires and the Board may allot equity securities and sell treasury shares pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
That if Resolution 15 Authority to allot shares is passed, the Board be authorised pursuant to section 570 and section 573 of the Companies Act 2006 in addition to any authority granted under Resolution 16 to allot equity securities as defined in the Companies Act 2006 for cash under the authority given by that resolution and or to sell ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares for cash as if section 561 1 of the Companies Act 2006 did not apply to any such allotment or sale, such authority to be: a limited to the allotment of equity securities or sale of treasury shares up to a nominal amount of 3,294,208 this amount representing not more than 5 per cent of the nominal value of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at the date of this notice : and b used only for the purposes of financing or refinancing, if the authority is to be used within six months after the original transaction a transaction which the Board of the Company determines to be an acquisition or other capital investment of a kind contemplated by the Statement of Principles on Disapplying Pre-Emption Rights most recently published by the Pre-Emption Group prior to the date of this notice, such authority to expire at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, at the close of business on 8 August 2020, this being the date which is fifteen months after the date of this meeting but, in each case, prior to its expiry the Company may make offers, and enter into agreements, which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted and treasury shares to be sold after the authority expires and the Board may allot equity securities and sell treasury shares pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
That, a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting, may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
By order of the Board Christopher Szpojnarowicz Company Secretary 27 February 2019 Registered office: South Quay House, Temple Back, Bristol BS1 6FL Registered in England and Wales with registered number 03199160 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 157 Other information NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED Notes 1.
A member of the Company who wishes to attend the meeting in person should arrive at South Quay, Temple Back, Bristol BS1 6FL in good time before the meeting, which will commence at 9.30 a. m. In order to gain admittance to the meeting, members may be required to produce their attendance card, which is attached to the form of proxy enclosed with this document, or otherwise prove their identity.
A m ember of the Company who is entitled to attend, speak and vote at the meeting and who is unable or does not wish to attend the meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of his her rights to attend and to speak and vote on his her behalf at the meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares so a member must have more than one share to be able to appoint more than one proxy.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must attend the meeting to represent his her appointing member.
Appointing a proxy will not prevent a member from attending in person and voting at the meeting although voting in person at the meeting will terminate a members proxy appointment.
A proxy must vote in accordance with any instructions given by the member by whom the proxy is appointed.
A form of proxy which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this notice.
You can only appoint a proxy using the procedures set out in these notes and the notes to the proxy form.
T o be valid, any form of proxy, and the original or duly certified copy of the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or authenticated, must be received by hand or by post at Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY, no later than 9.30 a. m. on 7 May 2019.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the meeting and any adjournment s thereof by following the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds Euroclear specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy, the revocation of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be a valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys agent CREST ID 3RA50 by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments specified in note 3 above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the Companys agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
C REST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers, should note that Euroclear does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his her CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 as amended.
If you would like to submit your proxy vote via the internet, you can do so by accessing our registrars website www.
You will require the control number, your unique PIN which will expire at the end of the voting period and your Shareholder Reference Number SRN, printed on the proxy card, in order to log in and submit your proxy vote electronically.
You can access this site from any internet enabled PC.
If you submit your proxy via the internet it should reach the registrar by 9.30 a. m. on 7 May 2019.
Should you complete your proxy form electronically and then post a hard copy, the form that arrives last will be counted to the exclusion of instructions received earlier, whether electronic or posted.
Please refer to the terms and conditions of the service on the website.
In the case of joint holders of shares, where more than one of the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.
Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders appear in the Companys register of members in respect of the joint holding the first-named being the most senior.
If you submit more than one valid proxy appointment in respect of the same shares, the appointment received last before the latest time for the receipt of proxies will take precedence.
A ny person to whom this notice has been sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Act to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
T he statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
These rights can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
158 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategic report p0151 Corporate governance p5299 Financial statements p100155 Other information p156160 13.
P ursuant to Part 13 of the Companies Act 2006 and Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 as amended, the Company specifies that only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company at 5.00 p. m. on 7 May 2019 or, if the meeting is adjourned, 48 hours before the timed fixed for the adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
In each case, changes to the register of members of the Company after such time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
A s at the date of this notice, the Companys issued share capital comprised 263,536,692 ordinary shares carrying one vote each at a general meeting of the Company.
No ordinary shares were held in treasury and therefore the total voting rights in the Company as at the date of this notice are 263,536,692.
You may not use any electronic address provided either in this notice of meeting or any related documents including the proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
M embers attending the meeting have the right to ask and, subject to the provisions of the Act, the Company must cause to be answered, any questions relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting.
The following information is available at www.
co. uk 1 the matters set out in this notice of Annual General Meeting: 2 the total numbers of shares in the Company in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the meeting: 3 the totals of the voting rights that members are entitled to exercise at the meeting: and 4 members statements, members resolutions and members matters of business received by the Company after the date on which notice of the meeting was given.
It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of the Company under Section 527 of the Act, the Company may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: a the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the meeting: or b any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 of the Act.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under Section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
In accordance with Section 338 of the Act, a member or members of the Company may provided that the criteria set out in Section 338 3 of the Act are met require the Company to give to members notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting, provided that: a the resolution must not be, if passed, ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise : and b the resolution must not be defamatory of any person, frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, must be authenticated by the person or persons making it, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given and must be received by the Company not later than six weeks before the meeting, or, if later, the time at which notice is given of the meeting.
In the foregoing sentence, the terms hard copy form, electronic form and authenticated bear their respective meanings set out in the Act in relation to a communication, or a document or information sent or supplied, to a company.
In accordance with Section 338A of the Act, a member or members of the Company may provided that the criteria set out in Section 338A 3 of the Act are met require the Company to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting a matter other than a proposed resolution which may properly be included in the business of the meeting, provided that the matter is not defamatory of any person, frivolous or vexatious.
A request may be in hard copy form or electronic form, must identify the matter to be included in the business, must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request, must be authenticated by the person or persons making it and must be received by the Company not later than six weeks before the meeting, or, if later, the time at which notice is given of the AGM.
In the foregoing sentence, the terms hard copy form, electronic form and authenticated bear the respective meanings set out in the Act in relation to a communication, or a document or information sent or supplied, to a company.
A member that is a company or other organisation not having a physical presence cannot attend in person but can appoint someone to represent it.
This can be done in one of two ways: either by the appointment of a proxy as described in the notes above or of a corporate representative.
Members considering the appointment of a corporate representative should check their own legal position, the Companys articles of association and the relevant provisions of the Act.
T he following documents are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during the usual business hours on any weekday Saturday, Sunday or public holidays excluded from the date of this notice until the conclusion of the meeting and will also be available for inspection at the place of the meeting from 9.15 a. m. on the day of the meeting until its conclusion: a copies of the Executive Directors service contracts with the Company and any of its subsidiary undertakings: and b letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 159
