Other information GLOSSARY Adjusted EPRA earnings Financing costs Net operating income NOI Adjusted EPRA earnings are prepared on the Gross financing costs net of interest capitalised into The rental income from rental properties less those basis of EPRA earnings excluding the yield developments and interest received on deposits.
operating costs directly related to the property, related element of the USAF performance fee.
Gross asset value Adjusted EPRA earnings per share The Groups wholly owned property portfolio Net rental growth The earnings per share based on adjusted together with the share of the Joint Ventures The annual growth in net operating income EPRA earnings.
measured on a like-for-like basis, ie excluding impact of completion and disposals.
Adjusted net debt Gross financing costs The Groups debt, net of cash and unamortised This includes all interest paid by the Group, Nominations debt raising costs, excluding the mark to market including those capitalised into developments Properties where Universities have entered into a of interest rates swaps.
The Universities nominate students to live in the building and Unite It includes all receipts and payments under enters into short-hold tenancies with the students.
Adjusted gearing interest rate swaps whether they are effective The adjusted net debt as a percentage of the or ineffective under IFRS as economically they value of Unite properties.
Non-core assets all hedge interest rate exposures.
Properties that do not fit with the Groups long-term investment strategy because of Basis points BPS Interest cover ratio ICR their location or their size.
A basis point is a term used to describe a small The interest cover ratio is the income generated percentage, usually in the context of change, by a property as a multiple of the interest charge and equates to 0.01%.
Overhead efficiency on the debt secured on the property.
The Groups overhead efficiency measure shows operating expenses, net of management fees, Direct let Lease as a proportion of the total property portfolio.
Properties where short-hold tenancy agreements Properties which are leased to Universities are made directly between Unite and the student.
for a number of years and have no Unite Rental properties management presence.
Investment and completed properties whose EBITDA construction has been completed and are used The Groups EPRA earnings before charging Like-for-like rental growth by the Operations segment to generate net interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
Like-for-like rental growth is the growth in net portfolio contribution.
The profit number is used to calculate the operating income on properties owned ratio to net debt.
throughout the current and previous years Sale and leaseback under review.
Properties that have been sold to a third party EPRA earnings investor then leased back to the Company.
Unite EPRA earnings are prepared on the basis Loan to value LTV is also responsible for the management of these recommended for real estate companies The Loan to value LTV ratio is the debt on assets on behalf of the owner.
by EPRA, the European Public Real Estate properties as a proportion of the carrying Association.
This excludes movements relating to value of the total property portfolio.
This ratio changes in values of investment properties and Total accounting return is calculated on the basis of EPRA net assets.
interest rate swaps and the related tax effects.
This is the growth in EPRA NAV per share plus dividends paid, and this is expressed as a LSAV percentage of EPRA NAV per share at the EPRA earnings per share The London Student Accommodation Joint beginning of the period.
The earnings per share based on EPRA earnings.
Venture LSAV is a joint venture between Unite and GIC.
Both Unite and GIC have a 50% stake USAF the fund EPRA NAV and LSAV has a maturity date of September 2022.
The Unite UK Student Accommodation Fund EPRA NAV is prepared on the basis recommended USAF is Europes largest fund that purely for real estate companies by EPRA, the European Net debt focuses on completed income providing Public Real Estate Association.
This includes all The Group debt, net of cash and unamortised student accommodation investment assets.
property at market value but excludes the mark to debt raising costs on the basis of EPRA net assets.
The fund is an openended infinite life vehicle market of interest rate swaps.
This is recommended which has unique access to Unites development by EPRA as a measure of net assets.
Unite acts as fund manager for the fund, Net debt: EBITDA as well as owning a significant minority stake.
The Group debt, net of cash and unamortised EPRA net asset value per share debt raising costs and excluding mark to market The diluted NAV per share figure based of interest rate swaps as a proportion of EBITDA.
EPRA NNNAV Net initial yield NIY or yield As EPRA NAV but includes both debt and The net operating income generated by interest rate swaps carried at market value.
a property expressed as a percentage of its value, This is recommended by EPRA as a spot fair taking into account notional acquisition costs.
160 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018
