Financial Statements Vesuvius plc 133 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements 1.
General Information Vesuvius plc Vesuvius or the Company is a public company limited by shares.
It is incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The nature of the operations and principal activities of the Company and its subsidiary and joint venture companies the Group is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 71 and its registered address is shown on page 184.
Basis of Preparation 2.1 Basis of accounting The Group Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC as adopted by the European Union and with the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, with the exception of fair value measurement applied to defined benefit pension plans, certain provisions, investments and derivative financial instruments.
2.2 Basis of consolidation The Group Financial Statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled directly and indirectly by the Company its subsidiaries.
Control exists when the Company has the power to direct the relevant activities of an entity that significantly affect the entitys return so as to have rights to the variable return from its activities.
In assessing whether control exists, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable are taken into account.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Group Income Statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these Group Financial Statements are set out in the Notes.
These policies have been consistently applied to all of the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those detailed herein to ensure that the Group Financial Statements are prepared on a consistent basis.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups interest therein.
Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination together with the non-controlling interests share of profit or loss, each component of other comprehensive income, and dividends paid since the date of the combination.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to the non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
2.3 Going concern The Directors have prepared cash flow forecasts for the Group for a period in excess of 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
These forecasts reflect an assessment of current and future end-market conditions and their impact on the Groups future trading performance.
The forecasts show that the Group will be able to operate within the current committed debt facilities and show continued compliance with the Companys financial covenants.
On the basis of the exercise described above and the Groups available committed debt facilities, the Directors consider that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for a period of at least 12 months from the date of signing of these Financial Statements.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt a going concern basis in preparing the financial statements of the Group and the Company.
2.4 Functional and presentation currency The financial statements are presented in millions of pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and rounded to one decimal place.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in Note 26.1.
2.5 Disclosure of separately reported items IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements provides no definitive guidance as to the format of the income statement, but states key lines which should be disclosed.
It also encourages the disclosure of additional line items and the reordering of items presented on the face of the income statement when appropriate for a proper understanding of the entitys financial performance.
In accordance with IAS 1, the Company has adopted a columnar presentation for its Group Income Statement, to separately identify headline performance results, as the Directors consider that this gives a better view of the underlying results of the ongoing business.
As part of this presentation format, the Company has adopted a policy of disclosing separately on the face of its Group Income Statement, within the column entitled Separately reported items, the effect of any components of financial performance for which the Directors consider separate disclosure would assist both in a better understanding of the financial performance achieved for a given year and in making projections of future results.
Both materiality and the nature of the components of income and expense are considered in deciding upon such presentation.
Such items may include, inter alia, the financial effect of exceptional items which occur infrequently, such as major restructuring activity, which may require more than one year to complete, and significant movement in the Groups deferred tax balances such as was, for example, caused by the impact of US tax reform in 2017, together with items reported separately for consistency, such as amortisation charges relating to acquired intangible assets, profits or losses arising on the disposal of continuing or discontinued operations and the taxation impact of the aforementioned exceptional items and other items reported separately.
Vesuvius plc 134 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 2.
Basis of Preparation continued 2.5 Disclosure of separately reported items continued Following a period of sustained profitability of the Groups US business, the Board has decided to substantially increase the amount reflected on the Groups balance sheet in respect of the previously unrecognised value of US tax losses and other temporary differences.
Further details of the 2018 movements are shown in Note 10.
In light of the fact that the tax value of the US tax losses and other temporary differences is now substantially recognised on the Groups balance sheet, the Board has decided that it is now more appropriate to reflect the normal utilisation of the deferred tax assets which offset the Groups US taxable headline profits, as part of the Groups headline tax charge.
In previous years this utilisation was shown as part of the tax charge on separately reported items in the Group Income Statement.
The Groups prior year headline tax charge has not been restated on the grounds that the impact is not material.
See Note 10.1 for more details on the impact in 2018.
Utilisation of the deferred tax assets recognised in the Group Statement of Other Comprehensive Income will continue to be reflected in that Statement, as was previously the case.
The amortisation charge in respect of intangible assets recognised on business combinations is excluded from the trading results of the Group since they are non-cash charges and are not considered reflective of the core trading performance of the Group.
Restructuring charges are excluded from the trading results of the Group due to the material nature of these non-recurring transformational initiatives.
In its adoption of this policy, the Company applies an even-handed approach to both gains and losses and aims to be both consistent and clear in its accounting and disclosure of such items.
A UK High Court judgement was made on 26 October 2018 in respect of the gender equalisation of guaranteed minimum pensions GMPs for occupational pension schemes.
The increase in pension liabilities resulting from this judgement has been treated for IAS 19 purposes as a plan amendment and has resulted in an increase in the pension deficit in the balance sheet and a corresponding past service cost in the income statement.
This has been treated as a separately reported item so that there has been no impact upon Headline performance.
We are working with the trustees of our UK pension plan and our actuarial and legal advisers to understand the extent to which the judgement crystallises additional liabilities for the UK pension plan.
We have estimated the impact of GMP equalisation as at 31 December 2018 to be 4.5m.
2.6 Changes in accounting policies Initial adoption of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers The Group adopted IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers with the date of initial application to the Group of 1 January 2018 using the modified retrospective method.
IFRS 15 replaces all existing revenue requirements in IFRS and applies to all revenue arising from contracts with customers unless the contracts are within the scope of other standards such as IAS 17 Leases.
The standard establishes a comprehensive framework for determining whether, how much and when revenue is recognised.
The impact of adopting IFRS 15 on the Group Financial Statements was not material and there was no adjustment to retained earnings on application at 1 January 2018.
The Group has not restated the comparative results on adoption and the required additional disclosures are included in Note 5.
Details of the change in the Groups accounting policy in respect of revenue recognition are set out in Note 5.
Initial adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Effective 1 January 2018, the Group adopted IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
IFRS 9 addresses the classification, measurement and derecognition of financial instruments, and introduces new rules for hedge accounting and a new impairment model for financial assets.
It replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, and comprehensive updates have been made to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation.
The adoption of IFRS 9 has had no material impact on the Group Financial Statements.
The Group has not restated the comparative results on adoption and the required additional disclosures are included in Note 26.
2.7 New and revised IFRS Certain new accounting standards and interpretations have been published that are not mandatory for 31 December 2018 reporting periods and have not been early adopted by the Group.
The Groups assessment of the impact of these new standards and interpretations is set out below.
Other new or amended standards or interpretations are not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups financial statements.
IFRS 16 Leases effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2019 IFRS 16 Leases, replaces the existing standard on accounting for leases, IAS 17, and the related interpretations.
The Group will apply the standard from 1 January 2019.
The Group will transition to IFRS 16 in accordance with the simplified approach: the prior year figures will not be adjusted.
The Group has non-cancellable operating lease commitments of 39.3m, see Note 30.2.
It is expected that the application of this standard will have a material impact on the Groups Financial Statements to bring these obligations and an associated asset on Balance Sheet.
Financial Statements Vesuvius plc 135 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Balance sheet: IFRS 16 requires lessees to adopt a uniform approach to the presentation of leases.
In future, assets must be recognised for the right of use received and liabilities must be recognised for the discounted payment obligations entered into for all leases.
The Group will make use of the relief options provided for leases of low-value assets and short-term leases shorter than 12 months.
For leases that have been classified to date as operating leases in accordance with IAS 17, the lease liability will be recognised at the present value of the remaining lease payments, discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease, if that rate can be readily determined.
If that rate cannot be readily determined, the lessees incremental borrowing rate will be used.
The right of use asset will generally be measured at the amount of the lease liability plus initial direct costs.
Advance payments and liabilities from the previous financial year will also be accounted for.
If IFRS 16 had been applied for the 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements, fixed assets and liabilities would both have been approximately 33m higher.
Income statement: In contrast to the presentation to date of operating lease expenses within operating profit, in future, depreciation charges on right of use assets and the interest expense from unwinding of the discount on the lease liabilities will be recognised.
If IFRS 16 had been applied for the 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements, operating profit and interest expense would both have been approximately 1m higher.
Cash flow statement: If IFRS 16 had been applied for the 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements, operating cash flow would be approximately 9m higher impacts of depreciation and interest and financing cash flow would be approximately 9m lower, with no net impact on total cash flow.
IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments effective from 1 January 2019, for the year ending 2019, not yet endorsed, clarifies how to recognise and measure deferred and current income tax assets and liabilities where there is uncertainty over tax treatment under IAS 12.
The Group has assessed the potential impact on its Group Financial Statements resulting from the application of IFRIC 23 and has concluded that it will not have a material impact on the amount of provisions held for uncertain tax positions as at 31 December 2018.
Critical Accounting Judgements and Estimates Determining the carrying amount of some assets and liabilities requires judgement and or estimation of the effect of uncertain future events.
The major sources of judgement and estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities are noted below.
All other accounting policies are included within the respective Notes to the financial statements.
3.1 Provisions Vesuvius has extensive international operations and is subject to various legal and regulatory regimes, including those covering taxation and environmental matters.
Several of the Groups subsidiaries are parties to legacy matter legal proceedings, certain of which are insured claims arising in the ordinary course of the operations of the company involved, and are aware of a number of issues which are, or may be, the subject of dispute with tax authorities.
Provisions are made for the expected amounts payable in respect of known or probable costs resulting both from legal claims or other regulatory requirements or from third-party claims, as described in Note 31.
As the settlement of many of the potential obligations for which provision is made is subject to legal or other regulatory process it requires estimation of the timing, quantum and amount of associated outflows, which are subject to some uncertainty.
The Directors use their judgement and experience to make appropriate estimates of provisions in the financial statements for amounts relating to such matters.
Associated assets for insurance recoverable are subject to the same estimation uncertainty as their quantum varies in line with the expected provision.
3.2 Taxation a Current tax Tax credits and assets are not recognised unless it is probable that they will result in future economic benefits to the Group.
In assessing the amount of the benefit to be recognised in the financial statements, the Directors exercise their judgement in considering the effect of negotiations, litigation and any other matters that they consider may impact upon the potential settlement.
The Group operates internationally and is subject to tax in many different jurisdictions.
As a consequence, the Group is routinely subject to tax audits and local enquiries which, by their very nature, can take a considerable period of time to conclude.
Provisions are made for known issues based on all substantively enacted legislation, the Directors interpretation of countryspecific tax law and their assessment of the likely outcome, taking into consideration the Groups experience in agreeing tax liabilities with tax authorities and appropriate external advice.
As indicated in Note 10.5, provisions for uncertain tax positions amount to 20.2m at the end of 2018 2017: 23.2m.
Further discussion of these provisions is contained in that Note.
All income tax liabilities, provisions and assets are treated as income tax payable and recoverable in accordance with IAS 12. b Deferred tax The Group has recognised deferred tax assets in respect of unutilised losses and other temporary differences arising in a number of the Groups businesses, further details of which are given in Note 10.4.
Account has been taken of future forecasts of taxable profit in arriving at the values at which these assets are recognised.
If these forecast profits do not materialise or change, or there are changes in tax rates or to the period over which the losses or temporary differences might be recognised, then the value of the deferred tax assets will need to be revised in a future period.
Vesuvius plc 136 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 3.
Critical Accounting Judgements and Estimates continued 3.2 Taxation continued The Group also has losses and other temporary differences, also analysed in Note 10.4, for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised in these financial statements, relating either to loss-making subsidiaries where the future economic benefit of the temporary difference is not probable or to where the timing difference is of such a nature that its value is dependent on certain types of profit being earned, such as capital profits.
If trading or other appropriate profits are earned in the future in these companies, these losses and other temporary differences may yield benefit to the Group in the form of a reduced tax charge.
As explained in Note 10.2, the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act TCJA enacted in late December 2017 had a material impact on the Groups deferred tax position.
Further clarifications as to the operation of the TCJA have been issued throughout 2018.
Vesuvius has adjusted its US provisions and deferred tax calculations to reflect those clarifications and will continue to review and monitor these rules and any future clarifications.
As explained in Note 2.5, following a period of sustained profitability of the Groups US business, the Board has decided to substantially increase the amount reflected on the Groups balance sheet in respect of the previously unrecognised value of US tax losses and other temporary differences.
Further details of the 2018 movements are shown in Note 10.1.
In light of the fact that the tax value of the US tax losses and other temporary differences is now substantially recognised on the Groups balance sheet, the Board has further decided that it is now more appropriate to reflect the normal utilisation of the deferred tax assets which offset the Groups US taxable headline profits, as part of the Groups headline tax charge.
Alternative Performance Measures The Company uses a number of alternative performance measures APMs in addition to those reported in accordance with IFRS.
The Directors believe that these APMs, listed below, are important when assessing the underlying financial and operating performance of the Group and its divisions, providing management with key insights and metrics in support of the ongoing management of the Groups performance and cash flow.
A number of these align with KPIs and other key metrics used in the business and therefore are considered useful to also disclose to the users of the financial statements.
The following APMs do not have standardised meaning prescribed by IFRS and therefore may not be directly comparable with similar measures presented by other companies.
4.1 Headline Headline performance, reported separately on the face of the Group Income Statement, is from continuing operations and before items reported separately on the face of the Group Income Statement.
4.2 Underlying revenue, underlying trading profit and underlying return on sales Underlying revenue, underlying trading profit and underlying return on sales are the headline equivalents of these measures after adjustments to exclude the effects of changes in exchange rates, business acquisitions and disposals.
Reconciliations of underlying revenue and underlying trading profit can be found in the Financial Review.
Underlying revenue growth is one of the Groups key performance indicators and provides an important measure of organic growth of Group businesses between reporting periods, by eliminating the impact of exchange rates, acquisitions, disposals and significant business closures.
4.3 Return on sales ROS ROS is calculated as trading profit divided by revenue.
It is one of the Groups key performance indicators and is used to assess the trading performance of Group businesses.
A reconciliation of ROS is included in Note 5.3.
4.4 Trading profit Trading profit, reported separately on the face of the Group Income Statement, is defined as operating profit before separately reported items.
It is also used as one of the targets against which the annual bonuses of certain employees are measured.
4.5 Headline profit before tax Headline profit before tax, reported separately on the face of the Group Income Statement, is calculated as the net total of trading profit, plus the Groups share of post-tax profit of joint ventures and total net finance costs associated with headline performance.
It is one of the Groups key performance indicators and is used to assess the financial performance of the Group as a whole.
4.6 Effective tax rate ETR The Groups ETR is calculated on the income tax costs associated with headline performance, divided by headline profit before tax and before the Groups share of post-tax profit of joint ventures.
Financial Statements Vesuvius plc 137 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 4.7 Headline earnings per share Headline earnings per share is calculated by dividing headline profit before tax less associated income tax costs, attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
It is one of the Groups key performance indicators and is used to assess the underlying earnings performance of the Group as a whole.
Headline earnings per share is disclosed in Note 11.
4.8 Operating cash flow Operating cash flow is cash generated from continuing operations before restructuring and net retirement benefit obligations but after deducting capital expenditure net of asset disposals.
It is used in calculating the Groups cash conversion.
A reconciliation of cash generated from operations to operating cash flow can be found in the Financial Review.
4.9 Cash conversion Cash conversion is calculated as operating cash flow from continuing operations divided by trading profit.
It is useful for measuring the rate at which cash is generated from trading profit.
The calculation of cash conversion is detailed in the Financial Review.
4.10 Free cash flow Free cash flow is defined as net cash flow from operating activities after net outlays for the purchase and sale of property, plant and equipment, dividends from joint ventures and dividends paid to non-controlling shareholders, but before additional funding contributions to Group pension plans.
It is one of the Groups key performance indicators and is used to assess the underlying cash generation of the Group and is one of the measures used in monitoring the Groups capital.
A reconciliation of free cash flow is included underneath the Group Statement of Cash Flows.
4.11 Average trade working capital to sales ratio The average trade working capital to sales ratio is calculated as the percentage of average trade working capital balances to the total revenue for the year, at constant currency.
Average trade working capital comprising inventories, trade receivables and trade payables is calculated as the average of the 12 previous month-end balances.
It is one of the Groups key performance indicators and is useful for measuring the level of working capital used in the business and is one of the measures used in monitoring the Groups capital.
4.12 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA EBITDA is calculated as the total of trading profit before depreciation and amortisation of non-acquired intangible assets.
It is used in the calculation of the Groups interest cover and net debt to EBITDA ratios.
A reconciliation of EBITDA is included in Note 12.
4.13 Net interest Net interest is calculated as interest payable on borrowings less interest receivable, excluding any item separately reported.
It is used in the calculation of the Groups interest cover ratio.
4.14 Interest cover Interest cover is the ratio of EBITDA to net interest.
It is one of the Groups key performance indicators and is used to assess the financial position of the Group and its ability to fund future growth.
This measure is also a component of the Groups covenant calculations.
4.15 Net debt Net debt comprises the net total of current and non-current interest-bearing borrowings and cash and short-term deposits.
Net debt is a measure of the Groups net indebtedness to banks and other external financial institutions.
A reconciliation of the movement in net debt is included in Note 14.
4.16 Net debt to EBITDA Net debt to EBITDA is the ratio of net debt at the year-end to EBITDA for that year.
It is one of the Groups key performance indicators and is used to assess the financial position of the Group and its ability to fund future growth and is one of the measures used in monitoring the Groups capital.
4.17 Return on net assets RONA RONA is calculated as trading profit plus share of post-tax profit of joint ventures, divided by average net operating assets, at constant currency being the average over the previous 12 months of property, plant and equipment, trade working capital, interests in joint ventures and associates, investments and other operating receivables, payables and provisions.
It is one of the Groups key performance indicators and is used to assess the financial performance and asset management of the Group and is one of the measures used in monitoring the Groups capital.
4.18 Constant currency Figures presented at constant currency represent 2017 amounts retranslated to average 2018 exchange rates.
Vesuvius plc 138 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 5 Segment Information The segment information contained in this Note refers to several alternative performance measures, definitions of which can be found in Note 4.
5.1 Business segments Operating segments for continuing operations Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Executive Directors of the Board, who make the key operating decisions and are responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments.
Reflecting the Groups management and internal reporting structure, segmental information is presented in respect of the two main business segments: Steel and Foundry.
The Steel segment aggregates the Flow Control, Advanced Refractories and Digital Services business units which are subject to a similar risk profile and return.
The adoption of the revenue standard IFRS 15 does not have any impact on the assessment of operating segments of the Group and the disaggregation of revenue between Steel and Foundry remains appropriate.
The principal activities of each of these segments are described in the Strategic Report.
Segment revenue represents revenue from external customers inter-segment revenue is not material.
Trading profit includes items directly attributable to a segment as well as those items that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
5.2 Accounting policy revenue recognition Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for goods supplied and services rendered to customers after deducting rebates, discounts and value-added taxes, and after eliminating sales within the Group.
Revenue from contracts with customers is recognised when control of the goods or services are transferred to the customer, upon the completion of specified performance obligations, at an amount that reflects the considerations to which the Group expects to be entitled to in exchange for these consumable products and associated services.
The identification of performance obligations includes a determination of whether the goods or services or bundle of goods or services are distinct.
Where contracts contain the provision of multiple elements such as refractory consumables, technical assistance and equipment, management applies judgement in determining whether the bundle of goods and or services are distinct.
Where the provision of goods and or services is distinct, revenue is recognised separately for each performance obligation.
If the elements in the contract are not distinct, a distinct bundle of goods services is identified, and revenue is recognised for this bundle of items.
The transaction price is allocated to each performance obligation based on the relative standalone selling prices of the goods or services provided.
If a standalone selling price is not available, the Group will estimate the selling price with reference to the price that would be charged for the goods or services if they were sold separately.
An assessment of the timing of revenue recognition is made for each performance obligation.
Revenue is recognised at a point in time for all standard revenue transactions when control of the goods provided is transferred to the customer.
Revenue is also recognised at a point in time for contracts that contain multiple elements service contracts when the agreed output is produced by the customer unless there are specific performance obligations to deliver other services over time.
The Group recognises revenue over time for contracts that are longer term in nature by measuring the progress of completion of each performance obligation using an output method of completion.
For fixed-price contracts, the customer will pay the amounts as agreed in the payment schedule and contract asset or liability balances are recognised in accordance with the timing of completion of the identified performance obligations.
Variable consideration If the consideration in a contract includes a variable amount, the Group estimates the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled in exchange for transferring the goods or services to the customer.
Rights of return Certain contracts provide a customer a right to return goods within a specific period.
The Group recognises a separate liability representing the estimated amount of consideration that an entity does not expect to receive as it will be refunded to the customer.
Warranty obligations The Group usually provides warranties for goods where they can be returned if they are faulty.
These assurance type warranties are accounted for under IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Financial Statements Vesuvius plc 139 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Contract balances Contract assets A contract asset is a right to payment in exchange for goods or services that have been transferred to a customer when that right is conditional on something other than the passage of time.
Receivable A receivable is a companys right to payment that is unconditional.
A right to consideration is unconditional if only the passage of time is required before payment of that consideration is due.
Once the consideration due to the Group is unconditional, the contract asset should be reclassified as a receivable.
Contract liability A contract liability is an obligation to transfer goods or services to a customer for which the consideration has been received or an amount of consideration is due from the customer.
The revenue recognition policy applicable to the comparative period i. e 2017 was disclosed in the 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements.
5.3 Segmental analysis The operating segment results from continuing operations for 2018 and 2017 are presented below.
2018 Continuing Steel Foundry operations m m m Segment revenue 1,236.7 561.3 1,798.0 Segment EBITDA 155.3 82.9 238.2 Segment depreciation 27.0 14.0 41.0 Segment trading profit 128.3 68.9 197.2 Return on sales margin 10.4% 12.3% 11.0% Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 12.9 Restructuring charges 15.3 GMP equalisation charge 4.5 Operating profit 164.5 Net finance costs 11.1 Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 2.8 Profit before tax 156.2 Capital expenditure additions 34.4 14.0 48.4 2017 Continuing Steel Foundry operations m m m Segment revenue 1,148.7 535.2 1,683.9 Segment EBITDA 128.9 80.3 209.2 Segment depreciation 28.5 15.2 43.7 Segment trading profit 100.4 65.1 165.5 Return on sales margin 8.7% 12.2% 9.8% Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 19.5 Restructuring charges 36.3 Operating profit 109.7 Net finance costs 13.9 Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 1.3 Profit before tax 97.1 Capital expenditure additions 34.0 10.3 44.3 Vesuvius plc 140 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 5.
Non-current assets exclude employee benefits net surpluses and deferred tax assets.
Information relating to the Groups products and services is given in the Strategic Report.
The Group is not dependent on any single customer for its revenue and no single customer, for either of the years presented in the table above, accounts for more than 10% of the Groups total external revenue.
The Chief Operating Decision Maker does not review non-current assets at a segmental level so these disclosures are not included.
5.5 Revenue from contracts with customers Performance obligations The Group enters into contracts to provide one or multiple items to customers in the Global Steel and Foundry industries.
Management applies judgement in determining the number of performance obligations that apply to each contract.
Information about the Groups performance obligations is summarised below.
Where the Group provides consumable items only to the Global Steel and Foundry industries, one performance obligation is present.
The performance obligation to deliver consumables to the customer is satisfied upon delivery of these items.
Following the satisfaction of the performance obligation, an invoice is raised and payment is due within the timeframe as noted on the invoice.
Revenue is recognised at a point in time.
The Group also enters into contracts with customers in the Global Steel industry to primarily provide consumable items to facilitate the steel production process.
These contracts often include the supply of equipment and or technical assistance.
The Group applies judgement in determining the number of performance obligations in each contract and invoices are raised in accordance with contractual terms with payment due within the timeframe as noted on the invoice.
Revenue is recognised at a point in time unless there are specific performance obligations to deliver other services.
Revenue related to these other services may be recognised over time.
Revenue is also earned from the installation of product or equipment at customer sites.
The Group applies judgement in determining the number of performance obligations in each contract and invoices are raised in accordance with contractual terms with payment due within the timeframe as noted on the invoice or as agreed on a payment schedule.
Revenue is recognised over time by measuring the progress of completion of each performance obligation.
Of the 1,798.0m revenue reported in 2018, 11.0m 2017: 10.2m relates to revenue recognised over time for contracts in the Steel industry.
Contract balances The following table provides information about receivables, contract assets and contract liabilities from contracts with customers.
2018 2017 m m Receivables, which are included in Trade and other receivables 372.7 366.1 Contract assets, which are included in Trade and other receivables 0.8 0.5 Contract liabilities, which are included in Trade and other payables 2.6 1.9 Contract liabilities of 2.6m 2017: 1.9m include advances received from a customer that precedes the satisfaction of performance obligations by the Group.
The increase in contract liabilities in the year is attributed to an increase in the number of customers making advance payments and an overall increase in contract activity.
Where the period between the transfer of the promised goods or services to the customer and payment by the customer is less than one year, the Group does not adjust any of these transaction prices for the time value of money.
Balances where the collection date is more than one year from the balance sheet date are adjusted for the time value of money.
The Group applies the practical expedient in paragraph 121 of IFRS 15 and does not disclose information about remaining performance obligations that have original expected durations of one year or less.
Financial Statements Vesuvius plc 141 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 6.
Operating profit 6.1 Operating profit is stated after charging 2018 2017 m m Cost of inventories recognised as an expense Note 19 677.4 609.6 Research and development 33.6 33.2 Employee expenses Note 8 414.3 418.1 Depreciation Note 15 41.0 43.7 Amortisation Note 16 12.9 19.5 Operating lease charges Note 30 20.9 18.6 6.2 Amounts payable to  LLP and their Associates 2018 2017 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditors and their associates for the audit of the parent Company and Consolidated Financial Statements 0.5 0.4 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and their associates for other services: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.9 0.8 Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Total auditors remuneration 1.5 1.3  LLP was first appointed as the Groups external auditor for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Total auditors remuneration of 1.5m in 2018 all related to continuing operations, of which 1.4m related to audit fees and 0.1m of non-audit fees, in respect of the interim review fee 2017: 1.3m, including 1.2m of audit fees and 0.1m of non-audit fees, the latter in respect of the interim review fee.
After the reporting period end date, the Group incurred 0.3m in additional audit fees due for the 2017 year end audit.
Mazars LLP was appointed external auditor of the non-material entities within the Group for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Total remuneration for the audit of the non-material entities was 0.5m 2017: 0.4m.
This amount is not included in the table above.
It is the Groups policy not to use the Groups auditors for non-audit services other than in very limited circumstances and when they are best placed to do so.
Restructuring Charges The 2018 restructuring charges were 15.3m and relate to the new programme first announced in March 2018.
Restructuring charges in 2017 of 36.3m predominantly related to the Group-wide restructuring programme initiated in 2015.
The charges reflect redundancy costs of 8.3m 2017: 22.8m, plant closure costs of 4.7m 2017: 0.5m, consultancy fees of 0.5m 2017: 6.8m, asset write-offs of 1.7m 2017: 5.5m and travel of 0.1m 2017: 0.7m.
The net tax credit attributable to the total restructuring charges was 1.8m 2017: 4.3m.
Cash costs of 19.3m 2017: 27.3m Note 12 were incurred in the year in respect of the restructuring programme, leaving provisions made but unspent of 17.4m Note 31 as at 31 December 2018 2017: 22.9m, of which 4.3m 2017: 2.7m relates to future costs in respect of leases expiring between one and six years.
Vesuvius plc 142 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 8.
Employees 8.1 Employee expenses 2018 2017 m m Wages and salaries 340.0 344.0 Social security costs 54.0 52.2 Share-based payments Note 28 3.7 2.6 Pension costs defined contribution pension plans Note 27 11.4 12.4 defined benefit pension plans Note 27 4.6 6.6 Other post-retirement benefits Note 27 0.6 0.2 Total employee expenses 414.3 418.0 8.2 Monthly average number of employees 2018 2017 no.
Steel 7,894 7,868 Foundry 3,126 3,106 Continuing operations 11,020 10,974 Discontinued operations Total monthly average number of employees 11,020 10,974 As at 31 December 2018, the Group had 10,809 employees 2017: 11,010.
8.3 Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 108 to 115.
2018 2017 m m Short-term employee benefits 2.0 1.9 Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.2 Share-based payments 0.8 0.7 Total remuneration of key management personnel 3.0 2.8 9.
Net Finance Costs 2018 2017 m m Interest payable on borrowings Loans and overdrafts 14.5 15.9 Obligations under finance leases 0.2 0.2 Amortisation of capitalised arrangement fees 0.6 0.6 Total interest payable on borrowings 15.3 16.7 Interest on net retirement benefit obligations 0.1 0.6 Adjustment to discounts on provisions and other liabilities 1.3 0.2 Adjustment to discounts on receivables 0.8 0.1 Finance income 4.8 3.5 Total net finance costs 11.1 13.9 Financial Statements Vesuvius plc 143 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 10.
Income Tax 10.1 Accounting policy Tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that they relate to items charged or credited in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income or Group Statement of Changes in Equity, in which case the associated tax is also recognised in those statements.
In arriving at its current tax charge, the Group also makes careful assessment of the likely impact of tax law changes.
In particular, it has considered the impact of US tax reform enacted in December 2017 in the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act TCJA and other recently announced tax reform, for example in Belgium.
Current tax Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from profit before tax as reported in the Group Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
A provision is recognised when the Group considers it has a present tax obligation as the result of a past event and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions established for such uncertain tax positions are made using a best estimate of the tax expected to be paid, based on a qualitative and quantitative assessment of all relevant information.
Such a provision is typically required where the underlying tax issue is subject to interpretation and remains to be agreed, and therefore is uncertain as to outcome.
Principally the uncertain tax positions for which a provision is made relate to the interpretation of tax legislation and guidance regarding transfer pricing arrangements that have been entered into in the normal course of business.
In accordance with IAS 12, tax provisions are included as income tax payable on the face of the Group Balance Sheet, and movements in tax provisions are included within income tax charges or credits in the Group Income Statement.
In assessing any appropriate provision requirements for uncertain tax items, the Group considers progress made in discussions with the tax authorities, expert advice on the likely outcome and any recent developments in case law.
Due to the uncertainty associated with such tax items, it is possible that at a future date, on conclusion of the open matters, the final outcome may vary significantly.
Any such variations will affect the financial results in the year in which such a determination is made.
IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments effective from 1 January 2019, for the year ending 2019, clarifies how to recognise and measure deferred and current income tax assets and liabilities where there is uncertainty over tax treatment under IAS 12.
The Group has assessed the potential impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements resulting from the application of IFRIC 23 and has concluded that it will not have a material impact on the amount of provisions held for uncertain tax positions as at 31 December 2018.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
As explained in Note 2.5, following a period of sustained profitability of the Groups US business, the Board has decided to substantially increase the amount reflected on the Groups Balance Sheet in respect of the previously unrecognised value of US tax losses and other temporary differences.
Of the total additional recognition of 39.5m, 32.2m has been reflected in the separately reported items in the Group Income Statement in accordance with the disclosure approach outlined in Note 2.5 above.
7.3m has been reflected in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income as it relates to deferred tax on pensions costs taken through that statement.
Vesuvius plc 144 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 10.
Income Tax continued 10.1 Accounting policy continued Deferred tax continued In light of the fact that the tax value of the US tax losses and other temporary differences is now substantially recognised on the Groups balance sheet, the Board has decided that it is now more appropriate to reflect the utilisation of the deferred tax assets recognised in the Group Income Statement, and which offset the Groups US taxable headline profits, as part of the Groups headline tax charge, rather than as part of the tax charge on separately reported items in the Group Income Statement, as was the case in previous years.
This has increased the headline tax charge in 2018 by 7.8m, increasing the effective rate of tax on headline profit before tax and before the Groups share of post-tax profits from joint ventures by 4.2%.
Utilisation of the deferred tax assets recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income will continue to be reflected in that statement, as was previously the case.
10.2 Income tax charge 2018 2017 m m Current tax Overseas taxation 41.9 37.1 Adjustments in respect of prior years 3.0 1.7 Total current tax, continuing operations 38.9 35.4 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary taxable differences 28.6 19.0 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.3 Total deferred tax, continuing operations 27.3 19.0 Total income tax charge 11.6 54.4 Total income tax charge attributable to: Continuing operations headline performance 48.4 36.4 separately reported 36.8 18.0 Total income tax charge 11.6 54.4 Included in the Groups total income tax charge are charges and credits meeting the criteria set out in Note 2.5, to be treated as separately reported items, as analysed in the following table: 2018 2017 Separately reported items m m Impact of US tax reform 24.5 Other utilisation of previously recognised US deferred tax asset 4.2 Additional recognition of US deferred tax asset 32.2 0.4 Net movement in US deferred tax asset 32.2 28.3 Restructuring charges 1.8 4.3 Gain on employee benefit plan Amortisation and utilisation of acquired intangibles 2.8 6.0 Total tax charge credit separately reported 36.8 18.0 As explained in Note 10.1 above, the Group has substantially increased the deferred tax recognised on its balance sheet in respect of its US tax losses and other temporary differences.
The substantial part of that additional recognition is reflected in separately reported items in the Group Income Statement, the rest being reflected in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income relating to pension costs reflected in that statement.
In addition, the Group now presents the normal utilisation of that asset in offsetting the Groups US taxable headline profits as part of its headline tax charge, to the extent it does not relate to deferred tax which was initially recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act TCJA enacted in the US in December 2017 had a material impact on the value of the deferred tax asset the Group recognised in the US as at December 2017.
It reduced the asset by 25.7m, of which 24.5m was charged to the Group Income Statement and 1.2m was charged to the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, as it related to the effect of the change in the US Federal rate of tax on the value of the deferred tax asset on pension deficits recognised in that statement.
The reduction was principally due to the change in Federal tax rate from 35% to 21%, the deemed repatriation tolling charge and the impact of other changes when measuring the value of the asset which was recognised in the Group Balance Sheet.
TCJA also introduced additional provisions which extended US taxing rights over the profits of non-US entities owned by US companies so-called Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income GILTI.
Vesuvius US companies own interests in non-US Vesuvius subsidiaries, and therefore have been impacted by these new rules.
The impact of the GILTI provisions on Vesuvius in 2018 has been to increase the headline tax charge by 2.4m in 2018, increasing the effective rate of tax on headline profit before tax and before the Groups share of post-tax profits from joint ventures by 1.3%.
Financial Statements Vesuvius plc 145 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Further clarifications governing the operation of the TCJA have been issued throughout 2018, Vesuvius has adjusted its US provisions and deferred tax calculations to reflect those clarifications as it is best able, assisted by advisers.
Management will continue to review and monitor these rules and any future clarifications.
In 2017, Belgium reduced its prospective tax rate to 29% in 2018 and 25% in 2020.
This had the impact of reducing the deferred tax asset in Belgium by 1.4m in 2017.
This impact was included in the total deferred tax charge on continuing operations.
The net tax credit reflected in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income in the year amounted to 6.0m 2017: 3.1m charge, comprising a credit of 7.3m 2017: nil for additional recognition of US pension deferred tax asset and a 1.3m charge 2017: 2.4m charge related to tax on net actuarial gains and losses on the employee benefits plan.
In addition, nil 2017: 0.7m charge related to UK tax in respect of foreign exchange differences arising on hedged positions.
The Group operates in a number of countries that have differing tax rates, laws and practices.
Changes in any of these areas could, adversely or positively, impact the Groups tax charge in the future.
Continuing losses, or insufficiency of taxable profit to absorb all expenses, in any subsidiary, could have the effect of increasing tax charges in the future as effective tax relief may not be available for those losses or expenses.
Other significant factors affecting the tax charge are described in Notes 2.5, 3.2, 10.1 and 10.6.
10.3 Reconciliation of income tax charge to profit before tax 2018 2017 m m Profit before tax 156.2 97.1 Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 19.0% 2017: 19.25% 29.7 18.7 Impact of tax rate change on deferred tax asset 19.5 Overseas tax rate differences 11.1 9.8 Withholding taxes 5.0 4.4 Amortisation of intangibles 0.3 0.2 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.3 0.2 Income taxed in advance 2.4 3.6 Deferred tax asset not previously recognised US 32.2 Deferred tax asset not previously recognised Other 1.2 1.4 Deferred tax assets not recognised 3.5 Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses 2.5 2.0 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.7 1.7 Total income tax charge 11.6 54.4 10.4 Deferred tax Other Other operating Pension Intangible temporary Interest losses costs assets differences Total m m m m m m As at 1 January 2017 26.7 29.9 2.5 29.3 13.7 43.5 Exchange adjustments other 1.8 1.8 0.2 0.4 3.8 Impact of tax rate change: in Group Income Statement 6.8 8.6 0.8 3.3 19.5 in Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 1.2 1.2 Other net charge credit charge to Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 1.2 1.2 Other net charge credit to Group Income Statement 0.6 0.1 6.2 3.8 10.7 Other net charge credit to Group Income Statement US 8.2 3.0 0.6 0.2 0.6 10.2 As at 1 January 2018 9.9 17.1 23.1 14.4 18.3 Exchange adjustments other 1.6 1.0 0.5 0.1 1.2 4.2 Other net charge credit charge to Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 6.0 6.0 Other net charge credit to Group Income Statement 1.0 0.3 2.8 1.1 3.0 Other net charge credit to Group Income Statement US 23.2 0.4 3.4 1.5 5.6 24.3 As at 31 December 2018 34.7 19.5 3.4 21.9 20.1 55.8 Vesuvius plc 146 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 10.
Income Tax continued 10.4 Deferred tax continued 2018 2017 m m Recognised in the Group Balance Sheet as: Non-current deferred tax assets 94.5 61.0 Non-current deferred tax liabilities 38.7 42.7 Net total deferred tax assets 55.8 18.3 Included in these deferred tax assets and liabilities are amounts to be expected to be utilised in 2019 as follows: 2018 2017 m m Deferred tax assets 14.7 11.3 Deferred tax liabilities 2.8 7.6 Included in non-current deferred tax assets is 67.3m 2017: 32.6m in respect of the partial recognition of temporary differences arising in the US computed in accordance with the policy set out in Note 10.1 above.
The Group remains confident of the recovery of this asset.
As explained in Note 2.5, significant movement in the Groups US deferred tax assets as a result of US tax reform in 2017 and as a result of the substantial recognition in 2018 due to the Groups US future profit profile is reflected in the separately reported items column in the Group Income Statement.
Where such movement relates to items such as certain pension costs which have been reflected in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the movement will be reflected in that statement.
Normal utilisation of these deferred tax balances recognised in the Group Income Statement is now reflected in the Groups headline tax charge.
The Directors consider that the separate identification of deferred tax for material temporary differences in this manner assists both in a better understanding of the financial performance achieved, and in making projections of future results of the Group.
Tax loss carry-forwards and other temporary differences with a tax value of nil 2017: 1.0m were recognised by subsidiaries reporting a loss.
Based on approved business plans of these subsidiaries, the Directors consider it probable that the tax loss carry-forwards and temporary differences can be offset against future taxable profits.
The total deferred tax assets not recognised as at 31 December 2018 were 166.9m 2017: 219.9m, as analysed below.
In accordance with the accounting policy in Note 10.1, these items have not been recognised as deferred tax assets on the basis that their future economic benefit is not probable.
In total, there was a decrease of 53.0m 2017: 43.2m in net unrecognised deferred tax assets during the year, principally due to the impact of the substantial increase in the amount of the Groups US deferred tax asset recognised on the Groups balance sheet.
2018 2017 m m Operating losses further described below 97.1 102.3 Unrelieved US interest may be carried forward indefinitely 11.9 43.2 Capital losses available to offset future UK capital gains may be carried forward indefinitely 28.1 28.1 UK ACT credits may be carried forward indefinitely 13.1 13.1 US tax credits 6.8 16.7 Other temporary differences 9.9 16.5 Total deferred tax assets not recognised 166.9 219.9 The Group has significant net operating losses with a tax value of 116.6m 2017: 119.4m, only 19.5m 2017: 17.1m of which meet the criteria set out in Note 10.1 to be recognised on the Group Balance Sheet.
Operating Operating Operating Operating losses losses not losses losses not recognised recognised Total recognised recognised Total 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m m UK may be carried forward indefinitely 74.6 74.6 73.5 73.5 US due to expire 2024-2031 14.5 14.5 13.3 3.7 17.0 ROW may be carried forward indefinitely 4.9 20.8 25.7 3.5 21.5 25.0 ROW due to expire within 5 years 0.1 1.7 1.8 0.3 3.6 3.9 19.5 97.1 116.6 17.1 102.3 119.4 The 27.5m 2017: 28.9m operating losses available to set against future income in the rest of the world arise in a number of countries, reflecting the spread of the Groups operations.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group had unrecognised US tax credits with a value of 6.8m 2017: 16.7m as follows: Financial Statements Vesuvius plc 147 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 2018 2017 m m US research and experimentation credits due to expire 20182033 12.8 US foreign tax credits due to expire 20222024 6.8 3.9 US tax credits 6.8 16.7 There are no temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised.
The aggregate temporary differences where the exemption not to provide for the deferred taxation liability has been taken is 235.1m 2017: 197.1m.
UK corporation tax rate reductions to 17% from 1 April 2020 were enacted in 2016.
Accordingly, the Groups closing UK deferred tax liability has been provided using a tax rate of 17% except where the reversals are expected to arise prior to 1 April 2020.
10.5 Income tax payable and recoverable 2018 2017 m m Liabilities for income tax payable 9.1 11.1 Provisions for uncertain tax positions 20.2 23.2 29.3 34.3 Income tax recoverable within one year 2.8 5.2 Income tax recoverable after more than one year 0.4 Total income tax recoverable 2.8 5.6 Net liability 26.5 28.7 Provisions for uncertain tax positions are calculated in accordance with the policy outlined in Note 10.1, and are treated as income tax payable in accordance with IAS 12.
These provisions cover litigated tax matters as well as provisions for other risks where the Group believes it is more likely than not that there would be a successful challenge by a tax authority to positions it has taken in its tax filings.
By its nature, litigation can result in sharp fluctuations in cash flow, both in and out, relating to taxes.
Currently, management do not expect any material adjustments to these provisions in 2019.
10.6 Key factors impacting the sustainability of the effective tax rate are as follows: Material changes in the geographic mix of profits The Groups effective tax rate is sensitive to changes in the geographic mix of profits and level of profits, and reflects a combination of relatively higher rates in certain jurisdictions such as India, Mexico, Germany and Belgium, nil effective tax rate in the UK due to the availability of unutilised tax losses, and rates that lie somewhere in between.
Changes in tax rates, tax reform and its interpretation Changes in tax rates and laws in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates could have a material effect on the Groups effective tax rate.
It was previously reported that the Base Erosion and Anti-Abuse Tax BEAT introduced by the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act TCJA in December 2017 was estimated to result in a US cash tax cost from 2018 onwards and thus increase the Groups effective rate of tax on Headline performance before its share of joint venture income going forward by 0.7% in 2018, and 1.2% in 2019.
Following clarification by the US Treasury in late 2018, management do not expect BEAT to have a material impact on Vesuvius tax position.
However, TCJA also introduced additional provisions which extended US taxing rights over the profits of non-US entities owned by US companies so-called Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income GILTI.
Vesuvius US companies own interests in non-US Vesuvius subsidiaries, and therefore will continue to be impacted by these new rules.
Further clarifications governing the operation of the TCJA have been issued throughout 2018.
Vesuvius has adjusted its US provisions and deferred tax calculations to reflect those clarifications as it is best able, assisted by advisers.
Availability of tax advantaged rates Vesuvius in China qualifies for a tax advantaged rate of 15% rather than the headline rate of 25%, on part of its profits due to the high technology nature of its business.
Eligibility for this rate is reviewed on a regular basis by the Chinese tax authority and was worth approximately 1.6m in 2018 2017: 0.9m.
Without that benefit, the Groups effective tax rate on headline performance would have been 1.0% higher in 2018 2017: 0.6%.
Vesuvius plc 148 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 10.
Income Tax continued 10.6 Key factors impacting the sustainability of the effective tax rate are as follows: continued Resolution of tax judgements At any one time, the Group can be subject to a number of challenges by tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which it operates.
The outcome of these challenges is inherently uncertain, potentially resulting in a different tax charge from the amounts initially provided.
Impact of Brexit on Vesuvius tax position How Brexit impacts on the corporate income taxes position of Vesuvius will depend on the final terms of Brexit.
It is not possible at this stage to provide precise guidance on how it will impact the Group as these exit terms remain unclear.
Nevertheless, if the EU Parent Subsidiary and Interest and Royalty directives were no longer to apply to dividend, interest and other payments to Vesuvius in the UK, additional withholding taxes would become payable subject to reliefs available under applicable tax treaties.
Earnings per Share EPS 11.1 Earnings for EPS Basic and diluted EPS from continuing operations are based upon the profit attributable to owners of the parent, as reported in the Group Income Statement, of 137.8m 2017: 36.3m, being the profit for the year of 144.6m 2017: 42.7m less noncontrolling interests of 6.8m 2017: 6.4m : basic and diluted EPS from total operations are based on the profit attributable to owners of the parent of 138.3m 2017: 38.0m : headline and diluted headline EPS are based upon headline profit from continuing operations attributable to owners of the parent of 133.7m 2017: 110.1m.
The table below reconciles these different profit measures.
Continuing Discontinued 2018 Continuing Discontinued 2017 operations operations total operations operations total m m m m m m Profit attributable to owners of the parent 137.8 0.5 138.3 36.3 1.7 38.0 Adjustments for separately reported items: Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 12.9 19.5 Restructuring charges 15.3 36.3 GMP equalisation charge 4.5 Income tax credit charge 36.8 18.0 Headline profit attributable to owners of the parent 133.7 110.1 11.2 Weighted average number of shares 2018 2017 millions millions For calculating basic and headline EPS 269.8 270.3 Adjustment for potentially dilutive ordinary shares 1.4 1.3 For calculating diluted and diluted headline EPS 271.2 271.6 For the purposes of calculating diluted and diluted headline EPS, the weighted average number of ordinary shares is adjusted to include the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares expected to vest, relating to the Companys share-based payment plans.
Potential ordinary shares are only treated as dilutive when their conversion to ordinary shares would decrease EPS, or increase loss per share.
11.3 Per share amounts Continuing Discontinued 2018 Continuing Discontinued 2017 operations operations total operations operations total pence pence pence pence pence pence Earnings per share basic 51.1 0.2 51.3 13.4 0.7 14.1 headline 49.6 40.7 diluted 50.8 0.2 51.0 13.4 0.6 14.0 diluted headline 49.3 40.5 Financial Statements Vesuvius plc 149 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 12.
Cash Generated from Operations Continuing Discontinued 2018 Continuing Discontinued 2017 operations operations total operations operations total m m m m m m Operating profit 164.5 0.5 165.0 109.7 1.7 111.4 Adjustments for: Amortisation of acquired intangible assets Note 16 12.9 12.9 19.5 19.5 Restructuring charges 15.3 15.3 36.3 36.3 GMP equalisation charge 4.5 4.5 Depreciation 41.0 41.0 43.7 43.7 EBITDA Note 4.12 238.2 0.5 238.7 209.2 1.7 210.9 Net increase in inventories 20.7 20.7 19.4 19.4 Net increase in trade receivables 4.9 4.9 36.9 36.9 Net increase in trade payables 3.6 3.6 44.1 44.1 Net decrease increase in other working capital 1.8 0.6 1.2 11.7 2.5 9.2 Outflow related to restructuring charges 19.3 19.3 27.3 27.3 Net retirement benefit obligations 3.4 3.4 4.8 4.8 Cash generated from operations 195.3 0.1 195.2 176.6 0.8 175.8 13.
Cash and Cash Equivalents 2018 2017 m m Cash at bank and in hand 236.9 161.9 Cash and short-term deposits 236.9 161.9 Bank overdrafts 23.5 21.9 Cash and cash equivalents in the Group Statement of Cash Flows 213.4 140.0 Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Group Statement of Cash Flows.
Reconciliation of Movement in Net Debt Foreign Balance as at exchange Non-cash Balance as at 1 Jan 2018 adjustments movements Cash flow 31 Dec 2018 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents Cash at bank and in hand 161.9 0.5 74.5 236.9 Bank overdrafts 21.9 0.4 1.2 23.5 140.0 0.1 73.3 213.4 Borrowings, excluding bank overdrafts Current 4.3 2.2 6.5 Non-current 412.1 14.4 30.2 456.7 416.4 14.4 32.4 463.2 Capitalised arrangement fees 2.1 0.6 0.9 1.8 Net debt 274.3 14.3 0.6 40.0 248.0 Net debt is a measure of the Groups net indebtedness to banks and other external financial institutions and comprises the total of cash and short-term deposits and current and non-current interest-bearing borrowings.
Property, Plant and Equipment 15.1 Accounting policy Freehold land and construction in progress are carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Other items of property, plant and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Costs are capitalised only when it is probable that they will result in future economic benefits flowing to the Group and when they can be measured reliably.
Costs are capitalised to construction in progress where an asset is being developed.
This is then transferred and depreciated when the asset is ready for use.
All other repairs and maintenance expenditures are charged to the Group Income Statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Vesuvius plc 150 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 15.
Property, Plant and Equipment continued 15.1 Accounting policy continued Freehold land is not depreciated, as it has an infinite life.
Depreciation on other items of property, plant and equipment begins when the asset is available for use and is charged to the Group Income Statement on a straight-line basis so as to write off the cost less residual value of the asset over its estimated useful life as follows: Asset category Estimated useful life Freehold property between ten and 50 years Leasehold property the term of the lease Plant and equipment motor vehicles and information technology equipment between one and five years other between three and 15 years The depreciation method used, residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed annually and changed, if appropriate.
As described in Note 17.1, an assets carrying amount is immediately written down to its recoverable amount if its carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses arising on disposals are determined by comparing sales proceeds with carrying amount and are recognised in the Group Income Statement.
Capital expenditure on  assets was 7.7m 2017: 10.7m.
Financial Statements Vesuvius plc 151 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 16.
Intangible Assets Intangible assets comprise goodwill and other intangible assets that have been acquired through business combinations.
16.1 Accounting policy a Goodwill Goodwill arising in a business combination is initially recognised as an asset at cost, measured as the excess of the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount of any non-controlling interest acquired over the net of the acquisition-date fair value amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Goodwill is subsequently measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses, with impairment testing carried out annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill has been allocated may be impaired.
On disposal of a business, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the calculation of the profit or loss on disposal.
b Other intangible assets Intangible assets other than goodwill are recognised on business combinations if they are separable, or if they arise from contractual or other legal rights, and their value can be measured reliably.
They are initially measured at cost, which is equal to the acquisition-date fair value, and subsequently measured at cost less accumulated amortisation charges and accumulated impairment losses.
Other intangible assets are subject to impairment testing when there is an indication that an impairment loss may have been incurred and are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
c Research and development costs The Groups research activity involves long-range, blue sky investigation, the findings from which may be used in the future to develop new or substantially improved products.
Expenditure on research activities is recognised in the Group Income Statement as an expense in the year in which it is incurred.
Development is the application of research findings for the production of new or substantially improved products, processes and services before the start of commercial production.
Development expenditure is capitalised only if the expenditure can be measured reliably, the product or process is technically and commercially feasible, future economic benefits are probable and the Group intends to and has sufficient resources to complete development and to use or sell the asset.
Otherwise, it is recognised in the Group Income Statement as an expense in the year in which it is incurred.
Capitalised development expenditure, where there is any, is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
In determining whether development expenditure is capitalised as an intangible asset, management considers whether the strict intangible asset recognition criteria set out in IAS 38, Intangible Assets, have been met at the time the expenditure is incurred.
In making this determination, management recognise that a significant amount of the development expenditure undertaken by the Group is focused on dealing with local customer technical support issues and incremental developments to existing products as opposed to new or substantially improved products, and that at the time the feasibility of the project is determined a significant proportion of the development expenditure for that project has already been incurred.
In 2018 and 2017 no projects met the criteria for IAS 38 capitalisation.
16.2 Movement in net book value Other Other intangible 2018 intangible 2017 Goodwill assets total Goodwill assets total m m m m m m Cost As at 1 January 643.2 271.2 914.4 662.2 271.9 934.1 Exchange adjustments 11.3 0.3 11.6 19.3 0.7 20.0 Business combinations Note 20 0.3 0.3 As at 31 December 654.5 271.5 926.0 643.2 271.2 914.4 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses As at 1 January 171.4 171.4 152.2 152.2 Exchange adjustments 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Amortisation charge for the year 12.9 12.9 19.5 19.5 As at 31 December 184.6 184.6 171.4 171.4 Net book value as at 31 December 654.5 86.9 741.4 643.2 99.8 743.0 Vesuvius plc 152 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 16.
Intangible Assets continued 16.3 Analysis of goodwill by cash-generating unit CGU Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the Groups CGUs expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
For the purposes of impairment testing, the Directors consider that the Group has two CGUs: The Steel division and the Foundry division.
These CGUs represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored.
2018 2017 m m Steel 433.5 426.3 Foundry 221.0 216.9 Total goodwill 654.5 643.2 16.4 Analysis of other intangible assets Other intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
The assets acquired and their remaining useful lives are shown below.
Net book Net book Remaining value as at value as at useful life 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 years m m Foseco customer relationships useful life: 20 years 9.3 53.4 58.9 trade name useful life: 20 years 9.3 33.5 37.1 intellectual property rights useful life: ten years 2.0 Mould and tundish business of Carboox customer relationships useful life: two years 1.7 trade name useful life: two years 0.1 Total 86.9 99.8 17.
Impairment of Tangible and Intangible Assets 17.1 Accounting policy The Directors regularly review the performance of the business and the external business environment to determine whether there is any indication that the Groups tangible and intangible assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If such indication exists, the higher of the value in use and the fair value less costs to sell off the asset is estimated and compared with the carrying value in order to determine the extent, if any, of the impairment loss.
Where it is not feasible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Directors estimate the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
In addition, goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the Groups CGUs expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination and the Directors carry out annual impairment testing of the carrying value of each CGU, to assess the need for any impairment of the carrying value of the associated goodwill and other intangible and tangible assets.
For the purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is the higher of i its fair value less costs to sell and ii its value in use.
If the recoverable amount of a CGU is less than its carrying amount, the resulting impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU and then to the other assets of the CGU pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the CGU.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
An impairment loss recognised in a prior year for an asset other than goodwill may be reversed where there has been a change in the estimates used to measure the assets recoverable amount since the impairment loss was recognised.
17.2 Key assumptions and methodology The key assumptions in determining value in use are projected cash flows, growth rates and discount rates.
Projected cash flows for the next three years have been based on the latest Board approved budget and Group Strategy plan.
They reflect managements expectations of revenue, EBITDA growth, capital expenditure, working capital and operating cash flows, based on past experience and future expectations of business performance.
Cash flows beyond the Group Strategy plan have been extrapolated using a perpetuity growth rate of 2.5% 2017: 2.5%.
The growth rate has been calculated using GDP growth forecasts published by the International Monetary Fund for the Groups end-markets.
These GDP growth forecasts have been weighted to reflect the Groups weighted average sales in each end-market during 2018.
The cash flows have been discounted to their current value using pre-tax discount rates, which represent each CGUs weighted average cost of capital WACC.
The assumptions used in the calculation of the WACC for each CGU have been benchmarked to externally available data.
These are industry-specific beta coefficients, risk-free rates and equity risk premiums.
The pre-tax discount rate used for the Steel CGU was 13.3% 2017: 11.0% and for the Foundry CGU was 12.5% 2017: 11.6%.
The increases in both the Steel and Foundry pre-tax discount rates have primarily been driven by increased beta coefficients, which represent the theoretical volatility of the global Steel and Foundry markets these changes are not specific to Vesuvius.
Financial Statements Vesuvius plc 153 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 The Group carried out its annual goodwill impairment test as at 31 October 2018.
The recoverable amount of each CGU significantly exceeded its carrying value, therefore no impairment charges have been recognised.
The recoverable amount of each CGU was also checked against its carrying value as at 31 December 2018, no impairment triggers were identified.
There is significant headroom in both the Steel CGU and the Foundry CGU.
No reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions would cause the carrying amount of the CGUs to exceed the recoverable amount.
A sensitivity analysis was carried out in which the pre-tax discount rate used for each CGU was increased by 3.0% and the perpetuity growth rate was reduced to 0.5%.
The recoverable amount of each CGU still significantly exceeded its carrying value.
A significant increase in the pre-tax discount rate and decrease in the perpetuity growth rate beyond the scope considered above would need to occur simultaneously to result in impairment.
In conclusion, the probability of future impairment remains low.
Trade and Other Receivables 18.1 Accounting policy Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest method, less impairment losses.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the end of the reporting period is the net carrying amount of these trade and other receivables.
18.3 Impairment of trade and other receivables Details relating to the impairment of trade receivables are disclosed in Note 26, Financial Risk Management.
Inventories 19.1 Accounting policy Inventories are stated at the lower of cost using the first in, first out method and net realisable value.
Cost comprises expenditure incurred in purchasing or manufacturing inventories together with all other costs directly incurred in bringing the inventory to its present location and condition and, where appropriate, attributable production overheads based on normal activity levels.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
The amount of any write-down of inventories to net realisable value is recognised as an expense in the year in which the write-down occurs.
19.2 Analysis of inventories 2018 2017 m m Raw materials 84.2 80.2 Work-in-progress 19.8 20.2 Finished goods 140.3 122.4 Total inventories 244.3 222.8 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in manufacturing costs of continuing operations in the Group Income Statement during the year was 677.4m 2017: 609.6m.
The net inventories of 244.3m include a provision for obsolete stock of 14.2m 2017: 13.9m and inventory write-downs from cost to net realisable value of 2.6m 2017: 1.7m.
Vesuvius plc 154 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 20.
Acquisition and Disposals of Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures, Net of Cash Acquired The Group did not acquire any material interests in any companies during the year ended 31 December 2018.
Contingent consideration of 1.1m was paid during the year in respect of the previous acquisition of Process Metrix.
As part of the Groups restructuring initiatives in North America, the Group divested the assets of its BMI refractory installation business in October 2018.
Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations income during 2018 of 0.5m 2017: 1.7m related to a release of provisions no longer required.
21.1 Results of discontinued operations 2018 2017 m m Other income 0.5 1.7 Profit before tax attributable to owners of the parent 0.5 1.7 Earnings per share pence Basic 0.2 0.7 Diluted 0.2 0.6 21.2 Cash flows from discontinued operations 2018 2017 m m Net cash outflow from: operating activities 0.1 0.8 Net cash outflow for the year 0.1 0.8 22.
Issued Share Capital 22.1 Accounting policy Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
22.2 Analysis of issued share capital The issued and fully paid ordinary share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2018 was 278,485,071 shares of 10 pence each 2017: 278,485,071 shares of 10 pence each.
Further information relating to the Companys share capital is given in Note 8 attached to the Companys financial statements.
Retained Earnings Reserve Share Other Total for own option retained retained shares reserve earnings earnings m m m m As at 1 January 2017 35.1 2.9 2,402.2 2,370.0 Profit for the year 38.0 38.0 Remeasurement of defined benefit liabilities assets 8.4 8.4 Recognition of share-based payments 2.6 2.6 Release of share option reserve on exercised and lapsed options 0.9 0.9 Income tax on items recognised in other comprehensive income 3.1 3.1 Dividends paid Note 25 45.6 45.6 As at 1 January 2018 34.2 4.6 2,399.9 2,370.3 Profit for the year 138.3 138.3 Remeasurement of defined benefit liabilities assets 5.1 5.1 Recognition of share-based payments 3.7 3.7 Release of share option reserve on exercised and lapsed options 1.5 1.5 Purchase of ESOP shares 13.4 13.4 Income tax on items recognised in other comprehensive income 6.0 6.0 Dividends paid Note 25 50.0 50.0 As at 31 December 2018 46.1 6.8 2,499.3 2,460.0 During the year, Cookson Investments Jersey Limited as Trustee of the Vesuvius Group Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP, instructed the purchase of 2,385,000 Vesuvius plc ordinary shares for the ESOP for a total consideration of 13.4m.
Financial Statements Vesuvius plc 155 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 24.
Other Reserves Other Translation Total other reserves reserve reserves m m m As at 1 January 2017 1,499.3 157.9 1,341.4 Exchange differences on translation of the net assets of foreign operations 37.8 37.8 Exchange translation differences arising on net investment hedges 9.8 9.8 As at 1 January 2018 1,499.3 129.9 1,369.4 Exchange differences on translation of the net assets of foreign operations 11.4 11.4 Exchange translation differences arising on net investment hedges 11.5 11.5 As at 31 December 2018 1,499.3 129.8 1,369.5 Within other reserves as at 31 December 2018 is 1,499.0m 2017: 1,499.0m arising from the demerger of Cookson Group plc, being the excess of the Vesuvius plc share capital of 1,777.9m over the total share capital and share premium of Cookson Group plc as at 14 December 2012 of 278.9m.
The translation reserve in the table above comprises all foreign exchange differences attributable to the owners of the parent.
These exchange differences arise from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations and from the translation of financial instruments that hedge the Groups net investment in foreign operations.
In addition to foreign exchange differences attributable to the owners of the parent, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income includes foreign exchange differences attributable to non-controlling interests.
Dividends A final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017 of 33.8m 2016: 30.8m, equivalent to 12.5 pence 2016: 11.4 pence per ordinary share, was paid in May 2018 May 2017 and an interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 16.2m 2017: 14.8m, equivalent to 6.0 pence 2017: 5.5 pence per ordinary share, was paid in September 2018 September 2017.
A proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 37.0m, equivalent to 13.8 pence per ordinary share, is subject to approval by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
If approved by shareholders, the dividend will be paid on 24 May 2019 to ordinary shareholders on the register at 23 April 2019.
Vesuvius plc 156 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 26.
Financial Risk Management 26.1 Accounting policy a Non-derivative financial instruments Loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value net of directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest method.
b Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each Group entity are prepared in their functional currency, which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which that entity operates.
For the purpose of the Consolidated Financial Statements, the results and financial position of each entity are translated into pound sterling, which is the presentational currency of the Group.
Reporting foreign currency transactions in functional currency Transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are initially recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions or at an average rate which is a reasonable approximation of actual.
At each subsequent balance sheet date: i Foreign currency monetary items are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement or retranslation of monetary items are recognised in the Group Income Statement ii Non-monetary items measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated Translation from functional currency to presentational currency When the functional currency of a Group entity is different from the Groups presentational currency pound sterling, its results and financial position are translated into the presentational currency as follows: i Assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date ii Income and expense items are translated at average exchange rates for the year, except where the use of such average rates does not approximate the exchange rate at the date of a specific transaction, in which case the transaction rate is used iii All resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the translation reserve in equity and are reclassified to profit or loss in the period in which the foreign operation is disposed of Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences arising on a monetary item that forms part of a reporting entitys net investment in a foreign operation are initially recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the translation reserve in equity and reclassified to profit or loss on disposal of the net investment.
Financial reporting in hyperinflationary economies Entities with a functional currency of the Argentine peso are required to apply IAS 29 Financial reporting in hyper-inflationary economies in accounting periods ending on or after 1 July 2018.
The results for the year ended 31 December 2018 from Group subsidiaries with a functional currency of the Argentine peso have therefore been restated to current cost using indices prescribed by the Government Board of the Argentine Federation of Professional Councils of Economic Sciences FACPCE.
Comparative figures have not been restated.
Transactions in Argentine pesos have been translated using exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
c Derivative financial instruments Derivatives are measured at fair value.
The fair value of forward foreign currency contracts is calculated using market prices at the balance sheet date.
26.2 Financial risk factors The Groups Treasury department, acting in accordance with policies approved by the Board, is principally responsible for managing the financial risks faced by the Group.
The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks, the most significant of which are market risk and liquidity risk.
a Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments derivatives, in the form of forward foreign currency contracts to manage the effects of its exposure to foreign exchange risk.
Derivatives are only used for economic hedging purposes and not as speculative investments.
However, where derivatives do not meet the hedge accounting criteria, they are classified as held for trading for accounting purposes and are accounted for at fair value through profit or loss.
They are presented as current assets or liabilities to the extent they are expected to be settled within 12 months after the end of the reporting period.
Financial Statements Vesuvius plc 157 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Analysis of derivative financial instruments 2018 2017 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Derivatives 0.8 0.6 0.3 Total derivative financial instruments 0.8 0.6 0.3 The fair value of Derivatives outstanding at the year-end has been booked through the Income Statement in 2018.
All of the fair values shown in the table above are classified under IFRS 13 as Level 2 measurements which have been calculated using quoted prices from active markets, where similar contracts are traded and the quotes reflect actual transactions in similar instruments.
All of the derivative assets and liabilities reported in the table above will mature within a year of the balance sheet date.
b Market risk Market risk is the risk that either the fair values or the cash flows of the Groups financial instruments may fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
The Group is principally exposed to market risk through fluctuations in exchange rates and interest rates.
Currency risk The Group Income Statement is exposed to currency risk on monetary items that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the companies in which they are held.
The currency profile of borrowings and financial assets is shown in the table below.
2018 2017 Chinese Chinese Sterling Euro Renminbi US Dollar Other Sterling Euro Renminbi US Dollar Other m m m m m m m m m m Trade receivables 8.4 95.1 67.2 37.2 32.0 0.2 47.6 61.4 60.2 13.9 Cash at bank 1.2 33.4 25.7 24.2 14.2 8.8 22.9 26.8 17.8 9.6 Trade payables 5.9 37.0 31.1 14.7 27.8 0.9 25.4 28.4 17.3 13.2 Private Placement Notes 116.9 156.8 115.4 148.0 Bank loans & overdrafts 122.6 6.6 0.1 10.8 127.7 7.0 Foreign currency forward contracts Buy foreign currency Private Placement 89.9 88.9 Buy foreign currency Other 3.1 0.9 Sell foreign currency 8.3 4.3 11.8 4.3 13.1 66.4 61.8 117.9 18.3 1.3 120.9 59.8 97.7 10.3 The Group arranges a rolling short dated Euro Sterling foreign exchange swap in respect of 100m of its Private Placement fixed rate financial liabilities 2017: 100m.
This has the effect of reducing the currency exposure of the Groups Net Debt by 100m.
At the time of the report there is no intention to change these arrangements.
The tables below show the net unhedged monetary assets and liabilities of Group companies that are not denominated in their functional currency and which could give rise to exchange gains and losses in the Group Income Statement.
Net unhedged monetary assets liabilities Chinese Sterling US dollar Euro Renminbi Other Total m m m m m m Functional currency Sterling 0.6 0.5 3.6 4.7 US dollar 2.6 3.5 0.9 Euro 0.5 4.2 3.7 Chinese Renminbi 1.5 3.4 0.1 0.1 1.9 Other 0.1 14.3 3.3 0.4 19.0 36.1 As at 31 December 2018 2.1 22.5 6.5 0.4 19.0 45.5 Vesuvius plc 158 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 26.
Financial Risk Management continued b Market risk continued Net unhedged monetary assets liabilities Chinese Sterling US dollar Euro Renminbi Other Total m m m m m m Functional currency Sterling 2.5 5.3 0.1 6.1 1.6 US dollar 0.5 2.6 2.1 Euro 0.5 7.3 6.8 Chinese Renminbi 0.7 15.0 0.4 0.1 14.6 Other 0.7 14.6 0.7 0.2 11.7 24.7 As at 31 December 2017 1.9 34.4 5.1 0.1 15.1 42.4 The Group finances its operations partly by obtaining funding through external borrowings.
Where these borrowings are not in sterling they may be designated as net investment hedges.
This enables gains and losses arising on retranslation to be charged to other comprehensive income, providing a partial offset in equity against the gains and losses arising on translation of overseas net assets.
During 2018 161m and $200m of borrowings were designated as hedges of net investments in 161m and $200m worth of overseas foreign operations.
As the value of the borrowings exactly matches the designated hedged portion of the net investments the relevant Hedge Ratio is 1:1.
The net investment hedges are therefore 100% effective with no ineffectiveness.
The total retranslation impact of borrowings designated as net investment hedges was 10.6m 2017: 9.8m.
Interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk principally arises in relation to its borrowings.
Where borrowings are held at floating rates of interest, fluctuations in interest rates expose the Group to variability in the cash flows associated with its interest payments, and where borrowings are held at fixed rates of interest, fluctuations in interest rates expose the Group to changes in the fair value of its borrowings.
The Groups policy is to maintain a mix of fixed and floating rate borrowings, within certain parameters agreed from time to time by the Board, in order to optimise interest cost and reduce volatility in reported earnings.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group had $200.0m and 130.0m 273.7m in total of US Private Placement Loan Notes USPP outstanding, which carry a fixed rate of interest, representing 56% of the Groups total borrowings outstanding at that date.
The interest rate profile of the Groups borrowings and net debt is detailed in the tables below.
Financial liabilities gross borrowings Fixed Floating rate rate Total m m m Sterling 73.0 73.0 US dollar 156.8 10.4 167.2 Euro 116.9 121.2 238.1 Other 8.4 8.4 Capitalised arrangement fees 1.8 1.8 As at 31 December 2018 271.9 213.0 484.9 Financial liabilities gross borrowings Fixed Floating rate rate Total m m m Sterling 39.7 39.7 US dollar 148.0 11.9 159.9 Euro 115.4 120.2 235.6 Other 3.1 3.1 Capitalised arrangement fees 2.1 2.1 As at 31 December 2017 261.3 174.9 436.2 Information in respect of the currency risk management of 89.9m of Euro denominated fixed rate financial liabilities is provided in Note 26 b.
The floating rate financial liabilities shown in the tables above typically bear interest at the inter-bank offered rate of the appropriate currency, plus a margin.
The fixed rate financial liabilities of 273.7m 2017: 261.3m have a weighted average interest rate of 3.8% 2017: 3.8% and a weighted average period for which the rate is fixed of 5.8 years 2017: 6.9 years.
The financial assets attract floating rate interest.
Financial Statements Vesuvius plc 159 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 b Market risk continued Based upon the interest rate profile of the Groups financial liabilities shown in the tables above, a 1% increase in market interest rates would increase both the finance costs charged in the Group Income Statement and the interest paid in the Group Statement of Cash Flows by 2.1m 2017: 0.1m, and a 1% reduction in market interest rates would decrease both the finance costs charged in the Group Income Statement and the interest paid in the Group Statement of Cash Flows by 2.1m 2017: 0.1m.
c Credit risk Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, favourable derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables.
i Risk management Credit risk is managed on a Group basis.
For banks and financial institutions, Group policy is such that only independently rated parties with a minimum rating of A are accepted.
If wholesale customers are independently rated, these ratings are used.
Otherwise, if there is no independent rating, risk control assesses the credit quality of the customer, taking into account its financial position, past experience and other factors.
All the Groups operating companies have policies and procedures in place to assess the creditworthiness of the customers with whom they do business.
ii Impairment of financial assets The Group subjects trade receivables for sales of inventory and from the provision of services to the expected credit loss model.
While cash and cash equivalents are also subject to the impairment requirements of IFRS 9, the identified impairment loss was immaterial.
The Group applies the IFRS 9 simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses which uses a lifetime expected loss allowance for all trade receivables and contract assets.
The expected loss rates are based on the payment profiles of sales over a period of 60 months before 31 December 2018 and the corresponding historical credit losses experienced within this period.
The historical loss rates are adjusted to reflect current and forward-looking information on macroeconomic factors affecting the ability of the customers to settle the receivables.
The Group has identified the current state of the economy such as market interest rates or growth rates and particular industry issues in the countries in which it sells its goods and services to be the most relevant factors, and accordingly adjusts the historical loss rates based on expected changes in these factors.
Regardless of the analysis above, a significant increase in credit risk is presumed if a debtor is more than 30 days past due in making a contractual payment.
Where objective evidence exists that a trade receivable balance may be impaired, provision is made for the difference between its carrying amount and the present value of the estimated cash that will be recovered.
Evidence of impairment may include such factors as a change in credit risk profile of the customer, the customer being in default on a contract, or the customer entering bankruptcy or financial reorganisation proceedings.
All significant balances are reviewed individually for evidence of impairment.
Trade receivables and contract assets are written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery.
Indicators that there is no reasonable expectation of recovery include, amongst others, the failure of a debtor to engage in a repayment plan with the Group, and a failure to make contractual payments for a period of greater than 120 days past due.
Where loans or receivables have been written off, the company continues to engage in enforcement activity to attempt to recover the receivable due.
Where recoveries are made, these are recognised within the Income Statement.
The closing loss allowance for trade receivables as at 31 December 2018 reconciles to the opening loss allowances as follows: 2018 2017 m m As at 1 January 31.7 33.1 Decrease increase in loss allowance recognised in profit or loss during the year 1.1 3.7 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable 2.1 4.8 Exchange adjustments 0.3 0.3 As at 31 December 28.2 31.7 The charge for the year shown in the table above is recorded within administration, selling and distribution costs in the Group Income Statement.
The restatement on transition to IFRS 9 as a result of applying the expected credit risk model was immaterial.
Historical experience has shown that the Groups trade receivable provisions are maintained at levels that are sufficient to absorb actual bad debt write-offs, without being excessive.
The Group considers the credit quality of financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired as good.
d Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group might have difficulties in meeting its financial obligations.
The Group manages this risk by ensuring that it maintains sufficient levels of committed borrowing facilities and cash and cash equivalents to ensure that it can meet its operational cash flow requirements and any maturing financial liabilities, whilst at all times operating within its financial covenants.
The level of operational headroom provided by the Groups committed borrowing facilities is reviewed at least annually as part of the Groups three-year planning process.
Where this process indicates a need for additional finance, this is addressed on a timely basis by means of either additional committed bank facilities or raising finance in the capital markets.
Vesuvius plc 160 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 26.
Financial Risk Management continued d Liquidity risk continued As at 31 December 2018, the Group had committed borrowing facilities of 573.7m 2017: 563.4m, of which 119.2m 2017: 153.7m were undrawn.
These undrawn facilities are due to expire in June 2022.
The Groups borrowing requirements are met by USPP and a multi-currency committed syndicated bank facility of 300.0m 2017: 300.0m.
The maturity analysis of the Groups gross borrowings is shown in the tables below.
Loans & overdrafts Finance leases Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m m m Interest-bearing borrowings repayable On demand or within one year 28.2 20.8 1.7 1.6 29.8 22.4 Between 1 and 2 years 109.7 0.0 1.2 1.4 111.0 1.4 Between 2 and 5 years 217.9 267.0 1.0 1.0 218.9 268.0 After five years 127.0 146.5 127.0 146.5 Capitalised arrangement fees 1.8 2.1 1.8 2.1 Total interest-bearing borrowings 481.0 432.2 3.9 4.0 484.9 436.2 Capitalised arrangement fees shown in the tables above, which have been recognised as a reduction in borrowings in the financial statements, amounted to 1.8m as at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017: 2.1m, of which 1.0m 2017: 1.0m related to the USPP and 0.8m 2017: 1.1m related to the syndicated bank facility.
26.3 Capital management The Company considers its capital to be equal to the sum of its total equity, disclosed on the Group Balance Sheet, and net debt Note 14.
It monitors its capital using a number of KPIs, including free cash flow, average working capital to sales ratios, net debt to EBITDA ratios and RONA Note 4.
The Groups objectives when managing its capital are: To ensure that the Group and all of its businesses are able to operate as going concerns and ensure that the Group operates within the financial covenants contained within its debt facilities To have available the necessary financial resources to allow the Group to invest in areas that may deliver acceptable future returns to investors To maintain sufficient financial resources to mitigate against risks and unforeseen events To maximise shareholder value through maintaining an appropriate balance between the Groups equity and net debt The Group operated within the requirements of its debt covenants throughout the year and has sufficient liquidity headroom within its committed debt facilities.
Details of the Groups covenant compliance and committed debt facilities can be found in the Strategic Report on page 38.
26.4 Cash pooling arrangements The Group enters into zero balancing and notional cash pooling arrangements as part of its ongoing Treasury management activities.
Certain notional cash pooling arrangements meet the criteria for offsetting as clarified in amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments, about a legally enforceable right of set-off both in the ordinary course of business and in the event of default.
The following tables set out the amounts of recognised financial assets and liabilities shown as cash and cash borrowings and those amounts which are subject to these agreements.
Gross amounts Net amounts of recognised of financial Gross amounts financial assets assets liabilities of recognised liabilities offset in presented in the financial assets the statement of statement of liabilities financial position financial position m m m Financial assets liabilities Cash deposits 237.7 0.8 236.9 Cash borrowings 24.3 0.8 23.5 As at 31 December 2018 213.4 213.4 Financial assets liabilities Cash deposits 172.9 11.0 161.9 Cash borrowings 32.9 11.0 21.9 As at 31 December 2017 140.0 140.0 Financial Statements Vesuvius plc 161 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 27.
Employee Benefits 27.1 Accounting policy The net surplus or net liability recognised in the Group Balance Sheet for the Groups defined benefit plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, less the fair value of the plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method and by discounting the estimated future cash flows using interest rates on high-quality corporate bonds that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability.
Any asset recognised in respect of a surplus arising from this calculation is limited to the asset ceiling, where this is the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds or reductions in future contributions in respect of the plans.
The expense for the Groups defined benefit plans is recognised in the Group Income Statement as shown in Note 27.8.
Actuarial gains and losses arising on the assets and liabilities of the plans are reported within the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income: and gains and losses arising on settlements and curtailments are recognised in the Group Income Statement in the same line as the item that gave rise to the settlement or curtailment or, if material, separately reported as a component of operating profit.
27.2 Group post-retirement plans The Group operates a number of pension plans around the world, both defined benefit and defined contribution, and accounts for them in accordance with IAS 19.
The Groups principal defined benefit pension plans are in the UK and the US, the benefits of which are based upon the final pensionable salaries of plan members.
The assets of these plans are held separately from the Group in trustee-administered funds.
The trustees are required to act in the best interests of the plans beneficiaries.
The principal risks faced by these plans comprise: i the risk that the value of the plan assets is not sufficient to meet all plan liabilities as they fall due: ii the risk that plan beneficiaries live longer than envisaged, causing liabilities to exceed the available plan assets: and iii the risk that the market-based factors used to value plan liabilities and assets change materially adversely to increase plan liabilities over the value of available plan assets.
The Group also has defined benefit pension plans in other territories but, except for those in Germany, these are not individually material in relation to the Group.
a Defined benefit pension plans UK The Groups main defined benefit pension plan in the UK the UK Plan is closed to new members and to future benefit accrual.
The existing plan was established under a trust deed and is subject to the Pensions Act 2004 and guidance issued by the UK Pensions Regulator.
A full actuarial valuation of the UK Plan is carried out every three years by an independent actuary for the UK Plan Trustee in line with the requirements of the Pensions Act 2004, and the last full valuation was carried out as at 31 December 2015.
At that date, the market value of plan assets was 536.7m and this represented a funding level of 102% of the accrued plan benefits at the time of 526.4m.
Calculated on a buy-out basis using an estimation of the cost of buying out the UK Plan benefits with an insurance company, the liabilities at that date were 687.5m, representing a funding level of 78%.
There is a long-term scheme-specific funding standard in Part 3 of the Pensions Act 2004.
In terms of Part 3, the UK plan is subject to a requirement the statutory funding objective that it must have sufficient and appropriate assets to cover its technical provisions.
Such technical provisions are determined as part of the triennial valuation.
Under the rules of the UK Plan, the Trustees, after consultation with the company, have the power to set the funding contributions taking into account the results of the triennial valuation, and the Pension Act 2004 legislation.
Notwithstanding the latest funding valuation surplus, the Company agreed to fund the administration cost relating to the management of the UK Plan.
b Defined benefit pension plans US The Group has several defined benefit pension plans in the US, providing retirement benefits based on final salary or a fixed benefit.
The Groups principal US defined benefit pension plans are closed to new members and to future benefit accrual for existing members.
Actuarial valuations of the US defined benefit pension plans are carried out every year and the last full valuation was carried out as at 31 December 2017.
At that date the market value of the plan assets was 49.8m, representing a funding level of 70.7% of funded accrued plan benefits at that date using the projected unit method of valuation of 70.4m.
Funding levels for the Groups US defined benefit pension plans are based upon annual valuations carried out by independent qualified actuaries and are governed by US Government regulations.
The Groups US defined benefit pension plans are subject to the minimum contribution requirements of the Internal Revenue Code Sections 412 and 430.
Contributions are determined by trustees, in consultation with the Company, based on the annual valuations which are submitted to the Internal Revenue Service.
For the plan year beginning 1 January 2018, the minimum required contribution was nil as significant company contributions of $4m were made in 2017.
However, under these funding laws and based on the plan deficit, minimum annual contributions in the period 2018-2020 are likely to be required and are expected to be in the $3m to $4m range.
Contributions of $1.9m were made during 2018. c Defined benefit pension plans Germany The Group has several defined benefit pension arrangements in Germany which are unfunded, as is common practice in that country.
The main plan was closed to new entrants on 31 December 2016 and replaced by a defined contribution plan for new joiners.
Vesuvius plc 162 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 27.
Employee Benefits continued d Defined benefit pension plans ROW and other post-retirement benefits The Group has several defined benefit pension arrangements across the rest of the world, the largest of which are in Belgium.
The net liability of the ROW plans at 31 December 2018 was 15.6m 2017: 17.9m.
The Group also has liabilities relating to medical insurance arrangements and termination plans which provide for benefit to be paid to employees on retirement.
The net liability of these other post-retirement benefits at 31 December 2018 was 7.3m 2017: 6.5m.
e Defined contribution pension plans The total expense for the Groups defined contribution plans in the Group Income Statement amounted to 11.4m 2017: 12.6m continuing operations and represents the contributions payable for the year by the Group to the plans.
f Multi-employer plans Due to collective agreements, Vesuvius in the US participates together with other enterprises in union-run multi-employer pension plans for temporary workers hired on sites.
Some of these plans are underfunded and all participating employers are ultimately liable for any deficit.
If a participating employer stops contributing to a plan, it is required to make a withdrawal payment to the plan to cover its share of the total deficit in the plan.
No reliable basis exists for allocation of the plans obligations and plan assets to individual employer participants.
Deficits in the plans may necessitate increased contributions in the future but the expectation is that this will remain relatively consistent based upon historical trends.
These are currently accounted for as defined contribution plans.
In 2018 Vesuvius contributed 0.9m 2017: 1.4m to these plans.
27.3 Post-retirement liability valuation The main assumptions used in calculating the costs and obligations of the Groups defined benefit pension plans, as detailed below, are set by the Directors after consultation with independent professionally qualified actuaries and include those used to determine regular service costs and the financing elements related to the plans assets and liabilities.
It is the Directors responsibility to set the assumptions used in determining the key elements of the costs of meeting such future obligations.
Whilst the Directors believe that the assumptions used are appropriate, a change in the assumptions used could affect the Groups profit and financial position.
a Mortality assumptions The mortality assumptions used in the actuarial valuations of the Groups UK, US and German defined benefit pension liabilities are summarised in the table below and have been selected to reflect the characteristics and experience of the membership of those plans.
For the UK Plan, the assumptions used have been derived from the Self-Administered Pension Schemes SAPS All table, with future longevity improvements in line with the core mortality improvement tables published in 2017 by the Continuous Mortality Investigation CMI, with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% per annum.
For the Groups US plans, the assumptions used have been based on the RP-2014 mortality tables and MP-2018 projection scale.
The Groups major plans in Germany have been valued using the modified Heubeck Richttafeln 2018G mortality tables.
In respect of the life expectancy tables below, current pensioners are assumed to be 65 years old, while future pensioners are assumed to be 45 years old.
2018 2017 UK US Germany UK US Germany Life expectancy of pension plan members years years years years years years Age to which current pensioners are expected to live Men 86.2 85.6 85.0 86.3 85.7 84.3 Women 88.8 87.6 88.6 88.9 87.7 88.3 Age to which future pensioners are expected to live Men 87.6 87.3 87.8 87.7 87.3 86.9 Women 90.4 89.2 90.8 90.4 89.2 90.8 b Other main actuarial valuation assumptions 2018 2017 UK US Germany UK US Germany % p. a.
Discount rate 2.85 4.00 2.00 2.50 3.40 1.60 Price inflation using RPI for UK 3.25 2.25 1.70 3.25 2.25 1.80 using CPI for UK 2.15 n a n a 2.15 n a n a Rate of increase in pensionable salaries n a n a 2.45 n a n a 2.55 Rate of increase to pensions in payment 3.15 n a 1.55 3.10 n a 1.65 The discount rate used to determine the liabilities of the UK Plan for IAS 19 accounting purposes is required to be determined by reference to market yields on high-quality corporate bonds.
The UK discount rate in the above table is based on analysis using the expected future cashflows of the Vesuvius Pension Plan and the AON Hewitt AA yield curve: the US discount rate is based on the FTSE formerly Citigroup pension discount curve: and the Germany discount rate is based on AA corporate bond yields included in the iBoxx Euro AA corporate bond indices.
The assumptions for UK price inflation are set by reference to the difference between yields on longer-term conventional government bonds and index-linked bonds, except for CPI, for which no appropriate bonds exist, which is assumed to be 1.1 points lower 2017: 1.1 points lower than RPI-based inflation.
Financial Statements Vesuvius plc 163 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 c Sensitivity analysis of the impact of changes in significant IAS 19 actuarial assumptions The UK Plan Trustee has entered into a pension insurance buy-in agreement with the Pension Insurance Corporation PIC.
The US pensions are not inflation linked.
The rate of increase in pensionable salaries and of pensions in payment is therefore not significant to the valuation of the Groups overall pension liabilities.
The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is: Assumption Change in assumption UK US Germany Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.1% impact on plan liabilities Decrease increase by 7.1m Decrease increase Decrease increase by 0.9m by 0.9m impact on plan assets Decrease increase by 3.0m n a n a Price inflation Increase decrease by 0.1% impact on plan liabilities Increase decrease by 4.8m n a Increase decrease by 0.3m impact on plan assets Increase decrease by 2.0m n a n a Mortality Increase by one year impact on plan liabilities Increase by 19.6m Increase by 2.7m Increase by 1.7m impact on plan assets Increase by 13.9m n a n a 27.4 Defined benefit obligation The average duration of the obligations to which the liabilities of the Groups principal pension plans relate is 17 years for the UK, 18 years for Germany and 10 years for the US.
Employee Benefits continued 27.5 Fair value of plan assets 2018 2017 UK US ROW Total UK US ROW Total m m m m m m m m As at 1 January 580.3 49.8 26.7 656.8 604.1 49.1 24.8 678.0 Exchange differences 2.7 0.6 3.3 4.5 0.5 4.0 Interest income 14.2 1.6 0.5 16.3 16.1 1.7 0.4 18.2 Settlements Acquisitions Remeasurement of assets 23.0 5.0 0.4 27.6 5.7 3.8 0.7 10.2 Contributions from employer 0.8 1.4 2.3 4.5 2.0 3.1 2.3 7.4 Contributions from members Administration expenses paid 0.6 0.6 1.2 0.8 0.5 1.3 Benefits paid 27.9 2.9 1.5 32.3 46.8 2.9 2.0 51.7 As at 31 December 543.8 47.0 29.0 619.8 580.3 49.8 26.7 656.8 The Groups pension plans in Germany are unfunded, as is common practice in that country, and accordingly there are no assets associated with these plans.
27.6 Remeasurement of defined benefit liabilities assets 2018 2017 total total m m Remeasurement of liabilities: demographic changes 0.7 6.0 financial assumptions 33.5 17.5 experience losses gains 1.5 9.7 Remeasurement of assets 27.6 10.2 Total movement 5.1 8.4 The remeasurement of defined benefit liabilities and assets of 5.1m 2017: 8.4m is recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
27.7 Balance sheet recognition The amount recognised in the Group Balance Sheet in respect of the Groups defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans is analysed in the following tables, which all relate to continuing operations.
All equity securities and bonds have quoted prices in active markets.
The fixed income asset class of the UK Plan includes a liability-driven investment portfolio of financial derivative contracts which reduces the risk that the UK Plans assets would fall materially, relative to the value of its economic liabilities.
The UK Plan Trustee has entered into a pension insurance buy-in agreement with the Pension Insurance Corporation PIC, whereby the UK Plan Trustee has paid insurance premiums to PIC to insure a significant portion of the UK Plans liabilities.
Under this arrangement, the value of the PIC insurance contract matches the value of the liabilities because the inflation, interest rate, investment and longevity risk for Vesuvius in respect of these liabilities are eliminated.
As at 31 December 2018, the IAS 19 valuation of the PIC insurance contract value associated with the bought-in liabilities was 264.1m 2017: 276.1m.
The buy-in agreement ensures that the UK pension plan obligations in respect of all its retired members and their approved dependants are insured.
The policy and the associated valuation are updated annually to reflect retirements and mortality.
In the current year, the agreement based on specific membership data covers 58.1% 2017: 56.5% of UK pension plan obligations, removing substantially all financial risks associated with this tranche of the liability.
b Defined benefit contributions in 2019 In 2019, the Group is expected to make contributions into its defined benefit pension and other post-retirement benefits plans of around 5.4m with specific contributions of approximately 2.0m and 0.7m anticipated for the US Plan and UK Plan respectively.
27.8 Income statement recognition The expense recognised in the Group Income Statement in respect of the Groups defined benefit retirement plans and other post-retirement benefit plans is shown below.
2018 2017 Defined Other postDefined Other postbenefit retirement benefit retirement pension benefit pension benefit plans plans Total plans plans Total m m m m m m Current service cost 5.3 0.6 5.9 5.2 0.2 5.4 Past service cost 2.6 2.6 0.1 0.1 Settlements Administration expenses 1.2 1.2 1.3 1.3 Net interest cost gain 0.2 0.3 0.1 0.4 0.2 0.6 Total net charge 8.9 0.9 9.8 7.0 0.4 7.4 A UK High Court judgement was made on 26 October 2018 in respect of the gender equalisation of guaranteed minimum pensions GMPs for occupational pension schemes.
This has been treated as a separately reported item so that there has been no impact upon headline performance.
Vesuvius plc 166 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 27.
Employee Benefits continued 27.8 Income statement recognition continued The total net charge of 9.8m 2017: 7.4m recognised in the Group Income Statement in respect of the Groups defined benefit pension plans and other post-retirement benefits plans is recognised in the following table: 2018 2017 m m In arriving at trading profit within other manufacturing costs 1.5 2.4 within administration, selling and distribution costs 3.7 4.4 In arriving at profit before tax Guaranteed minimum pension equalisation charge 4.5 within net finance costs 0.1 0.6 Total net charge 9.8 7.4 28.
Share-based Payments 28.1 Accounting policy The Group operates equity-settled share-based payment arrangement for its employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date takes account of the effect of market-based conditions, such as total shareholder return target upon which vesting for some awards is conditional, and is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in equity.
The cumulative expense recognised is adjusted for the best estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and for the effect of other non-market-based conditions, such as growth in headline earnings per share, which are not included in the fair value determined at the date of grant.
For grants with market-based conditions attached to them, fair value is measured using a form of stochastic option pricing model.
For all other grants, fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
28.2 Income statement recognition The total expense recognised in the Group Income Statement is shown below.
2018 2017 m m Long Term Incentive Plan 2.7 1.8 Other plans 1.0 0.8 Total expense 3.7 2.6 The Group operates a number of different share-based payment plans, the most significant of which is the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, details of which can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Groups other share-based payment plans are not considered significant in the context of the Groups results or financial position.
28.3 Details of outstanding options Outstanding awards As at Forfeited As at 1 Jan 2018 Granted Exercised lapsed 31 Dec 2018 no.
LTIP 2,280,093 647,188 247,688 319,115 2,360,478 Weighted average exercise price nil nil nil nil nil Other plans 152,437 228,855 77,577 4,825 298,890 Weighted average exercise price nil nil nil nil nil For the options exercised during 2018, the share price at the date of exercise ranged from 569 pence to 619 pence.
Outstanding awards As at Forfeited As at 1 Jan 2017 Granted Exercised lapsed 31 Dec 2017 no.
LTIP 2,398,185 825,653 943,745 2,280,093 Weighted average exercise price nil nil nil nil nil Other plans 219,479 118,722 180,104 5,660 152,437 Weighted average exercise price nil nil nil nil nil For the options exercised during 2017, the share price at the date of exercise ranged from 402 pence to 592 pence.
Details of market performance conditions are included in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Financial Statements Vesuvius plc 167 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 2018 2017 Weighted Weighted average average Awards outstanding Awards outstanding exercisable contractual Range of exercisable contractual Range of as at life of exercise as at life of exercise 31 Dec 2018 awards prices 31 Dec 2017 awards prices no.
years pence LTIP 5.5 4.8 Weighted average exercise price n a n a Other plans 1.0 1.0 Weighted average exercise price n a n a 28.4 Options granted under the LTIP during the year 2018 October Grant 2018 March Grant EPS element TSR element EPS element TSR element Fair value of options granted 645.5p 426.0p 605.5p 368.9p Share price on date of grant 645.5p 645.5p 605.5p 605.5p Expected volatility n a 27.9% n a 32.1% Risk-free interest rate n a 0.9% n a 0.8% Exercise price per share nil nil nil nil Expected term years 3 3 3 3 Expected dividend yield nil nil nil nil Vesting of 50% of shares awarded is based on headline EPS growth and 50% upon the Groups three-year TSR performance relative to that of the constituent companies of the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts.
The fair value of share options with non-market performance conditions has been calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The fair value of options with market-related performance conditions has been measured using the Monte Carlo model.
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the 2.8 years 2017: 2.8 years prior to the grant date for the March 2018 Grant and 2.25 years for the October 2018 Grant.
The risk-free rate of return was assumed to be the yield to maturity on a UK fixed gilt with the term to maturity equal to the expected life of the option.
At the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, award holders receive the value of dividends that would have been paid on their vested shares in the period between grant and vesting.
Accordingly, there is no discount to the valuation for dividends foregone during the vesting period.
Trade and Other Payables 29.1 Accounting policy Trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest method.
29.2 Analysis of trade and other payables 2018 2017 m m Non-current Accruals and other payables 15.5 14.4 Deferred purchase and contingent consideration 0.6 2.9 Total non-current other payables 16.1 17.3 Current Trade payables 197.3 185.9 Other taxes and social security 35.3 32.6 Deferred purchase and contingent consideration 1.9 0.8 Accruals and other payables 77.3 73.3 Total current trade and other payables 311.8 292.6 There is no significant difference between the fair value of the Groups trade and other payables balances and the amount at which they are reported in the Group Balance Sheet.
Included within trade payables in the table above is 4.1m 2017: 1.8m subject to a supplier financing agreement.
Under the terms of this agreement, which the Group entered into as one of a series of measures aimed at improving control over its working capital, invoices received by the Group from approved suppliers are assigned to a third-party finance company, which assumes legal responsibility for settling the amount owing directly with the supplier.
The Group subsequently settles the amount owing to the finance company.
There is no cost to the Group from this arrangement.
Vesuvius plc 168 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 30.
Leases 30.1 Accounting policy Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group, the asset is capitalised in the Group Balance Sheet and the corresponding liability to the lessor is recognised as a finance lease obligation.
All other leases are classified as operating leases and neither the asset nor the corresponding liability to the lessor is recognised in the Group Balance Sheet.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Group Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
30.2 Operating lease commitments The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are payable as follows: 2018 2017 m m Not later than one year 11.6 8.3 Later than one year and not later than five years 19.2 13.4 Later than five years 8.5 7.9 Total operating lease commitments 39.3 29.6 The net book value of the Groups property, plant and equipment assets held under finance lease contracts at 31 December 2018 was 4.4m 2017: 4.6m.
The cost incurred by the Group in the year in respect of assets held under operating leases, all of which was charged within trading profit, amounted to 20.9m 2017: 18.6m.
Provisions 31.1 Accounting policy Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
Where the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects both the current market assessment of the time value of money and the specific risks associated with the obligation.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
31.2 Analysis of provisions Disposal and Restructuring closure costs charges Other Total m m m m As at 1 January 2018 36.1 22.9 5.2 64.2 Exchange adjustments 2.2 0.1 0.1 2.4 Charge to Group Income Statement 3.6 15.3 9.3 28.2 Unused amounts released to Group Income Statement 0.5 0.5 Adjustment to discount 1.2 0.1 1.3 Cash spend 2.8 19.3 10.1 32.2 Transferred to other balance sheet accounts 1.7 0.2 1.5 As at 31 December 2018 39.8 17.4 4.7 61.9 Of the total provision balance as at 31 December 2018 of 61.9m 2017: 64.2m, 38.8m 2017: 34.4m is recognised in the Group Balance Sheet within non-current liabilities and 23.1m 2017: 29.8m within current liabilities.
Financial Statements Vesuvius plc 169 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 The provision for disposal and closure costs includes the Directors current best estimate of the costs to be incurred both in the fulfilment of obligations incurred in connection with former Group businesses, resulting from either disposal or closure, together with those related to the demolition and clean-up of closed sites.
The provision comprises amounts payable in respect of known or probable costs resulting both from legal or other regulatory requirements, or from third-party claims, including claims relating to product liability.
As the settlement of many of the obligations for which provision is made is subject to legal or other regulatory process, the timing of the associated cash outflows is subject to some uncertainty, but the majority of the amounts provided are expected to be utilised over the next ten years and the underlying estimates of costs are regularly updated to reflect changed circumstances with regard to individual matters.
Where insurance cover exists for any of these known or probable costs, a related asset is recognised in the Group Balance Sheet only when its value can be reliably measured by management.
As at 31 December 2018, 21.5m 2017: 21.6m was recorded in other receivables in respect of associated insurance reimbursements, of which 17.7m 2017: 20.7m is non-current.
In assessing the probable costs and realisation certainty of provisions, or related assets, reasonable assumptions are made.
Changes to the assumptions used could significantly alter the Directors assessment of the value, volume of claims, timing or certainty of the costs or related amounts.
The provision for restructuring charges includes the costs of all of the Groups recognised initiatives to rationalise its operating activities.
The balance of 17.4m as at 31 December 2018, 2017: 22.9m comprises 4.3m 2017: 2.7m in relation to onerous lease provisions in respect of leases terminating between one and six years, and 13.1m 2017: 20.2m in relation to expenditure on restructuring initiatives that have been announced the majority of which is expected to be paid out over the next year.
Other provisions comprise amounts payable in respect of known or probable costs resulting both from legal or other regulatory requirements, workers compensation and medical claims, and from third-party claims.
As the settlement of many of the obligations for which provision is made is subject to reasonable assumptions, legal or other regulatory process, the timing of the associated outflows is subject to some uncertainty, but the majority of amounts provided are expected to be utilised over the next five years and the underlying estimates of costs are regularly updated to reflect changed circumstances with regard to individual matters.
During 2018 the Group recognised net charges of 9.3m 2017: 11.7m in the Group Income Statement to provide for various litigation settlements and other claims.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements In compliance with current reporting requirements, certain arrangements entered into by the Group in its normal course of business are not reported in the Group Balance Sheet.
Of such arrangements, those considered material by the Directors are future lease payments in relation to assets used by the Group under non-cancellable operating leases Note 30.
Contingent Liabilities Guarantees given by the Group under property leases of operations disposed of amounted to 0.8m 2017: 1.1m.
Details of guarantees given by the Company, on behalf of the Group, are given in Note 10 to the Company Financial Statements.
Vesuvius has extensive international operations and is subject to various legal and regulatory regimes, including those covering taxation and environmental matters.
Several of Vesuvius subsidiaries are parties to legal proceedings, certain of which are insured claims arising in the ordinary course of the operations of the company involved, and the Directors are aware of a number of issues which are, or may be, the subject of dispute with tax authorities.
Provisions are made for the expected amounts payable in respect of known or probable costs resulting both from legal or other regulatory requirements, and from third-party claims.
Certain of Vesuvius subsidiaries are subject to lawsuits, predominantly in the US, relating to a small number of products containing asbestos manufactured prior to the acquisition of those subsidiaries by Vesuvius.
These suits usually also name many other product manufacturers.
To date, Vesuvius is not aware of there being any liability verdicts against any of these subsidiaries.
A number of lawsuits have been withdrawn, dismissed or settled and the amount paid, including costs, in relation to this litigation has not had a material adverse effect on Vesuvius financial position or results of operations.
As the settlement of many of the obligations for which reserve is made is subject to legal or other regulatory process, the timing and amount of the associated outflows is subject to some uncertainty see Note 31 for further information.
Vesuvius plc 170 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 34.
Investments in Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures and Associates 34.1 Investment in subsidiaries A subsidiary is an entity over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and can affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
The subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates of Vesuvius plc and the countries in which they are incorporated are set out below.
With the exception of Vesuvius Holdings Limited, whose ordinary share capital was directly held by Vesuvius plc, the ordinary capital of the companies listed below was wholly owned by a Vesuvius plc subsidiary as at 31 December 2018.
Company Registered office address Jurisdiction Company Registered office address Jurisdiction legal name legal name Advent Process 333 Prince Charles Drive, Welland, Canada Foseco Holding BV 165 Fleet Street, London, EC4A 2AE, Netherlands Engineering Inc. Ontario, L3B 5P4, Canada Ontario England Branch registration Avemis SAS Saint Symphorien Sur Coise France Foseco Holding 165 Fleet Street, London, England 69590 au 2, Hotel dEntreprises, International EC4A 2AE, England ZI Grange Eglise, France Limited BMI Refractory 600 N 2nd Street, Suite 401, US Foseco Holding 165 Fleet Street, London, England Services Inc. Harrisburg, PA 17101-1071, Pennsylvania Limited EC4A 2AE, England United States Foseco Industrial e Km 15, Rodovia Raposo Tavares, Brazil Brazil 1 Limited 165 Fleet Street, London, England Comercial Ltda Butanta Cep, So Paulo, EC4A 2AE, England 05577-100, Brazil Cookson Km 7 1 2, Autopista San Isidro, Dominican Foseco 170 69, 22nd Floor Ocean Tower 1, Thailand Dominicana, SRL Edificio Modelo A, Zona Franca Republic International Ratchadapisek Road, Klongtoey, San Isidro, Santo Domingo Oeste, Holding Thailand Bangkok, 10110, Thailand Dominican Republic Limited Cookson IFC5, St Helier, JE1 1ST, Jersey Jersey Foseco 1 Midland Way, Central Park, England Investments International Barlborough Links, Derbyshire, Jersey Limited Limited S43 4XA, England Cookson Jersey IFC5, St Helier, JE1 1ST, Jersey Jersey Foseco Japan Ltd 9th Floor, Orix Kobe Sannomiya Japan Limited Building, 6-1-10, Goko dori, Chuo-ku, Kobe Hyogo, 651-0087, Japan East Moon 36 F Tower Two Times Square, Hong Kong Investment HK 1 Matheson Street, Causeway Bay, Foseco Korea 74 Jeongju-ro, Wonmi-gu, South Korea Holding Company Hong Kong Limited Bucheon-si, Gyeonggi-do, Limited 14523, South Korea Flo-Con Holding, CT Corporation, 1209 Orange US Delaware Foseco Limited 165 Fleet Street, London, England Inc. Street, The Corporation Trust EC4A 2AE, England Company, Wilmington, fide 19801, Foseco CT Corporation, 1209 Orange US Delaware United States Metallurgical Inc Street, The Corporation Trust Flo-Con Systems, CT Corporation, 208 South LaSalle US Illinois Company, Wilmington, LLC Street, Chicago, Cook County, IL fide 19801, United States 60604, United States Foseco Nederland Binnenhavenstraat 20, 7553 GJ Netherlands Foseco FS Limited 1 Midland Way, Central Park, England BV Hengelo OV, Netherlands Barlborough Links, Derbyshire, Foseco Overseas 165 Fleet Street, London, England S43 4XA, England Limited EC4A 2AE, England Foseco GB 165 Fleet Street, London, England Foseco Pension 165 Fleet Street, London, England Limited EC4A 2AE, England Fund Trustee EC4A 2AE, England Foseco Jersey 44 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey Limited Limited JE4 9WG, Jersey Foseco Philippines Unit 401, 4th Floor 8 Antonio Centre, Philippines Foseco MRL 165 Fleet Street, London, England Inc Prime St. Madrigal Business Park 2, Limited EC4A 2AE, England Ayala Alabang Muntinlupa City, 1770 Philippines Foseco RUL 165 Fleet Street, London, England Limited EC4A 2AE, England Foseco Portugal Rua 25 fide Abril, Lote 3, Portugal Produtos para Aveleda 4485-010 VCD, Foseco UK 165 Fleet Street, London, England Fundio Lda Vila do Conde, Portugal Limited EC4A 2AE, England Foseco Pty Limited 40-46 Gloucester Boulevarde, Port Australia Foseco Canada 181 Bay Street, Suite 1800, Toronto, Canada Kembla, NSW, 2505, Australia Limited Ontario, M5J 2T9, Canada Ontario Foseco SAS Le Newton C, 7 Mail Barthlmy France Foseco Espanola 5, Barrio Elizalde, Izurza, Spain Thimonnier, 77185 Lognes, France SA Bizkaia, 48213, Spain Foseco Steel 165 Fleet Street, London, England Foseco Foundry Room 819, Shekou Zhaoshang China Holdings China EC4A 2AE, England China Limited Building, Nanshan, Shenzhen, Limited Guangdong, 20030, China Foseco Steel UK 1 Midland Way, Central Park, England Foseco Fundicin 5, Barrio Elizalde, Izurza, Spain Limited Barlborough Links, Derbyshire, Holding Bizkaia, 48213, Spain S43 4XA, England Espanola, S. L. Foseco Technology 165 Fleet Street, London, England Foseco Holding 165 Fleet Street, London, England Limited EC4A 2AE, England Europe Limited EC4A 2AE, England Foseco 165 Fleet Street, London, England Foseco Holding 12, Bosworth Street, Alrode, South Africa Transnational EC4A 2AE, England South Africa Pty Alberton, 1449, South Africa Limited Limited Financial Statements Vesuvius plc 171 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Company Registered office address Jurisdiction Company Registered office address Jurisdiction legal name legal name Foseco Vietnam 717-1 Campus 02, 7th Floor, Vietnam SOLED SAS Centre dActivits Economiques France Limited Me Linh Tower, No 2 Ngo Duc Ke Zone Industrielle Franchepr Street, Ben Nghe Ward, District 01, 54240 Joeuf, France Ho Chi Minh, Vietnam Tamworth UK 165 Fleet Street, London, England HGAC Street Duque fide Caxias, Brazil Limited EC4A 2AE, England Participaes 563 Room 2, Centro, Barueri, Thomas Marshall Beaver House, 23-38 Hythe Bridge England Limitada SP, 06401-010, Brazil Loxley Limited Street, Oxford, OX1 2EP, England J. H. France CT Corporation, 1209 Orange US Delaware Unicorn Industries 165 Fleet Street, London, England Refractories Street, The Corporation Trust Limited EC4A 2AE, England Company Company, Wilmington, Veservice Ltda Av Brasil, 49550, Distrito Industrial Brazil fide 19801, United States fide Palmares, Campo Grande, John G. Stein & 1 Midland Way, Central Park, England Rio fide Janeiro, 23065-480, Brazil Company Limited Barlborough Links, Derbyshire, Vesuvius 170 69, 22nd Floor Ocean Tower 1, Thailand S43 4XA, England Thailand Co. Ltd Ratchadapisek Road, Klongtoey, Mainsail Insurance Canons Court, 22 Victoria Street, Bermuda Bangkok, 10110, Thailand Company Limited Hamilton, HM 12, Bermuda Vesuvius V. E. A. R. Street Urquiza, 919, Floor 2, Argentina Mascinco Avenida Brasil, 49550 - parte, Brazil S. A. Rosario, Provincia fide Santa F, Empreendimentos Distrito Industrial fide Palmares Argentina e Participaes Campo, Grande Cep: 23065-480, Vesuvius Advanced 221 Xing Ming Street, China Ltda Rio fide Janeiro, RJ, Brazil Ceramics China China-Singapore Suzhou Ind Park, Mastercodi Avenida Giovanni Gronchi, 5174, Brazil Co. Ltd Suzhou, Jiangsu Province, Industrial Ltda sute 11, Vila Andrade, 05724-002, 215021, China So Paulo, State of So Paulo, Brazil Vesuvius America, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, US Delaware Mercajoya, S. A. Capitn Haya, 56 - 1H, Spain Inc. fide 19801, United States 28020 Madrid, Spain Vesuvius Americas Corporation Trust Center, US Delaware Metal Way Estrada Santa Isabel, 7655 KM37, Brazil Holding, Inc 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Equipamentos Bairro Do Una, Itaquaquecetuba, New Castle County, fide 19801, Metalurgicos Ltda So Paulo SP, CEP: 08580 000, United States Brazil Vesuvius Australia 40-46 Gloucester Boulevarde, Australia Micro Jewels 10 Frere Felix fide Valois Street, Mauritius Holding Pty Port Kembla, NSW, 2505, Limited Port Louis, Mauritius Limited Australia Minerals 165 Fleet Street, London, England Vesuvius Australia 40-46 Gloucester Boulevarde, Australia Separation Limited EC4A 2AE, England Pty Ltd Port Kembla, NSW, 2505, New Foseco UK 1 Midland Way, Central Park, England Australia Limited Barlborough Links, Derbyshire, Vesuvius Belgium Zandvoordestraat 366, Belgium S43 4XA, England N. V. Oostende, B-8400, Belgium Process Metrix, 6622 Owens Drive, Pleasanton, US California Vesuvius Canada 181 Bay Street, Suite 1800, Toronto, Canada LLC CA 94588, United States Inc Ontario, M5J 2T9, Canada PT Foseco Jl Rawa 2 5, Kawasan Industri, Indonesia Vesuvius Ceramics 165 Fleet Street, London, England Indonesia Pulogadung, Jakarta, Limited EC4A 2AE, England 13930, Indonesia Vesuvius China Office 813, 8 F, Paul Y centre, Hong Kong PT Foseco Trading Jl Rawa 2 5, Kawasan Industri, Indonesia Holdings Co. 51 Hung To Road, Kwun Tong, Indonesia Pulogadung, Jakarta, Limited Kowloon, Hong Kong 13930, Indonesia Vesuvius China 165 Fleet Street, London, England Realisations 789, CT Corporation, 1209 Orange US Delaware Limited EC4A 2AE, England LLC Street, The Corporation Trust Vesuvius Colombia Street 90, number 13 A - 31, Colombia Company, Wilmington, SAS floor 6, Bogota, Colombia fide 19801, United States Vesuvius Via Nassa 17, Lugano, Switzerland S G Blair & 1 Midland Way, Central Park, England Corporation S. A. CH 6900, Switzerland Company Limited Barlborough Links, Derbyshire, Vesuvius CSD Sp ul.
Jasnogrska 11, Krakw, Poland S43 4XA, England z. o. o.
31-358, Poland SERT-Metal SAS 3, Avenue fide lEurope, Parc, France Vesuvius Emirates Warehouse No: 1J-09 3, United Arab Les Pivolles, Decines-Charpieu FZE P O Box 49261, Hamriyah Free Zone, Emirates 69150, France Sharjah, United Arab Emirates SIDERMES Inc. 175, Calixa-Lavalle Verchres, Canada Vesuvius Europe 17 Rue fide Douvrain, Ghlin, Belgium Qubec J0L2R0, Canada S. A.
7011, Belgium SIDERMES Do Estrada Municipal PDD 436, S N, Brazil Vesuvius Financial 165 Fleet Street, London, England Brasil Sensores Prdio C, Bairro da Boa Vista, 1 Limited EC4A 2AE, England Termicos Ltda Municipio fide Piedade, Estado fide So Paulo, Brazil Vesuvius Finland Pajamentie 8D7, 00360 Helsinki, Finland SIDERMES Zona Industrial, San Vicente Av.
Venezuela OY Finland Latinoamericana Anton Phillips Grupo Industrial, Vesuvius Foundry 12 Wei Wen Road, China-Singapore China CA San Vicente Local 4, Maracay, Products Suzhou Suzhou Ind Park, Suzhou, Venezuela Co. Ltd. Jiangsu Province, 215122, China SIDERMES S. A. Urquiza 919 Piso 2 Rosario Santa Fe, Argentina Vesuvius Foundry 2 Changchun Road, Economic China Argentina, CP 2000 Technologies Development Area, Changshu, Jiangsu Co. Ltd Jiangsu, China SIDERMES S. p. A.
Via Oslavia 94, Desio MB, Italy 20832 1, Italy Vesuvius France Rue Paul Deudon 68, Boite Postale France S. A.
19, Feignies 59750, France SIR Siegener Strasse 152, Kreuztal, Germany Feuerfestprodukte D-57223, Germany Vesuvius GmbH Gelsenkirchener Strasse 10, Germany GmbH Borken, D-46325, Germany Vesuvius plc 172 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 34.
Investments in Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures and Associates continued 34.1 Investment in subsidiaries continued Company Registered office address Jurisdiction Company Registered office address Jurisdiction legal name legal name Vesuvius Group 165 Fleet Street, London, England Vesuvius Peru SAC Avenida el Ejercito 282, Distrito fide Peru Limited EC4A 2AE, England Magdalena del Mar, provincia y departamento fide Lima, Peru Vesuvius Group 17 Rue fide Douvrain, Ghlin, Belgium S. A.
7011, Belgium Vesuvius Pigments 165 Fleet Street, London, England Holdings Limited EC4A 2AE, England Vesuvius Holding Gelsenkirchener Strasse 10, Germany Deutschland Borken, D-46325, Germany Vesuvius Poland Ul Tyniecka 12, Skawina, Poland GmbH Splka z. o. o 32-050, Poland Vesuvius Holding 68 Rue Paul Deudon, BP 19, France Vesuvius Ras Al Street No.
F14, RAK Investment United Arab France S. A.
S Feignies 59750, France Khaimah FZ-LLC Authority Free Zone, Al Hamra, Emirates Ras Al Khaimah, PO Box 86408, Vesuvius Holding Piazza Borgo Pila 40, Genoa, Italy United Arab Emirates Italia - Societ a 16129, Italy Responsabilit Vesuvius Street San Martin 870, Room 308, Chile Limitata Refractarios fide Tower B, Concepcion, Chile Chile SA Vesuvius Holdings 165 Fleet Street, London, England Limited EC4A 2AE, England Vesuvius 56, 13th Avenue, TEDA, Tianjin, China Refractories 300457, China Vesuvius Ibrica Capitn Haya, 56 - 1H, Spain Tianjin Co. Ltd Refractarios S. A.
28020 Madrid, Spain Vesuvius Galati, Marea Unire avenue 107, Romania Vesuvius CT Corporation, 1209 Orange US Delaware Refractories S. r. l. Galati county, 800329, Romania International Street, The Corporation Trust Corporation Company, Wilmington, Vesuvius Av Brasil, 49550, Distrito Industrial Brazil fide 19801, United States Refratrios Ltda fide Palmares, Campo Grande, Rio fide Janeiro, 23065-480, Brazil Vesuvius 165 Fleet Street, London, England Investments EC4A 2AE, England Vesuvius Room No.
9, 3rd Floor, 7 Ganesh India Limited Refractory India Chandra Avenue, Kolkata, Private Limited WB 700013, India Vesuvius Istanbul Gebze OSB2 Mh.
Turkey Refrakter Sanayi Sok No:1704 1, Cayirova, Vesuvius 4, Forradsgatan, Amal, S-662 34, Sweden five Ticaret AS Kocaeli, 41420, Turkey Scandinavia AB Sweden Vesuvius Italia SPA Piazza Borgo Pila 40, Genoa, Italy Vesuvius Solar 58, KuaChun Road, Kua Tang, China 16129, Italy Crucible Suzhou China-Singapore Suzou Ind Park, Co. Ltd. Suzhou, Jiangsu Province, Vesuvius Japan Inc. Daini-Naruse Akihabara Bldg.
3F, Japan 215122, China 27-10, 1-chome, Taito, Taito-ku, Tokyo, 110-0016, Japan Vesuvius South Pebble Lane, Private Bag X2, South Africa Africa Pty Ltd. Olifantsfontein, Gauteng Province, Vesuvius K. S. R. 1 Midland Way, Central Park, England 1665, South Africa Limited Barlborough Links, Derbyshire S43 4XA, United Kingdom Vesuvius SSC Sp ul.
Jasnogrska 11, Krakw, Poland z. o. o.
31-358, Poland Vesuvius Life Plan 165 Fleet Street, London, England Trustee Limited EC4A 2AE, England Vesuvius UK 1 Midland Way, Central Park, England Limited Barlborough Links, Derbyshire, Vesuvius LLC 10, Ul.
Kooperativnaya, Russia S43 4XA, United Kingdom Zhukovsky, Moscow, 140180, Russian Federation Vesuvius Ukraine 27, Udarnykiv Street, City of Ukraine LLC Dnipropetrovsk, 49000, Ukraine Vesuvius Malaysia Unit 30-01, Level 30 Tower A, Malaysia Sdn Bhd Vertical Business Suite Avenue 3, Vesuvius USA CT Corporation, 208 South LaSalle US Illinois Bangsar South, No 8 Jalan Kirinchi, Corporation Street, Chicago, Cook County, IL Kuala Lumpur Wilayah Persekutuan, 60604, United States 59200, Malaysia Vesuvius VA 165 Fleet Street, London, England Vesuvius 165 Fleet Street, London, England Limited EC4A 2AE, England Management EC4A 2AE, England Vesuvius Zyalons Brown Street, Newmilns, Ayrshire, Scotland Limited Holdings Limited KA16 9AG, Scotland Vesuvius Mexico Av.
140, Colonia Mexico Vesuvius Zyarock 58, KuaChun Road, Kua Tang, China S. A. fide C. V. Jardines fide San Rafael, Guadalupe, Ceramics Suzhou China-Singapore Suzou Ind Park, Nuevo Len, CP 67119, Mexico Co. Ltd Suzhou, Jiangsu Province, Vesuvius Mid-East 56, rd 15, Apt 103, Maadi, Egypt 215122, China Limited Cairo, Egypt Vesuvius-Premier 1 Midland Way, Central Park, England Vesuvius Minerals 165 Fleet Street, London, England Refractories Barlborough Links, Derbyshire, Limited EC4A 2AE, England Holdings Limited S43 4XA, England Vesuvius Moravia, Konska c. p. 740, Trinec, Czech Republic Vesv Distribution Peninsular Business Park, 17th Floor, India s. r. l 739 61, Czech Republic Private Limited Tower B, Ganpat Rao Kadam Marg, Lower Parel-West, Mumbai, Vesuvius New 18 Cryers Road, East Tamaki, New Zealand 400013, India Zealand Limited Auckland, New Zealand VSV Advanced Xiaotaizi Village, Ningyuan Town, China Vesuvius OOO Afanasyevsky, Pereulok 41 A, Russia Ceramics Anshan Qianshan District, Anshan, Liaoning Moscow, 119019, Russian Federation Co. Ltd Province, 114011, China Vesuvius Overseas 165 Fleet Street, London, England Wilkes-Lucas 165 Fleet Street, London, England Investments EC4A 2AE, England Limited EC4A 2AE, England Limited Yingkou Bayuquan Cui Tun Village, Hai Dong Office, China Vesuvius Overseas 165 Fleet Street, London, England Refractories Co. Bayuquan District, Liaoning Limited EC4A 2AE, England Ltd Province, YingKou, 115007, China Vesuvius Pension 165 Fleet Street, London, England Plans Trustees EC4A 2AE, England Limited Financial Statements Vesuvius plc 173 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 34.2 Investment in joint ventures and associates A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the joint venture.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of the arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of an entity, but is not control or joint control over those policies.
The Groups investments in its associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method from the date significant influence joint control is deemed to arise until the date on which significant influence joint control ceases to exist or when the interest becomes classified as an asset held for sale.
The Consolidated Income Statement reflects the Groups share of profit after tax of the related associates and joint ventures.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at cost adjusted in respect of post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets, less any impairment in value.
None of the joint ventures or associates are deemed individually to be material to the Groups results.
2018 2017 m m At 1 January 17.5 18.0 Additions 0.4 Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 2.8 1.3 Dividends received from joint ventures 1.2 1.7 Foreign exchange 0.5 At 31 December 19.1 17.5 Joint ventures Set out below is the summarised financial information in respect of joint ventures.
Amounts relate to the Groups share.
2018 2017 m m Revenue 75.3 53.9 Trading profit 3.4 2.1 Net finance costs 0.3 0.1 Profit before tax 3.7 2.2 Income tax expense 0.9 0.9 Profit after tax 2.8 1.3 Non-current assets 4.2 5.9 Current assets 53.9 41.7 Non-current liabilities Current liabilities 39.8 30.8 Net assets 18.3 16.8 The purpose of the Chinese joint venture companies is to research, develop, manufacture and sell refractory products.
The role of Vesuvius is to provide technical personnel, training and access to the Groups international sales network.
Vesuvius plc 174 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 34.
Investments in Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures and Associates continued 34.2 Investment in joint ventures and associates continued Name of entity Registered address Jurisdiction % ownership Angang Vesuvius Refractory Taxi District, Anshan City, Liaoning Province, 114021, China China 50 Company Ltd Wuhan Wugang-Vesuvius Gongnong Village Qingshan District, Wuhan, Hubei Province, China 50 Advanced CCR Co. Ltd 430082, China Wuhan Wugang-Vesuvius Gongnong Village Qingshan District, Wuhan, Hubei Province, China 50 Advanced Ceramics Co. Ltd 430082, China Beauvac Participaes S A Street Libero Badaro, 293, cj.
20D, So Paulo, Centro, 01009-000, Brazil 50 Brazil INTAHSA SA Street Duque fide Caxias 563, house 04, Room 01, Barueri, Brazil 25 So Paulo, Centro, 06401-010, Brazil Newshelf 480 44 Main Street, Johannesburg, 2001, South Africa South Africa 45 Proprietary Limited Associates Name of entity Registered address Jurisdiction % ownership Sapotech Oy Paavo Havaksen tie 5 D, 90570 Oulu, Finland Finland 14.90 34.3 Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests represent the portion of the equity of a subsidiary not attributable either directly or indirectly to the parent company and are presented separately in the Consolidated Income Statement and within equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, distinguished from parent company shareholders equity.
The total profit attributable to non-controlling interest at 31 December 2018 is 6.8m 2017: 6.4m of which 4.4m relates to Vesuvius India Ltd 2017: 4.6m.
The profit attributable to non-controlling interests in respect of the Groups other subsidiaries are not considered to be material.
Name of entity Registered address Jurisdiction % ownership Vesuvius India Limited P-104 Taratala Road, Kolkata, 700 088, India India 55.57 Foseco India Limited 922 923, Gat, Sanaswadi, Taluka, Shirur, Pune, 412208, India India 74.98 Foseco Golden Gate 6 Kung Yeh 2nd Road, Ping Tung Dist, Ping Tung, 90049, Taiwan Taiwan 51 Company Limited Foseco Thailand Limited 170 69, 22nd Floor Ocean Tower 1, Ratchadapisek Road, Thailand 74 Klongtoey, Bangkok, 10110, Thailand VESUVIUS CESK Prumyslov 726, Konsk, Trinec, 739 61, Czech Republic Czech 60 REPUBLIKA, a. s. Republic Details of subsidiaries exempt from audit of their individual financial statements by virtue of Section 479A of the Companies Act 2006 are disclosed in Note 6 to the Company Financial Statements.
As with Vesuvius plc, all of the above companies have a 31 December year-end.
Financial Statements Vesuvius plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 175 35.
Related Parties All transactions with related parties are conducted on an arms-length basis and in accordance with normal business terms.
Transactions between related parties that are Group subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation.
The related parties identified by the Directors include joint ventures, associates, and key management personnel.
To enable users of our financial statements to form a view on the effects of related party relationships on the Group, we disclose the related party relationship when control exists, irrespective of whether there have been transactions between the related parties.
35.1 Transactions with joint ventures and associates All transactions with joint ventures and associates are in the normal course of business.
Further details of joint ventures and associates are included in Note 34.
35.2 Transactions with key management personnel There have been no transactions with key management personnel of the Group other than the Directors remuneration.
Directors remuneration is disclosed in Note 8 of the Group Financial Statements and in the Directors Remuneration Report.
35.3 Transactions with other related parties There are no controlling shareholders of the Group as defined by IFRS.
There have been no material transactions with the shareholders of the Group.
Pension contributions to Group schemes are disclosed in Note 27 of the Group Financial Statements.
Other than the parties disclosed above, the Group has no other material related parties.
Post Balance Sheet event On 27 February 2019 the Group signed an agreement to acquire the entire issued share capital of CCPI Inc CCPI, a specialty refractory producer focused on tundish steel continuous casting applications 65% of sales and aluminium 35% of sales.
CCPI is based in Ohio, USA, and will become part of the Groups Advanced Refractories business unit.
The transaction values CCPI at US$43.4m 33.1m on a cash and debt free basis.
The acquisition is expected to close within the coming week.
