Shareholder information Explanatory notes Resolution 1 Annual Report and Accounts The Companies Act 2006 requires the directors of a public company to lay its Annual Report and Accounts before the Company in general meeting, giving shareholders the opportunity to ask questions on the contents.
The Annual Report and Accounts comprises the audited financial statements, the Auditors report, the Strategic report, the Directors report and the Directors remuneration report.
In accordance with the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Company proposes, as an Ordinary Resolution, a resolution on its Annual Report and Accounts for theyear ended 30 September 2018.
Resolution 2 Approval of the Directors remuneration report In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company proposes an Ordinary Resolution to approve the Directors remuneration report for the financial year ended 30 September 2018.
The Directors remuneration report is set out on pages 55 to 68 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The vote on this resolution is advisory only and the Directors entitlement to remuneration is not conditional on its being passed.
Resolution 3 Declaration of final dividend A final dividend of 46.14p per ordinary share has been recommended by the Directors for the year ended 30 September 2018.
In accordance with the requirements of HM Revenue & Customs, all dividends are declared and paid net of income tax at the standard rate.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 22 February 2019 to shareholders on the register at 6.30pm on 1 February 2019.
Resolution 4 Declaration of special dividend In addition to the final dividend, the Board is proposing the payment of a special dividend of 82.68p per ordinary share.
In accordance withthe requirements of HM Revenue & Customs, all dividends are declared and paid net of income tax at the standard rate.
If approved, the special dividend will be paid on 22 February 2019 to shareholders on the register at 6.30pm on 1 February 2019.
Resolutions 5 to 14 Re-election and election of Directors In accordance with the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors shall be subject to annual election by shareholders.
The Chairman confirms that, following formal evaluation as referred to on pages 47 and 48 of the Annual Report and Accounts, each Director standing for re-election continues to contribute effectively to the Board and to demonstrate commitment totherole including commitment of time for Board and Board Committee meetings.
The Companys Articles of Association state that any Director appointed by the Board during the year must stand at the next AGM following appointment.
Mr Richard Armitage and Mr David Thomas were appointed Directors on 1 May 2018 and 14 May 2018 respectively and now stand for election byshareholders.
Each of Resolutions 5 to 14 shall be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution.
The biographical details, skills and experience of each Director standing for re-election or election are set out below: Mr Larry Pentz, Chairman Larry Pentz was appointed to the Board in 2008 and became Chairman in 2014.
Larry is Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Larry hasover 30 years service within multinational corporations in a variety of operational and general management positions, with extensive experience in developing strategy for and successfully leading international growth businesses.
Larry was instrumental in the acquisition and integration of multiple catalyst and chemical companies for Johnson Matthey Plc, and was formerly an executive director responsible foremission control technologies of Johnson Matthey Plc.
Larry retired as an executive director of Johnson Matthey Plc during 2016 where he held board-level responsibility for Johnson Mattheys process technologies and fine chemicals divisions as well as group-level responsibilities for operational excellence and environmental, healthand safety.
Larry is non-executive chairman of Scapa Group plc.
Dr Pamela Kirby, Senior Independent Director Pamela Kirby was appointed to the Board in 2011 and as Senior Independent Director in November 2014.
Pamela has detailed knowledge of the international pharmaceutical industry, and was formerly CEO of Quintiles Transnational Corp. based in North Carolina, USA.
Pamela has also held a number of other senior positions in the international pharmaceutical industry including at AstraZeneca PLC, where she was a regional director, and F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, where she was director of strategic marketing and business development.
She was previously non-executive chairman of Oxford Immunotec Limited and a non-executive director of Novo Nordisk A S and Smith & Nephew plc.
Pamela is a non-executive director of DCC plc, Hikma Pharmaceuticals plc and Reckitt Benckiser Group plc andserves on the supervisory board of Akzo Nobel.
Ms Jane Toogood, Non-executive Director Jane Toogood was appointed to the Board in September 2015.
Jane has a wealth of experience across a number of business management, senior commercial and business development roles within the global chemical industry, including Borealis, ICI and Uniqema, and also held anon-executive director role with NHS Harrogate and District Foundation Trust.
Jane holds an MA in natural sciences chemistry from the University of Oxford.
Jane is the sector chief executive, efficient natural resources at Johnson Matthey Plc.
114 Victrex plc Annual Report 2018 Shareholder information Resolutions 5 to 14 Re-election and election of Directors continued Ms Janet Ashdown, Non-executive Director Janet Ashdown was appointed to the Board as a non-executive Director on 9 February 2018.
Janet has over 30 years experience of the international energy sector in a variety of senior executive roles at BP plc, most recently as director, BP Oil UK Limited, and head of UK retail and commercial fuels.
Janet is currently non-executive director and senior independent director of Marshalls plc and is chair of its remuneration committee.
Janet is also a non-executive director of SIG Plc, chairs the remuneration committee and is a member of its audit, nomination and governance committees.
Janet has also been nominated as a non-executive director to the board of RHI Magnesita N. V. Mr Brendan Connolly, Non-executive Director Brendan Connolly was appointed to the Board as a non-executive Director on 9 February 2018.
Brendan has over 35 years experience inthe international oil & gas industry serving in a number of senior executive roles.
Until June 2013, Brendan was a senior executive at Intertek Group plc and had previously been chief executive officer of Moody International which was acquired by Intertek in 2011.
Prior to Moody, he was managing director of Atos Origin UK, and spent more than 25 years of his career with Schlumberger in senior international roles over three continents.
Brendan is a non-executive director and senior independent director of Synthomer plc, in addition to being chairman of its remuneration committee and a member of its audit and nomination committees.
Brendan is also chairman of two private equity-backed companies.
Mr Jakob Sigurdsson, Executive Director Jakob Sigurdsson was appointed to the Board in October 2017.
Jakob has more than 20 years experience in large multinational companies, both listed and private, including nine years with Rohm & Haas now part of Dow Chemical in the US, as well as chief executive of food manufacturer Alfesca in Europe and as chief executive of Promens.
His executive responsibilities have spanned marketing, supply chain, business development, strategy and M&A, with particular emphasis on growth in new or developing markets.
Between September 2016 and June 2017, Jakob was chief executive officer of VS, the largest Icelandic insurance and reinsurance company.
Jakob holds a BSc in chemistry from the University of Iceland and an MBA from Northwestern University in the US.
Mr Tim Cooper, Executive Director Tim Cooper was appointed as an executive Director to the Board in October 2012.
Tim joined Victrex in January 2010 as Managing Director of Victrex Polymer Solutions.
Tim has over 30 years of international business management and commercial experience, having held senior leadership positions in a number of industries.
Prior to joining the Victrex business, Tim was with Umeco Plc, initially as managing director of Aerovac Systems Ltd, but later becoming group managing director of Umeco Composites Process Materials.
He has been managing director ofTellermate Plc and of Avery Berkel Ltd, having developed his international career with GEC, BP and Land Rover.
Tim was appointed non-executive director of Renold plc in November 2018.
Dr Martin Court, Executive Director Martin Court was appointed to the Board as an executive Director in April 2015.
Martin joined Victrex in February 2013 as Managing Director of Invibio, Victrexs medical business.
Martin has significant proven international experience in the medical and high performance materials andchemicals industries, including with Cytec Industries, and in a number of senior roles at both ICI and UCB.
He is an INSEAD alumnus and holds adoctorate in the field of surface chemistry and fracture mechanics and a BSc Eng degree in mineral technology from Imperial College of Science and Technology.
Mr David Thomas, Non-executive Director David was appointed to the Board in May 2018 and chairs the Audit Committee.
David was chief financial officer at Invensys plc from 2011 until his retirement in 2014, having held senior roles across the business since 2002.
Prior to joining Invensys, he was a senior partner in Ernst &Young E&Y, specialising in long-term industrial contracting businesses and is a former member of the Auditing Practices Board.
Mr Richard Armitage, Executive Director Richard Armitage, FCMA, was appointed to the Board in May 2018.
He was previously group finance director of Samworth Brothers, a UK-based branded and own-label food manufacturer, which he joined in 2014.
Prior to Samworth Brothers he was chief financial officer of McBrideplc.
His other roles include finance director for Premier Foods plcs grocery and chilled divisions, and at Courtaulds, ICI and Boots plc.
Richard trained through the Courtaulds and ICI management development programmes.
Resolution 15 Increase in the fee limit permitted to be paid to Directors The current maximum fees permitted to be paid to non-executive Directors under the Companys Articles of Association is limited to 400,000.
Resolution 15 seeks shareholder approval toincrease this limit from 400,000 to 600,000.
This increase is required given the increase in Board Members since the limit was incorporated in the Articles in 2010.
The Board considered that an increase in the number ofBoard members would be beneficial to the Company.
Resolutions 16 and 17 Appointment of auditor auditors remuneration At each meeting at which the Annual Report and Accounts are laid, the Company is required to appoint an auditor to serve until the next such meeting.
Pricewaterhouse Coopers PwC has indicated its willingness to continue as the Companys auditor.
The Audit Committee has recommended to the Board, and the Board now proposes to shareholders that PwC be re-appointed as auditor of the Company.
The Audit Committee has confirmed to the Board that its recommendation is free from third party influence and that no restrictive contractual provisions have been imposed on the Company limiting its choice of auditors.
Resolution 17 is an Ordinary Resolution giving the Directors discretion to determine the remuneration of PwC.
Annual Report 2018 Victrex plc 115 Shareholder information Explanatory notes continued Resolution 18 To approve the new Victrex Long Term Incentive Plan The Company is seeking approval for the introduction of a new Long Term Incentive Plan the New LTIP.
The existing Victrex 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan the Existing LTIP was adopted on 10 February 2009 and will expire when it reaches its 10-year anniversary in 2019.
The Remuneration Committee considers that the Existing LTIP has been highly effective in motivating Executive Directors and senior employees and rewarding their commitment to the Company, while strengthening their alignment with shareholders.
It therefore proposes to introduce the New LTIP to replace the Existing LTIP.
The main features of the New LTIP are summarised in the Appendix to this Notice of Meeting.
The New LTIP provides for participants to be granted options or conditional awards over shares in the Company, and has been designed taking account of best practice, which has evolved since the Existing LTIP was adopted.
Malus and clawback provisions under the Existing LTIP have been broadened and will apply to each award made under the New LTIP see section 6 of the Appendix to this Notice of Meeting for more details.
The Committee will have an overriding discretion to adjust vesting outcome to ensure that pay-outs under the New LTIP are fully reflective of the Companys performance see section 4 of the Appendix to this Notice of Meeting.
The rules of the LTIP will be available for inspection from the date of sending this Notice until the close of the AGM at the offices of Slaughter and May, One Bunhill Row, London EC1Y 8YY and at the place of the general meeting for at least 15 minutes before and during the meeting.
Resolution 19 Political donations The Companies Act 2006 requires companies to obtain shareholder authority before they can make political donations exceeding 5,000 inaggregate in any twelve-month period to political parties, other political organisations or independent election candidates or incur political expenditure.
The definitions of political donation, political parties, independent election candidates, political organisations and political expenditure used in the Companies Act 2006 are very broad and, as a result, a number of normal business activities or business matters affecting the Company that would not be thought to be political donations or political expenditure in the usual sense may qualify as a donation to a political party, political organisation or independent election candidate or otherwise be political expenditure.
Such activities are not designed to support any political party, political organisation or independent election candidate nor to influence public support fora particular party, organisation or candidate.
It remains the policy of the Company not to make political donations or incur political expenditure within the ordinary meaning of those words and the Directors have no intention of using the authority for that purpose.
To avoid any possibility of inadvertently contravening the Companies Act 2006, the Directors consider that it would be prudent to follow the procedures specified in the Companies Act 2006 to obtain shareholder approval for the Company and its subsidiaries to, in aggregate: i make political donations to political parties and or independent election candidates not exceeding 12,500 in total: ii make political donations to political organisations other than political parties not exceeding 12,500 in total: and iii incur political expenditure not exceeding 12,500 in total, in each case during the period up to the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2020.
As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the resolution extends not only to the Company but also covers all companies which are subsidiaries ofthe Company at any time the authority is in place.
The Companys policy remains that it does not, directly or through any subsidiary, make what are commonly regarded as donations to any political party, organisation or candidate, and the authority being requested from shareholders is not designed to change this policy.
The authority is sought as a precaution to ensure that the Companys normal business activities are within the Companies Act 2006.
Resolution 20 Authority to allot shares The authority of shareholders is required to enable Directors to allot shares.
The authority conferred on the Directors at the 2018 AGM to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any securities into shares in the Company expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
Accordingly, in line with the Companys usual procedure, which is also standard practice amongst other public companies, this Ordinary Resolution seeks authority for the Directors to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any securities into shares in the Company until the conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting or 31 March 2020, if sooner.
In accordance with guidance issued by The Investment Association, the proposed authority will allow the Directors to allot ordinary shares in the Company Ordinary Shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any securities into Ordinary Shares up to a maximum nominal amount of approximately but not exceeding one-third of the existing issued share capital as at 30 November 2018 the latest practicable date before the publication of this Notice, plus, in the case of a rights issue only, a further amount up to an additional maximum nominal amount of approximately but not exceeding one-third of the Companys existing issued share capital.
The Directors have no current intention of exercising this authority.
The Company held no treasury shares as at 4 December 2018.
116 Victrex plc Annual Report 2018 Shareholder information Resolutions 21 and 22 Permission to allot a limited number of shares other than to existing shareholders Under the Companies Act 2006, when shares are issued for cash, they normally have to be offered first to existing shareholders in proportion to their current shareholding.
Resolution 21 will enable the Directors to allot shares for cash and sell treasury shares: i in connection with a rights issue, open offer orother pre-emptive offer: or ii otherwise up to a nominal amount of 43,081, representing approximately 5% of the issued ordinary sharecapital as at 30 November 2018 the latest practicable date before the publication of this Notice, other than to existing shareholders without first having to offer them to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings in order to take advantage of opportunities as and when they arise.
The Directors have no current intention of exercising this authority and confirm their intention that not more than 7.5% of the issued ordinary share capital will be allotted or treasury shares sold on a non-pre-emptive basis in any rolling three-year period, other than with prior consultation with shareholders or in connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment as referred to below.
Resolution 22 is in addition to Resolution 21.
As supported by the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles, as updated in March 2015, Resolution 22 will enable the Directors to allot shares for cash or sell shares out of treasury up to a further nominal amount of 43,081, representing approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital as at 30 November 2018 the latest practicable date before the publication of this Notice, other than to existing shareholders without first having to offer them to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
Inrespect of the authority under Resolution 22, the Board confirms that it will only allot shares or sell shares out of treasury pursuant to this authority where the relevant acquisition or specified capital investment is announced contemporaneously with the allotment, or has taken place in the preceding six-month period and is disclosed in the announcement of the allotment.
If this authority is used, the Company will publish details of the placing in its next Annual Report and Accounts.
The authorities under Resolutions 21 and 22 will lapse at the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 31 March 2020, if sooner.
These resolutions will be proposed as Special Resolutions, which require a 75% majority of the votes to be cast in favour.
Resolution 23 Authority to purchase own shares In certain circumstances, it might be advantageous to the Company to purchase its own shares.
Resolution 23 specifies the maximum number of shares which may be acquired approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 30 November 2018 thelatest practicable date before the publication of this Notice and the maximum and minimum prices at which shares may be bought.
The Directors intend to use the authority only if, in light of market conditions prevailing at the time, they believe that the effect of such purchase would result in an increase in earnings per share and would be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders generally.
Other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall position of the Company will be taken into account in reaching such a decision.
Any shares purchased in this way will either be cancelled and the number of shares in issue will be reduced accordingly, orbe held as treasury shares.
Shares held as treasury shares can in the future be cancelled, resold or used to provide shares for employee share schemes.
The Company currently has no Ordinary Shares in treasury.
As at 30 November 2018, options over a total of 1,318,672 Ordinary Shares were outstanding and not exercised.
That number of Ordinary Shares represents 1.53% of the Companys issued Ordinary Share capital at 30 November 2018.
It would represent 1.70% of the issued Ordinary Share capital at that date if the authority to buy the Companys own shares given at the previous AGM and the authority now being sought by Resolution 23 were to be fully used.
The authority will lapse at the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 31 March 2020, if sooner.
Resolution 24 Authority to hold general meetings other than Annual General Meetings on14cleardays notice This Special Resolution renews an authority given at last years Annual General Meeting and is required as a result of section 307A of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is currently able to call general meetings other than an Annual General Meeting on not less than 14 clear days notice and would like to maintain this ability.
In order to do so, the Companys shareholders must approve the calling of such meetings on not less than 14 clear days notice.
If given, the approval will be effective until the Companys next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company notes the notice period provision in the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code which recommends at least 14 working days notice to be given for all general meetings other than annual general meetings.
Insofar as it is appropriate to do so, the Company intends to comply with this code provision in the same way that it currently complies with the 20 working days notice provision applicable to annual general meetings.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine for such meetings, but only where the flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
Recommendation The Directors consider that all the proposed resolutions set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and of its shareholders as a whole and they unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of them, as they intend to do so inrespect of their own shares save in respect of those matters in which they are interested.
Annual Report 2018 Victrex plc 117 Shareholder information Appendix A summary of the Victrex plc 2019 Long Term Incentive Plan is set out below 1.
Administration The Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company the Committee will be responsible for the operation and administration of the Victrex Long Term Incentive Plan the LTIP.
Eligibility Any employee including an executive Director of the Company and its subsidiaries will be eligible to participate in the LTIP at the discretionof the Committee.
Grant of awards The Committee may grant awards to acquire ordinary shares in the Company Shares within six weeks following the Companys announcement of its results for any period.
The Committee may also grant awards within six weeks of shareholder approval of the LTIP or at any other time when the Committee considers there are exceptional circumstances which justify the granting of awards.
The Committee may grant awards in the form or an option with an exercise period either with or without an exercise price, or as aconditional right to acquire Shares at no cost to the participant.
The Committee may also decide to grant cash-based awards of anequivalent value to share-based awards or to satisfy share-based awards in cash, although it does not currently intend to do so.
An award may not be granted more than 10 years after shareholder approval of the LTIP.
No payment is required for the grant of an award.
Awards are not transferable, except on death.
Awards under the LTIP will not form partof pensionable earnings.
Individual limit The value of Shares over which an award may be granted to an individual in a year may not exceed the percentage of the individuals paywhich is equivalent to the percentage limit on awards that can be made to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company under the Companys then approved Remuneration Policy.
Performance conditions When granting an award under the LTIP, the Committee may make its vesting conditional on the satisfaction of one or more performance conditions.
Any performance conditions will be specified at the award date.
The Committee may vary the performance conditions applying to existing awards if it considers it would be appropriate to do so but it will consult with major shareholders, where appropriate, before doing so.
The Committee has an overriding discretion to adjust vesting outcomes where, acting fairly and reasonably, it considers the application offormulaic performance conditions to be inappropriate.
Vesting of awards Awards normally vest on the third anniversary of grant to the extent that any applicable performance conditions see above have been satisfied and provided the participant is still employed in the Companys Group.
For awards granted in the form of options, participants will subject to the Committee deciding a shorter period before grant have a seven-year period from the date of vesting in which to exercise their options.
The Committee may grant awards subject to a post-vesting holding period, during which they may not be disposed of.
Participants will receive a payment in cash and or Shares on or shortly following the vesting of their awards, of an amount equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on those vested Shares between the time when the awards were granted and the time when they vested.
The Committee will decide the basis on which the value of such dividends will be calculated, which may assume the reinvestment of dividends.
Malus and clawback Before vesting or in the case of options, exercise, awards may be subject to malus provisions and, after vesting or, in the case of options, exercise, awards may be subject to clawback.
The clawback period will last until the later of the first anniversary of vesting, the first anniversary of the expiry of any holding period, the publication of the Companys first set of audited financial accounts following such vesting, and such later date as the Committee may specify at grant.
Malus or clawback may apply on such basis that the Committee considers to be fair, reasonable and proportionate where, in the Committees opinion, there are exceptional circumstances.
Such exceptional circumstances include serious reputational damage, a failure of risk management, an error in available financial information which led to the award being greater than it would otherwise have been, or personal misconduct by the relevant participant.
Leaving employment As a general rule, an unvested award will lapse upon a participant ceasing to hold employment or be a Director within the Companys Group.
However, if a participant ceases to be an employee or a Director because of his death, retirement with the agreement of his employer, ill health or disability evidenced to the satisfaction of the Committee, or in other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee, then his award will vest when he leaves unless the Committee determines that it will vest on a later date.
The extent to which an award will vest in these situations will depend upon: i the extent to which any performance and other conditions have been satisfied: and ii unless the Committee decides otherwise, time pro-rating to reflect the period of employment since the grant date.
118 Victrex plc Annual Report 2018 Shareholder information A summary of the Victrex plc 2019 Long Term Incentive Plan is set out below continued 9.
Corporate events In the event of a takeover, scheme of arrangement or winding-up of the Company, outstanding awards will vest early subject to: i the extent that any performance and other conditions have been satisfied at that time: and ii unless the Committee decides otherwise, timepro-rating to reflect the reduced period of time between their grant and vesting.
In the event of an internal corporate reorganisation in which a company obtains control of the Company and at least 75% of the acquiring companys shares are expected to be held by substantially the same persons who, immediately before the reorganisation, were shareholders in the Company, the Committee, with the consent of the acquiring company, may decide that awards will not vest as outlined above but will be replaced by equivalent new awards over shares in the acquiring company.
If a demerger, special dividend or other similar event is proposed which, in the opinion of the Committee, would affect the market price of Shares to a material extent, then the Committee may decide that awards will vest on the basis which would apply in the case of a takeover, scheme of arrangement or winding-up, as described above.
Rights attaching to shares Awards will not confer any shareholder rights until vested Shares have been transferred to participants.
Any Shares allotted when an award vests or is exercised will rank equally with Shares then in issue except for rights arising by reference toarecord date prior to their allotment.
Variation of awards In the event of any variation of the Companys share capital or in the event of a demerger, payment of a special dividend or similar event which materially affects the market price of the Shares, the Committee may make such adjustment as it considers appropriate to the number and or class of Shares subject to an award and or the exercise price of options if any.
Overall plan limits Awards may be granted over newly issued Shares, treasury Shares or Shares purchased in the market.
In any ten-calendar-year period, the Company may not allocate more than: a 10% of the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company under the LTIP and any other employee share plan adopted bythe Company: and b 5% of the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company under the LTIP and any other executive share plan adopted by theCompany.
Treasury Shares will cease to count as allocated Shares for the purposes of these limits if institutional investor guidelines cease to require that they count.
Alterations to the plan The Committee may, at any time, amend the LTIP or the terms of any award in any respect, provided that the prior approval of shareholders is obtained for any amendments that are to the advantage of participants in respect of the provisions governing eligibility, limits on participation, the overall limits on the issue of Shares or the transfer of treasury Shares, the basis for determining a participants entitlement to, and the terms of, the Shares or cash to be provided under the LTIP and the adjustment that may be made to awards in the event of any variation ofcapital.
The requirement to obtain the prior approval of shareholders will not, however, apply to any minor alteration made to benefit the administration of the LTIP, to comply with or take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants or for any company in the Companys Group.
Shareholder approval will also not be requiredfor any amendments to any performance and other conditions applying to an award.
Alterations to the material disadvantage of participants in the LTIP save for variations to performance and other conditions require the relevant participants to be invited to approve the alteration and for it to be approved by a majority of those who indicate approval or disapproval.
Overseas plans The shareholder resolution to approve the LTIP will allow the Board to establish further plans for overseas territories, any such plan to be similar to the LTIP, but modified to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws, provided that any Shares made available under such further plans are treated as counting against the limits on individual and overall participation in the LTIP.
