Shareholder information Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the twenty sixth Annual General Meeting AGM of Victrex plc the Company will be held at 11amon6February 2019, at J. P. Morgan, 1 John Carpenter Street, London EC4Y 0JP, to transact the business set out below.
 proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and Resolutions 21 to 24 will be proposed as Special Resolutions.
To receive the Companys audited financial statements and the Auditors and Directors reports for the year ended 30 September 2018.
To approve the Directors remuneration report in the form set out in the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018.
To declare a final dividend of 46.14p per share on the Companys ordinary shares of par value 1p each in respect of the year ended 30September 2018.
To declare a special dividend of 82.68p per share on the Companys ordinary shares of par value 1p each.
To re-elect Mr L C Pentz as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Dr P J Kirby as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Ms J E Toogood as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Ms J E Ashdown as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr B W D Connolly as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr J O Sigurdsson as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr T J Cooper as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Dr M L Court as a Director of the Company.
To elect Mr D J Thomas as a Director of the Company.
To elect Mr R J Armitage as a Director of the Company.
T hat the maximum fees of Directors permitted under article 87 of the Companys Articles of Association be increased from 400,000 to600,000.
To re-appoint  LLP as auditor of the Company.
To authorise the Directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
That the rules of the Victrex Long Term Incentive Plan in the form produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman of the meeting for the purposes of identification the LTIP, the principal terms of which are summarised in the Appendix to this Notice of Meeting, be and are hereby approved, and the Directors of the Company be and are hereby authorised to: a a dopt the LTIP and do all acts and things which they may, in their absolute discretion, consider necessary or expedient to establish and give effect to the LTIP: and b adopt further plans based on the LTIP but modified to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws in overseas territories, provided that any shares made available under such further plans are treated as counting against the limits on individual or overall participation in the LTIP.
That, in accordance with sections 366 and 367 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company and all companies that are subsidiaries ofthe Company at any time during the period for which the resolution has effect, be and are hereby authorised, in aggregate, during theperiod beginning with the date of the passing of this resolution and ending on the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting ofthe Company in 2020 unless such authority is previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in a general meeting, to: i make political donations to political parties and or independent election candidates not exceeding 12,500 in total: ii make political donations to political organisations other than political parties not exceeding 12,500 in total: and iii incur political expenditure not exceeding 12,500 in total, provided that the authorised sums referred to in paragraphs i, ii and iii above may be comprised of one or more amounts in different currencies which, for the purposes of calculating that authorised sum, shall be converted into Pounds Sterling at such rate as the Board inits absolute discretion may determine to be appropriate.
For the purposes of this resolution the terms political donation, political parties, independent election candidates, political organisations and political expenditure shall have the meanings given by sections 363 to 365 of the Companies Act 2006.
That the Directors are and be hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares in the Company Allotment Rights, but so that: a t he maximum amount of shares that may be allotted or made the subject of Allotment Rights under this authority are shares with anaggregate nominal value of 574,414 of which one half may be allotted or made the subject of Allotment Rights in any circumstances and the other half may be allotted or made the subject of Allotment Rights pursuant to any rights issue as referred to in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules or pursuant to any arrangements made for the placing or underwriting or other allocation of any shares or other securities included in, but not taken up under, such rights issue: b this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, at the close of business on31 March 2020: and c t he Company may make any offers and enter into agreements before such expiry which would, or might, require shares to be allotted or Allotment Rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares to be granted after theauthority expires and the Directors may allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares under any suchoffer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
110 Victrex plc Annual Report 2018 Shareholder information Special Resolutions 21.
That, conditional upon Resolution 20 in this Notice of Annual General Meeting being passed, the Directors be and are hereby given power to allot equity securities as defined in section 560 of the Companies Act 2006 for cash under the authority given by that resolution or by way of a sale of treasury shares, as if section 561 1 of the Companies Act 2006 did not apply to such allotment or sale, such power to be limited: a t o the allotment of equity securities and sale of treasury shares in connection with any rights issue or open offer each as referred to in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules or any other pre-emptive offer that is open for acceptance for a period determined by the Directors to the holders of ordinary shares on the register on any fixed record date in proportion to their exiting holdings of ordinary shares and, if applicable, to the holders or any other class of equity security in accordance with the rights attached to such class subject in each case to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or appropriate in relation to fractions of such securities, the use of more than one currency for making payments in respect of such offer, treasury shares, any legal or practical problems in relation to any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or any stock exchange: and b to the allotment otherwise than under paragraph a above of equity securities or sale of treasury shares up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 43,081.
Such power shall expire at the conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, at the close of business on 31March 2020, save that the Company may make offers, and enter into agreements, before such expiry which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted after the power expires and the Directors may allot equity securities under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not expired.
That, conditional upon Resolution 20 in this Notice of Annual General Meeting being passed, the Directors be and are hereby given power in addition to any authority granted under Resolution 21 to allot equity securities as defined in section 560 of the Companies Act 2006 for cash under the authority given by that Resolution 20 or by way of a sale of treasury shares, as if section 561 1 of the Companies Act 2006 did not apply to such allotment or sale, such power to be: a limited to the allotment of equity securities or sale of treasury shares up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 43,081: and b used only for the purposes of financing or refinancing, if the authority is to be used within six months after the original transaction a transaction which the Directors determine to be an acquisition or other capital investment of a kind contemplated by the Statement of Principles on Disapplying Pre-Emption Rights most recently published by the Pre-Emption Group prior to the date of this Notice.
Such power shall expire at the conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, at the close of business on 31March 2020, save that the Company may make offers, and enter into agreements, before such expiry, which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted after the power expires to have effect and the Directors may allot equity securities under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not expired.
That the Company be and is hereby authorised generally and unconditionally pursuant to section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 tomake one or more market purchases as defined in section 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 of its ordinary shares of 1p each inthe capital of the Company Ordinary Shares, such power to be limited: a to a maximum aggregate number of 8,616,205 Ordinary Shares: b by the condition that the maximum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for an Ordinary Share contracted tobepurchased on any day shall be the maximum price permitted under the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules or, inthe case of a tender offer as referred to in those rules, an amount equal to 105% of the average of the closing middle market quotation for an Ordinary Share as derived from theLondon Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the terms of the tender offer are announced: and c by the condition that the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 1p exclusive of expenses.
Such authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, at the close of business on31March 2020 but so that the Company may before such authority expires enter into a new contract under which a purchase ofOrdinary Shares may be completed or executed wholly or partly after the authority expires and the Company may purchase Ordinary Shares in pursuance of such contract as if the authority had not expired.
That a general meeting of the Company, other than an Annual General Meeting, may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
By order of the Board Louise Waldek General Counsel and Company Secretary 4 December 2018 Registered office: Victrex Technology Centre Hillhouse International Thornton Cleveleys Lancashire FY5 4QD Registered in England and Wales 2793780 Annual Report 2018 Victrex plc 111 Shareholder information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes 1.
S hareholders who are entitled to attend and vote at the AGM are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the AGM.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the AGM provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
T o be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast, shareholders must be registered in the Register of Members of the Company at 6.30pm on 4 February 2019 or, in the event of any adjournment, 6.30pm on the day two days prior to the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the Register of Members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the AGM.
A h ard copy form of proxy Form of Proxy which may be used to appoint a proxy and give instructions accompanies this AGM Notice.
Tobe valid, a Form of Proxy must be delivered to the Companys Registrars, Equiniti at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, so as to be received by no later than 11am on 4 February 2019.
Alternatively, shareholders may appoint a proxy online byfollowing the instructions in note 4 below.
Shareholders who hold their shares in uncertificated form may also use the CREST voting service to appoint a proxy electronically as explained in notes 5 to 7 below.
The return of a completed Form of Proxy, electronic proxy appointment instruction or any CREST Proxy Instruction will not prevent a shareholder attending the AGM and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
Voting at the AGM itself will be on a show of hands, unless a valid demand for one or more resolutions to be conducted on a poll is made in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
S hareholders who prefer to register the appointment of their proxy electronically via the internet can do so through Equinitis website atwww.
Full details of the procedure are given on the website.
The Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number printed on the Form of Proxy will be required in order to use this electronic proxy appointment system.
Alternatively, members who have already registered with Equinitis online portfolio service, Shareview, can appoint their proxy electronically by logging onto their portfolio at www.
co. uk and clicking on the Vote Online link.
The on-screen instructions give details of how to complete the proxy appointment process.
A proxy appointment made electronically will not be valid if sent to any address other than those provided or if received after 11am on 4 February 2019.
C REST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual available via www.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
I n order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes theappointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, betransmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent Equiniti ID RA19 by 11am on 4 February 2019.
For this purpose, the time ofreceipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
C REST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteddoes not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, ifthe CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that hisCREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system andtimings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
A ny person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to theexercise of voting rights.
T he statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in note 1 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
Such rights can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
A s at 30 November 2018 being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this document the Companys issued share capital consisted of 86,162,058 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 30 November 2018 were86,162,058.
There were no shares in treasury as at that date.
112 Victrex plc Annual Report 2018 Shareholder information Notes continued 10.
Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, shareholders meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the rightto require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: a the audit of the Companys financial statements including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or b any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions relating to the business of the meeting.
In accordance with section 319A of the Companies Act 2006 and subject to some exceptions, the Company must cause any such questions to be answered.
A copy of this Notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at www.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its power as a member provided that they do so in relation to the same shares.
Representatives of shareholders that are corporations will have to produce evidence of their proper appointment when attending the AGM.
Please contact our Registrars if you need any further guidance on this.
Except as provided above, members who have general queries about the meeting should use the following means of communication noother methods of communication will be accepted : email the General Counsel and Company Secretary at cosec@victrex.
Youmay not use any electronic address provided in either this Notice of AGM or any related documents including the Form of Proxy tocommunicate with the Company for any purpose other than those expressly stated.
Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection during normal business hours on Monday to Friday excluding bank holidays at the Registered Office of the Company from the date of this Notice of AGM until the close of the AGM and at the meeting location from at least 15 minutes before the meeting until it ends: u the executive Directors service contracts: u the letters of appointment of the non-executive Directors: and u the Directors Deeds of Indemnity.
