Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 93 Audit report on the consolidated and parent company financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Vodafone Group Plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: Vodafone Group Plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2018 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated and Company statements of financial position as at 31 March 2018: the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated statements of cash flows for the year then ended: the consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the consolidated and Company financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion, the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in note 3 of the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2018.
Our audit approach Materiality Overall Group materiality: 225 million 2017: 215 million, which represents 5% of a three year average of Adjusted Operating Profit AOP, including Vodafone India.
Overall Company materiality: 165 million 2017: 160 million, based on 1% of total assets, limited Materiality so as not to exceed 75% of Group materiality.
Audit scope We identified seven local markets, which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, either due to their size or due to their risk characteristics comprising UK, Spain, Italy, India, Vodacom South Africa, Turkey and Germany including KDG.
Audit scope Further specific audit procedures over central functions and areas of significant judgement, including taxation, goodwill, treasury and material provisions and contingent liabilities, were performed at the Groups Head Office.
Key audit matters Revenue recognition accuracy of revenue recorded given the complexity of systems and Areas of disclosures on the expected impact of the initial application of IFRS 15 Group.
focus Valuation of goodwill and Vodafone India treated as held for sale Group and Company.
Provisions and contingent liabilities Group.
Capitalisation and asset lives Group.
Financials 94 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Audit report on the consolidated and parent company financial statements continued The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group that were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements, including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, the UK Listing Rules, UK tax legislation and equivalent local laws and regulations applicable to significant component teams.
Our tests included agreeing the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, assessment of significant component auditors work, enquiries with management and enquiries of legal counsel.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Revenue recognition accuracy of revenue recordedgiven the complexity of systems and We instructed the seven local market audit teams in full Group scope to undertake disclosures on the expected impact of the initial consistent audit procedures over revenue.
application of IFRS 15 Group There is an inherent risk around the accuracy Our audit approach included controls testing and substantive procedures covering, in of revenue recorded given the complexity of systems particular: and the impact of changing pricing models to revenue testing the IT environment in which billing, rating and other relevant support systems recognition tariff structures, incentive arrangements, reside, including the change control procedures in place around systems that bill discounts etc.. material revenue streams: The application of revenue recognition accounting testing the end to end reconciliation from business support systems to billing and standards is complex and involves a number of key rating systems to the general ledger.
This testing included validating material journals judgements and estimates.
processed between the billing system and general ledger: In addition, disclosure is required of the expected performing tests on the accuracy of customer bill generation on a sample basis and impact of the new standard on revenue recognition, testing of a sample of the credits and discounts applied to customer bills: and IFRS 15, which will be adopted from 1 April 2018.
The new standard is estimated to have a material testing cash receipts for a sample of customers back to the customer invoice.
On adoption, Vodafone will apply the cumulative retrospective method to recognise the We also considered the application of the Groups accounting policies to amounts billed cumulative effect of the transition directly in equity and the accounting implications of new business models to check that Group accounting as of 1 April 2018.
It expects the initial recognition will policies were appropriate for these models and were followed.
lead to an increase in retained earnings under equity Based on our work, we noted no significant issues on the accuracy of revenue recorded in of approximately 2.1 billion to 2.8 billion before the year.
accounting for deferred taxes as of 1 April 2018.
With regard to the estimated impact of the initial adoption of IFRS 15, we assessed the Refer to note 1 Basis of preparation of the Group Groups process for estimating the impact of the new standard.
We instructed the seven financial statements and Audit and Risk Committee local market audit teams in full Group scope to undertake specific audit procedures.
Our report on pages 6469. audit approach included: assessing the impact analysis and the accounting estimates and judgements made in respect of the business models of the Group: assessing the appropriateness of the methods used to determine the estimated impact of the initial application of IFRS 15: and assessing the design of the systems and processes set up by management to account for transactions in accordance with the new standard and used in determining the estimated impact of the initial application of IFRS 15.
We assured ourselves that the systems, processes and controls established by management and the estimates and assumptions made in respect of the disclosure oftheestimated impact were sufficiently documented and substantiated.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 95 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of goodwill and Vodafone India treated as held for sale Group and Company The Group has goodwill of 26.7 billion contained We evaluated the appropriateness of managements identification of the Groups CGUs within 20 cash generating units CGUs.
and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the impairment assessment process, including indicators of impairment.
Impairment charges to goodwill have been recognised in prior periods.
With the continued difficult macroWith the support of our valuation experts, we benchmarked and challenged key economic environment in Europe and the changing assumptions in managements valuation models used to determine recoverable amount regulatory environment globally the risk that goodwill against external data, including assumptions of projected adjusted EBITDA, projected is impaired increases.
capital expenditure, projected licence and spectrum payments, long term growth rates and discount rates.
For the CGUs which contain goodwill, the determination of recoverable amount, being the higher of fair value We compared historical forecasting to actual results: and less costs to sell and value-in-use, requires judgement We performed testing of the mathematical accuracy of the cash flow models and on the part of management in both identifying and challenged and agreed the key assumptions to the board approved long-term plan.
then valuing the relevant CGUs.
Recoverable amounts are based on managements view of variables such Based on our procedures, we noted no exceptions and consider managements key as future average revenue per user, average customer assumptions to be within a reasonable range.
numbers and customer churn, timing and approval of future capital, spectrum and operating expenditure We validated the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 4 and note 10 of the and the most appropriate discount rate.
Refer to note 4 Impairment losses and note 10 With the support of our valuation experts, we challenged key assumptions in Intangible assets of the Group financial statements managements valuation of Vodafone India, including the appropriateness of the basis of and Audit and Risk Committee report on pages 6469. valuation determined with reference to the share price of Idea Cellular, and we traced data used in the valuation to supporting documents.
Vodafone India continues to be treated as held for sale and discontinued operations as at the balance sheet Based on our procedures, we noted no exceptions and consider managements approach date.
Its recoverable amount is determined on the lower and assumptions to be reasonable.
of carrying amount and fair value less costs of disposal We validated the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 7 of the financial basis, which was calculated in part with reference to the statements.
quoted share price of Idea Cellular as at 31 March 2018.
This has resulted in an impairment charge of 3.2 billion We evaluated managements assumption whether any indicators of impairment existed by recognised in the year to 31 March 2018. comparing the equity value from the valuation model prepared for goodwill impairment review purposes or the net assets of the subsidiaries at 31 March 2018 with the Companys Refer to note 7 Discontinued operations and assets investment carrying values.
and liabilities held for sale of the Group financial statements and Audit and Risk Committee report As a result of our work, we agreed with management that the carrying values of the on pages 6469. investments held by the Company are supportable in the context of the Company financial statements taken as a whole.
The Company holds fixed asset investments comprising investments in subsidiaries of 83.7 billion.
Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less any provision for impairment and capital related to share-based payments.
Investments are tested for impairment annually.
If an impairment exist, the recoverable amounts of the investment in subsidiaries are estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss, if any.
Any such impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
Refer to note 2 Fixed assets of the Company financial statements.
Financials 96 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Audit report on the consolidated and parent company financial statements continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Taxation matters Group The Group operates across a large number We evaluated the design and implementation of controls in respect of the process for of jurisdictions and is subject to periodic challenges calculating provisions for withholding tax and the recognition and recoverability of by local tax authorities on a range of tax matters during deferred tax assets.
the normal course of business including transfer pricing, We gained an understanding of the status of the Indian tax investigations and monitored indirect taxes and transaction related tax matters.
changes in the disputes by considering external advice received by the Group, where We focused on matters relating to the legal claim relevant, to establish that the tax provisions were appropriately adjusted to reflect the in respect of withholding tax on the acquisition latest external developments.
of Hutchison Essar Limited and the recognition and In respect of the deferred tax assets, we used our tax specialists to assess the recoverability recoverability of deferred tax assets in Luxembourg, of losses from a tax perspective through performing the following: Germany, India and Spain.
understanding how losses arose and where they are located, including to which Provisioning claim for withholding tax there continues subgroups they are attributed: to be uncertainty regarding the resolution of the legal claim from the Indian authorities in respect considering whether the losses can be reversed based on the ability to generate profits of withholding tax on the acquisition of Hutchison in excess of past losses: Essar Limited.
comparing historical forecasting to actual results: Recognition and recoverability of deferred tax assets considering the impact of recent regulatory developments, as applicable: in Luxembourg, Germany, India and Spain significant judgement is required in relation to the recognition assessing any restrictions on future use of losses: and and recoverability of deferred tax assets, particularly determining whether any of the losses will expire.
in respect of losses in Luxembourg, Germany and Spain amounting to 21.3 billion, 2.8 billion, 0.9 billion In addition, we assessed the application of International Accounting Standard 12 Income respectively and 1.6 billion relating to deferred tax Taxes including: assets in India.
understanding the triggers for recognition of deferred tax assets: Refer to note 6 Taxation and note 29 Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings of the Group financial considering the effects of tax planning strategies: statements and Audit and Risk Committee report testing the mathematical accuracy of the cash flow models and challenging and on pages 6469. agreeing the key assumptions in the board approved management plan: and in respect of the Luxembourg deferred tax assets we assessed managements view of the Groups likelihood of generating future taxable profits to support the recoverability of the deferred tax asset.
We determined that the carrying value of deferred tax assets at 31 March 2018 was supported by managements plans including intercompany funding arrangements.
We validated the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 6 and note 29 of the financial statements, including the disclosures made in respect of the utilisation period of deferred tax assets.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 97 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Provisions and contingent liabilities Group There are a number of threatened and actual We used our tax specialists to gain an understanding of the current status of the tax cases legal, regulatory and tax cases against the Group.
and monitored changes in the disputes by reading external advice received by the Group, There is a high level of judgement required in estimating where relevant, to establish that the tax provisions had been appropriately adjusted to the level of provisioning required.
reflect the latest external developments.
Refer to note 1 Basis of preparation, note 16 For legal, regulatory and tax matters our procedures included the following: Provisions and note 29 Contingent liabilities and testing key controls over litigation, regulatory and tax procedures: legal proceedings of the Group financial statements and Audit and Risk Committee report on pages 6469. performing substantive procedures on the underlying calculations supporting the provisions recorded: where relevant, reading external legal opinions obtained by management: meeting with regional and local management and reading relevant Group correspondence: discussing open matters with the Group litigation, regulatory, general counsel and tax teams: assessing managements conclusions through understanding precedents set in similar cases: and circularisation where appropriate of relevant third party legal representatives and direct discussion with them regarding certain material cases.
Based on the evidence obtained, while noting the inherent uncertainty with such legal, regulatory and tax matters, we determined the level of provisioning at 31 March 2018 to be appropriate.
We validated the completeness and appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 16 and note 29 of the financial statements and concluded that the disclosure was sufficient.
Capitalisation and asset lives Group There are a number of areas where management We tested controls in place over the property, plant and equipment cycle, evaluated the judgement impacts the carrying value of property, plant appropriateness of capitalisation policies, performed tests of details on costs capitalised and equipment, software intangible assets and their and assessed the timeliness of the transfer of assets in the course of construction and the respective depreciation profiles.
These include: application of the asset life.
the decision to capitalise or expense costs: In performing these substantive procedures, we challenged the judgements made by management including: the annual asset life review, including the impact of changes in the Groups strategy: and the nature of underlying costs capitalised as part of the cost of the network roll out: the timeliness of transfers from assets in the course the appropriateness of asset lives applied in the calculation of depreciation: and of construction.
in assessing the need for accelerated depreciation given the network modernisation programme in place across Europe.
Refer to note 1 Basis of preparation, note 10 Intangible assets and note 11 Property, plant and No issues were noted from our testing.
equipment of the Group financial statements.
Financials 98 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Audit report on the consolidated and parent company financial statements continued How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Group operates in 25 countries across two regions: Europe and AMAP.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the local operations by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where component auditors performed the work, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those local operations to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The Groups local operations vary in size, with the seven local markets in Group scope UK, Spain, Italy, India, Vodacom South Africa, Turkey and Germany including KDG representing 79% and 76% of the Groups revenue and AOP including Vodafone India.
We identified these seven local markets as those components that, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, due to their size or risk characteristics.
Specific audit procedures over certain balances and transactions were performed to give appropriate coverage of all material balances at both local market component and Group levels.
The Group engagement team visited all seven local market components in scope for Group reporting during the audit cycle.
These visits included meetings with local management, component auditors and review of audit working papers for these components.
The lead audit partner or a senior member of the Group engagement team attended the year-end audit clearance meetings.
Further specific audit procedures over central functions and areas of significant judgement, including taxation, goodwill, treasury and material provisions and contingent liabilities, were performed at the Groups Head Office.
In response to the audit risk relating to the accuracy of share of results from joint ventures, we visited the component team of VodafoneZiggo Group Holding B. V. and obtained reporting in respect of the special purpose financial information from its auditor.
Also, audits for local statutory purposes are performed at a further 13 locations.
Where possible, the timing of local statutory audits was accelerated to align to the Group audit timetable, with significant findings reported to the Group engagement team.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 225 million 2017: 215 million.
How we determined it 5% of three year average of Adjusted Operating 1% of total assets, limited so as not to exceed 75% of Profit AOP, including Vodafone India.
Rationale for benchmark applied We used a three year average given volatility in the We believe that total assets is the most appropriate measure year-on-year.
measure as Vodafone Group Plc acts as an investment holding parent company rather than a profit oriented trading company.
However, materiality levels have been capped at 75% of Group materiality.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 25 million and 160 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 15 million Group audit 2017: 15 million and 15 million Company audit 2017: 15 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 99 Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK, we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
However, attention to in respect of the directors statement in the financial because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate to statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial continue as a going concern.
statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to We have nothing to report.
going concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors report and Corporate Governance Statement, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors report for the year ended 31 March 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors report.
CA06 Corporate Governance Statement In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Chairmans governance statement on page 46 about internal controls and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the FCA DTR is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in this information.
CA06 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Chairmans governance statement on page 46 with respect to the Companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
CA06 Financials 100 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Audit report on the consolidated and parent company financial statements continued The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 91 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 44 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 91, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 64 describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 101 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors statement of responsibility set out on page 91, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or taken together, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit and Risk Committee, we were appointed by the members on 29 July 2014 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2015 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 4 years, covering the years ended 31 March 2015 to 31 March 2018.
Andrew Kemp Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, 15 May 2018 a The maintenance and integrity of the Vodafone Group Plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
c Note that the report set out above is included for the purposes of Vodafone Group Plcs Annual Report for 2018 only and does not form part of Vodafone Group Plcs Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2018.
