FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires Vivo Energy plc, a public limited company, was incorporated in conjunction management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the with a pre-IPO reorganisation on 12 March 2018 in the United Kingdom Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of under the Companies Act 2006 Registration number 11250655. judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates The Company is registered in England and Wales and is limited by shares.
are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed The address of the registered office is 5th Floor, The Peak, 5 Wilton Road, innote 4.
The Company listed on the London Stock Exchange Main Market for listed securities and the Main Board of These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going the securities exchange operated by the Johannesburg Stock Exchange concern basis of accounting as the Directors, at the time of approving by way of secondary inward listing on 10 May 2018.
References to the financial statements, have a reasonable expectation that the VivoEnergy or the Group mean the Company and Vivo Energy Company and the Group will have adequate resources to continue Holding B. V. VEH, the holding company of the Group untilAdmission, in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Further details togetherwith its consolidated subsidiaries and .
are contained within the going concern statement included in the Therefore, the consolidated financial statements for the year ended Directors' report.
31 December 2018 are presented for the Group withcontinuity, Prior year comparatives have been reclassified when necessary.
includingthe impact of the IPO reorganisation.
Reclassifications are an adjustment to presentation only Vivo Energy distributes and sells fuel and lubricants to retail and and do not impact the net assets or profit of the Company.
commercial consumers in Africa and trades under brands owned Management continually seeks to provide the reader with bythe Shell group of companies and, for aviation fuels only, under better, more useful, information and will reclassify comparatives theVitolAviation brand.
Furthermore, Vivo Energy generates revenue when necessary.
fromnon-fuel retail activities including convenience retail and quick 2.2 Application of new and revised IFRSs servicerestaurants by leveraging on its retail network.
In the current year, the Group has applied a number of amendments Effective 13 June 2018, the Company completed a court-approved to IFRSs issued by the IASB that are mandatorily effective for annual reduction of capital.
The purpose of the reduction of capital was periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. to provide distributable reserves which will allow the Company to The following amendments to standards and new interpretations make future dividend payments.
Following the reduction of capital, which are effective 1 January 2018 have no material impact on the the number of issued shares and the rights attached to those shares consolidated financial statements of the Group: remained unchanged.
The nominal value of the ordinary shares in thecapital of the Company was reduced by $1.00 from $1.50 to $0.50.
IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration The Group entered into a sale and purchase agreement with IFRS 2 Amendments to Classification and Measurement EngenHoldings Pty Limited in relation to the purchase of shares ofShare-based Payment Transactions inEngen International Holdings Mauritius Limited.
Upon completion Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 20142016 cycle.
of the transaction, on 1 March 2019, Vivo Energy also distributes and sells fuel and lubricants under the Engen brand.
Eight new countries The Group has early adopted the following standards: and over 230 Engen-branded service stations will be added to IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments VivoEnergys network.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments retrospectively IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers retrospectively 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES IFRS 16 Leases retrospectively.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these 2.3 New standards, amendments and interpretations consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies notyetadopted have been applied consistently over the years.
The following amendments to standards and new interpretations areeffective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, 2.1 Basis of preparation andhave not been applied in preparing these consolidated These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in financial statements: accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 20152017 cycle asadopted by the European Union EU, interpretations issued by IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Amendments to Sale or Contribution of Assets the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC, and those parts of the between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
IAS 19 Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under thehistorical cost convention unless otherwise indicated.
Assessment of the above amendments to standards and new interpretations, which are not yet effective, are not expected to haveamaterial impact on the Group.
112 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.4 Consolidation Under the equity method, the investment is initially recognised at The Group is made up of various entities, subsidiaries, joint ventures cost as adjusted for the post-acquisition changes in the Groups share and associates.
Details regarding all entities are included in note 18 of net assets of the joint venture, less any impairment in the value inthe Company financial statements.
The Groups share of post-tax profits or losses are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Losses of a Subsidiaries joint venture in excess of the Groups interest in that joint venture Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control is achieved are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns legalor constructive obligations or made payments on behalf fromits involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those ofthejoint venture.
returns through its power over the entity.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its The Group reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if the jointventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest facts and circumstances indicate that there may be changes to one or in the joint ventures.
Unrealised losses are eliminated unless the more of the elements of control.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset the effective date of acquisition and fide-consolidated from the date transferred.
Where necessary, accounting policies of the joint thatcontrol ceases.
venturesare adjusted to ensure consistency with the policies Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income adoptedby the Group.
are attributed to the owners of the Group and to the non-controlling Investments in associates interests.
Total comprehensive income of subsidiaries is attributed Associates are entities where the Group has significant influence toowners of the Group and to the non-controlling interests even and is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
ifthis results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial All intra-group transactions and balances, income, expenses and andoperating policy decisions of the investee but where the cashflows are eliminated on consolidation.
Where necessary, Groupdoesnot have control or joint control over those policies.
accounting policies of subsidiaries are adjusted to ensure At the date of acquisition, any excess of the cost of the acquisition consistencywith the policies adopted by the Group.
over the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries without change net assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the associate is ofcontrol recorded as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the carrying Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result amount of the investment.
Investments in associates are accounted inloss of control are accounted for as equity transactions for using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity thatis, as transactions with the owners in their capacity as owners.
method, the investment is initially recognised at cost as adjusted The difference between fair value of any consideration paid and for the post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets therelevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of the investment.
ofthesubsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals The Groups share of post-tax profits or losses are recognised in tonon-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
Losses of an associate in excess of theGroups interest in that associate are recognised only to the Joint arrangements extentthat the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations Joint arrangements are contractual arrangements whereby the ormade payments on behalf of the associate.
Group and other parties undertake activities that are under joint control, meaning that the relevant activities that significantly affect 2.5 Foreign currency translation the investees returns require the unanimous consent of the parties Functional and presentation currency sharing control.
Joint arrangements are classified as either joint Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic and obligations of each investor.
The Group has assessed the nature environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
of its joint arrangements and determined them to be joint ventures.
The functional currency of the Company is United States dollars Joint ventures are joint arrangements whereby the parties that have US dollars.
These consolidated financial statements are presented joint control have the rights to the net assets of the arrangement in US dollars, which is the functional and presentation currency andare accounted for using the equity method.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 113 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES In Kenya, oil marketing companies are legally required to import CONTINUED petroleum products through the Open Tender System OTS that iscentrally co-coordinated by the Ministry of Energy.
This legal notice 2.5 Foreign currency translation continued is governed by the OTS agreements signed between all licensed oil Transactions and balances marketers in Kenya.
VEK, like other oil marketing companies in Kenya, Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional participates in this process.
currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the VEK does not only participate in this process but also purchases from transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the suppliers and sells the petroleum products through the OTS to thesettlement of such transactions, and from the translation other oil marketing companies.
Related revenues are recognised at at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities the fair value of the consideration received or receivable when risks denominated in foreign currencies, are recognised in the and rewards of ownership are transferred from VEK to the customer,  of comprehensive income.
which is when the title passes to the other oil marketing companies.
Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to monetary items For sales of services, the total consideration in the service contracts such as borrowings, receivables and cash and cash equivalents are is allocated to all services based on their stand-alone selling prices.
presented in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income The stand-alone selling price is determined based on the list prices within cost of sales for trading related gains and losses and within atwhich the Group sells the services in separate transactions.
finance income and expense for non-trading related gains and losses.
The Group recognises an asset for the incremental costs of obtaining Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets, such a contract with a customer if the Group expects the benefit of those as equities classified as financial assets at Fair value through costs to exceed one year.
The Group has determined that certain other comprehensive income FVTOCI, are included in other sales incentive programmes meet the requirements to be capitalised.
Total capitalised costs to obtain a contract were immaterial during Group companies theperiods presented and are included in the other current and The results and financial position of all the Group entities with non-current long-term assets on the consolidated balance sheet.
a functional currency other than the presentation currency The Group applies a practical expedient to expense costs as incurred aretranslated into the presentation currency as follows: for costs to obtain a contract when the amortisation period would Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the have been one year or less.
reporting date: Income and expense items and cash flows are translated at 2.7 Finance income and expense theaverage exchange rates for the period unless this average Finance income and expense are recognised in the income isnot a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect statementusing the effective interest rate method.
All finance of therates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case costsare recognised in the periods in which they are incurred.
incomeand expenses are translated at the rate on the dates ofthetransactions : and 2.8 Consolidated statement of comprehensive Exchange differences arising are recognised directly in other incomepresentation comprehensive income.
Cost of sales reflects all costs relating to the revenue recognised, including depreciation costs.
Selling and marketing costs reflect Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition the marketing, selling costs, depreciation and amortisation ofaforeign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the costs.
The general and administrative costs reflect all central foreignentityand translated accordingly.
andcorporatecosts, including employee and depreciation costs.
2.6 Revenue recognition 2.9 Property, plant and equipment Revenue from the sale of goods such as fuel and lubricants and any Property, plant and equipment is carried at historical cost less other products are recognised when a customer obtains control accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment of thegoods after excluding amounts collected on behalf of third losses.
The initial cost of an asset comprises its purchase price or parties i. e. sales taxes, excise duties and similar levies.
The Group's construction cost and any costs directly attributable to bringing the control of products are transferred to the customer at the point asset into operation.
The purchase price or construction cost is the in time when delivery and transfer of title occurs to the customer, aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration including oil marketing companies for Vivo Energy Kenya Ltd. VEK, given to acquire the asset.
Property, plant and equipment is and when the performance obligation to the customers isfulfilled.
depreciated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives The Group does not offer bundled products.
Majority ofthe ofthe various classes of assets and commences when the asset is marketswhere the Group operates are regulated and price is readyfor use.
Land and  are not depreciated.
established either by government or the industry.
The following depreciation rates are applied for the Group: Buildings: 20 50 years Machinery and other equipment: 4 25 years 114 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Major improvements are capitalised when they are expected to 2.11 Impairment of non-financial assets provide future economic benefit.
When significant components of At least annually, the Group reviews the carrying amount of tangible property, plant and equipment are required to be replaced at regular and intangible assets with finite lives to assess whether there is an intervals, the Group derecognises the replaced part and recognises indication that those assets may be impaired.
If any such indication the new part with its own associated useful life and depreciation.
exists, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable Repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the consolidated amount.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets statement of comprehensive income as incurred.
fairvalue less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
In assessing its value-in-use, the estimated future cash flows attributable to the The carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment assetare discounted totheir present value using a pre-tax discount isderecognised on disposal, or when no future economic benefits rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value are expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising from ofmoney and the risks specific to the asset.
the derecognition of property, plant and equipment is included in theconsolidated statements of comprehensive income when the If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than itemis derecognised.
itscarrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to itsrecoverable amount.
A corresponding impairment loss is Each assets estimated useful life, residual value, and method of recognised inthe consolidated statements of comprehensive income.
depreciation are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each year-end.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable 2.10 Intangible assets amount, but only to the extent that the increased carrying amount Goodwill does not exceed the original carrying amount that would have been Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents the determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been excess of the consideration transferred over the Companys interest recognised for the asset in prior years.
Any impairment reversal is in fair value of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent recognised in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income.
liabilities of the acquiree and the fair value of the non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
2.12 Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
For goodwill recognised in the consolidated statements of financial Cost comprises direct purchase costs including transportation, position, impairment reviews are undertaken annually, once costof production and manufacturing and taxes, and is determined goodwill has been allocated to cash generating units CGUs, using the weighted average cost method.
ormore frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment.
The carrying value of the CGU to which 2.13 Other government benefits receivable goodwill is allocated is compared to the recoverable amount, Other assets include other government benefits receivable that whichis the higher of value-in-use and the fair value less costs to sell.
reflectsubsidies received from national governments for fuel sold Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense and is not aspart of the Groups ordinary course of business.
The following types of compensation are applicable to the Company: Shell Licence Agreement Licences Amounts due from to the government for oil purchased at higher The licences acquired grant the Company the exclusive right to lower prices than the price set by the local authority.
Where the distribute and market Shell products in the relevant countries.
oil purchasing price paid by the Group is higher than the price set The licences are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition by the local authorities, a receivable due from the government date and are carried forward at cost less accumulated amortisation is recognised by the Group to compensate for the higher price calculated using the straight-line method over the expected useful paid.
Similarly if the purchasing price of oil is lower than set price, lifeof 15 years.
a liability towards the government is recognised.
If collections Other intangible assets payments are expected in one year or less, the receivable Other intangible assets include Butagaz brand, LPG retail distributor liability are classified as current assets current liabilities.
If not, relationships and Commercial LPG customer relationships recognised they are presented as non-current assets non-current liabilities.
at their fair value allocated at acquisition date are subsequently measured As at 31 December 2018, this relates to Vivo Energy Botswana, at carrying amount less accumulated amortisation calculated using the Senegal, Morocco, Madagascar and Guinea.
straight-line method over the expected useful life of ten years.
Amounts due from to the government for transport costs Other intangible assets also include acquired computer software incurred to encourage marketers to distribute products to remote licences that are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to areas ofthe country.
The government has introduced a pricing acquire and bring to use the specific software.
These costs are mechanism whereby if the Group only delivers to local areas, then amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful a liability requiring payment to the government will be recognised.
If the Group delivers to remote areas then a receivable owing from the government will be due.
If collections payments are expected in one year or less, the receivable liability are classified as current assets current liabilities.
If not, they are presented as non-current assets non-current liabilities.
As at 31 December 2018, this relates to VivoEnergy Botswana, Senegal, Morocco and Guinea.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 115 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Financial instruments measured at amortised cost CONTINUED Except for debt instruments that are designated at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL on initial recognition, financial instruments that 2.13 Other government benefits receivable continued meet the following criteria are measured at amortised cost using the Other government benefits receivable are recognised initially effective interest method: at fair value, which represents the difference between the They are held within a business model whose objective is to hold market value if sold at arms length and the price set by the assets in order to collect contractual cash flows: and government.
Other government benefits receivable are The contractual terms of the instrument give rise on specified dates subsequently measured atamortised cost using the effective to cash flows that are solely payment of principal and interest on interestmethod.
Initial recognitionand any subsequent adjustments the principal amount outstanding.
are recognised within cost of sales in the consolidated statement The amortised cost is reduced by impairment losses.
or expense, foreign exchange gains and losses and impairments are If a receivable is recognised as owing from the government and recognised in profit and loss.
The following financial assets and liabilities there is risk over the recoverability of that asset, then a provision are classified as measured at amortised cost: forimpairment will be recognised.
Cash and cash equivalents The Group transfers and derecognises other government receivables Cash and cash equivalents, on the statement of financial position and if either: for the purpose of the cash flow statement, includes cash on hand, The Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards in banks, placements held at call with banks and other short-term ofownership of the asset: or highly-liquid investments with maturities ofthree months or less.
The Group has neither transferred nor retained substantially Where the Group does not have the right of offset, bank overdrafts alltherisks and rewards of ownership of the asset and no are shown as borrowings in current liabilities on theconsolidated longerretains control of the asset.
Under the continuing involvement approach, the Group continues Trade receivables torecognise part of the asset.
The amount of the asset that continues Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for goods sold to be recognised is the maximum amount of the Groups exposure orservices performed in the ordinary course of business.
If collection tothat particular asset or its previous carrying amount, if lower.
is expected in one year or less or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer, they are classified as current assets.
If not, they are 2.14 Financial instruments presented as non-current assets.
Financial instruments consist of: Trade payables Financial assets, which include cash and cash equivalents, trade Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that receivables, lease receivables, employee and other advances, havebeen acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
equityinvestments and derivative financial instruments and Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is eligiblecurrent and non-current assets: and due within one year or less or in the normal operating cycle of Financial liabilities, which include long-term and short-term the business iflonger.
If not, they are presented as non-current loans and borrowings, bank overdrafts, trade payables, lease liabilities.
Where trade finance facilities are used to extend payment liabilities, derivative financial instruments and eligible current terms, these facilities arepresented as short-term borrowings andnon-current liabilities.
intheconsolidated statement of financial position.
Financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value plus, Borrowings for anitem not at fair value through profit and loss FVTPL, Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction transaction costs that are directly attributable to its acquisition or costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised issue.
Financial instruments are initially recognised when the Group cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
andthe redemption value is recognised in the consolidated statements Trade receivables are initially recognised when they are originated.
ofcomprehensive income over the period of the borrowings using Financial assets are derecognised when substantial risks and rewards theeffective interest method.
ofownership of the financial asset have been transferred.
In cases where substantial risks and rewards of ownership of the financial assets are neither transferred nor retained, financial assets are derecognised only when the Group has not retained control over the financial asset.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when its contractual obligations are discharged, cancelled or expired, and when its terms are modified and the cash flows are substantially different.
Subsequent to initial recognition financial instruments are measured asdescribed below.
116 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other assets and other liabilities 2.15 Impairment of financial assets Other assets such as employee loans, brand promotion fund The Group applies the expected credit loss ECL model for receivables, customer deposits and other liabilities are measured recognising impairment loss on financial assets measured at atamortised costusing the effective interest rate method.
Equity investments at fair value through other comprehensive ECL is the difference between the contractual cash flows and income FVTOCI the cashflows that the entity expects to receive discounted For equity investments not held for trading, the Group elected to  rate.
present subsequent changes in the investments fair value in other Loss allowances for financial assets other than trade receivables are comprehensive income.
The Group subsequently measures these measured at an amount equal to lifetime ECL.
Lifetime ECLs are the assets at fair value with fair value gains and losses recognised in ECLs that result from all possible default events over the expected life other comprehensive income and never reclassified to profit or loss.
ECL is computed based on a provision matrix, Dividends are recognised in profit or loss as other income when which takes into account historical credit loss experience adjusted for theGroups rightto receive payment is established.
Financial instruments measured at fair value through profit For trade receivables, ECL is measured at the amount equal to orloss FVTPL 12 months ECL unless there has been a significant increase in credit Instruments that are not measured at amortised cost or FVTOCI are risk from initial recognition, in which case those are measured measured at FVTPL.
These instruments are subsequently measured atlifetime ECL.
at fair value, with any gains or losses arising on re-measurement recognised in profit or loss.
The gain or loss on disposal is recognised 2.16 Share capital in profit or loss.
Financial instruments at FVTPL include derivative Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity Derivative financial instruments share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid is deducted The Group is exposed to foreign currency fluctuations on foreign from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the currency assets, liabilities, net investment in foreign operations and shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such ordinary shares are forecasted cash flows denominated in foreign currency.
subsequently reissued, any consideration received is included in equityattributable to the Companys equity holders.
The Group limits the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations byfollowing established risk management policies including the use 2.17 Non-controlling interest of derivatives.
The Group enters into derivative contracts where Non-controlling interests in the Groups equity are stated at the thecounterparty is primarily a bank.
non-controlling interests proportionate share of the net assets Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised and ofthecompanies concerned.
subsequently measured at fair value.
Attributable transaction costsarerecognised inprofit or loss as a cost.
2.18 Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised Changes in fair value of foreign currency derivative instruments asaliability in the Groups financial statements in the period in neitherdesignated as cash flow hedges nor hedges of net whichthe dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
investment in foreign operations are recognised in profit or loss and reported within foreign exchange gains, net within results 2.19 Share-based payments fromoperating activities.
The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share-based Changes in fair value and gains or losses on the settlement of foreign payments to employees via share and share option plans.
currency derivative financial instruments relating to borrowings, which Equity-settled share-based payments havenot been designated as hedges, are recorded in finance expense.
Equity-settled share-based payments arising from the Long-Term Changes in fair value and gains or losses on the settlement of foreign Incentive Plan LTIP and the IPO Share Award Plan are measured currency derivative financial instruments relating to operational at fair value excluding the effect of non-market vesting conditions transactions, which havenot been designated as hedges, are recorded at grant date.
The fair value determined at grant date is recognised inother income.
over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the shares Net investment hedges that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market When a non-derivative financial liability is designated as the hedging vesting conditions.
A corresponding increase in other reserves is instrument in a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, alsorecognised in equity.
theeffective portion of foreign exchange gains and losses is recognised in OCI and presented in currency translation reserve within equity.
Any ineffective portion of foreign exchange gains and losses is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The amount recognised inOCI is reclassified to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment ondisposal of the foreign operation.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 117 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The difference between the current oil prices at the end of CONTINUED November2015 and the oil prices in 1994 is accounted for as a non-current provision.
From 1 December 2015, the fuel market 2.19 Share-based payments continued inMorocco is deregulated.
Cash-settled share-based payments Legal and other provisions Cash-settled share-based payments arising from the Vivo Energy Legal and other provisions include provisions for environmental and SVL Management Equity Plans are recognised as an expense restoration, restructuring costs and legal claims.
Provisions are not over the vesting period, measured by reference to the fair value recognised for future operating losses.
ofthe corresponding liability which is recognised in the consolidated statements of financial position.
The liability is measured at fair value Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that at each reporting date until settlement, with changes in fair value anoutflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering recognised in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income.
the class of obligations as a whole.
Post-employment obligations 2.20 Leases The Group operates various post-employment schemes, including Leases are included in right-of-use ROU assets and lease liabilities both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans and onthe Groups consolidated statement of financial position.
ROU assets and lease liabilities are recognised based on the present Pension obligations value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the commencement date.
As most of the leases do not provide an implicit Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group rate, the Group uses the incremental borrowing rate based on the has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions information available at commencement date in determining the if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees present value of future payments.
The ROU asset also includes any the benefits relating toemployee service in the current and prior lease payments made and excludes lease incentives and initial direct periods.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a defined costs incurred.
The lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions lease when it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised.
topublicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on Lease expense for minimum lease payments is recognised on a a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no straight-line basis over the lease term.
further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Lease agreements with lease and non-lease components are generally The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when accounted for separately.
For certain instances where it is impractical they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to to separate the lease from the non-lease component, the Group will the extent that a cash refund ora reduction in the future payments account for them as a single lease component.
Additionally, the Group is available.
applies a portfolio approach to effectively account for the ROU assets Typically defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit and liabilities.
that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on oneormore factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
2.21 Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or The liability recognised in the consolidated statements of financial constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that position in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present anoutflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting andareliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
period less the fair value of plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures unit credit method.
Full actuarial valuation was performed for all expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate the defined benefit plans.
The present value of the defined benefit that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash and the risks specific to the obligation.
The increase in the provision outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are due to passage of time is recognised as finance expense.
denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and Compulsory stock provision that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related The compulsory stock provision relates to amounts due to the pension obligation.
In countries where there is no deep market in government in Morocco for cash received to fund the compulsory suchbonds, the market rates on government bonds are used.
stock obligation CSO as required according to the local authority.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and The cash received in 1994 was based on the CSO-levels and the oil changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity price at that time.
This amount due to the government is classified in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
as anon-current liability in Other liabilities in the consolidated Current and past service costs are recognised immediately in profit statements of financial position.
Net finance expense income will be calculated as the product of the net defined liability asset and the discount rate as determined atthe beginning of the year and is included in net finance expense inthe statement of comprehensive income.
118 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Defined benefit scheme characteristics and funding 2.22 Current and deferred income tax The Group operates multiple post-employment defined benefit The income tax expense for the period comprises current and schemes for its employees in two thirds of its operating countries.
Income tax is recognised in the consolidated statements The multiple pension schemes provide the employees with a of comprehensive income, except to the extent that it relates to items pension or lump sum retirement benefit where the exact pension recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
In this paymentsonretirement differ per scheme.
For some operating case, the income tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income companies mainly Ghana and Cape Verde there is an additional or directly in equity, respectively.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws Approximately 68% of the total defined benefit obligations are enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date in the countries unfunded.
The other 32% of the total defined benefit obligations where the Company and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable are funded.
The funded plan relates to the pension schemes income.
The Group periodically evaluates positions taken or intended in Mauritius.
The funded plans are legally separate from the to be taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable Groupandadministered by a separate fund and comply with tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
It accounts for uncertain tax localregulatory and legal requirements.
positions where appropriate on thebasisof amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
The schemes are exposed to a number of risks, including: Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, on Investment risk: movement of discount rate used high-quality temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and corporate bonds against the return from plan assets.
If plan liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial assetsunderperform against the yield then this will create a deficit: statements.
However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised Interest rate risk: decreases increases in the discount rate used iftheyarise from the initial recognition of goodwill.
Deferred income high-quality corporate bonds will increase decrease the defined tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset benefit obligation: orliability in a transaction other than a business combination that Longevity risk: changes in the estimation of mortality rates of atthe time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable current and former employees: and profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates Salary risk: increases in future salaries increase the gross defined andlaws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the benefit obligation.
reporting date and are expected to apply when the related deferred Other post-employment obligations income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability Some Group companies provide post-retirement healthcare is settled.
The entitlement to these benefits is usually Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that conditional onthe employee remaining in service up to retirement age itisprobable that future taxable profit will be available against which and the completion of a minimum service period.
The expected costs the temporary differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment using can be utilised.
The criteria considered when recognising deferred the same accounting methodology as used for defined benefit pension income tax assets includes: plans.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to The existence of taxable temporary differences that relate to the equity in othercomprehensive income in the period inwhich same taxation authority and same taxable entity, and they arise.
These obligations are valued annually by independent The expected future taxable profits and tax planning opportunities.
In case of a history of recent losses, it has been considered whether other convincing evidence is available to support the recognition Termination benefits ofthe deferred income tax assets.
Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising anemployee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these oninvestments in subsidiaries and associates, except for deferred benefits.
The Group recognises termination benefits at the earlier income tax liability where the timing of the reversal of the temporary of the following dates: a when the Group can no longer withdraw difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the the offer of those benefits: and b when the entity recognises costs temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
for a restructuring that is within the scope of IAS 37 Provisions and Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a involves the payment of termination benefits.
In the case of an offer legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current made to encourage voluntary redundancy, the termination benefits tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured based on the number of employees expected to accept relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on theoffer.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the end eitherthesame taxable entity or different taxable entities where ofthereporting period are discounted to their present value.
there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 119 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 3.1 Financial instruments by category The table below sets out the Groups classification of each class of financial assets and financial liabilities and their fair values for the current year and the comparative year: 31 December 2018 Financial Financial Total Financial assets at assets at assets at carrying US $000 amortised cost FVTPL FVTOCI value Fair value Financial assets 1 Trade receivables 443,645 443,645 443,645 Cash and cash equivalents 392,853 392,853 392,853 Financial assets at FVTOCI 7,626 7,626 7,626 2 Other assets 92,922 92,922 92,922 Other financial assets 3,254 3,254 3,254 Total 929,420 3,254 7,626 940,300 940,300 1 Trade receivables include credit secured receivables of $197m.
2 Other assets note 16 exclude the following elements that do not qualify as financial instruments: prepayments, VAT and duties receivable and other government benefits receivable.
31 December 2018 Financial liabilities Total measured at carrying US $000 amortised cost value Fair value Financial liabilities Trade payables 1,060,528 1,060,528 1,060,528 Borrowings 600,167 600,167 600,167 1 Other liabilities 219,582 219,582 219,582 Lease liabilities 110,850 110,850 110,850 Total 1,991,127 1,991,127 1,991,127 1 Other liabilities note 26 exclude the following elements that do not qualify as financial instruments: other tax payable and deferred income.
31 December 2017 Financial Financial Total Financial assets at assets at assets at carrying US $000 amortised cost FVTPL FVTOCI value Fair value Financial assets 1 Trade receivables 412,181 412,181 412,181 Cash and cash equivalents 422,494 422,494 422,494 Financial assets at FVTOCI 6,314 6,314 6,314 2 Other assets 87,473 87,473 87,473 Total 922,148 6,314 928,462 928,462 1 Trade receivables include credit secured receivables of $135m.
31 December 2017 Financial liabilities Total measured at carrying US $000 amortised cost value Fair value Financial liabilities Trade payables 868,521 868,521 868,521 Borrowings 655,191 655,191 655,191 1 Other liabilities 248,495 248,495 248,495 Lease liabilities 133,757 133,757 133,757 Other financial liabilities 664 664 664 Total 1,906,628 1,906,628 1,906,628 1 Other liabilities note 26 exclude the following elements that do not qualify as financial instruments: other tax payable and deferred income.
120 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Group has classified equity investments as financial instruments Cash flow interest rate risk and fair value interest rate risk atFVTOCI without recycling.
These investments are measured using The Groups interest rate risk arises from borrowings.
It is Group inputs for the asset or liability that are in absence of observable market policy to have short-term loan facilities at floating rate and medium data, based on net asset value of the related investments level 3 in the to long-term facilities at floating or fixed rate.
Swap from floating IFRS 13 fair value measurement hierarchy.
Because the value is based tofixed is possible when there is a clear economic benefit, subject on the net asset value of the related investments, no sensitivity analysis to Group Treasurys approval.
The Group has long-term borrowing is presented.
facilities which carry variable interest rates and therefore the Group is exposed to a cash flow interest rate risk as at 31 December 2018.
3.2 Financial risk factors The Group also has some short-term overdraft facilities which carry The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: a fixed interest rate exposing the Group to fair value interest rate marketrisk including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk, risk.
But given that the rate is fixed for a short period of time, and that cashflow interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk and liquidity these facilities terms are subject to renegotiation should interest rate risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses move, the exposure is minimal.
At 31 December 2018, if interest rates on theunpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise on US dollar-denominated and Euro-denominated borrowings had potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
been one hundred basis point higher lower with all other variables held constant, the calculated post-tax profit for the year would have Market risk been $5m 2017: $2m higher lower, mainly as a result of higher lower Foreign exchange risk finance expense on floating rate borrowings.
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily withrespect Credit risk to the US dollar.
Foreign exchange risk arises from futurecommercial Credit risk is managed on a Group basis, except for credit risk relating transactions and recognised assets and liabilities.
Each local entity is responsible for managing and analysing the credit risk for each of their new clients Management has set up a policy to require Group companies to before standard payment and delivery terms and conditions are manage their foreign exchange risk.
Group treasury is required offered.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, as well to approve all hedging plans before execution.
The Group has as credit exposures to wholesale and retail customers, including anumber of natural hedges in place, where the timing of foreign outstanding receivables and committed transactions.
The maximum currency payments is matched with the receipts in a similar currency.
exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value Forward contracts are used to manage the foreign exchange risk ofeach class of receivables.
All external customers must have their identity checked and credit Foreign currency exposure on the consolidated net monetary worthiness assessed and approved prior to the signing of a binding position is $274m 2017: $166m.
Other monetary balances in agreement or contract.
Credit worthiness is assessed for all customer othercurrencies are not material.
If the non-US dollar held currency based on commercial data, but also considers financial data when a had weakened strengthened by 10% against the US dollar with all credit limit exceeds $15,000.
The utilisation of credit limits is regularly other variables heldconstant, pre-tax profit for the year would have monitored and checks performed on outstanding debt at regular been $27m 2017: $17m lower higher, mainly as a result of foreign intervals.
Where the environment allows, security bank guarantees exchangegains losses on translation of non-US dollar denominated will be taken to secure the Groups exposure.
For banks and financial receivables and payables.
institutions, management of the operating entity are responsible for Price risk making the short-term placements with the banks after approval The Group generally seeks to manage its exposure to commodity fromGroup Treasury.
pricerisk through careful inventory management and as at The investment policy is based in order of importance on security, 31 December 2018 the Group was not significantly exposed to liquidity and yield.
Management will assess the counterparty risks commodity price risk.
In regulated markets, the Group has no price ofthe third party based on financial strength, quality of management, exposure as long as the sale of the inventory is matching the timing ownership structure, regulatory environment and overall ofthe price structures updates, however in unregulated markets, diversification.
Group Treasury is required to approve all investment suchas Marine and Aviation, the Group may be exposed to price decisions to ensure they are made in line with the Groupscredit changes in the short-term if inventory is not carefully managed.
The Group hasprovided secured loans to individual The Group does not hold equity securities for trading and is, therefore, employees note 16. not exposed to price risk.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group is exposed to credit risk In Botswana, Guinea, Madagascar, Senegal and Morocco the Group in relation to other government benefits receivables mainly in is financially compensated by the local government for the effect Botswana, Morocco, Madagascar, Senegal and Guinea.
The Morocco of these price restrictions.
For further information see note 3.2 funds of $27m 2017: $31m relate to compensation provided by Credit risk.
For some countries such as Senegal the transport the government for setting the price of butane on sales to retail costsare subsidised.
These other government benefits receivable are partially provided for, the total provision amounted to $15m at 31 December 2018 2017: $18m.
Management believes that the credit risk in relation tothese balances note 16 is relatively low.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 121 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED 3.2 Financial risk factors continued portion of the risk has been transferred.
A continuous involvement liability of $0.5m 2017: $0.5m was recognised.
In addition, other In Morocco customer receivables to the amount of $24m government benefits receivable to the amount of $44.7m were 2017:$27m were assigned to Attijariwafa Factoring subsidiary of assigned to Banque Centrale Populaire, the assigned amount was Attijariwafa Bank, the assigned amount was received in cash and the received in cash and the corresponding receivable was derecognised.
corresponding receivable was derecognised and with regard to the With regard to the late payment risk, the Group capped the exposure late payment risk, the Group capped the exposure to six months to 5.5 months maximum of interest at a rate of 3.79% per annum.
maximum of interest at a rate of 4.70% per annum.
This resulted in A continuous involvement liability of $0.7m was recognised.
acontinuous involvement accounting treatment where a substantial The tables below show the balances of the major counterparties at the reporting dates: 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Credit rating US $000 Credit rating US $000 Banks Bank 1 A 57,812 AAA 198,132 Bank 2 Af 46,012 A1 12,873 Bank 3 BB 44,696 None available 7,641 Other government benefits receivable Botswana government A 33,353 A 20,002 Senegal government B 30,236 B 4,333 Morocco government BBB 27,370 BBB 31,499 Guinea government None available 10,660 None available 10,897 Madagascar government None available 9,974 None available 1,076 Liquidity risk Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities.
Due to the cyclical nature of the underlying businesses, the directors aim to maintain flexibility in funding by keeping committed credit lines available.
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity reserve on the basis of expected cash flow.
This is generally carried out at local level in the operating companies of the Group in accordance with practice and limits set by Group policies.
Where short-term liquidity is needed, the operating entities organise short-term facilities to cover the deficit which have to be authorised by Group Treasury.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the reporting date tothe contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
2 Other liabilities note 26 exclude the following elements that do not qualify as financial instruments: other tax payable and deferred income.
122 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2017 Between Less than 3 months Between 1 Between 2 Over US $000 3 months and 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years Total Borrowings 175,302 83,948 83,948 316,529 659,727 Trade payables 832,104 36,417 868,521 Lease liabilities 4,846 14,540 17,217 49,906 55,712 142,221 1 Other liabilities 20,761 23,457 16,833 73,488 113,956 248,495 Total 1,033,013 158,362 117,998 439,923 169,668 1,918,964 1 Other liabilities note 26 exclude the following elements that do not qualify as financial instruments: other tax payable and deferred income.
Net investment hedge Foreign currency exposure arises from the Groups net investment in its several subsidiaries that have the Cape Verde Escudo CVE and theCFA Franc XOF functional currency, both currencies being 100% pegged to the Euro EUR.
Therefore the risk arises from fluctuation inspotexchange rates between these currencies or the EUR and the US dollar, which causes the amount of the net investment to vary.
The hedged risk in the net investment hedge is the risk of a weakening the CVE and the XOF currencies or the EUR against the US dollar whichwill result in a reduction in the carrying amount of the Groups net investment in these foreign operations.
Part of the Groups net investment in those subsidiaries is hedged by a EUR denominated secured bank loan carrying amount: $124m 2017:$157m, which mitigates the foreign currency risk arising from the revaluation of the subsidiarys net assets.
The loan is designated asahedging instrument for the changes in the value of the net investment that is attributable to changes in the spot rate.
To assess hedge effectiveness, the Group determines the economic relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item bycomparing changes in the carrying amount of the debt that is attributable to a change in the spot rate with changes in the investment intheforeign operation due to movements in the spot rate the offset method.
The Groups policy is to hedge the net investment only totheextentof the debt principal.
The amounts related to items designated as hedging instruments were as follows: 31 December 2018 Carrying amount Line item in the statement of financial position where the hedging US $000 Nominal amount Assets Liabilities instrument is included Foreign exchange denominated debt 175,000 124,346 Borrowings Change in value Change in value Hedge ineffectiveness Line item in profit used for calculating of hedging instrument recognised in or loss that includes hedge for 2018 recognised in OCI profit or loss hedge ineffectiveness Foreign exchange denominated debt 6,638 6,638 Not applicable 31 December 2017 Carrying amount Line item in the statement of financial position where the hedging US $000 Nominal amount Assets Liabilities instrument is included Foreign exchange denominated debt 175,000 156,725 Borrowings Change in value Change in value Hedge ineffectiveness Line item in profit used for calculating of hedging instrument recognised in or loss that includes hedge for 2017 recognised in OCI profit or loss hedge ineffectiveness Foreign exchange denominated debt 10,205 10,205 Not applicable VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 123 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED 3.3 Capital management The Group capital management objective is to maintain a commercially sound consolidated statements of financial position with the aim of maximising the net cash return to the shareholders, whilst maintaining a level of capitalisation that is commercially defensible and which leads toan effective and optimised working capital structure.
The Group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio.
This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total capital.
Net debt is calculated as total borrowings and lease liabilities including current and noncurrent borrowings and lease liabilities as shown in theconsolidated statements of financial position less cash and cash equivalents.
Total capital is calculated as equity as shown in the consolidated statements of financial position plus net debt.
31 December 31 December US $000 2018 2017 Total borrowings and lease liabilities notes 23 & 27 711,017 788,948 Less: cash and cash equivalents note 19 392,853 422,494 Net debt 318,164 366,454 Total equity 581,331 447,621 Total capital 899,495 814,075 Gearing ratio 0.35 0.45 124 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year.
This is the interest rate that should be used to determine 4.1 Accounting judgements the present value of the estimated future cash outflows expected In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, management to be required to settle the pension obligations.
In determining the has made the following judgements, apart from those involving appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the interest rates of estimates, which have the most significant effect on the amounts government bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the recognised in the consolidated financial statements: benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension obligation.
Accounting for leases under IFRS 16 In establishing the lease term for each lease contract that has an option Other key assumptions for pension obligations are based in part to extend, judgement has been applied to determine the extension on current market conditions.
Additional information is disclosed period.
When it is concluded that it is reasonably certain that the innote25.
The assumptions are reviewed annually.
extension option will be utilised, the lease term is extended to include Goodwill impairment assessment the reasonably certain period of five years.
The lease agreements have The Group annually tests whether goodwill has suffered any the option to extend the leases and the option to terminate the leases.
impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated in The extension options in different contracts vary between five years note 2.10.
In 2012 goodwill was recognised in relation to the wave tounlimited period.
The Group uses significant assumptions that all 2 completion, comprising Guinea, Burkina Faso and Cte d'Ivoire.
ofthe existing leases, that are expiring within the following five years, In 2013 goodwill was recognised in relation to the wave 6 completion, that have an extension option, will be extended for an additional five comprising Ghana.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill years period, when determining the lease term.
was allocated to each country which represents the lowest level In addition, IFRS 16 requires lease payments to be discounted using within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal theinterest rate implicit in the lease.
In case the interest rate implicit management purposes.
in the lease cannot be readily determined, the incremental borrowing The recoverable amount of each cash generating unit was determined rate should be used.
That is the rate of interest that a lessee would based on a value in use calculation which was based upon free cash have to pay to borrow over a similar value to the right-of-use asset flows in their local currencies from the five-year strategic plan in a similar economic environment.
Accordingly, the Group elected prepared for each cash generating unit.
The terminal value was to use the local borrowing rates for each operating unit at the estimated based upon a perpetuity growth rate of 2%, reflecting an commencement date.
That is the rate at which local operating units inflationary level of growth beyond the five-year plan.
A cost of capital would need to borrow to acquire the asset.
For additional details based upon a weighted average cost of capital WACC in a range relating to leases refer to note 27. of16%-17.5% was used to discount the free cash flows denominated Deferred tax position intheir respective currencies.
Recognition of deferred tax assets requires assessment of when Based upon the goodwill impairment test, goodwill is not impaired.
those assets are likely to reverse and judgement on the availability For goodwill to be impaired, the WACC would have to increase to of sufficient taxable profits upon reversal.
are recognised only to the extent it is considered probable that thoseassets will be recoverable.
The deferred tax assets as at Government related assets and liabilities 31 December 2018 are $36m 2017: $43m as presented in note 10.
The Company has various assets from and liabilities to governments Deferred taxassets recorded are re-assessed at each period.
and authorities with respect to government benefits receivable as well as for taxes and duties.
The Group constantly assesses underlying 4.2 Estimation uncertainty inherent risks andassumptions and as a consequence related The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources accounting estimates are determined and adjustments are made to of estimation uncertainty at the end of the reporting period, that the carrying amounts of those assets and liabilities, where necessary.
have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying Refer to note 3.2 relating to credit risk.
amounts of the assets and liabilities within the next financial year are Tax positions discussed below.
Determining the Groups income tax positions requires interpretation Retirement benefit obligations of the tax laws in numerous jurisdictions.
Resolution of tax positions The present value of the pension obligations depends on a number taken can take several years to complete and can be difficult to predict.
of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number Therefore, judgement is required to determine the Groups income tax of assumptions.
The assumptions used in determining the net cost liability.
Judgemental areas are in particular transfer pricing and expenses income for pensions include the discount rate.
Any changes in these deductible for tax purposes.
When it is considered probable that assumptions will impact the carrying amount of pension obligations.
there will be a future income tax liability to a tax authority, a provision is recorded for the amount that is expected to be settled ifthis can be reasonably estimated.
Income tax provisions are re-assessed each period.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 125 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5.
SEGMENT REPORTING The Group operates under three reportable segments: Retail, Commercial and Lubricants.
Retail segment Retail fuel is aggregated with Non-fuel retail.
Both the operating segments derive revenue from retail customers who visit ourretail sites.
Retail fuel and Non-fuel revenues are aggregated as the segments are managed as one unit and have similar customers.
The economic indicators that have been addressed in determining that the aggregated segments have similar economic characteristics are thatthey have similar expected future financial performance and similar operating and competitive risks.
Commercial segment Commercial fuel, LPG, Aviation and Marine are aggregated in the Commercial segment as the operating segments derive revenues from commercial customers.
The segments have similar economic characteristics.
The economic indicators that have been addressed are the long-term growth and average long-term gross margin percentage.
Lubricants segment Retail, B2C, B2B and Export Lubricants are the remaining operating segments.
Since these operating segments meet themajority of aggregation criteria, they are aggregated in the Lubricants segment.
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision makers.
The Directors monitor the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation, segment performance assessment and interacting with segment managers.
The following tables present revenues and profit information regarding the Groups operating segments: 2018 US $000 Retail Commercial Lubricants Consolidated Revenue from external customers 4,860,533 2,325,053 363,732 7,549,318 Gross profit 392,934 163,256 68,197 624,387 Add back: depreciation and amortisation 35,025 17,993 2,223 55,241 Gross cash profit 427,959 181,249 70,420 679,628 Adjusted EBITDA 226,977 122,205 51,026 400,208 2017 Retail Commercial Lubricants Consolidated US $000 Revenue from external customers 4,363,068 1,990,892 339,555 6,693,515 Gross profit 396,397 144,630 72,894 613,921 Add back: depreciation and amortisation 33,037 16,971 2,097 52,105 Gross cash profit 429,434 161,601 74,991 666,026 Adjusted EBITDA 227,026 106,978 42,124 376,128 US $000 2018 2017 Share of profit of joint ventures and associates included in segment EBITDA Retail 8,215 9,602 Commercial 6,663 6,740 Lubricants 13,392 Total 28,270 16,342 126 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The amount of revenues from external customers by location of the customers is shown in the table below.
RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP MEASURES Non-GAAP measures are not defined by International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and therefore may not be directly comparable with other companies non-GAAP measures, including those in the Groups industry.
Non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, and are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measurements.
The exclusion of certain items special items from non-GAAP performance measures does not imply that these items are necessarily non-recurring.
From time to time, we may exclude additional items ifwebelieve doing so would result in a more transparent and comparable disclosure.
The Directors believe that reporting non-GAAP financial measures in addition to IFRS measures, as well as the exclusion of special items, provides users with enhanced understanding of results and related trends and increases the transparency and clarity of the core results of operations.
Non-GAAP measures are used by the Directors and management for performance analysis, planning, reporting and are key management performance measures.
The Group defines Headline earnings as earnings based on net income attributable to owners of the Group, before items of a capital nature, net of income tax as required for companies listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
Further explanations of all non-GAAP measures canbefound on page 47-48 in the Strategic Report.
US $000 2018 2017 EBIT 275,510 241,914 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 90,445 84,178 EBITDA 365,955 326,092 Adjustments to EBITDA related to special items: 1 IPO and Engen acquisition related expenses 29,340 2 Restructuring 16,923 8,539 Management Equity Plan 12,010 41,497 Adjusted EBITDA 400,208 376,128 1 In May 2018, the Company became listed on the London Stock Exchange Main Market for listed securities and the Main Board of the JSE Limited by way of secondary inward listing.
All IPO-related expenses are considered to be special items.
Furthermore, on 4 December 2017, the Company agreed to enter into a sale and purchase agreement with Engen Holdings Pty Limited Engen Holdings, a 100% subsidiary of Engen Limited, in relation to the purchase of shares in Engen International Holdings Mauritius Limited Engen International Holdings Limited for the exchange of a shareholding in Vivo Energy, with a cash element.
Related integration project expenses are treated as special items.
2 Restructuring expenses relate to further optimising the organisation and are substantial in scope and impact and do not form part of the underlying core operational activities.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 127 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 6.
RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP MEASURES CONTINUED US $000 2018 2017 Net income 146,059 129,653 Adjustments to net income related to special items: 1 IPO and Engen acquisition related expenses 29,340 2 Restructuring 16,923 8,539 Management Equity Plan 12,010 41,497 Tax on special items 2,600 9,097 Adjusted net income 177,712 170,592 US $ 2018 2017 Diluted EPS 0.11 52.34 Impact of special items 0.03 17.90 3 Adjusted diluted EPS 0.14 70.24 1 In May 2018, the Company became listed on the London Stock Exchange Main Market for listed securities and the Main Board of the JSE Limited by way of secondary inward listing.
3 Refer to the general information note 1.
US $000, unless otherwise indicated 2018 2017 Headline Earnings Per Share Net income attributable to owners 135,155 119,717 Re-measurements: Net gain on disposal of PP&E and intangible assets 1,810 1,573 Income tax on re-measurements 476 475 Headline Earnings 133,821 118,619 1 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 1,201,798,866 2,250,000 2 Headline EPS US $ 0.11 52.72 1 Diluted number of shares 1,201,798,866 2,287,433 2 Diluted headline EPS US $ 0.11 51.86 Effective Tax Rate 36% 38% 1 Weighted average number of ordinary shares and diluted number of shares for year ended 31 December 2018 relate to Vivo Energy plc and for the year ended 31 December 2017 toVivo Energy Holding B. V. 2 Refer to general information note 1.
128 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7.
GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE COST Employee benefits US $000 2018 2017 Wages, salaries and other employee benefits 157,455 145,917 1 Restructuring, severance and other involuntary termination costs 13,829 8,539 Retirement benefits 7,036 6,254 2 Share-based expense 2,525 41,497 175,795 202,207 1 Total restructuring costs amount to $16.9m of which some elements are reflected in other employee benefits categories.
2 Share-based expense includes a fair value adjustment for the former management equity plan and the SVL management equity plan.
Included in the employee benefit expense for the year ended 31 December 2018, was social security expense of $2.3m 2017: $0.9m and other pension costs of $0.2m 2017: $0.2m relating to employees employed in the UK.
Employee benefits have been charged in: US $000 2018 2017 General and administrative cost 102,093 123,051 Selling and marketing cost 42,113 45,088 Cost of sales 31,589 34,068 175,795 202,207 The number of average full-time equivalent employees was as follows: 2018 2017 Sales and distribution 1,702 1,711 Administration and support 657 638 2,359 2,349 Depreciation and amortisation Depreciation of property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets and amortisation of intangible assets are separately disclosed in note 11, 27and 12 respectively.
Audit fees US $000 2018 2017 Parent company and consolidated financial statements 1,036 714 1 Subsidiaries 765 756 Audit fees 1,801 1,470 2 Audit-related fees 1,149 335 3 Tax advisory fees 34 Tax compliance fees 28 4 Other assurance services 1,895 1,912 Other fees total 3,106 2,247 Total fees 4,907 3,717 1 Audit fees for foreign entities are expressed at the average exchange rate for the year.
2 Audit-related fees in relation to interim financial statements reviews and brand fees reporting.
3 Tax advisory fees relate to advisory engagements.
4 Other assurance services relate mainly to the IPO.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 129 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 8.
OTHER INCOME EXPENSE US $000 2018 2017 Net gain on disposals of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 1,810 1,573 Loss on financial instruments 813 1,784 Other income 1,772 2,897 2,769 2,686 9.
FINANCE INCOME AND EXPENSE US $000 2018 2017 Finance expense 1 Interest on bank and other borrowings and on lease liability 26,695 20,368 Interest on long-term debt including amortisation of set-up fees 18,776 10,816 Foreign exchange loss 2,426 Accretion expense net defined benefit liability 2,177 2,176 Other 2,179 3,200 52,253 36,560 Finance income Interest from cash and cash equivalents 6,145 4,644 Foreign exchange gain 779 6,145 5,423 Finance expense net 46,108 31,137 1 Includes an amount of $10m 2017: $10m finance expense for leases in respect to IFRS 16 Leases.
INCOME TAXES Current income taxes Analysis of income tax expense: US $000 2018 2017 Current tax Current income tax 76,779 90,704 Current income tax prior years 2,311 2,278 79,090 88,426 Deferred tax Deferred income tax 3,282 10,036 Deferred income tax prior years 971 2,734 4,253 7,302 Income tax expense 83,343 81,124 130 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The reconciliation of income taxes, computed at the statutory rate, to income tax expense was as follows: US $000 2018 2017 EBT 229,402 210,777 Statutory tax rate1 19% 25% Income tax expense at statutory rate 43,586 52,694 Increase decrease resulting from: Impact of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 20,632 5,478 Income not subject to tax 10,340 7,153 Expenses not tax deductible 264 11,100 Non-recognition of tax benefits in relation to current period tax losses or temporary differences 3,588 3,222 Recognition and utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses or temporary differences 141 927 Tax rate changes 182 Withholding tax 21,583 20,293 Other 3,989 3,583 Income tax expense 83,343 81,124 Effective tax rate 36% 38% 1 The statutory tax rate changed from 25% in 2017 to 19% in 2018 due to the ultimate parent entity being a tax resident in the United Kingdom in 2018 formerly The Netherlands.
Deferred income taxes The significant components of the Companys deferred income tax assets and liabilities were as follows: 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Asset Liability Asset Liability US $000 1 Tax losses carried forward 19,530 19,941 Intangible assets 20,492 23,216 Retirement benefits 9,088 1,015 10,637 1,026 Property, plant and equipment 551 17,143 491 14,906 Provisions 27,180 30,077 Withholding taxes 15,985 16,500 Other 13,741 11,150 11,049 5,796 70,090 65,785 72,195 61,444 Offsetting of balances 14,579 14,579 10,056 10,056 2 Unrecognised deferred tax asset 19,137 19,512 36,374 51,206 42,627 51,388 1 The recognised deferred tax asset relates to $6.6m tax losses which is supported by expected positive results in coming years.
2 The unrecognised deferred tax assets mainly relate to tax losses $19m 2017: $19m.
The changes in the net deferred income tax assets and liabilities were as follows: US $000 2018 2017 Balance at the beginning of year, net 8,761 15,513 In profit 4,253 7,302 In other comprehensive income 750 713 Other 1,742 769 Foreign exchange differences 674 606 14,832 8,761 The unrecognised carry forward losses at 31 December 2018 amount to $86m 2017: $77m.
$17m will expire at the end of 2021, $17m at the end of 2022, $15m at the end of 2023 and $37m at the end of 2024 or later.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 131 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 11.
Depreciation charge of $60m 2017: $56m is included in cost of sales for $52m 2017: $49m, insellingand marketing costs for $1m 2017: $1m and in general and administrative cost for $7m 2017: $6m.
132 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12.
Other also includes acquired and internally generated software costs note 2.10.
A goodwill impairment test was performed and did not result in an impairment.
The Group monitors goodwill impairment at country level, being the cash generating unit CGU and tests whether goodwill has suffered anyimpairment on an annual basis.
The recoverable amount of the CGU is determined based on value-in-use calculations which require theuseof assumptions.
These calculations use cash flow projections based on approved financial budgets covering a five-year period.
The methodology applied to each of the key assumptions used are as follows: Assumptions Approach used to determine values Average volumes over the five-year forecast period: based on past performance and management Volumes expectations of market developments.
Budgeted average gross margin Based on past performance and management expectations of the future.
Based on specific risks relating to the industry and country.
Factors considered for the industry include Pre-tax discount rate regulatory environment, market competition, and barriers to entry.
The Group considers the discount rate to be the most sensitive assumption.
No impairment would occur, if the pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flow projection of each CGU had been 0.5% higher than management estimates and all other assumptions in the table above are unchanged.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 133 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 13.
INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES US $000 2018 2017 At 1 January 218,801 50,709 Acquisition of businesses 547 160,173 Share of profit 28,270 16,342 Dividend received 23,343 9,497 Foreign exchange differences 823 1,074 At 31 December 223,452 218,801 The acquisition of investment in December 2017 related to the acquisition of Shell and Vivo Lubricants B. V. SVL that is considered a material investment to the Group.
SVL is the principal supplier of manufacturing, sales and distribution for lubricants products in Africa.
SVL was acquired by purchasing from HV Investments B. V. all its shares held in SVL.
The investment is a joint venture investment andmeasured using the equity method.
SVL is jointly owned by Vivo Energy Investments B. V. 50% and Shell Overseas Investments B. V. 50%.
The total assets of SVL as per 31 December 2018 are $234m 2017: $256m, of which $153m 2017: $169m relates to current including cash andcash equivalents of $23m 2017: $27m and $81m 2017: $87m to non-current assets.
The current liabilities are $79m 2017: $96m including borrowings of $21m 2017: $10m and non-current liabilities are $6m 2017: $13m.
The revenue for the year ending 31 December 2018 was $287m 2017: $286m, and profit after income tax was $22m 2017: $29m.
The 2018 profit includes amortisation and depreciation of$8m 2017: $8m and net finance expense of $2m 2017: $0.3m.
The carrying value of SVL includes a notional goodwill of $96m calculated as the difference between the cost of the investment and the investors share of the fair values of the investees identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
Since the notional goodwill is not shown asaseparate asset, itisnot required to be separately tested for impairment, nor does it trigger an annual impairment test.
There are no contingent liabilities relating to the Groups investments in joint ventures and associates.
FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME US $000 2018 2017 At 1 January 6,314 6,053 Fair value adjustment 1,204 165 Foreign exchange differences 108 96 At 31 December 7,626 6,314 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income are categorised as level 3 of the fair value hierarchy and are the only level 3 financial assets within the Group.
There have been no transfers between any levels during the year.
OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Other financial assets and liabilities are derivative instruments comprising forward foreign exchange contracts and interest hedge contracts with a fair value of $3m 2017: $ 1 m. A loss of $1m on changes in fair value has been recognised in other income expense 2017: loss of $2m.
Other financial assets and liabilities at fair value through other income are categorised as level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
There have been notransfers between any levels during the year.
134 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16.
2 The amount mainly comprises of items such as customer related deposits, other non-current receivables and loans to dealers.
Other government benefits receivable 31 December 31 December US $000 2018 2017 Botswana 33,353 20,002 Senegal 30,236 4,333 Morocco 27,370 31,499 Guinea 10,660 10,897 Madagascar 9,974 1,076 Other 11,498 3,941 123,091 71,748 For the year $234m 2017: $163m of other government benefits was recognised in cost of sales for compensation of costs incurred.
INVENTORIES 31 December 31 December US $000 2018 2017 Fuel 364,120 276,680 Lubricants 70,070 69,773 Other 6,577 6,676 440,767 353,129 Cost of sales as disclosed on the face of the consolidated statements of comprehensive income include the total expense for inventory during the year for $6,719m 2017: $5,869m.
The carrying value of inventory represents the net realisable value.
Provisions for write-downs of inventories to the net realisable value amounted to $5m as per 31 December 2018 2017: $5m.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 135 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 18.
TRADE RECEIVABLES Trade receivables were as follows, as at: 31 December 31 December US $000 2018 2017 Trade receivables 484,235 451,937 Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables 40,590 39,756 Trade receivables net 443,645 412,181 The fair values of trade receivables approximate their carrying value as they are deemed short-term in their nature and recoverable within 12 months.
Movements on provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: US $000 2018 2017 At 1 January 39,756 36,733 Additions 6,425 7,019 Reversals 3,800 5,418 Utilisation 363 816 Foreign exchange differences 1,428 2,238 At 31 December 40,590 39,756 As at 31 December 2018 trade receivables of $29m 2017: $29m were past due but not impaired.
The aging of these trade receivables is as follows: 31 December 31 December US $000 2018 2017 Up to 3 months past due 20,750 12,993 3 to 6 months past due 2,528 6,337 More than 6 months past due 5,857 9,762 29,135 29,092 19.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 31 December 31 December US $000 2018 2017 Cash 172,932 216,840 Cash equivalents: Short-term placements 214,049 203,237 Money market funds and other cash equivalents 5,872 2,417 392,853 422,494 136 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20.
SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES Share capital consists of 1,201,798,866 ordinary shares at the nominal value of $0.50 each.
All shares have been issued and fully paid and entitle the holder to participate in dividends.
On a show of hands every holder of ordinary shares present at a meeting in person or by proxy, is entitled to one vote, and upon a poll each share is entitled to one vote.
The Company does not have a limited share of authorised capital.
Shareholders will, under general law, be entitled to participate in any surplus assets in a winding up of the Company in proportion totheir shareholding.
Effective 13 June 2018, the Company completed a court-approved reduction of capital.
The purpose of the reduction of capital was to provide distributable reserves which will allow the Company to make future dividend payments.
Following the reduction of capital, the number of issued shares and the rights attached to those shares remained unchanged.
The nominal value of the ordinary shares in the capital of the Company wasreduced by $1.00 from $1.50 to $0.50.
Other reserves are disclosed in the consolidated statements of changes in equity.
EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic and diluted EPS were computed as follows: US $000, unless other wise indicated 2018 2017 Basic earnings per share Net income 146,059 129,653 Attributable to owners 135,155 119,717 1 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 1,201,798,866 2,250,000 Basic earnings per share US $ 0.11 53.21 US $000, unless other wise indicated 2018 2017 Diluted earnings per share Earnings attributable to owners 135,155 119,717 1 Diluted number of shares 1,201,798,866 2,287,433 Diluted earnings per share US $ 2 0.11 52.34 US $ 2017 2018 Adjusted diluted earnings per share Diluted earnings per share 0.11 52.34 Impact of special items 0.03 17.90 Adjusted diluted earnings per share2 0.14 70.24 1 Weighted average number of ordinary shares and diluted number of shares for the year ended 31 December 2018 relate to Vivo Energy plc and for the year ended 31 December 2017 toVivo Energy Holding B. V. 2 Refer to general information note 1.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 137 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22.
DIVIDENDS The Board approved an interim dividend of circa 0.7 dollar cents per share.
This dividend was paid on 17 September 2018 to shareholders ofrecord at close of business on 17 August 2018.
The dividend was paid out of distributable reserves as at 30 June 2018.
The Board has recommended a final dividend of circa 1.3 dollar cents per share, amounting to $16m.
Payment of this dividend is expected on 10 June 2019 to shareholders of record at close of business on 17 May 2019.
The dividend will be paid out of distributable reserves as at31 December 2018.
Current borrowings consist of bank borrowings which carry interest rates between 1% and 18% per annum.
Included in bank borrowings isanamount of $32m 2017: $73m relating to trade financing.
The carrying amounts of the Groups non-current and current borrowings approximate the fair value.
The VEI BV Term Loan facility was entered into on 9 June 2017.
The facility matures on 9 June 2022 and has semi-annual repayments.
Interest ispaid quarterly at a rate of Libor plus a margin of 2.50% per annum.
Incremental facility was drawn down on 18 December 2017 andcarries an interest of Libor 2.5% for the amortised portion and Libor 3% for the bullet portion.
In May 2018, the Company established anew multi-currency revolving credit facility of $300 million.
The multi-currency revolving credit facility consists of a primary $300 million and an additional $100 million contingent upon events after the listing.
This credit facility remained fully undrawn at year-end.
At the end ofFebruary2019, an amount of $62 million was drawn in relation to the Engen acquisition.
Key covenants: The Company needs to supply to the lender within 150 calendar days after year-end its audited annual consolidated financial statements, unaudited annual non-consolidated financial statements and the unaudited annual Group accounts of each operating unit.
Within 90 days aftereach half of each financial year, the Company should provide its unaudited non-consolidated financial statements, unaudited  statements and unaudited Group accounts for each operating unit for the financial half-year.
With each set of financial statements, a financial covenants compliance certificate has to be provided showing the debt cover and interest cover.
The loan carries some customary negative pledges such as on asset sale, securities over assets, mergers and guarantees subject in each case to some exemptions and permitted baskets.
It also has a Change of Control clause triggering repayment if a shareholder, other than permitted ones, takes controlof the Company.
No covenants were breached in the last applicable period.
138 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 24.
The provision represents the difference between the purchase price of the compulsory oil stocks in 1994 and current market values up to November 2015, as well as the difference between the purchase price and current market values of LPG.
From 1 December 2015 the fuel market in Morocco isderegulated.
As at 31 December 2018, the Moroccan government has not indicated arepayment date for the compulsory stock obligation.
Legal provision This amount represents a provision of certain legal claims brought against the Group.
The timing of any pay-out is uncertain as these claims arebeing disputed by the Group.
The Group believes that the outcome of these claims will not give rise to a significant loss beyond the amountsprovided against as at 31December2018.
Other Other provisions include a number of costs to be paid out by the Group that have uncertainty in timing of cash values and total monetary value and mainly relate to employee benefits provisions of $15m 2017: $20m and provisions for uncertain tax positions of$9m 2017: $10m.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 139 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 25.
RETIREMENT BENEFITS The Group operates defined benefit pension plans in various countries under local regulatory frameworks.
All of the plans are final salary pension plans, which provide benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life.
The level of benefits provided depends on members length of service and their salary in the final years leading up to retirement.
US $000 2018 2017 Current service cost 873 579 Accretion expense 2,177 2,176 Other 46 44 3,096 2,799 US $000 2018 2017 Defined benefit plans 3,096 2,799 Defined contribution plans 6,117 5,631 Total retirement benefit costs 9,213 8,430 31 December 31 December US $000 2018 2017 Consolidated statements of financial position obligations for: Pension benefits 25,186 29,927 Other post-employment benefits 4,050 4,118 Total liability 29,236 34,045 The amounts recognised in the consolidated statements of financial position are determined as follows: 31 December 31 December US $000 2018 2017 Present value of funded obligations 12,903 13,212 Fair value of plan assets 11,670 11,179 Funded status of funded benefit obligations net asset 1,233 2,033 Present value of unfunded obligation 23,953 27,894 Unfunded status end of year net liability 25,186 29,927 Net defined benefit obligation 25,186 29,927 The movements in the defined benefit obligation for funded and unfunded post-employment defined benefits over the year are as follows: 2018 2017 US $000 Pension benefits Other Total Pension benefits Other Total At 1 January 41,106 4,118 45,224 40,661 3,791 44,452 Current service costs 711 145 856 1,374 154 1,528 Past service costs settlements 17 17 949 949 Benefits paid 2,891 248 3,139 2,118 253 2,371 Interest costs 2,177 596 2,773 2,164 554 2,718 Gains losses from change in financial assumptions 254 155 409 1,696 155 1,851 Gains losses from change in demographic assumptions 494 494 Actuarial gains losses 1,945 95 2,040 377 54 323 Other 229 229 Foreign exchange differences 1,554 328 1,882 2,276 27 2,249 At 31 December 36,856 4,050 40,906 41,106 4,118 45,224 140 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The movements in the fair value of plan assets over the year are as follows: 2018 2017 Pension benefits Other Total Pension benefits Other Total US $000 At 1 January 11,179 11,179 9,448 9,448 Interest income 597 597 542 542 Return on plan assets, excluding interest income 55 55 478 478 Employer contributions 3,104 248 3,352 2,293 253 2,546 Benefits paid 2,923 248 3,171 2,155 253 2,408 Administration expenses 15 15 7 7 Foreign exchange differences 217 217 580 580 At 31 December 11,670 11,670 11,179 11,179 The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in weighted principal assumptions is: Assumptions used Effect of using alternative assumptions 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Range of assumptions Increase decrease US $000 Rate of increase in pensionable remuneration 4.43% 4.35% 0.50% 0.50% 2.59% 2.46% Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.27% 1.00% 0.50% 0.50% 4.00% 3.73% Rate of increase in healthcare costs 9.88% 12.00% 0.50% 0.50% 4.12% 3.83% Discount rate for pension plans 5.98% 5.59% 0.50% 0.50% 4.85% 5.14% Discount rate for healthcare plans 13.71% 15.50% 0.50% 0.50% 5.43% 6.07% Expected age at death for persons aged 60: Men 79.73 80.22 Women 83.56 83.33 The principal actuarial assumptions were as follows: 2018 Tunisia Senegal Cape Verde Mauritius Morocco Cte d'Ivoire Guinea Namibia Ghana Discount rate 8.50% 8.25% 4.25% 6.00% 3.50% 6.00% 13.50% 11.40% 15.00% Inflation rate 4.70% N A 2.00% 3.50% N A N A N A 8.00% 10.00% Future salary increases 6.00% 3.00% 2.00% 3.50% 6.00% 3.00% 10.00% N A N A Future pension increases N A N A 1.00% 3.00% N A N A N A N A N A 2017 Tunisia Senegal Cape Verde Mauritius Morocco Cte d'Ivoire Guinea Namibia Ghana Discount rate 7.50% 9.00% 4.50% 5.50% 3.25% 6.00% 13.75% 11.90% 17.50% Inflation rate 3.90% 1.00% 2.00% 3.80% 2.00% 1.80% 8.00% 9.10% 12.50% Future salary increases 6.00% 3.00% 2.00% 3.00% 6.00% 3.00% 10.00% N A N A Future pension increases N A N A 1.00% N A N A N A N A N A N A Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set based on actuarial advice in accordance with published statistics and experience ineach territory.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 10.8 years.
Expected contributions to post-employment benefit plans for the year ending 31 December 2019 are $4m.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 141 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26.
OTHER LIABILITIES 31 December 31 December 1 US $000 2018 2017 Oil fund liabilities see note 24 86,502 88,070 Other tax payable 80,098 63,271 Employee liabilities 61,517 93,801 Deposits owed to customers 60,171 54,062 Deferred income 9,147 8,888 Other 11,392 12,562 308,827 320,654 Of which current 165,196 152,409 Of which non-current 143,631 168,245 308,827 320,654 1 Prior year comparatives were reclassified where necessary.
LEASES The Group has leases for motor vehicles, corporate offices, land, buildings and equipment.
Leases have remaining lease terms of one year to 99years, some of which may include options to extend the leases for at least five years, and some of which may include options to terminate theleases within one year.
The consolidated statement of financial position shows the following amounts relating to leases: US $000 Land and buildings Motor vehicle Others Total Right-of-use assets, 1 January 2017 115,687 19,587 655 135,929 Depreciation of ROU assets 12,105 4,267 105 16,477 Leases effective in 2017 25,795 2,975 191 28,961 Right-of-use assets, 31 December 2017 129,377 18,295 741 148,413 Depreciation of ROU assets 16,377 2,282 737 19,396 Leases effective in 20181 16,543 2,615 88 19,246 Right-of-use assets, 31 December 2018 129,543 18,628 92 148,263 1 Included in leases effective 2018, is an amount of $8m for the transfer of leases from PPE to right-of-use assets.
31 December 31 December US $000 2018 2017 Current lease liability 13,228 12,496 Non-current lease liability 97,622 121,261 110,850 133,757 The consolidated statement of comprehensive income shows the following amounts relating to leases: US $000 2018 2017 Interest expense included in finance cost 10,054 10,016 Depreciation of ROU assets 19,396 16,477 Depreciation charge of $19m 2017: $16m is included in cost of sales for $3m 2017: $2m, in selling and marketing costs for $14m 2017:$12m and in general and administrative costs $2m 2017: $2m.
142 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The consolidated statement of cash flows shows the following amounts relating to leases: US $000 2018 2017 Cash flows from financing activities Principal elements of lease payments 24,736 18,910 Interest paid 10,054 10,016 34,790 28,926 Other information related to leases was as follows: 2018 2017 Weighted average remaining lease term years 15.12 13.15 Weighted average discount rate 10% 10% The Group recognised rental income of $35m 2017: $30m.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Commitments The Group also has purchase obligations, under various agreements, made in the normal course of business.
The purchase obligations are as follows, as at: 31 December 31 December US $000 2018 2017 Purchase obligations 13,271 11,706 13,271 11,706 Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings The Group may from time to time be involved in a number of legal proceedings.
The Directors prepare a best estimate of its contingent liabilities that should be recognised or disclosed in respect of legal claims in the course of ordinary business.
Furthermore, in many markets there is a high degree of complexity involved in the local tax regimes.
The Group is required to exercise judgement in the assessment of any potential exposures in these areas.
The Group does not believe and is not currently aware of any litigations, claims, legal proceedings or other contingent liabilities that should be disclosed.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 143 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Group operates share-based payment plans for certain Executive Directors, senior managers and other senior employees.
Information onthese plans is included in the Remuneration Report.
Management Equity Plan In 2013, Vivo Energy Holding B. V. awarded to eligible employees either 1 phantom options which entitled option holders to a cash payment based on the value of Vivo Energy Holding shares upon exercise of their phantom options or 2 the opportunity to acquire restricted shares incombination with a linked option right to acquire ordinary shares in Vivo Energy.
Under the terms of the phantom options, all outstanding phantom options would become fully exercisable upon admission in May 2018.
The option holders have since agreed to amend the terms of their outstanding phantom options such that 30% of the outstanding phantom options were deemed to be exercised at admission and 70% will become exercisable on the first anniversary of admission for a period of 12 months.
Under the amended terms, the option holders entitlement to the cash payment is based on the market value of the shares at thetime of exercise net of the exercise price per share.
The Management Equity Plan MEP related liability as at 31 December 2018 amounted to $20m 2017: $49m.
The intrinsic value of the phantom options per 31 December 2018 is $20m 2017: $49m.
The awards of restricted shares with linked options were classified as equity-settled share-based payment transactions, however since participants would not be entitled to the full value of both instruments, the award fell away and the share-based payment reserve was released.
SVL Phantom Option Awards Executive Directors and other senior executives were granted phantom option awards by Shell and Vivo Lubricants B. V. 'SVL' in 2012.
These awards became fully exercisable on admission, but the option holders agreed to amend the terms such that they would receive acash payment.
All payments under this plan have now been made, and there are no further outstanding interests.
IPO Share Award Plan In May 2018, Vivo Energy plc granted certain Executive Directors and senior managers one-off share awards IPO Share Awards under the 2018 IPO Share Award Plan.
The IPO Share Awards will vest, subject to continued service and performance conditions relating to consolidated gross cash profit and adjusted net income being met, in three equal tranches on the first, second and third anniversary of admission.
Long-Term Incentive Plan In May 2018, Vivo Energy plc adopted the Vivo Energy 2018 Long-Term Incentive Plan the LTIP.
The LTIP provides for grants of awards over the shares of the Company in the form of share awards subject to continued employment and the performance conditions relating toearnings per share, return on average capital employed and total shareholder returns, over a three-year period.
Executive Directors and other employees of the Group are eligible for grants under the LTIP.
The table below shows the share-based payment expense recognised in the statements of comprehensive income: US $000 2018 2017 Cash-settled share-based payments Management Equity Plan 17,526 41,497 SVL Management Equity Plan 5,516 Equity-settled share-based payments IPO Share Award Plan 5,697 Long-Term Incentive Plan 3,788 2,525 41,497 144 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Movements in the number of share and share options outstanding, and their related weighted average exercise prices, are as follows: LTIP IPO MEP Average exercise Average exercise Linked Phantom IPO Share price per linked price per phantom 1 LTIP Awards option $ options option $ options2 At 1 January 2018 Granted Converted 3,916,949 3,658,641 0.05 15,529,661 Vested Exercised 0.05 4,658,898 At 31 December 2018 3,916,949 3,658,641 0.05 10,870,763 At 1 January 2017 142.12 40,620 142.12 30,992 Movements 142.12 1,873 Outstanding at 31 December 2017 142.12 40,620 142.12 29,119 1 Linked options were forfeited as part of the IPO admission.
2 In relation to the IPO Admission, the option holders have agreed to amend the terms of their outstanding phantom options MEP which resulted into a conversion of their granted phantom options.
The Black-Scholes option-pricing is used to calculate the fair value of the options and the amount to be expensed.
The inputs into the model foroptions granted in the year expressed as weighted averages are as follows: 2018 2017 IPO Share MEP phantom MEP linked MEP phantom LTIP Awards options options options Share price at grant date $ $2.24 $2.33 $1.84 $1,811 $1,811 Option exercise price $ $0.05 $142.12 $142.12 Volatility % 22% 30% 22% Option life years 3 years 3 years 1 year 1 year 1 year Risk-free interest rate 2.30% 0.95% 2.30% Expected dividends as a dividend yield % 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% The weighted average fair value of linked options and phantom options as of 31 December 2018 using the Black-Scholes valuation model was nil 2017: $43.70 and $1.79 2017: $1,672 per option, respectively.
RELATED PARTIES Sales and purchases Joint ventures US $000 andassociates Shareholder Other Total 2018 Sales of products and services, and other income 14,665 133,909 88 148,662 Purchase of products and services, and other expenses 320,783 1,279,007 1,599,790 20171 Sales of products and services, and other income 11,997 124,073 3,104 139,174 Purchase of products and services, and other expenses 78,351 1,510,638 244,443 1,833,432 1 Other sales and purchases relate to Shell and Vivo Lubricants B. V. full year 2017.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 145 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31.
RELATED PARTIES CONTINUED The following table presents the Companys outstanding balances with related parties: Joint ventures US $000 andassociates Shareholder Other Total 31 December 2018 Receivables from related parties 3,911 13,005 534 17,450 Payables to related parties 55,651 236,263 291,914 51,740 223,258 534 274,464 31 December 2017 Receivables from related parties 12,187 14,689 564 27,440 Payables to related parties 46,060 138,504 60 184,624 33,873 123,815 504 157,184 The receivables from related parties arise from sale transactions which are due two months after the date of sales.
The receivables are unsecured in nature and bear no interest.
No provisions are held against receivables from related parties.
The payables to related parties arise mainly from purchase transactions and are typically due two months after the date of purchase.
These payables bear no interest.
In 2017, other income from shareholder includes a loss on financial instruments of $2m that concern forwardforeign exchange contracts with Vitol SA.
Key management compensation Key management is considered to be the Directors Executive and Non-Executive and senior management1.
US $000 2018 2017 Share-based benefits2 4,767 25,569 Salaries and other short-term employee benefits 6,561 5,057 IPO cash award 6,622 Post-employment benefits 333 316 Service fees 642 9,391 30,942 1 Senior management compensation is disclosed from the date of appointment.
2 Share-based benefits include LTIP, IPO Share Awards and the MEP Phantom options.
Negative compensation results from the fair value adjustment of the cash-settled MEP phantom options, further explained in note 30.
Directors compensation Directors compensations are disclosed from the date of appointment, being from IPO date 10 May 2018.
US $000 2018 Share-based benefits1 3,194 Salaries and other short-term employee benefits 2,221 Post-employment benefits 107 Service fees 642 6,164 1 Share-based benefits include LTIP and IPO Share Awards.
In the year ended 31 December 2018, Directors exercised the SVL Phantom Option Awards.
The aggregate gross pre-tax gain made on the exercise of the options was $3 million.
The performance period for the SVL share options related to the pre-IPO period Legacy awards, referto Remuneration Report for further information.
Further information relating to key management compensation is included in the Remuneration Report.
146 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS L Shares Certain entities of the Group, Vivo Energy Morocco Holdings B. V. and Vivo Energy Kenya Holdings B. V. have issued a separate class of shares, the L Shares, representing 5% of the members respective share capital.
The L Shares are owned by a minority shareholder and carryan entitlement to the following proceeds: The profit of lubricants sales in certain countries that are not related to sales through the Groups retail network, called B2B and B2Csales: and A portion of the margin on lubricant sales through the Groups retail network in certain countries.
For the lubricant sales through certain of the Groups retail networks the Group has exposure to significant risks and rewards associated with these sales.
Therefore these revenues are recognised in the Groups consolidated statements of comprehensive income.
The L Shares owner is the supplier of the lubricants relating to these sales and therefore the payments to the L Shares owner relating to these sales are considered to be an adjustment to the lubricants purchase price and therefore classified as cost of sales in the Groups consolidated statements of comprehensive income.
The L Shares relating to Vivo Energy Morocco Holdings B. V. were automatically redeemed upon payment of the last tracking stock dividends in 2017.
On 17 October 2016 and on 24 May 2017, the L Shares relating to Vivo Energy Kenya Holdings B. V. and Vivo Energy Morocco Holdings B. V. respectively were redeemed by payment of final tracking stock dividend.
EVENTS AFTER BALANCE SHEET PERIOD On 1 March 2019 Vivo Energy Investments B. V. a subsidiary of the Group, acquired 100% of the issued shares in Engen International Holdings Mauritius Limited EIHL, a retailer and marketer of Engen-branded fuels and lubricants in Africa.
EIHL markets its products toretail customers through a large network of Engen-branded service stations, including convenience retail offerings, as well as directly tocommercial customers.
The transaction will add operations in eight new countries and 230 Engen-branded services stations expanding the Groups presence across 23countries in Africa.
The new markets for the Group are Gabon, Malawi, Mozambique, Reunion, Rwanda, Tanzania, Zambia and Zimbabwe.
EIHLs Kenya operations, a market in which the Group currently operates, is the ninth country included in the transaction.
Consideration for the transaction comprised of an issue by the Company of 63,203,653 new shares and $62.1m in cash.
This has resulted in Engen Holdings Pty Limited holding acirca5.0%shareholding in the Company.
The cash element has been funded by a draw down on the Companys multi-currency facility.
A total of $5.3m, relating to acquisition costs, has been expensed in the profit and loss for the reporting period ending 31 December 2018.
Given the proximity of the acquisition to the date that the financial statements are authorised for issue, and as permitted by IFRS 3 Business Combinations, the fair values of acquired identifiable assets and liabilities could not be reliably estimated at this time.
Fair values are being determined by an independent professional expert.
The effects of the transaction have not been recognised at 31 December 2018.
The assetsand liabilities including EIHLs operating results are consolidated from 1 March 2019.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 147
