Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 191 Shareholder information Unaudited information Investor calendar Ex-dividend date for final dividend 7 June 2018 Record date for final dividend 8 June 2018 Trading update for the quarter ending 30 June 2018 25 July 2018 AGM 27 July 2018 Final dividend payment 3 August 2018 Half-year financial results for the six-months ending 30 September 2018 13 November 2018 Ex-dividend date for interim dividend 22 November 2018 Record date for interim dividend 23 November 2018 Interim dividend payment 1 February 2019 The service can be obtained at www.
Dividends Shareholders with any queries regarding their holding should contact See pages 30 and 130 for details on dividend amount per share.
See page 192 for their contact details.
Euro dividends Shareholders may also find the investors section of our corporate Dividends are declared in euros and paid in euros and pounds sterling website, vodafone.
com investor, useful for general queries and according to where the shareholder is resident.
Cash dividends to ADS information about the Company.
holders are paid by the ADS depositary in US dollars.
This aligns the Groups shareholder returns with the primary currency in which Shareholder communications we generate free cash flow.
The foreign exchange rate at which dividends declared in euros are converted into pounds sterling and A growing number of our shareholders have opted to receive their US dollars is calculated based on the average exchange rate of the five communications from us electronically using email and web-based business days during the week prior to the payment of the dividend.
The use of electronic communications, rather than printed paper documents, means information about the Payment of dividends by direct credit Company can be received as soon as it is available and has the added We pay cash dividends directly to shareholders bank or building society benefit of reducing our impact on the environment and our costs.
This ensures secure delivery and means dividend payments Each timewe issue a shareholder communication, shareholders who are credited toshareholders bank or building society accounts have elected for electronic communication will be sent an email alert on the same day as payment.
A dividend confirmation covering containing a link to the relevant documents.
both the interim and final dividends paid during the financial year is sent to shareholders at the time of the interim dividend in February.
We encourage all our shareholders to sign up for this service ADS holders may alternatively have their cash dividends paid by cheque by providing us with an email address.
You can register your from our ADS depository bank, Deutsche Bank.
email address via Computershare at www.
co. uk or contact them via the telephone number provided on page 192. Dividend reinvestment plan See vodafone.
com investor for further information about this service.
We offer a dividend reinvestment plan which allows holders of ordinary shares who choose to participate to use their cash dividends to acquire AGM additional shares in the Company.
These are purchased on their behalf Our thirty-fourth AGM will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference by the plan administrator, Computershare Investor Services PLC, Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on 27 July through a low cost dealing arrangement.
For ADS holders, Deutsche 2018 at 11.00 am.
The AGM will be transmitted via a live webcast which Bank, through its transfer agent, American Stock Transfer & Trust can be viewed on our website at vodafone.
com agm on the day of the Company, LLC AST maintains the DB Global Direct Investor Services meeting.
Arecording will be available to view after that date.
Program which is a direct purchase and sale plan for depositary receipts with a dividend reinvestment facility.
com dividends for further information about dividend We support ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme registered payments or, alternatively please contact our registrar, Computershare charity number 1052686.
Through ShareGift, shareholders who or AST for ADS holders as applicable.
See page 192 for their haveonly a very small number of shares, which might be considered contact information.
uneconomic to sell, are able to donate them to charity.
Donated shares Taxation of dividends are aggregated and sold by ShareGift, the proceeds being passed See pages 194 for details on dividend taxation.
on to awide range of UK charities.
org or call 44 0 20 7930 3737 for further details.
Managing your shares via Investor Centre Computershare operates a portfolio service for investors in ordinary Landmark Financial Asset Search shares, called Investor Centre.
This provides our shareholders with We participate in an online service which provides asearch online access to information about their investments as well as a facility facility for solicitors and probate professionals to quickly and to help manage their holdings online, such as being able to: easily trace UK shareholdings relating to deceased estates.
update dividend bank mandate instructions and review dividend Visit www.
co. uk or call 44 0 844 844 9967 for payment history: further information.
update member details and address changes: and register to receive Company communications electronically.
Computershare also offers an internet and telephone share dealing service to existing shareholders.
Other information 192 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Shareholder information continued Unaudited information Warning to shareholders boiler room scams Share price history Over recent years we have become aware of investors who have The closing share price at 31 March 2018 was 194.20 pence received unsolicited calls or correspondence, in some cases 31March2017: 208.10 pence.
The closing share price on 14 May 2018 purporting to have been issued by us, concerning investment matters.
These callers typically make claims of highly profitable opportunities The following tables set out, for the periods indicated, i the reported in UK orUS investments which turn out to be worthless or simply do not high and low middle market quotations of ordinary shares on the exist.
These approaches are usually made by unauthorised companies London Stock Exchange, and ii the reported high and low sales and individuals and are commonly known as boiler room scams.
Investors are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice or offers London Stock Exchange NASDAQ to buy shares.
If it sounds too good to be true, it often is.
Pounds per ordinary share Dollars per ADS Year ended 31 March High Low High Low See the FCA website at fca.
uk scamsmart for more detailed 2014 2.52 1.80 41.57 27.74 information about this or similar activities.
co. uk contactus Second quarter 2.40 2.19 31.68 28.99 Holders of ordinary shares resident in Ireland Third quarter 2.28 1.91 29.30 24.30 Computershare Investor Services Ireland Ltd Fourth quarter 2.15 1.92 26.91 24.42 PO Box 9742 2017 2018 Dublin 18, Ireland First quarter 2.32 1.99 30.26 25.59 Telephone: 353 0 818 300 999 Second quarter 2.27 2.05 29.90 28.06 investorcentre.
co. uk contactus Third quarter 2.36 2.09 31.93 28.06 ADS holders Fourth quarter 2.38 1.91 32.67 27.36 AST 2018 2019 Operations Center 1 First quarter 2.14 1.94 30.07 28.37 6201 15th Avenue Brooklyn London Stock Exchange NASDAQ NY 11219 Pounds per ordinary share Dollars per ADS United States of America Month High Low High Low Telephone: 1 800 233 5601 toll free or, for calls outside the United November 2017 2.30 2.16 30.96 28.81 States: 1 201 806 4103 December 2017 2.36 2.24 31.93 30.48 Email: db@astfinancial.
Foreign currency translation The following table sets out the euro exchange rates of the other principal currencies of the Group, being: Sterling, or pence, the currency of the United Kingdom, and US dollars, US$, cents or, the currency of the United States.
31 March Currency 1 2018 2017 % Change Average: Sterling 0.88 0.84 4.8 US dollar 1.17 1.10 6.4 At 31 March: Sterling 0.88 0.85 3.5 US dollar 1.23 1.07 15.0 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 193 The following table sets out, for the periods and dates indicated, At 31 March 2018 the following percentage interests in the ordinary the period end, average, high and low exchange rates for euro expressed share capital of the Company, disclosable under the Disclosure in US dollars per 1.00.
Guidance and Transparency Rules, DTR 5, have been notified to the Directors.
2018 1.23 1.17 1.25 1.06 As far as the Company has been notified under DTR 5, between 1 April The following table sets out, for the periods indicated, the high and low 2015 and 14 May 2018, no shareholder, other than described above, exchange rates for euro expressed in US dollars per 1.00. held 3% or more of the voting rights attributable to the ordinary shares Year ended 31 March High Low of the Company other than Deutsche Bank, as custodian of our ADR November 2017 1.19 1.16 programme, and Bank of New York Mellon as custodian of our ADR December 2017 1.20 1.17 programme prior to 27 February 2017.
January 2018 1.25 1.19 The rights attaching to the ordinary shares of the Company held February 2018 1.25 1.22 by these shareholders are identical in all respects to the rights attaching March 2018 1.24 1.22 to all the ordinary shares of the Company.
As at 14 May 2018 the April 2018 1.24 1.21 Directors are not aware of any other interest of 3% or more in the May 2018 1.20 1.19 ordinary share capital of the Company.
The Company is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by any foreign government or any On 14 May 2018 the latest practicable date for inclusion in this report, other legal entity.
There are no arrangements known to the Company the exchange rates between euros and US dollars and between euros that could result in a change of control of the Company.
and sterling were as follows: 1 US$1.20 and 1 0.88.
Articles of Association and applicable English law Markets The following description summarises certain provisions Ordinary shares of Vodafone Group Plc are traded on the London of the Companys Articles of Association and applicable English StockExchange and in the form of ADSs on NASDAQ.
This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the ADSs, each representing ten ordinary shares, are traded on NASDAQ Companies Act 2006 of England and Wales and the Companys Articles under the symbol VOD.
The ADSs are evidenced by ADRs issued of Association.
See Documents on display on page 195 for information by Deutsche Bank, as depositary, under a deposit agreement, dated on where copies of the Articles of Association can be obtained.
27 February 2017 between the Company, the depositary and the The Company is a public limited company under the laws of England holders from time to time of ADRsissued thereunder.
The Company is registered in England and Wales under the name Vodafone Group Public Limited Company with the registration ADS holders are not shareholders in the Company but may instruct number 1833679.
Deutsche Bank on the exercise of voting rights relative to the number of ordinary shares represented by their ADSs.
See Articles All of the Companys ordinary shares are fully paid.
Accordingly, of Association and applicable English laws and Rights attaching to the no further contribution of capital may be required by the Company Companys shares Voting rights on page 194. fromthe holders of such shares.
English law specifies that any alteration to the Articles of Association Shareholders as at 31 March 2018 must be approved by a special resolution of the shareholders.
Number of % of total Number of ordinary shares held accounts issued shares Articles of Association 11,000 306,097 0.24 The Companys Articles of Association do notspecifically restrict the 1,0015,000 43,247 0.35 objects of the Company.
5,00150,000 12,317 0.56 Directors 50,001100,000 507 0.14 The Directors are empowered under the Articles of Association 100,001500,000 786 0.69 to exercise all the powers of the Company subject to any restrictions More than 500,000 1,217 98.02 in the Articles of Association, the Companies Act as defined in the 364,171 100 Articles of Association and any special resolution.
Ownership location as a percentage of shares held Under the Companys Articles of Association a Director cannot vote in respect of any proposal in which the Director, or any person as at 31 March 2018 2017 connected with the Director, has a material interest other than UK 35.0 38.4 by virtue of the Directors interest in the Companys shares or other Europe excluding UK 15.0 14.2 securities.
However, this restriction on voting does not apply in certain North America 42.7 40.7 circumstances as set out in the Articles of Association.
Rest of World 7.3 6.7 The Directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money, subject to the limitation that the aggregate amount Major shareholders of all liabilities and obligations of the Group outstanding at any time As at 14 May 2018, Deutsche Bank as custodian of our ADR shall not exceed an amount equal to 1.5 times the aggregate of the programme, held approximately 17.79% of our ordinary shares Groups share capital and reserves calculated in the manner prescribed 20 of 20 21 US centseach as nominee.
At this date, the total number in the Articles of Association unless sanctioned by an ordinary of ADRs outstanding was 474,789,483 and 1,489 holders of ordinary resolution of the Companys shareholders.
shares had registered addresses in the United States and held a total of approximately 0.00824% of the ordinary shares of the Company.
Other information 194 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Shareholder information continued Unaudited information The Company can make market purchases of its own shares or agree Voting rights todo so in the future provided it is duly authorised by its members At a general meeting of the Company, when voting on substantive in a general meeting and subject to and in accordance with section 701 resolutions i. e. any resolution which is not a procedural resolution each of the Companies Act 2006.
Such authority was given at the 2017 AGM shareholder who is entitled to vote and is present in person or by proxy and the Company concluded an irrevocable and non-discretionary has one vote for every share held a poll vote.
Procedural resolutions share buy-back programme on 15 November 2017.
Under this such as a resolution to adjourn a general meeting or a resolution on the programme the Company purchased 729,077,008 ordinary shares choice of Chairman of a general meeting shall be decided on a show 20 of 20 21 US cents each, equal to the limit the Company announced of hands, where each shareholder who is present at the meeting has one for the programme on 25 August 2017, for an aggregate consideration vote regardless ofthe number of shares held, unless a poll is demanded.
The number of shares purchased represented 2.73% Shareholders entitled to vote at general meetings may appoint proxies of the Companys issued share capital excluding treasury shares who are entitled to vote, attend and speak at general meetings.
as at 31 March 2018 which was below the number permitted Two shareholders present in person or by proxy constitute a quorum to be purchased by the Company pursuant to the authority granted forpurposes of a general meeting of the Company.
by the shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
Under English law shareholders of a public company such as the At each AGM all Directors who were elected or last re-elected Company are not permitted to pass resolutions by written consent.
at or before the AGM held in the third calendar year before the current Record holders of the Companys ADSs are entitled to attend, speak year shall automatically retire.
However, the Board has decided in the andvote on a poll or a show of hands at any general meeting of the interests of good corporate governance that all of the Directors wishing Companys shareholders by the depositarys appointment of them to continue in office shouldoffer themselves for re-election annually.
ascorporate representatives or proxies with respect to the underlying Directors are not required under the Companys Articles ordinary shares represented by their ADSs.
Alternatively, holders of Associationtohold any shares of the Company as a qualification of ADSs are entitled to vote by supplying their voting instructions to the to act as a Director, although the Executive Directors are required depositary or its nominee who will vote the ordinary shares underlying to under the Companys Remuneration Policy.
Further details are their ADSs inaccordance with their instructions.
Holders of the Companys ADSs are entitled to receive notices of shareholders meetings under the terms of the deposit agreement Rights attaching to the Companys shares relating to the ADSs.
At 31 March 2018, the issued share capital of the Company was Employees who hold shares under the Vodafone Group Share Incentive comprised of 50,000 7% cumulative fixed rate shares of 1.00 each Plan or in a vested nominee share account are able to vote through the and26,675,765,279 ordinary shares excluding treasury shares respective plans trustees.
Note there is now a vested share account 20 of 20 21 US cents each.
As at 31 March 2018, 2,139,038,029 ordinary with Computershare in respect of shares arising from a SAYE exercise shares were held in Treasury.
Dividend rights Holders of the Companys 7% cumulative fixed rate shares are only Holders of 7% cumulative fixed rate shares are entitled to be paid entitled to vote on any resolution to vary or abrogate the rights attached inrespect of each financial year, or other accounting period of the to the fixed rate shares.
Holders have one vote for every fully paid 7% Company, a fixed cumulative preferential dividend of 7% per annum cumulative fixed rate share.
on the nominal value of the fixed rate shares.
A fixed cumulative preferential dividend may only be paid out of available distributable Liquidation rights profits which the Directors have resolved should be distributed.
In the event of the liquidation of the Company, after payment of all liabilities and deductions in accordance with English law, The fixed rate shares do not have any other right to share in the the holders of the Companys 7% cumulative fixed rate shares would Companys profits.
be entitled to a sum equal to the capital paid up on such shares, Holders of the Companys ordinary shares may, by ordinary resolution, together with certain dividend payments, in priority to holders of the declare dividends but may not declare dividends in excess of the Companys ordinary shares.
The holders of the fixed rate shares do not amount recommended by the Directors.
The Board of Directors may have any other right to share in the Companys surplus assets.
No dividend may be paid other than out Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares of profits available for distribution.
Dividends on ordinary shares can Under section 549 of the Companies Act 2006 Directors are, with be paid to shareholders in whatever currency the Directors decide, certain exceptions, unable to allot the Companys ordinary shares using anappropriate exchange rate for any currency conversions or securities convertible into the Companys ordinary shares without whicharerequired.
the authority of the shareholders in a general meeting.
In addition, If a dividend has not been claimed for one year after the date of the section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 imposes further restrictions resolution passed at a general meeting declaring that dividend or the on the issue of equity securities as defined in the Companies Act 2006 resolution of the Directors providing for payment of that dividend, which include the Companys ordinary shares and securities convertible the Directors may invest the dividend or use it in some other way for into ordinary shares which are, or are to be, paid up wholly in cash the benefit of the Company until the dividend is claimed.
If the dividend and notfirst offered to existing shareholders.
The Companys Articles remains unclaimed for 12 years after the relevant resolution either ofAssociation allow shareholders to authorise Directors for a period declaring that dividend or providing for payment of that dividend, specified in the relevant resolution to allot i relevant securities it willbe forfeited and belong to the Company.
generally up to an amount fixed by the shareholders: and ii equity securities for cash other than in connection with a pre-emptive offer up to an amount specified by the shareholders and free of the pre-emption restriction in section 561.
At the 2017 AGM the amount of relevant securities fixed by shareholders under i above and the amount of equity securities specified by shareholders under ii above were inline with the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles.
Further details of such proposals are provided in the 2018 Notice of AGM.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 195 Disclosure of interests in the Companys shares Documents on display There are no provisions in the Articles of Association whereby The Company is subject to the information requirements of the persons acquiring, holding or disposing of a certain percentage of the Exchange Act applicable to foreign private issuers.
In accordance Companys shares are required to make disclosure of their ownership with these requirements the Company files its Annual Report percentage although such requirements exist under the Disclosure on Form20-F and other related documents with the SEC.
These Guidance and Transparency Rules.
documents may be inspected at the SECs public reference rooms located at 100F Street, NE Washington, DC 20549.
Information on the General meetings and notices operation of the public reference room can be obtained in the United Subject to the Articles of Association, AGMs are held at such times and States by calling the SEC on 1-800-SEC-0330.
In addition, some place as determined by the Directors of the Company.
The Directors of the Companys SEC filings, including all those filed on or after may also, when they think fit, convene other general meetings of the 4 November 2002, are available onthe SECs website at sec.
General meetings may also be convened on requisition Shareholders can also obtain copies ofthe Companys Articles as provided by the Companies Act 2006. of Association from our website at vodafone.
com governance An AGM needs to be called on not less than 21 days notice in writing.
Subject to obtaining shareholder approval on an annual basis, the Company may call other general meetings on 14 days notice.
Material contracts The Directors may determine that persons entitled to receive notices At the date of this Annual Report the Group is not party to any contracts ofmeetings are those persons entered on the register at the close that are considered material to its results or operations except for: of business on a day determined by the Directors but not later than 21 days before the date the relevant notice is sent.
The notice may its US$4.1 billion and 3.8 billion revolving credit facilities which also specify the record date, the time of which shall be determined are discussed in note 21 Liquidity and capital resources to the in accordance with the Articles of Association and the Companies consolidated financial statements: Act2006.
its subscription agreements for the 1.6 billion of subordinated Under section 336 of the Companies Act 2006 the AGM of shareholders mandatory convertible bonds placed on 25 February 2016 must be held each calendar year and within sixmonths of the as discussed in note 21 Liquidity and capital resources to the Companys year end.
consolidated financial statements: Variation of rights the Contribution and Transfer Agreement in respect of the Dutch joint If at any time the Companys share capital is divided into different classes venture with Liberty Global as detailed in note 28 Commitments of shares, the rights attached to any class may be varied, subject to the to the consolidated financial statements: provisions of the Companies Act 2006, either with the consent in writing the Implementation Agreement dated 20 March 2017 between of the holders of three quarters in nominal value of the shares of that Vodafone India Limited and Idea Cellular Limited and such other class or at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
parties as listed in the agreement: and At every such separate meeting all of the provisions of the Articles the Sale and Purchase Agreement dated 9 May 2018 relating to the of Association relating to proceedings at a general meeting apply, sale of Liberty Global plcs businesses in Germany, Romania, Hungary except that i the quorum is to be the number of persons which and the Czech Republic.
must be at least two who hold or represent by proxy not less than one third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or, if such quorum is not present on an adjourned meeting, one person who holds Exchange controls shares of the class regardless of the number of shares he holds: ii any There are no UK Government laws, decrees or regulations that restrict person present in person or by proxy may demand a poll: and iii each or affect the export or import of capital, including but not limited to, shareholder will have one vote per share held in that particular class foreign exchange controls on remittance of dividends on the ordinary in the event a poll is taken.
Class rights are deemed not to have been shares or on the conduct of the Groups operations.
varied by the creation or issue of new shares ranking equally with or subsequent to that classof shares in sharing in profits or assets Taxation of the Company or by aredemption or repurchase of the shares by the Company.
As this is a complex area investors should consult their own tax advisor regarding the US federal, state and local, the UK and other tax consequences of owning and disposing of shares and American Limitations on transfer, voting and shareholding Depositary Shares ADSs in their particular circumstances.
As far as the Company is aware there are no limitations imposed on the transfer, holding or voting of the Companys ordinary shares other than This section describes, primarily for a US holder as defined below, those limitations that would generally apply to all of the shareholders, in general terms, the principal US federal income tax and UK tax those that apply by law e. g. due to insider dealing rules or those that consequences of owning or disposing of shares or ADSs in the Company apply as a result of failure to comply with a notice under section 793 held as capital assets for US and UK tax purposes.
This section does of the Companies Act 2006.
No shareholder has any securities carrying not, however, cover the tax consequences for members of certain special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company classes of holders subject to special rules including, for example, is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that US expatriates and former long-term residents of the United States: mayresult in restrictions on the transfer of securities.
officers and employees of the Company: holders that, directly, indirectly or by attribution, hold 5% or more of the Companys stock by vote or value : financial institutions: insurance companies: individual retirement accounts and other tax-deferred accounts: tax-exempt organisations: dealers in securities or currencies: investors that will hold shares or ADSs as part of straddles, hedging transactions or conversion transactions for US federal income tax purposes: investors holding shares or ADSs in connection with a trade or business conducted outside of the US: or investors whose functional currency is not the US dollar.
Other information 196 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Shareholder information continued Unaudited information A US holder is a beneficial owner of shares or ADSs that is for US federal Taxation of dividends income tax purposes: UK taxation Under current UK law, there is no requirement to withhold tax from an individual citizen or resident of the United States: the dividends that we pay.
Shareholders who are within the charge a US domestic corporation: to UK corporation tax will be subject to corporation tax on the dividends we pay unless the dividends fall within an exempt class and certain an estate, the income of which is subject to US federal income tax other conditions are met.
It is expected that the dividends we pay would regardless of its source: or generally be exempt.
a trust, if a US court can exercise primary supervision over the Individual shareholders in the Company who are resident in the UK will trusts administration and one or more US persons are authorised be subject to the income tax on the dividends we pay.
Dividends will to control all substantial decisions of the trust, or the trust has validly be taxable in the UK at the dividend rates applicable where the income elected to be treated as a domestic trust for US federal income received is above the dividend allowance currently 2,000 per tax year tax purposes.
which is taxed at a nil rate.
Dividend income is treated as the highest part of an individual shareholders income and the dividend allowance If an entity or arrangement treated as a partnership for US federal will count towards the basic or higher rate limits as applicable which income tax purposes holds the shares or ADSs, the US federal income may affect the rate of tax due on any dividend income in excess tax treatment of a partner will generally depend on the status of the of the allowance.
partner and the tax treatment of the partnership.
Holders that are entities or arrangements treated as partnerships for US federal income US federal income taxation tax purposes should consult their tax advisors concerning the US federal Subject to the passive foreign investment company PFIC rules income tax consequences to them and their partners of the ownership described below, a US holder is subject to US federal income taxation and disposition of shares or ADSs by the partnership.
on the gross amount of any dividend we pay out of our current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal This section is based on the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, income tax purposes.
However, the Company does not maintain as amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations calculations of its earnings and profits in accordance with US federal thereunder, published rulings and court decisions, and on the tax income tax accounting principles.
US holders should therefore assume laws of the UK, the Double Taxation Convention between the United that any distribution by the Company with respect to shares will States and the UK the treaty and current HM Revenue and Customs be reported as ordinary dividend income.
Dividends paid to a nonpublished practice, all as currently in effect.
These laws and such corporate US holder will be taxable to the holder at the reduced rate practice are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
normally applicable to long-term capital gains provided that certain This section is further based in part upon the representations of the requirements are met.
depositary and assumes that each obligation in the deposit agreement Dividends must be included in income when the US holder, and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with in the case of shares, or the depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually its terms.
or constructively receives the dividend and will not be eligible for the For the purposes of the treaty and the US-UK double taxation dividends-received deduction generally allowed to US corporations convention relating to estate and gift taxes the Estate Tax Convention, in respect of dividends received from other US corporations.
and for US federal income tax and UK tax purposes, this section The amount of the dividend distribution to be included in income will is based on the assumption that a holder of American Depositary be the US dollar value of the pound sterling or euro payments made Receipts ADRs evidencing ADSs will generally be treated as the determined at the spot pound sterling US dollar rate or the spot euro owner of the shares in the Company represented by those ADRs.
US dollar rate, as applicable, on the date the dividends are received Investors should note that a ruling by the first-tier tax tribunal in the by the US holder, in the case of shares, or the depositary, in the case UK has cast doubt on this view, but HMRC have stated that they will of ADSs, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted continue to apply their long-standing practice of regarding the holder into US dollars at that time.
If dividends received in pounds sterling of such ADRs as holding the beneficial interest in the underlying shares.
or euros are converted into US dollars on the day they are received, Similarly, the US Treasury has expressed concern that US holders the US holder generally will not be required to recognise any foreign of depositary receipts such as holders of ADRs representing our ADSs currency gain or loss in respect of the dividend income.
may be claiming foreign tax credits in situations where an intermediary in the chain of ownership between such holders and the issuer of the Where UK tax is payable on any dividends received, a US holder may security underlying the depositary receipts, or a party to whom be entitled, subject to certain limitations, to a foreign tax credit in respect depositary receipts or deposited shares are delivered by the depositary of such taxes.
prior to the receipt by the depositary of the corresponding securities, has taken actions inconsistent with the ownership of the underlying security by the person claiming the credit, such as a disposition of such security.
Such actions may also be inconsistent with the claiming of the reduced tax rates that may be applicable to certain dividends received by certain non-corporate holders, as described below.
Accordingly, i the creditability of any UK taxes and ii the availability of the reduced tax rates for any dividends received by certain non-corporate US Holders, each as described below, could be affected by actions taken by such parties or intermediaries.
Generally exchanges of shares for ADRs and ADRs for shares will not be subject to US federal income tax or to UK tax other than stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax see the section on these taxes on page 197.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 197 Taxation of capital gains Following rulings of the European Court of Justice and the first-tier tax tribunal in the UK, HMRC have confirmed that the 1.5% SDRT charge will UK taxation not be levied on an issue of shares to a depositary receipt system on the A US holder that is not resident in the UK will generally not be liable for basis that such a charge is contrary to EU law.
UK tax in respect of any capital gain realised on a disposal of our shares or ADSs.
No stamp duty should in practice be required to be paid on any transfer of our ADSs provided that the ADSs and any separate instrument However, a US holder may be liable for both UK and US tax in respect of transfer are executed and retained at all times outside the UK.
of a gain on the disposal of our shares or ADSs if the US holder: A transfer of our shares in registered form will attract ad valorem stamp is a citizen of the United States and is resident in the UK: duty generally at the rate of 0.5% of the purchase price of the shares.
There is no charge to ad valorem stamp duty on gifts.
is an individual who realises such a gain during a period of temporary non-residence broadly, where the individual becomes resident SDRT is generally payable on an unconditional agreement to transfer in the UK, having ceased to be so resident for a period of five years our shares in registered form at 0.5% of the amount or value of the or less, and was resident in the UK for at least four out of the seven tax consideration for the transfer, but if, within six years of the date of the years immediately preceding the year of departure from the UK : agreement, an instrument transferring the shares is executed, any SDRT which has been paid would be repayable or, if the SDRT has not is a US domestic corporation resident in the UK by reason of being been paid, the liability to pay the tax but not necessarily interest and centrally managed and controlled in the UK: or penalties would be cancelled.
However, an agreement to transfer our is a citizen or a resident of the United States, or a US domestic ADSs will not give rise to SDRT.
corporation, that has used, held or acquired the shares or ADSs PFIC rules in connection with a branch, agency or permanent establishment We do not believe that our shares or ADSs will be treated as stock in the UK through which it carries on a trade, profession or vocation of a PFIC for US federal income tax purposes for our current taxable year in the UK.
This conclusion is a factual determination that is made annually and thus is subject to change.
If we are treated In such circumstances, relief from double taxation may be available as a PFIC, US holders of shares would be required i to pay a special under the treaty.
Holders who may fall within one of the above US addition to tax on certain distributions and ii any gain realised categories should consult their professional advisers.
on the sale or other disposition of the shares or ADSs would in general US federal income taxation not be treated as a capital gain unless a US holder elects to be taxed Subject to the PFIC rules described below, a US holder that sells annually on a mark-to-market basis with respect to the shares or ADSs.
or otherwise disposes of our shares or ADSs generally will recognise Otherwise a US holder would be treated as if he or she has realised a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes equal to the such gain and certain excess distributions rateably over the holding difference between the US dollar value of the amount realised and period for the shares or ADSs and would be taxed at the highest tax the holders adjusted tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the shares rate in effect for each such year to which the gain was allocated.
This capital gain or loss will be a long-term capital gain or loss An interest charge in respect of the tax attributable to each such if the US holders holding period in the shares or ADSs exceeds one year.
preceding year beginning with the first such year in which our shares The gain or loss will generally be income or loss from sources within the or ADSs were treated as stock in a PFIC would also apply.
In addition, US for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
The deductibility of losses dividends received from us would not be eligible for the reduced rate is subject to limitations.
of tax described above under Taxation of Dividends US federal income taxation.
Additional tax considerations UK inheritance tax Back-up withholding and information reporting An individual who is domiciled in the United States for the purposes Payments of dividends and other proceeds to a US holder with respect of the Estate Tax Convention and is not a UK national will not to shares or ADSs, by a US paying agent or other US intermediary will be subject to UK inheritance tax in respect of our shares or ADSs on the be reported to the Internal Revenue Service IRS and to the US holder individuals death or on a transfer of the shares or ADSs during the as may be required under applicable regulations.
Back-up withholding individuals lifetime, provided that any applicable US federal gift or estate may apply to these payments if the US holder fails to provide tax is paid, unless the shares or ADSs are part of the business property an accurate taxpayer identification number or certification of exempt of a UK permanent establishment or pertain to a UK fixed base used for status or fails to comply with applicable certification requirements.
the performance of independent personal services.
Where the shares Certain US holders are not subject to back-up withholding.
US holders or ADSs have been placed in trust by a settlor they may be subject should consult their tax advisors about these rules and any other to UK inheritance tax unless, when the trust was created, the settlor was reporting obligations that may apply to the ownership or disposition domiciled in the United States and was not a UK national.
Where the of shares or ADSs, including requirements related to the holding shares or ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance tax and to US federal of certain foreign financial assets.
gift or estate tax, the estate tax convention generally provides a credit against US federal tax liabilities for UK inheritance tax paid.
UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax Stamp duty will, subject to certain exceptions, be payable on any instrument transferring our shares to the custodian of the depositary at the rate of 1.5% on the amount or value of the consideration if on sale or on the value of such shares if not on sale.
Stamp duty reserve tax SDRT, at the rate of 1.5% of the amount or value of the consideration or the value of the shares, could also be payable in these circumstances but no SDRT will be payable if stamp duty equal to such SDRT liability is paid.
