FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report includes forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking No assurance can be given that such future results will be achieved: statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, actual events or results may differ materially as a result of risks and manyof which are beyond the Companys control and all of which are uncertainties facing the Group.
Such risks and uncertainties could based on the Directors current beliefs and expectations about future cause actual results to vary materially from the future results indicated, events.
Forward-looking statements are sometimes identified by the expressed, or implied in such forward-looking statements.
use of forward-looking terminology such as: believe, expects, Such forward-looking statements contained in this report speak may, will, could, should, shall, risk, intends, estimates, only as of the date of this report.
The Company and the Directors aims, plans, predicts, continues, assumes, positioned, expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to update these anticipates or targets or the negative thereof, other variations forward-looking statements contained in the document to reflect thereon or comparable terminology.
These forward-looking anychange in their expectations or any change in events, conditions, statements include all matters that are not historical facts.
They appear orcircumstances on which such statements are based, unless required in a number of places throughout this report and include statements to do so by applicable law.
regarding the intentions, beliefs or current expectations of the Directors or the Group concerning, among other things, the future results of operations, financial condition, prospects, growth, strategies of the Group and the industry in which it operates.
In particular, the statements in the Risk section on page 49 of this report regarding the Groups strategy, targets, and other future events or prospects are forward-looking statements.
164 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 Design and production by Radley Yeldar www.
com This report has been printed on Munken, a paper which is certified bytheForest Stewardship Council.
The paper is made at a mill with  Management System accreditation.
Printed by CPI Colour using vegetable oil based inks, CPI is a CarbonNeutral printer, certified to ISO 14001 Environmental Management System and registered to EMAS, the Eco Management and Audit Scheme.
Vivo Energy plc The Peak, 5th Floor 5 Wilton Road, London SWIV IAN United Kingdom
