The Weir Group PLC 116 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing Each of the Directors, as at the date of the Annual Report and the Financial this report, confirms to the best of their Statements in accordance with applicable law knowledge that: and regulations.
The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounting standards, give a true and fair view financial statements for each financial year.
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and Under that law, the Directors have prepared profit of the Group.
the Group financial statements in accordance The Strategic Report and the Directors Report with International Financial Reporting Standards include a fair review of the development and IFRS as adopted by the European Union performance of the business and the position and the Company financial statements in of the Group, together with a description of the accordance with UK Accounting Standards principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
In preparing those financial statements, On behalf of the Board of Directors the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
Charles Berry State that the Group financial statements have Chairman complied with IFRS as adopted by the European 27 February 2019 Union, subject to any material departures being disclosed and explained.
State for the Company financial statements whether the applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures being disclosed and explained.
The Directors are responsible for keeping Jon Stanton proper accounting records which disclose with Chief Executive Officer reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 27 February 2019 position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the 2006 Act and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
