The Weir Group PLC 128 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements 1.
Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance The Consolidated Financial Statements of The Weir Group PLC the Company and its subsidiaries together, the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018 2018 were approved and authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 27 February 2019.
The comparative information ispresented for the year ended 31 December 2017 2017.
The Consolidated Financial Statements of The Weir Group PLC have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS asadopted by the European Union and applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Weir Group PLC is a public limited company incorporated in Scotland and is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The principal activities of the Group are described in note 3.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation These financial statements are presented in Sterling.
All values are rounded to the nearest 0.1 million pounds m except where otherwise indicated.
The accounting policies which follow are consistent with those of the previous period with the exception of the following new standards which apply for the first time in 2018: IFRS 9: Financial instruments IFRS 9 replaces the provisions of IAS 39 that relate to the recognition, classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities, derecognition of financial instruments, impairment of financial assets and hedge accounting.
In accordance with the transitional provisions in IFRS 9 7.2.
15, IFRS 9 was adopted without restating comparative information.
The impact of adopting IFRS 9 on the Groups retained earnings and individual financial statement line items as at 1 January 2018 was determined to be immaterial and as such no adjustments to the opening balance sheet have been recorded.
The considerations relevant to this assessment are outlined below.
i Classification and measurement No changes were necessary to the classification or remeasurement of the Groups financial instruments, as disclosed in note 29, with derivative instruments remaining as measured at fair value through the profit and loss FVTPL, or subject to the accounting provisions for hedge relationships under IFRS 9 where designated in effective hedge accounting relationships, and all other financial instruments remaining classified as measured at amortised cost under IFRS 9. ii Derivatives and hedging activities Certain of the Groups forward foreign currency contracts, cross currency swaps and foreign currency debt in place as at 31 December 2017 qualified as cash flow hedges or net investment hedges under IFRS 9.
The Groups risk management strategies and hedge documentation are aligned with the requirements of IFRS 9 and these relationships continue to be treated as hedges.
iii Impairment of financial assets The Group has two types of financial assets that are subject to IFRS 9s new expected credit loss model, namely: trade receivables for sales of products and services: and contract assets relating to construction contracts.
The Group applies the IFRS 9 simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses which uses a lifetime expected loss allowance for all trade receivables and contract assets.
This did not result in a material change to the loss allowance on 1 January 2018 for either trade receivables or for contract assets, and as such no adjustment has been recorded and comparative figures have not been restated.
Note 17 provides details about the calculation of the allowance.
While cash and cash equivalents are also subject to the impairment requirements of IFRS 9, no impairment loss was identified.
As at 31 December 2018 there were no assets held by the Group that required assessment for impairment under the IFRS 9 general impairment model.
The Groups policies and approach to implementation of the general model as applied within its subsidiaries and The Weir Group PLC Companys financial statements are set out within note 5 of the Companys financial statements.
IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with customers including associated amendments The Group has adopted IFRS 15, applying the full retrospective method.
The new standard has had an immaterial impact on the results of the Group, with the restatement of revenue totalling less than 1% of reported revenue of continuing operations for the year ended 31 December 2017, as reflected in the restatement tables below.
The main changes relate to the timing of revenue recognition in a small number of entities, for over time or point in time, dependent on certain criteria for Engineer to order contracts as well as revenue adjustments for variable consideration.
The accounting policy in note 2 has been updated.
There are no other new standards or interpretations effective for the year ended 31 December 2018, in addition to the above, which are considered to have amaterial impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group.
Basis of consolidation The Consolidated Financial Statements include the results, cash flows and assets and liabilities of The Weir Group PLC and its subsidiaries, and the Groups share of results of its joint ventures.
For consolidation purposes, subsidiaries and joint ventures prepare financial information for the same reporting period asthe Company using consistent accounting policies.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled, either directly or indirectly, by the Company, where control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
The results of a subsidiary acquired during the period are included in the Groups results from the effective date on which control is transferred to the Group.
The results of a subsidiary sold during the period are included in the Groups results up to the effective date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
All intragroup transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 129 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that are not held by the Group and are presented within equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, separately from the Company shareholders equity.
A full list of the Companys related undertakings can be found on pages 198 to 208.
Prior period restatements On 19 April 2018, the Group announced its intention to sell the Flow Control division and, in line with IFRS 5: Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, the Group has classified the division as held for sale.
Previously disclosed as an individual segment, the division is now reported as a discontinued operation.
This has resulted in a restatement of the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2017.
During the period ended 30 June 2018, the provisional fair values attributed to the 2017 KOP Surface Products KOP acquisition were finalised.
In accordance with IFRS 3: Business Combinations, the net impact of the adjustments to the provisional fair values has been recognised by means of anincrease to goodwill and the adjustments to the provisional amounts have been recognised as if the accounting for the business combination had been completed at the relevant acquisition date.
As such, all affected balances and amounts have been restated in the financial statements.
The Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2017 and the Consolidated Balance Sheet at 31 December 2017 have been restated, as shown below, to reflect the above and IFRS 15 restatements.
The Consolidated Balance Sheet at 31 December 2016 has also been restated for IFRS 15 but is not presented below on the grounds of materiality, the impact being reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
Restated Consolidated Income Statement for year ended 31 December 2017 Continuing Total Transfer to operations: Discontinued operations: discontinued IFRS 15 Continuing operations: as previously operations restatement operations: IFRS 15 reported profit loss profit loss as restated restatement m m m m m Revenue 2,355.9 362.8 7.5 1,985.6 3.3 Operating profit before share of results of joint ventures 212.2 20.4 2.7 229.9 Share of results of joint ventures 10.9 10.9 Operating profit 223.1 20.4 2.7 240.8 Finance costs 44.1 0.4 43.7 Finance income 1.6 0.1 1.5 Profit before tax from continuing operations 180.6 20.7 2.7 198.6 Tax expense 19.1 4.0 0.9 14.2 Profit for the year 161.5 24.7 1.8 184.4 Loss for the year from discontinued operations 24.7 24.7 Profit for the year 161.5 1.8 159.7 The Weir Group PLC 130 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Restated Consolidated Balance Sheet extract at 31 December 2017 KOP Restated As previously adjustments to 31 December reported IFRS 15 fair values 2017 Notes m m m m Non-current assets Property, plant & equipment 11 392.3 1.0 393.3 Intangible assets 12 1,549.9 0.8 1,550.7 Deferred tax assets 22 45.3 0.3 45.6 Current assets Inventories 16 586.8 2.3 589.1 Trade & other receivables 17 636.9 6.2 1.5 629.2 Income tax receivable 18.5 0.5 0.9 18.1 Current liabilities Trade & other payables 20 615.8 0.9 0.6 614.3 Income tax payable 31.1 0.1 31.2 Provisions 21 52.6 0.4 53.0 Non-current liabilities Provisions 21 72.0 0.1 71.9 Deferred tax liabilities 22 58.4 0.2 58.2 CAPITAL & RESERVES 31 December 2016 restatement 0.6 0.6 31 December 2017 restatement 1.8 1.8 Retained earnings 1,141.4 2.4 1,139.0 Exceptional items & intangibles amortisation In order to provide the users of the Consolidated Financial Statements with a more relevant presentation of the Groups underlying performance, on a like-for-like basis, profit for each year has been analysed between: i profit before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation: and ii the effect of exceptional items & intangibles amortisation.
Exceptional items are items of income and expense which, because of the nature, size and or infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation.
These specific items are presented on the face of the Consolidated Income Statement to provide greater clarity and a better understanding of the impact of these items on the Groups financial performance.
In doing so, it also facilitates greater comparison of the Groups underlying results with prior years and assessment of trends in financial performance.
This split is consistent with how underlying business performance is measured internally.
Exceptional items may include but are not restricted to: profits or losses arising on disposal or closure of businesses: the cost of significant business restructuring: significant impairments of intangible or tangible assets: adjustments to the fair value of acquisition-related items such as contingent consideration and inventory: other items deemed exceptional due to their significance, size or nature: and the related exceptional taxation.
Intangibles amortisation has been shown separately to provide visibility over the ongoing impact on the Groups income statement of prior and current period investment activities.
Further analysis of the items included in the column Exceptional items & intangibles amortisation is provided in note 5 to the financial statements.
Use of estimates and judgements The Groups significant accounting policies are set out below.
The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, in conformity with IFRS, requires management to make judgements that affect the application of accounting policies and estimates that impact the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expense.
Management bases these judgements on a combination of past experience, professional expert advice and other evidence that is relevant to each individual circumstance.
Actual results may differ from these judgements and the resulting estimates which are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the year in which the estimate is revised.
Areas requiring significant judgement in the current year and on a recurring basis are presented to the Audit Committee, as summarised on page 87.
The areas where management considers critical judgements and estimates to be required are those in respect of the following: i Acquisition accounting estimate and judgement On the acquisition of a business, management assesses: i the Purchase Price Allocation PPA in order to attribute fair values to separately identifiable intangible assets providing they meet the recognition criteria and ii the fair values of other assets and liabilities.
The fair values of these intangible assets are dependent on estimates of attributable future revenues, margins and cash flows, as well as appropriate discount rates.
In addition, the allocation of useful lives to acquired intangible assets requires the application of judgement based on available information and Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 131 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 management expectations at the time of recognition.
The valuation of other tangible assets and liabilities involves aligning accounting policies with those of the Group, reflecting appropriate external market valuations for property, plant & equipment, assessing recoverability of receivables and inventory, and exposures to unrecorded liabilities.
In deriving appropriate fair values the process will inevitably involve the use of estimates.
The disclosure in relation to business combinations is provided in note 13. ii Discontinued operations estimate IFRS 5 requires entities to measure discontinued operations at the lower of the carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Prior to completion of the sale process this requires management to apply certain judgements about possible outcomes of the sale process and estimate both the fair value and costs of disposal.
This exercise was completed as at the year end based on the latest developments in the sale process.
This resulted in an impairment of 45.0m being recognised in relation to goodwill.
When the sale is completed a gain or loss is likely to arise.
At this time the foreign currency translation reserve will also be recycled to the income statement and reflected in the gain or loss on disposal.
The disclosure in relation to discontinued operations is provided in note 8, with the impairment testing reflected in note 14. iii Retirement benefits estimate The assumptions underlying the valuation of retirement benefit assets and liabilities include discount rates, inflation rates and mortality assumptions which are based on actuarial advice.
Changes in these assumptions could have a material impact on the measurement of the Groups retirement benefit obligations.
Sensitivities to changes in key assumptions are provided in note 23. iv Provisions estimate Management judgement is used to determine when a provision is recognised taking into account the commercial drivers which gave rise to them, the Groups previous experience of similar obligations and the progress of any associated legal proceedings.
The calculation of provisions typically involves management estimates of associated cash flows and discount rates.
The key provision which currently requires a greater degree of management estimate is the US asbestos provision, details of which are included in note 21.
It is considered appropriate to disclose this as an area of significant estimation due to the size and nature of the balance and that it could change as a result of future events but it is considered unlikely in the next 12 months.
v Taxation estimate The level of current and deferred tax recognised in the financial statements is dependent on subjective judgements as to the interpretation of complex international tax regulations and, in some cases, the outcome of decisions by tax authorities in various jurisdictions around the world, together with the ability of the Group to utilise tax attributes within the limits imposed by the relevant tax legislation.
The Group faces a variety of tax risks which result from operating in a complex global environment including the ongoing reform of both international and domestic tax rules in some of the Groups larger markets and the challenge to fulfil ongoing tax compliance filing and transfer pricing obligations given the scale and diversity of the Groups global operations.
The Group makes provision for open tax issues where it is probable that an exposure will arise including, in a number of jurisdictions, ongoing tax audits and uncertain tax positions which are by nature complex and can take a number of years to resolve.
In all cases, provisions are based on managements interpretation of tax law in each country, as supported where appropriate by discussion and analysis undertaken by the Groups external advisers, and reflect the single best estimate of the likely outcome for each liability.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions are included in current tax liabilities and total 26.9m at 31 December 2018.
The Group believes it has made adequate provision for such matters although it is possible that amounts ultimately paid will be different from the amounts provided.
Detailed tax disclosures are provided in notes 7 and 22.
Joint ventures The Group has a number of long-term contractual arrangements with other parties which represent joint ventures.
The Groups interests in the results and assets and liabilities of its joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
These investments are carried in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets less any impairment in value.
The Consolidated Income Statement reflects the share of results of operations of these investments after tax.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the investees equity, the Group recognises its share of any changes and discloses this when applicable in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a joint venture, representing the excess of the cost of the investment over the Groups share of the net fair value of the joint ventures identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, is included in the carrying amount of the joint venture and is not amortised.
To the extent that the net fair value of the joint ventures identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is greater than the cost of the investment, a gain is recognised and added to the Groups share of the joint ventures profit or loss in the year in which the investment is acquired.
Foreign currency translation The financial statements for each of the Groups subsidiaries and joint ventures are prepared using their functional currency.
The functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which an entity operates.
At entity level, transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the entitys functional currency at the exchange rate ruling on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate ruling on the balance sheet date.
Currency translation differences are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement except when hedge accounting is applied and for differences on monetary assets and liabilities that form part of the Groups net investment in a foreign operation.
These are recognised in other comprehensive income until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in profit or loss.
The Weir Group PLC 132 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued On consolidation, the results of foreign operations are translated into Sterling at the average exchange rate for the year and their assets and liabilities are translated into Sterling at the exchange rate ruling on the balance sheet date.
Currency translation differences, including those on monetary items that form part of a net investment in a foreign operation, are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve and in other comprehensive income.
In the event that a foreign operation is sold, the gain or loss on disposal recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement is determined after taking into account the cumulative currency translation differences that are attributable to the operation.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group elected to deem cumulative currency translation differences to be nil as at 27 December 2003.
Accordingly, the gain or loss on disposal of a foreign operation does not include currency translation differences arising before that date.
In the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the cash flows of foreign operations are translated into Sterling at the average exchange rate for the year.
Revenue recognition Revenue is the consideration received or receivable which reflects the amount expected to be received from customers, mainly the transaction price adjusted for variable consideration.
Revenue will only be recognised when the fulfilment of performance obligations is achieved.
Revenue is shown net of sales taxes, discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group.
i Sale of goods Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement when the transfer of control has been demonstrated, usually on despatch of goods.
No revenue is recognised where recovery of the consideration is not probable or there are significant uncertainties regarding associated costs, or the possible return of goods.
Transfer of control can vary depending on the nature of the products sold and the individual terms of the contract of sale.
Where the sale of product requires customer inspection, revenue is not recognised until the inspection has been completed and approved by the customer.
This policy is applicable to the sale of both original equipment and spare parts, whether sold individually, in bulk or as part of a cross-selling marketing strategy.
ii Provision of services Revenue from the rendering of services is generally recognised on completion if the service is short-term in nature.
Where this is not the case, revenue from services is recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the performance obligations at the balance sheet date.
The stage of completion is assessed by reference to the transfer of control over time which usually corresponds to the contractual agreement with each separate customer and the costs incurred on the contract to date in comparison with the total forecast costs of the contract.
Revenue recognition commences only when the performance obligations within each service contract are completed.
iii Construction contracts Construction contracts usually contain discrete elements separately transferring control to customers over the life of the contract.
The stage of completion of a contract is determined either by reference to the proportion that contract costs incurred for work performed to date bear to the estimated total contract costs, or by reference to the completion of a physical proportion of the contract work.
The basis used is dependent upon the nature of the underlying contract and takes into account the degree to which the physical proportion of the work is subject to formal customer acceptance procedures.
Losses on contracts are recognised in the year when such losses become probable.
Construction contracts are primarily entered into by the Groups Engineer to order businesses.
Property, plant & equipment Property, plant & equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment losses.
Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated.
Depreciation of property, plant & equipment is provided on a straight-line basis so as to charge the cost less residual value, to the Consolidated Income Statement over the expected useful life of the asset concerned, and is in the following ranges: Freehold buildings, long leasehold land & buildings 10 40 years Short leasehold land & buildings duration of lease Plant & equipment 3 20 years Goodwill Goodwill arises on the acquisition of businesses and represents any excess of the cost of the acquired entity over the Groups interest in the fair value of the entitys identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities determined at the date of acquisition.
Acquisition costs are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the year in which they are incurred.
Goodwill in respect of an acquired business is recognised as an intangible asset.
Goodwill is carried at cost less any recognised impairment losses and is tested at least annually or where there are indicators of impairment.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to a cash generating unit is taken into account when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the unit.
Any contingent consideration is recognised at the date of acquisition or disposal.
For acquisitions, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date that the Group obtains complete information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is subject to a maximum of one year.
If the change does not qualify as a measurement period adjustment it is reflected in the Consolidated Income Statement.
For disposals, any subsequent change in contingent consideration is adjusted against the disposal proceeds and the gain or loss on disposal.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any recognised impairment losses.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 133 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Intangible assets acquired separately are measured at cost on initial recognition.
An intangible resource acquired in a business combination is recognised as an intangible asset if it is separable from the acquired business or arises from contractual or legal rights, is expected to generate future economic benefits and its fair value can be measured reliably.
An intangible asset with a finite life is amortised on a straight-line basis so as to charge its cost, which in respect of an acquired intangible asset represents its fair value at the acquisition date, to the income statement over its expected useful life.
An intangible asset with an indefinite life is not amortised but is tested at least annually for impairment and carried at cost less any recognised impairment losses.
The expected useful lives of acquired intangible assets are as follows: Brand names indefinite life Customer & distributor relationships 5 30 years Purchased software 4 8 years Intellectual property & trademarks 6 15 years Other up to 6 years Acquired brands which are considered to have a finite life are amortised accordingly.
Research & development costs All research expenditure is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in the year in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in the year in which it is incurred unless it relates to the development of a new product or technology and it is incurred after the technical feasibility and commercial viability of the product has been proven, the development costs can be measured reliably, future economic benefits are probable and the Group intends, and has sufficient resources, to complete the development and to use or sell the asset.
Any such capitalised development expenditure is amortised on a straight-line basis so that it is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement over the expected life of the resulting product or technology.
Impairment of non-current assets All non-current assets are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying values might be impaired.
Additionally, goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite life are subject to an annual impairment test.
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that an assets carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount, which represents the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
An assets value in use represents the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the impairment test is conducted for the cash generating unit to which it belongs.
Similarly, the recoverable amount of goodwill is determined by reference to the discounted future cash flows of the cash generating units to which it is allocated.
Impairment losses are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Impairment losses recognised in previous periods for an asset other than goodwill are reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount.
The carrying amount of an asset shall not be increased above the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior periods.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, with due allowance for any obsolete or slow moving items.
Cost represents the expenditure incurred in bringing inventories to their existing location and condition and comprises the cost of raw materials, direct labour costs, other direct costs and related production overheads.
Raw material cost is generally determined on a first-in, first-out basis.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less costs to complete and sell.
Financial assets & liabilities The Groups principal financial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise bank overdrafts, short-term borrowings, loans and fixed-rate notes, commercial paper, cash and short-term deposits.
The Group also has other financial assets and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade payables which arise directly from its operations, and contingent consideration in relation to acquisitions.
A financial asset is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
Under IFRS 9, where the modification is not substantial any difference in the modified cash flows is recognised in profit or loss.
Previously under IAS 39, such a modification would have resulted in an adjustment to the effective interest rate of the liability, which would be recognised prospectively in profit or loss.
The Weir Group PLC 134 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Trade receivables Trade receivables, which are generally of a short-term nature, are recognised at original invoice amount where the consideration is unconditional.
If they contain significant financing components, trade receivables are instead recognised at fair value.
The Group holds trade receivables to collect the contractual cash flows and therefore measures them subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Details of the Groups impairment policies and the calculation of the loss allowance are provided in note 17.
Cash & cash equivalents Cash & cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits available on demand and other short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity on acquisition of three months or less and bank overdrafts and short-term borrowings with a maturity on acquisition of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are presented as current liabilities to the extent that there is no right of offset with cash balances.
Trade payables Trade payables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount.
Interest-bearing loans & borrowings Obligations for loans and borrowings are recognised when the Group becomes party to the related contracts and are measured initially at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to settle the liability at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, the obligation can be estimated reliably and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Derivative financial instruments & hedge accounting The Group uses derivative financial instruments, principally forward foreign currency contracts and cross currency swaps, to reduce its exposure to exchange rate movements.
The Group also uses foreign currency borrowings as a hedge of its exposure to foreign exchange risk on its investments in foreign subsidiaries.
Additionally, the Group uses interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to interest rate risk.
The Group does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and liabilities measured at their fair values at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of forward foreign currency contracts is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on spot and forward foreign exchange rates and counterparty and the Groups own credit risk.
The fair value of interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on interest rate curves, spot foreign exchange rates and counterparty and own credit risk.
Changes in their fair values are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement, except where hedge accounting is used, provided the conditions specified by IFRS 9 are met.
Hedge accounting is applied in respect of hedge relationships where it is both permissible under IFRS 9 and practical to do so.
When hedge accounting is used, the relevant hedging relationships are classified as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or net investment hedges, as appropriate.
Where the hedging relationship is classified as a fair value hedge, the carrying amount of the hedged asset or liability will be adjusted by the increase or decrease in its fair value attributable to the hedged risk and the resulting gain or loss will be recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement where, to the extent that the hedge is effective, it will be offset by the change in the fair value of the hedging instrument.
Where the hedging relationship is classified as a cash flow or net investment hedge, to the extent that the hedge is effective, changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument will be recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
When the hedged asset or liability is recognised in the financial statements, the accumulated gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income will be either recycled to the income statement or, if the hedged item results in a non-financial asset, will be recognised as adjustments to its initial carrying amount.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised through other comprehensive income is kept in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately reclassified to the income statement in the period.
Derivatives embedded in non-derivative host contracts, which are not already measured at fair value through profit or loss, are recognised separately as derivative financial instruments when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract and the host contract is not stated at its fair value with changes in its fair value recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Share-based payments Equity settled share-based incentives are provided to employees under the Groups Share Reward Plan SRP, formerly the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, and as a consequence of occasional one-off conditional awards made to employees.
The fair value of awards at the date of the grant is calculated using appropriate option pricing models and the cost is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Adjustments are made to reflect expected and actual forfeitures during the vesting period due to failure to satisfy service or performance conditions.
The conditions of the SRP which took effect in 2018 are summarised in the Directors Remuneration Policy, which can be found on the Companys website at www.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 135 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Treasury shares The Weir Group PLC shares held by the Company are classified in shareholders equity as treasury shares and are recognised at cost.
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost being taken directly to retained earnings.
No gain or loss is recognised in total comprehensive income on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
Post-employment benefits Post-employment benefits comprise pension benefits provided to certain current and former employees in the UK, US and Canada and post-retirement healthcare benefits provided to certain employees in the US.
For defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare plans, the annual service cost is calculated using the projected unit credit method and is recognised over the future service lives of participating employees, in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries.
Current service cost and administration expenses are recognised in operating costs and net interest on the net pension liability is recognised in finance costs.
The finance cost recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the year reflects the net interest on the net pension liability.
This represents the change in the net pension liability resulting from the passage of time, and is determined by applying the discount rate to the opening net liability, taking into account employer contributions paid into the plan, and hence reducing the net liability, during the year.
Past service costs resulting from enhanced benefits are recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Actuarial gains and losses, which represent differences between interest on the plan assets, experience on the benefit obligation and the effect of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in full in other comprehensive income in the year in which they occur.
The defined benefit liability or asset recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet comprises the net total for each plan of the present value of the benefit obligation, using a discount rate based on yields at the balance sheet date on appropriate high-quality corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Groups obligations and are denominated in the currency in which the benefits are expected to be paid, minus the fair value of the plan assets, if any, at the balance sheet date.
The balance sheet asset recognised is limited to the present value of economic benefits which the Group expects to recover by way of refunds or a reduction in future contributions.
In order to calculate the present value of economic benefits, consideration is also given to any minimum funding requirements.
For defined contribution plans, the cost represents the Groups contributions to the plans and these are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in the year in which they fall due, along with any associated administration costs.
Leases Leases which transfer to the Group substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are classified as finance leases.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are included within property, plant & equipment, initially measured at their fair value or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments, and a corresponding liability is recognised within obligations under finance leases.
Subsequently, the assets are depreciated over a period consistent with similar owned assets or the lease term if shorter.
At the inception of the lease, the lease rentals are apportioned between an interest element and a capital element so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the outstanding liability.
Subsequently, the interest element is recognised as a charge to the Consolidated Income Statement while the capital element is applied to reduce the outstanding liability.
Operating lease rentals and any incentives receivable are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Taxation Current tax is the amount of tax payable or recoverable in respect of the taxable profit or loss for the year.
Deferred tax liabilities represent tax payable in future years in respect of taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets represent tax recoverable in future years in respect of deductible temporary differences, the carry forward of unutilised tax losses and the carry forward of unused tax credits.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the balance sheet and its tax base with the following exceptions: i D eferred tax arising from the initial recognition of goodwill, or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination, that, at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, is not recognised: ii D eferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future: and iii A d eferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Current and deferred tax is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement except if it relates to an item recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised directly in equity.
The Weir Group PLC 136 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued New standards & interpretations issued but not yet effective The International Accounting Standards Board and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee have issued the following standards, amendments and interpretations, which are considered relevant to the Group, with an effective date after the period covered by these financial statements.
International Accounting Standards IAS IFRS Effective date for periods commencing IFRS 16: Leases 1 January 2019 Amendment to IFRS 9: Financial instruments on prepayment features with negative compensation 1 January 2019 Amendments to IAS 28: Investments in associates on long-term interests in associates and joint ventures 1 January 2019 Amendment to IAS 19: Employee benefits plan amendment, curtailment or settlement 1 January 2019 Annual improvements 2015-2017 1 January 2019 Amendment to IFRS 3: Business combinations 1 January 2019 Amendment to IAS 1 and IAS 8 regarding the definition of materiality 1 January 2019 Not yet endorsed for use in the European Union.
The above standards and interpretations will be adopted in accordance with their effective dates and have not been adopted in these financial statements.
Further details are provided below in relation to IFRS 16: Leases which will become effective from 1 January 2019.
The amendments and improvements which have not yet been endorsed are not anticipated to have a significant financial impact.
IFRS 16: Leases The Group will adopt IFRS 16 on 1 January 2019.
The standard will result in many current operating leases being recognised on the balance sheet, as the distinction between operating and finance leases is removed.
The Group will apply the modified retrospective transition method.
Under this method, comparative information will not be restated, but the impact of IFRS 16 will be recognised within opening balances as at 1 January 2019.
The Group will recognise right-of-use assets representing its right to use underlying assets, and corresponding lease liabilities representing its obligation to make lease payments.
Right-of-use assets will be valued as equal to lease liabilities.
The lease term is calculated as the non-cancellable period of the lease contract, except where the Group is reasonably certain that it will exercise contractual extension options.
Operating lease expenses will be replaced by a depreciation expense on the right-of-use assets recognised and an interest expense.
Where the interest rate implicit in the lease cannot be readily determined, the Groups incremental borrowing rate will be used.
The Group has elected to use the following practical expedients allowed by the standard: On initial application: i the use of hindsight when determining the lease term if the contract contains options to extend or terminate the lease: ii the exclusion of initial direct costs from the measurement of the right-of-use asset: and iii IFRS 16 will only be applied to contracts that were previously classified as leases.
Lease payments for contracts with a duration of 12 months or less and or contracts for which the underlying asset is of a low value will continue to be expensed to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
At transition, where the lease term ends within 12 months of 1 January 2019, these leases will be treated as short-term.
On adoption of IFRS 16, the Group expects to recognise right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities on the balance sheet of between 180m and 200m.
The impact on the profit before tax in the Consolidated Income Statement is not expected to be material.
Non-GAAP measures The financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
In measuring our performance, the financial measures that we use include those which have been derived from our reported results in order to eliminate factors which we believe distort period-on-period comparisons.
These are considered non-GAAP financial measures.
This information, along with comparable GAAP measurements, is useful to investors in providing a basis for measuring our operational performance.
Our management uses these financial measures, along with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, in evaluating our performance and value creation.
Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information in compliance with GAAP.
Non-GAAP financial measures as reported by the Group may not be comparable with similarly titled amounts reported by other companies.
Below we set out our definitions of non-GAAP measures and provide reconciliations to relevant GAAP measures.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 137 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Free cash flow Free cash flow FCF is defined as cash flow from operating activities adjusted for income taxes, net capital expenditures, net interest payments, dividends paid, settlement of derivatives, purchase of shares for LTIP and other awards and pension contributions.
FCF reflects an additional way of viewing our liquidity that we believe is useful to investors as it represents cash flows that could be used for repayment of debt or to fund our strategic initiatives, including acquisitions, if any.
The reconciliation of cash generated from operations to FCF is as follows.
2018 2017 m m Cash generated from operations before exceptional cash items note 25 410.8 220.5 Income tax paid 73.3 60.5 Net capital expenditure from purchase & disposal of property, plant & equipment and intangibles 85.2 80.8 Net interest paid 36.6 40.8 Dividends paid to equity holders of the Company 79.6 74.2 Dividends received from joint ventures 1.6 8.0 Settlement of derivative financial instruments 22.1 6.6 Purchase of shares for employee share plans 0.8 Additional pension contributions paid 5.6 3.0 Free cash flow 109.2 24.2 EBITDA EBITDA is operating profit from continuing operations, before exceptional items, intangibles amortisation and depreciation.
EBITDA is used in conjunction with other GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures to assess our operating performance.
A reconciliation of EBITDA to the closest equivalent GAAP measure, operating profit, is provided.
Restated note 2 2018 2017 m m Continuing operations Operating profit 124.1 240.8 Adjusted for: Exceptional items note 5 157.7 3.5 Earnings before interest and tax EBIT 281.8 244.3 Intangibles amortisation note 5 66.3 52.0 Depreciation of property, plant & equipment note 11 61.8 49.7 EBITDA 409.9 346.0 Net debt A reconciliation of net debt to cash & short-term deposits, interest-bearing loans and borrowings is provided in note 25.
The Weir Group PLC 138 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 3.
Segment information Following the announcement during the year of the Groups intention to sell the Flow Control division, the Group has classified the Flow Control division as a discontinued operation.
On 25 February 2019, the Group announced an agreement had been entered into to sell the division, as disclosed in note 32.
Continuing operations includes three operating divisions: Minerals, ESCO and Oil & Gas previously Minerals, Oil & Gas and Flow Control.
The acquisition of ESCO was completed on 12 July 2018 and ESCO has been reported as a separate segment alongside Minerals and Oil & Gas with effect from that date.
These three divisions are organised and managed separately based on the key markets served and each is treated as an operating segment and a reportable segment under IFRS 8.
The operating and reportable segments were determined based on the reports reviewed by the Chief Executive Officer which are used to make operational decisions.
The Minerals segment is the global leader in the provision of slurry handling equipment and associated aftermarket support for abrasive high-wear applications used in the mining and oil sands markets.
The Oil & Gas segment provides products and service solutions to upstream, production, transportation and related industries.
The ESCO segment is the worlds leading provider of ground engaging tools for surface mining and infrastructure.
The Chief Executive Officer assesses the performance of the operating segments based on operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items including impairments and intangibles amortisation segment result.
Finance income and expenditure and associated interest-bearing liabilities and derivative financial instruments are not allocated to segments as all treasury activity is managed centrally by the Group treasury function.
The amounts provided to the Chief Executive Officer with respect to assets and liabilities are measured in a manner consistent with that of the financial statements.
The assets are allocated based on the operations of the segment and the physical location of the asset.
The liabilities are allocated based on the operations of the segment.
Transfer prices between business segments are set on an arms length basis, in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
The segment information for the reportable segments for 2018 and 2017 is disclosed below.
Information for Flow Control is included in note 8.
Minerals ESCO Oil & Gas Total continuing operations Restated Restated Restated note 2 note 2 note 2 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m m m m m Revenue Sales to external customers 1,416.7 1,306.1 251.8 781.4 679.5 2,449.9 1,985.6 Inter-segment sales 1.5 0.7 0.2 1.5 0.9 Segment revenue 1,418.2 1,306.8 251.8 781.4 679.7 2,451.4 1,986.5 Eliminations 1.5 0.9 2,449.9 1,985.6 Sales to external customers 2017 at 2018 average exchange rates Sales to external customers 1,416.7 1,255.2 251.8 781.4 655.5 2,449.9 1,910.7 Segment result Segment result before share of results of joint ventures 250.2 228.1 32.5 93.8 81.4 376.5 309.5 Share of results of joint ventures 0.2 2.2 10.9 2.4 10.9 Segment result 250.2 228.1 32.7 96.0 92.3 378.9 320.4 Unallocated expenses 30.8 24.1 Operating profit before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation 348.1 296.3 Total exceptional items & intangibles amortisation 224.0 56.3 Net finance costs before exceptional items 38.0 41.4 Profit before tax from continuing operations 86.1 198.6 Segment result 2017 at 2018 average exchange rates Segment result before share of results of joint ventures 250.2 219.5 32.5 93.8 78.3 376.5 297.8 Share of results of joint ventures 0.2 2.2 10.6 2.4 10.6 Segment result 250.2 219.5 32.7 96.0 88.9 378.9 308.4 Unallocated expenses 30.8 24.1 Operating profit before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation 348.1 284.3 Revenues from any single external customer do not exceed 10% of Group revenue.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 139 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Minerals ESCO Oil & Gas Discontinued operations Total Group Restated Restated Restated Restated note 2 note 2 note 2 note 2 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m m m m m m m Assets & liabilities Intangible assets 606.3 603.0 747.5 773.5 763.0 137.5 2,127.3 1,503.5 Property, plant & equipment 218.1 221.3 106.1 93.9 89.9 72.5 418.1 383.7 Working capital assets 682.9 621.3 215.8 384.0 365.7 229.3 1,282.7 1,216.3 1,507.3 1,445.6 1,069.4 1,251.4 1,218.6 439.3 3,828.1 3,103.5 Investments in joint ventures 15.6 21.0 19.2 36.6 19.2 Segment assets held for sale 394.4 394.4 Segment assets 1,507.3 1,445.6 1,085.0 1,272.4 1,237.8 394.4 439.3 4,259.1 3,122.7 Unallocated assets 485.7 467.1 Total assets 4,744.8 3,589.8 Working capital liabilities 402.2 353.2 80.0 181.3 175.9 126.7 663.5 655.8 Segment liabilities held for sale 134.0 134.0 Unallocated liabilities 1,798.4 1,465.3 Total liabilities 2,595.9 2,121.1 Other segment information total Group Segment additions to noncurrent assets 47.5 43.5 9.5 26.9 24.8 5.9 6.4 89.8 74.7 Unallocated additions to non-current assets 3.9 11.0 Total additions to non-current assets 93.7 85.7 Other segment information total Group Segment depreciation & amortisation 44.1 45.0 16.8 54.6 51.5 3.7 11.8 119.2 108.3 Segment impairment of property, plant & equipment 12.9 0.1 0.4 2.4 0.3 1.4 13.6 3.9 Segment impairment of intangible assets 3.1 45.0 48.1 Unallocated depreciation, amortisation & impairment 12.6 5.4 Total depreciation, amortisation & impairment 193.5 117.6 Unallocated assets are continuing operations and primarily comprise cash and short-term deposits, derivative financial instruments, income tax receivable, deferred tax assets and retirement benefit surpluses as well as those assets which are used for general head office purposes.
Unallocated liabilities are continuing operations and primarily comprise interest-bearing loans and borrowings, derivative financial instruments, income tax payable, provisions, deferred tax liabilities and retirement benefit deficits as well as liabilities relating to general head office activities.
Segment additions to non-current assets do not include those additions which have arisen from business combinations note 13.
The Weir Group PLC 140 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 3.
Segment information continued Geographical information Geographical information in respect of revenue and non-current assets for 2018 and 2017 is disclosed below.
Revenues are allocated based on the location to which the product is shipped.
Assets are allocated based on the location of the assets and operations.
Non-current assets consist of property, plant & equipment, intangible assets and investments in joint ventures.
Middle Europe & Asia South East & UK US Canada FSU Pacific Australia America Africa Total Year ended 31 December 2018 m m m m m m m m m Revenue from continuing operations Sales to external customers 28.0 802.5 287.9 142.8 285.7 227.7 370.3 305.0 2,449.9 Non-current assets 332.5 1,554.4 54.5 39.3 285.4 152.8 87.3 124.1 2,630.3 Europe & Asia South Middle East Year ended 31 December 2017 UK US Canada FSU Pacific Australia America & Africa Total Restated note 2 m m m m m m m m m Revenue from continuing operations Sales to external customers 15.8 641.7 233.2 126.2 202.2 190.8 307.6 268.1 1,985.6 Non-current assets 345.4 723.0 49.0 171.2 335.3 155.7 65.1 118.5 1,963.2 The following disclosures are given in relation to continuing operations.
Revenues & expenses The following disclosures are given in relation to continuing operations and exclude exceptional items & intangibles amortisation.
Restated note 2 2018 2017 m m A reconciliation of revenue to operating profit is as follows: Revenue 2,449.9 1,985.6 Cost of sales 1,633.0 1,316.2 Gross profit 816.9 669.4 Other operating income 6.2 4.4 Selling & distribution costs 245.8 225.3 Administrative expenses 231.6 163.1 Share of results of joint ventures 2.4 10.9 Operating profit 348.1 296.3 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 141 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Restated note 2 2018 2017 m m Operating profit from continuing operations is stated after charging crediting : Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 1,633.0 1,316.2 Depreciation of property, plant & equipment note 11 61.8 49.7 Amortisation of intangible assets note 12 66.3 52.0 Acquisition integration costs 0.4 Exceptional items note 5 157.7 3.5 Net foreign exchange losses gains 14.9 1.1 Net impairment charge of trade receivables excluding additional restructuring action amounts note 17 5.2 7.5 Details of the exceptional items and intangibles amortisation are provided in note 5.
In 2018 these included acquisition and integration costs associated with the ESCO acquisition.
Depreciation of property, plant & equipment note 11 for discontinued operations was 2.7m 2017: 8.5m.
Amortisation of intangible assets note 12 for discontinued operations was 1.0m 2017: 3.4m.
Research & development costs Research & development costs for continuing operations amount to 37.3m 2017: 35.4m of which 34.4m 2017: 25.2m was charged directly to cost of sales in the income statement and 2.9m 2017: 10.2m was capitalised note 12.
Research & development costs for discontinued operations amounted to 4.7m 2017: 5.0m of which 4.5m 2017: 4.8m was charged to cost of sales in the income statement and 0.2m 2017: 0.2m was capitalised note 12.
Operating leases Minimum lease payments for continuing operations under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year were 53.6m 2017: 47.6m.
Restated note 2 2018 2017 m m Employee benefits expense Wages & salaries 550.4 461.0 Social security costs 40.0 35.4 Pension costs Defined benefit plans 7.4 3.3 Defined contribution plans 23.4 21.0 Share-based payments equity settled transactions note 27 8.6 7.0 629.8 521.1 Details of Directors remuneration is disclosed in note 28.
Restated note 2 2018 2017 Number Number The average monthly number of people employed by the Company and its subsidiaries is as follows: Minerals 8,562 8,506 ESCO 2,444 Oil & Gas 3,038 2,795 Group companies 482 435 14,526 11,736 The following disclosures are given in relation to total operations.
At 31 December 2018, the number of people employed by the Group and including those under temporary contracts was 17,515 2017: 14,906.
The Weir Group PLC 142 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 4.
Revenues & expenses continued 2018 2017 m m Auditors remuneration The total fees payable by the Group to our auditors for work performed in respect of the audit and other services provided to the Company and its subsidiary companies during the year are disclosed below Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Company and Consolidated Financial Statements 2.5 1.7 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for other services The audit of the Companys subsidiaries 1.3 0.9 Audit related assurance services 0.4 0.1 Other non-audit services 0.3 Fees payable in respect of the Groups pension schemes Audit performed by Ernst & Young LLP 0.1 5.
Exceptional items & intangibles amortisation 2018 2017 m m Recognised in arriving at operating profit from continuing operations Intangibles amortisation note 12 66.3 52.0 Exceptional item intangibles impairment note 12 3.1 Exceptional item ESCO inventory unwind 63.1 Exceptional item ESCO acquisition and integration related costs 30.8 Exceptional item legacy product warranty 24.4 Exceptional item restructuring and rationalisation charges 29.2 2.7 Exceptional item pension equalisation note 23 6.3 Exceptional item legal claims 0.7 2.1 Exceptional item gain on sale of EPI joint venture 10.4 Exceptional item fair value adjustment to contingent consideration asset liability 0.1 9.1 224.0 55.5 Recognised in finance costs Exceptional item unwind in respect of contingent consideration liability 0.8 Recognised in arriving at operating profit from discontinued operations Intangibles amortisation note 12 1.0 3.4 Exceptional item intangibles impairment note 12 45.0 Exceptional item disposal related costs 5.0 Exceptional item restructuring and rationalisation charges 0.1 9.8 Exceptional item legal claims 2.0 Exceptional item related to prior disposal 0.3 0.1 52.6 13.3 Continuing operations Exceptional items in the year include costs associated with the ESCO acquisition which completed on 12 July 2018 note 13.
This includes a 63.1m chargerelated to the unwind of the inventory fair value uplift booked in accordance with IFRS 3 in the opening balance sheet.
A further 30.8m has been recognised for acquisition and integration costs.
The majority of these costs relate to adviser fees, due diligence and initial integration costs.
An exceptional charge of 24.4m has been booked in relation to a legacy product warranty issue which has arisen in Oil & Gas.
As a result, an inventory provision of 7.5m and costs of 16.9m to cover warranty compensation arrangements have been recognised.
During 2018, 10.2m of the exceptional charge has been utilised, with the remaining 6.7m expected to be utilised early in 2019.
Restructuring and rationalisation charges represent costs related to the right-sizing of operations, including facility closures, headcount reductions, tangible asset impairments and inventory write downs.
This includes 17.2m which has been recognised following the decision to exit the Minerals Malaysia foundry operations.
The remaining 12.0m restructuring relates to restructuring actions in Minerals North America and China, plus Oil & Gas International.
An exceptional impairment of related goodwill has also been recognised of 3.1m.
Following the Lloyds Banking Group High Court ruling on 26 October 2018 in relation to guaranteed minimum pension GMP inequality, a charge of 6.3m for GMP equalisation has been booked.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 143 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Legacy legal claims and the finalisation of contingent consideration balances led to a total charge of 0.8m in the year.
In the prior year, restructuring and rationalisation charges represented the additional cost of programmes which commenced in earlier periods to right-size operations and discontinue certain activities 2.7m.
Other exceptional items related to costs of 2.1m associated with the extension of a prior period legal claim, a fair value adjustment of 9.6m related to the acquisition of Weir International, offset by a 0.5m credit following settlement of Delta deferred consideration and 0.8m unwind of contingent consideration liability for Weir International.
An exceptional gain of 10.4m was recognised on the sale of the 49% stake in the Energy Products LLC EPI joint venture sold in November 2017.
Discontinued operations Exceptional items of 51.6m 2017: 9.9m includes a write down to Flow Controls carrying value of 45.0m to 260.4m, reflecting the agreed transaction enterprise value of 275m less our latest estimate of future costs to sell including separation costs, transfer value of pension and other liabilities as well as certain capital commitments.
A further 5.0m of disposal related costs has been incurred in relation to the intended sale.
Additional items recognised in the year include facility closure costs 0.8m offset by the release of an exceptional provision of 0.9m, legal fees and settlement costs associated with a historic legal claim involving a Group company 2.0m and a receipt related to the previous disposal of Ynfiniti Engineering Systems of 0.3m.
In 2017, exceptional items comprised restructuring and rationalisation costs associated with the continuation of previously announced programmes 9.8m and costs relating to the sale of Ynfiniti Engineering Systems.
Finance costs income The following disclosures are given in relation to continuing operations.
Finance costs Restated note 2 2018 2017 m m Interest payable on bank loans, fixed-rate notes & overdrafts 34.8 38.1 Finance charges related to committed loan facilities 1.6 1.4 Other finance costs retirement benefits 4.3 3.4 40.7 42.9 Unwind of discount in respect of contingent consideration exceptional item note 5 0.8 40.7 43.7 Finance income Restated note 2 2018 2017 m m Interest receivable on financial assets 2.7 1.5 The Weir Group PLC 144 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 7.
Tax expense Income tax expense credit from total operations Restated note 2 2018 2017 m m Consolidated Income Statement Current income tax UK corporation tax 3.5 2.5 Adjustments in respect of previous years 1.3 1.1 UK corporation tax 2.2 1.4 Foreign tax 71.3 57.2 Adjustments in respect of previous years 3.5 6.0 Total current income tax 72.6 52.6 Deferred income tax Origination & reversal of temporary differences 33.7 14.4 Adjustment to estimated recoverable deferred tax assets 0.8 8.8 Effect of changes in tax rates 1.8 16.7 Adjustments in respect of previous years 2.2 5.4 Total deferred tax 34.9 34.5 Total income tax expense in the Consolidated Income Statement 37.7 18.1 Total income tax expense is attributable to: Profit from continuing operations 32.7 14.2 Profit loss from discontinued operations 5.0 3.9 37.7 18.1 Includes 35.3m of deferred tax credit relating to foreign tax 2017: 29.3m credit.
The total income tax expense is disclosed in the Consolidated Income Statement, and note 8, as follows.
Restated note 2 2018 2017 m m Tax expense credit continuing operations before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation 78.6 53.2 discontinued operations before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation 6.3 5.6 exceptional items 31.4 23.1 intangibles amortisation and impairment 15.8 17.6 Total income tax expense in the Consolidated Income Statement 37.7 18.1 The total deferred tax included in the income tax expense is detailed in note 22.
Tax relating to items charged or credited to equity from continuing operations 2018 2017 m m Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Deferred tax origination & reversal of temporary differences 10.1 2.3 Deferred tax effect of change in tax rates 1.2 0.8 Tax debit credit on actuarial losses on retirement benefits 8.9 1.5 Tax credit on hedge losses 3.0 0.8 Tax charge credit in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 5.9 2.3 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Deferred tax on share-based payments 1.7 0.7 Tax charge credit in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 1.7 0.7 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 145 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Reconciliation of the total tax charge from continuing operations The tax debit 2017: debit in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year is higher 2017: lower than the weighted average of standard rates of corporation tax across the Group of 37.2% 2017: 33.2%.
The differences are reconciled below.
Restated note 2 2018 2017 m m Profit before tax from continuing operations 86.1 198.6 Loss before tax from discontinued operations 30.0 20.8 Profit before tax 56.1 177.8 At the weighted average of standard rates of corporation tax across the Group of 37.2% 2017: 33.2% 20.9 59.0 Adjustments in respect of previous years current tax 4.8 7.1 deferred tax 2.2 5.4 Joint ventures 0.4 1.0 Unrecognised deferred tax assets 8.0 6.8 Overseas tax on unremitted earnings 4.2 1.7 Transitional impact of US Tax Reform 22.6 Permanent differences 6.4 4.2 Tax effect of funding overseas operations 9.8 22.5 Effect of changes in tax rates 0.4 0.5 Exceptional items ineligible for tax 14.6 2.1 At effective tax rate of 67.2% 2017:10.2% 37.7 18.1 The increase in permanent differences from a 4.2m deduction in 2017 to a 6.4m addition in 2018 arises in part because of the non-recurrence of release of tax risk provisions in 2017 following the resolution of tax authority enquiries in the UK, Canada and the US.
Other key movements in permanent differences include a credit in relation to non-taxable exchange gains losses across various jurisdictions, debits in relation to provisions for tax risk including transfer pricing, provision relating to loss utilisation, and a credit for research & development incentives.
The Groups provision for overseas tax on unremitted earnings reduced from an addition of 1.7m in 2017 to a deduction of 4.2m in 2018.
This is due to a release of provision in relation to unremitted earnings in Canada following repatriation of funds through long-term loans from the Canadian entities to the UK group.
Finance arrangements are in place to fund the acquisition of business operations in overseas territories.
This finance is provided primarily to US operations through intragroup loans which provide a benefit to the Group effective tax rate.
In addition, the Group claims a partial exemption under the UK Controlled Foreign Companies legislation for profits from qualifying loan relationships.
The Group is monitoring the developments in relation to EU State Aid investigations into the UK Governments tax legislation in this area, noting that at this stage the final outcome of any investigation is unclear.
The Group considers that no provision is required in respect of this issue and will review this position as the European Commissions investigation continues.
The Weir Group PLC 146 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 8.
Discontinued operations On 19 April 2018, the Group announced its intention to sell the Flow Control division and, in line with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, the Group has classified the division as held for sale.
The Flow Control division designs and manufactures valves and pumps as well as providing specialist support services to the global power generation, industrial and oil and gas sectors.
Previously reported as an individual reporting segment, the division is now reported as a discontinued operation.
In compliance with IFRS 5, the results for the year ended 31 December 2018 for the division are disclosed within one line in the income statement, with the comparative periods also restated.
In the balance sheet, the assets and liabilities of the division, in the current period only, are reported as current assets liabilities held for sale.
As a discontinued operation, the division is measured at the lower of its carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
In order to reflect this an impairment of 45.0m in relation to goodwill was recognised in the year.
When the sale of the disposal group occurs, a gain or loss will arise.
At the time of disposal the foreign currency translation reserve will be recycled to the income statement and included in the gain or loss on disposal.
Prior periods include 0.1m operating profit and in December 2016 a tax credit of 0.1m in relation to finalisation of American Hydro Corporation and Ynfiniti Engineering Services disposals in 2016.
Financial performance and cash flow information for discontinued operations Restated note 2 Year ended 31 December 2018 Year ended 31 December 2017 Before Exceptional Before Exceptional exceptional items & exceptional items & items & intangibles items & intangibles intangibles amortisation intangibles amortisation amortisation note 5 Total amortisation note 5 Total m m m m m m Revenue 342.7 342.7 359.5 359.5 Operating profit loss 22.9 52.6 29.7 7.2 13.3 20.5 Finance costs 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 Finance income 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Profit loss before tax from discontinued operations 22.6 52.6 30.0 7.5 13.3 20.8 Tax credit expense 6.3 1.3 5.0 5.6 1.7 3.9 Profit loss after tax from discontinued operations 16.3 51.3 35.0 13.1 11.6 24.7 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 16.3 51.3 35.0 12.8 11.6 24.4 Non-controlling interest 0.3 0.3 Profit loss for the period from discontinued operations 16.3 51.3 35.0 13.1 11.6 24.7 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Cash flows from operating activities 38.7 11.3 Cash flows from investing activities 5.9 3.9 Cash flows from financing activities 0.9 0.5 Net increase in cash & cash equivalents from discontinued operations 31.9 7.9 Loss per share Loss per share from discontinued operations were as follows.
2018 2017 pence pence Basic 14.3 11.1 Diluted 14.3 11.0 These loss per share figures were derived by dividing the net profit attributable to equity holders of the Company from discontinued operations by the weighted average number of ordinary shares, for both basic and diluted amounts, shown in note 9.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 147 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 The following table details the assets and liabilities classified as held for sale in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
31 December 2018 m ASSETS Property, plant & equipment 75.9 Intangible assets 98.8 Deferred tax assets 5.7 Other receivables 0.6 Inventories 71.2 Trade & other receivables 124.7 Derivative financial instruments 0.9 Income tax receivable 0.5 Cash & short-term deposits 16.1 Assets held for sale 394.4 LIABILITIES Interest-bearing loans & borrowings 2.2 Trade & other payables 103.5 Derivative financial instruments 1.3 Income tax payable 6.5 Provisions 15.4 Deferred tax liabilities 0.3 Retirement benefit plan deficits 4.8 Liabilities held for sale 134.0 NET ASSETS 260.4 9.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing net profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, adjusted for the effect of dilutive share awards.
The following reflects the earnings and share data used in the calculation of earnings per share.
Restated note 2 2018 2017 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company Total operations m 18.0 159.9 Continuing operations m 53.0 184.3 Continuing operations before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation m 231.1 201.6 Weighted average share capital Basic earnings per share number of shares, million 244.1 219.9 Diluted earnings per share number of shares, million 245.8 221.3 The difference between the weighted average share capital for the purposes of the basic and the diluted earnings per share calculations is analysed as follows.
2018 2017 Shares Shares million million Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per share 244.1 219.9 Effect of dilution: employee share awards 1.7 1.4 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 245.8 221.3 The Weir Group PLC 148 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 9.
Earnings per share continued The profit attributable to equity holders of the Company used in the calculation of both basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation is calculated as follows.
Restated note 2 2018 2017 m m Net profit attributable to equity holders from continuing operations 53.0 184.3 Exceptional items & intangibles amortisation net of tax 178.1 17.3 Net profit attributable to equity holders from continuing operations before exceptional items &  231.1 201.6 Restated note 2 2018 2017 pence pence Basic earnings per share: Total operations 7.4 72.7 Continuing operations 21.7 83.8 Continuing operations before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation 94.7 91.7 Diluted earnings per share: Total operations 7.3 72.3 Continuing operations 21.6 83.3 Continuing operations before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation 94.0 91.1 Adjusted for a profit of 0.4m 2017: loss of 0.2m in respect of non-controlling interests for total operations.
Adjusted for a profit of 0.4m 2017: profit of 0.1m in respect of non-controlling interests for continuing operations.
There have been no share options 2017: nil exercised between the reporting date and the date of signing of these financial statements.
Loss per share from discontinued operations are disclosed in note 8.
Dividends paid & proposed 2018 2017 m m Declared & paid during the year Equity dividends on ordinary shares Final dividend for 2017: 29.0p 2016: 29.0p 69.9 63.1 Interim dividend for 2018: 15.75p 2017: 15.0p 40.9 33.6 110.8 96.7 Proposed for approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting Final dividend for 2018: 30.45p 2017: 29.0p 79.0 65.0 The Weir Group PLC Scrip Dividend Scheme, in 2017, allowed shareholders on record the opportunity to elect to receive dividends in the form of new fully paid ordinary shares.
In the current period, participation in the Scheme resulted in shares with a value of 31.2m being issued and a cash dividend of 38.7m for the 2017 final dividend.
In the prior year for the 2016 final dividend, shares with a value of 6.4m were issued with a cash dividend of 56.7m.
The interim dividend for 2018 of 40.9m was a cash dividend interim dividend for 2017: 16.1m share issue: 17.5m cash.
The proposed dividend is based on the number of shares in issue, excluding treasury shares held, at the date that the financial statements were approved and authorised for issue.
The final dividend may differ due to increases or decreases in the number of shares in issue between the date of approval of this Annual Report and Financial Statements and the record date for the final dividend.
Dividends have been maintained in the year with dividend cover of 2.1 times 2017 restated: 2.1 times as explained in the Financial Review.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 149 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 11.
Property, plant & equipment Total property, Plant & plant & Land & buildings equipment equipment m m m Cost At 31 December 2016 199.6 667.6 867.2 Additions 9.3 58.0 67.3 Acquisitions 3.5 4.4 7.9 Disposals 4.5 24.9 29.4 Group transfers 2.4 2.4 Reclassifications to intangible assets note 12 1.8 1.8 Reclassifications 4.3 4.3 Fair value adjustments note 2 1.0 1.0 Exchange adjustment 7.1 39.3 46.4 At 31 December 2017 restated note 2 208.5 657.3 865.8 Additions 3.9 79.2 83.1 Acquisitions 35.6 66.5 102.1 Disposals 0.9 35.9 36.8 Reclassifications from intangible assets note 12 0.4 0.4 Reclassifications to inventory 0.6 0.6 Reclassifications 0.8 0.8 Transferred to assets held for sale note 8 60.8 91.5 152.3 Exchange adjustment 3.7 12.5 16.2 At 31 December 2018 189.2 688.7 877.9 Accumulated depreciation & impairment At 31 December 2016 50.7 414.5 465.2 Depreciation charge for the year 6.8 51.4 58.2 Impairment during the year 0.9 3.1 4.0 Disposals 2.2 22.2 24.4 Reclassifications to inventory 0.1 0.1 Reclassifications 0.1 0.1 Exchange adjustment 2.8 27.6 30.4 At 31 December 2017 53.5 419.0 472.5 Depreciation charge for the year 7.4 57.1 64.5 Impairment during the year 4.8 8.8 13.6 Disposals 0.9 31.7 32.6 Reclassifications 0.4 0.4 Transferred to assets held for sale note 8 16.2 60.2 76.4 Exchange adjustment 1.3 7.9 9.2 At 31 December 2018 49.5 401.3 450.8 Net book value at 31 December 2016 148.9 253.1 402.0 Net book value at 31 December 2017 restated note 2 155.0 238.3 393.3 Net book value at 31 December 2018 139.7 287.4 427.1 Includes depreciation in relation to discontinued operations of 2.7m 2017: 8.5m.
In line with IFRS 5 no depreciation has been charged on discontinued operations since the Group announced its intention to sell the Flow Control division.
The carrying value of buildings held under finance leases for continuing operations is nil for both 2017 and 2018.
Discontinued operations carrying value of buildings held under finance leases is 0.7m 2017: 0.8m.
The carrying value of plant & equipment held under finance leases for continuing operations is 2.6m 2017: 1.7m.
Discontinued operations have carrying value of plant & equipment held under finance leases of 0.1m 2017: 0.1m.
Leased assets are pledged as security for the related finance lease liabilities.
The carrying amount of assets under construction included in plant & equipment for continuing operations is 30.4m 2017: 23.2m.
Discontinued operations have a carrying amount of assets under construction included in plant & equipment of 1.4m 2017: 1.4m.
The impairment charges in the year are primarily related to Weir Minerals Malaysia with buildings impairment of 4.8m and equipment impairment 7.6m note 5.
The carrying value of assets transferred to assets held for sale is 75.9m note 8.
The Weir Group PLC 150 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 12.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 151 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 The impairment charge recorded in 2018 of 48.1m 2017: nil includes 45.0m in relation to a write down of goodwill in discontinued operations and write down of 3.1m for goodwill associated with the decision to exit the Minerals divisions Malaysia foundry operations.
Brand names, including those acquired with ESCO, but with the exception of those acquired during the KOP Surface Products purchase in 2017, have been assigned an indefinite useful life and as such are not amortised.
The brand names acquired during 2017 for KOP Surface Products, with a carrying value at the year end of 1.9m, will be amortised fully over the next year.
The carrying value of brand names with an indefinite life is tested annually for impairment note 14.
There is no impairment charge in the current or prior year.
The carrying value at the year end was 355.4m 2017: 223.7m.
The brand name value includes the brands of ESCO, Linatex, Warman, SPM and Multiflo, all of which are considered to be market leaders in their respective markets.
The allocation of significant brand names is as follows.
Brand names 2018 2017 m m ESCO 127.8 Warman 65.1 61.4 Linatex 44.7 42.1 Seaboard 30.4 28.6 SPM 42.8 40.3 Trio 18.7 17.6 Gabbioneta 6.1 6.0 Mathena 9.3 8.8 Other 22.5 18.9 367.4 223.7 Gabbioneta transferred to assets held for sale 6.1 Other brands transferred to assets held for sale 5.9 355.4 223.7 The allocation of customer and distributor relationships, and the amortisation period of these assets is as follows.
Remaining Customer and distributor amortisation period relationships 2018 2017 2018 2017 Years Years m m ESCO 27-30 n a 106.8 SPM 13 14 75.9 74.3 Seaboard 9 10 85.2 89.2 Mathena 7 8 78.5 83.3 Novatech 7 8 29.2 34.4 Trio 6 7 14.2 16.3 Other Up to 12 Up to 13 33.5 38.7 423.3 336.2 Other customer and distributor relationships transferred to assets held for sale Up to 12 n a 14.5 408.8 336.2 The Weir Group PLC 152 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 13. Business combinations ESCO On 12 July 2018, the Group completed the acquisition of ESCO Corporation ESCO for an enterprise value of US$1.3bn 972.3m.
In order to part fund the acquisition a placement of 16,699,763 ordinary shares was completed on 23 April 2018, raising 355.5m net of 7.7m fees.
As part of the final consideration, a further 16,779,861 ordinary shares were issued directly to ESCO shareholders on 12 July 2018 valued at 325.3m with an additional equity consideration of 1.4m in relation to pre-acquisition cost of share-based payment awards see note 27.
ESCO is the worlds leading provider of ground engaging tools for surface mining and infrastructure.
ESCO forms a new division of The Weir Group, and is reported as a separate segment alongside Minerals and Oil & Gas.
The provisional fair values, which are subject to finalisation during the first half of 2019, are disclosed in the table below.
There are certain intangible assets included in the 390.5m of goodwill recognised that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured due to their nature.
These items include anticipated business growth, synergies and an assembled workforce.
2018 ESCO provisional fair values m Property, plant & equipment 102.0 Intangible assets Customer & distributor relationships 104.6 Brand names 128.6 Technology 103.8 Investments in joint ventures 15.8 Deferred tax assets 3.8 Other receivables 37.5 Derivative financial instrument assets 1.2 Inventories 172.2 Trade & other receivables 96.1 Income tax receivable 7.6 Cash & cash equivalents 41.2 Interest-bearing loans & borrowings 120.9 Trade & other payables 66.0 Derivative financial instrument liabilities 7.3 Income tax payable 1.0 Provisions 88.2 Deferred tax liabilities 62.1 Retirement benefit plan deficits 64.2 Fair value of net assets 404.7 Non-controlling interests 3.5 Goodwill arising on acquisition 390.5 Total consideration 791.7 Cash consideration 464.8 Equity consideration 326.7 Contingent consideration 0.2 Total consideration 791.7 The total net cash outflow on current year acquisitions was as follows: ESCO cash paid 464.8 cash & cash equivalents acquired 41.2 Other asset purchases cash paid 6.0 Total cash outflow note 25 429.6 The gross amount and fair value of ESCO trade receivables amounts to 79.1m.
It is expected that virtually all the contractual amounts will be collected.
ESCO contributed 251.8m to revenue and an operating profit of 32.7m before exceptional items and amortisation in the period from acquisition to 31 December 2018.
If the acquisition had occurred at the start of 2018, on a pro forma basis, total continuing revenue would amount to 2,722.7m and Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 153 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 continuing operating profit 378.9m before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation.
Group exceptional acquisition and integration costs totalled 30.8m in the year note 5.
The fair values for KOP Surface Products KOP acquired in 2017 were finalised in the first half of 2018 and are disclosed in note 2.
Other business combination On 31 July 2018, the Group completed the acquisition of Ralph A. Hiller Company, a manufacturer of certain valve products for use in nuclear power facilities, for a consideration of US$4.0m 3.1m.
The provisional fair values, which are subject to finalisation during the first half of 2019 include property, plant & equipment of 0.1m, intangible assets 0.9m, inventory and provisions 0.2m, with resulting goodwill arising on consolidation of 1.6m.
Trade and asset purchase On 18 April 2018, the Group completed a trade and asset purchase of Davidson Sales & Engineering Inc. a provider of marketing, distributing, selling and servicing mining and other industrial equipment, for a consideration of US$4.1m 2.9m.
The provisional fair values, which are subject to finalisation during the first half of 2019, include intangible assets 0.1m and inventory 0.3m, with resulting goodwill arising on consolidation of 2.5m.
Contingent consideration Asset Liability 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Opening balance 0.4 3.9 3.4 31.0 Liability arising on business combinations 0.2 Asset arising on business disposal 0.4 Fair value changes in profit or loss 0.1 0.1 3.5 9.1 Contingent consideration received paid note 25 0.3 3.5 38.0 Unwind of discount note 5 0.8 Exchange movements in the year 0.3 0.1 0.5 Closing balance 0.4 0.2 3.4 Any contingent consideration is recognised at the date of acquisition or disposal of a subsidiary.
i Contingent consideration receivable The escrow receivable of 0.4m was settled in 2018 relating to the sale of the joint venture entity, Energy Products LLC EPI.
ii Contingent consideration payable An escrow payable was booked in the year relating to the purchase of ESCO.
The balance was paid in early 2019.
The contingent consideration payable of 3.5m in relation to the 2014 Weir Trio acquisition working capital balances was released in the year and offset by a corresponding exceptional working capital write down.
Impairment testing of goodwill & intangible assets with indefinite lives Goodwill acquired through business combinations and intangible assets with indefinite lives have been allocated at acquisition to cash generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from the business combination.
The Group tests goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that these might be impaired.
ESCO Corporation ESCO, acquired during 2018 as described in note 13, has been reported as a separate CGU.
The carrying amounts of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives have been allocated as per the table below.
Goodwill Intangibles Goodwill Intangibles 2018 2018 2017 2017 m m m m Minerals 378.2 137.2 372.9 130.0 ESCO 406.0 133.8 Oil & Gas International 56.7 53.7 Oil & Gas North America 359.2 82.5 338.0 77.7 Continuing operations 1,200.1 353.5 764.6 207.7 Discontinued operations 62.5 12.0 104.9 12.1 1,262.6 365.5 869.5 219.8 Description of CGUs A description of each of the CGUs is provided below along with a summary of the key drivers of revenue growth and EBITA margin.
Minerals Minerals includes the Weir Warman, Weir Linatex and Weir Trio brands.
Weir Minerals companies supply pumps and associated equipment and services to all global mining markets.
The key drivers for revenues are: i levels of mining capital expenditure which drives demand for original equipment: and ii levels of actual mining activity which drives demand for spare parts and service.
Independent forecasts of mining capital expenditure and activity have been used to derive revenue growth assumptions.
These independent forecasts were prepared during the final quarter of 2018.
The Weir Group PLC 154 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 14.
Impairment testing of goodwill & intangible assets with indefinite lives continued ESCO ESCO includes the Bucyrus Blades and ESCO brands.
This CGU is a supplier of ground engaging tools GET and associated equipment and services to the mining and infrastructure industries.
Independent forecasts of expenditure in these sectors have been used to derive revenue growth assumptions.
Oil & Gas International Oil & Gas International comprises multiple service centre locations within the Middle East and Europe and wellhead locations across a number of countries in Asia Pacific.
The service centre locations supply services including repair, manufacture and certification of oilfield equipment, to a diverse portfolio of customers.
The Asia Pacific locations supply surface wellheads, surface trees, valves and actuators as well as providing support to customers including installation, maintenance, rental and refurbishment services.
The key drivers for revenues are oil and natural gas prices.
Independent forecasts of these commodity prices have been used to derive revenue growth assumptions.
Oil & Gas North America Oil & Gas North America includes the Weir SPM, Weir Seaboard and Weir Mathena brands.
This CGU is a supplier of oil and gas well service pumps, wellhead solutions, associated flow control equipment and services to the oil and gas production industry.
Demand in Oil & Gas North America is closely related to the number of conventional and unconventional oil drilling rigs and gas well drilling rigs in operation which is in turn dependent upon oil and natural gas prices and storage levels.
Independent forecasts of North American oil and gas well drilling activity, which take into account forecast oil and natural gas prices and storage levels, have been used to derive revenue growth assumptions, during the final quarter of 2018.
Discontinued operations Discontinued operations primarily incorporate the former Flow Control CGU and certain components of the Oil & Gas International CGU, and includes the Gabbioneta brand.
Flow Control is a supplier of highly engineered pumps, valves and associated aftermarket services to oil and gas refinery, petro-chemical and power generation industries.
The key drivers for revenues are capital expenditure within oil refinery, petro-chemical industries and power generation.
Impairment testing assumptions The basis of the impairment tests for the five primary CGUs, including key assumptions, are set out in the table below.
1 2 CGU Basis of valuation Period of forecast Discount rate Real growth Key assumptions Source External forecast 15.2% 1.2% Revenue growth Historical Minerals Value in use 5 years 2017: 14.8% 2017: 1.2% EBITA margins experience External forecast 14.6% 1.2% Revenue growth Historical ESCO Value in use 5 years 2017: n a 2017: n a EBITA margins experience External forecast Oil & Gas 14.5% 1.2% Revenue growth Historical International Value in use 5 years 2017: 12.0% 2017: 1.2% EBITA margins experience External forecast Oil & Gas North 14.6% 1.2% Revenue growth Historical America Value in use 5 years 2017: 15.1% 2017: 1.2% EBITA margins experience Discontinued Fair value less operations costs to sell n a n a n a n a n a 1 Discount rate T he pre-tax nominal weighted average cost of capital WACC is the basis for the discount rate, with adjustments made, as appropriate, for geographic risk.
The WACC is the weighted average of the pre-tax cost of debt financing and the pre-tax cost of equity finance.
During the year there have been changes in the bond yields, equity market risk premium and industry asset beta which has led to an increase in the overall discount rate for the majority of countries.
2 Real growth R eal growth beyond the five-year forecast period has been held consistent with the prior year at 1.2% 2017: 1.2%, reflecting the increasingly global nature of these businesses, thelong-term growth prospects in their end markets and the fact that they sell a significant proportion of their products to emerging markets which also have strong long-term growthprospects.
EBITA margins EBITA margins have been forecast based on historic levels taking cognisance of the likely impact of changing economic environments and competitive landscapes on volumes and revenues, and the impact of associated management actions.
Impairment testing and sensitivity analysis Base case forecasts for all continuing CGUs show significant headroom above carrying value.
No sensitivity analysis has been undertaken for these as there is no reasonable possible change in key assumptions that would cause the carrying values to exceed recoverable amounts.
With regard to ESCO, no sensitivity analysis is provided due to the strong post-acquisition trading and positive run-rate synergies targeted.
Discontinued operations, in line with IFRS 5, are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
To reflect the agreed transaction enterprise value of 275m less our latest estimate of future costs to sell including separation costs, transfer value of pension and other liabilities as well as certain capital commitments, an impairment of 45.0m has been recognised in relation to goodwill.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 155 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 15.
Investments in joint ventures The investments in joint ventures are as follows.
m At 31 December 2016 40.5 Additions 1.4 Disposals 21.8 Share of results 10.9 Share of dividends 8.0 Exchange adjustment 3.8 At 31 December 2017 19.2 Acquisitions 15.8 Disposals Share of results 2.4 Share of dividends 1.6 Exchange adjustment 0.8 At 31 December 2018 36.6 Details of the Groups share of the balance sheet, revenue and profit of its joint ventures are given below.
2018 2017 m m Share of joint ventures balance sheets Goodwill 4.1 3.9 Current assets 28.0 18.3 Non-current assets 16.8 2.9 Current liabilities 9.8 4.5 Non-current liabilities 2.5 1.4 Net assets 36.6 19.2 Share of joint ventures revenue & profits Revenue 29.1 65.7 Cost of sales 21.7 48.0 Selling & distribution costs 2.8 4.3 Administrative expenses 1.8 1.5 Income tax expense 0.4 1.0 Profit after tax 2.4 10.9 The acquisition in the year relates to the Groups investment in joint ventures acquired as part of ESCO on 12 July 2018.
The cash flow associated with the investment is included within the total consideration reflected in note 13.
The addition during 2017 relates to the Groups investment in EPIX, a joint venture with MTU, on 24 March 2017.
The disposal relates to Energy Products LLC EPI which was divested on 30 November 2017 for proceeds of 31.8m and a deferred consideration receivable balance of 0.4m note 13.
This resulted in a gain on sale of 10.4m which has been disclosed as an exceptional item in the period note 5.
The Groups investments in joint ventures are listed on page 199.
Inventories Restated note 2 2018 2017 m m Raw materials 125.0 142.1 Work in progress 71.2 130.2 Finished goods 496.5 316.8 692.7 589.1 Inventories now classified as held for sale is included in note 8.
In 2018, the cost of inventories recognised as an expense within cost of sales for continuing operations amounted to 1,633.0m 2017: 1,316.2m.
In 2018, the write-down of inventories to net realisable value for continuing operations amounted to 13.7m 2017: total Group 5.7m, which included 4.8m 2017: 4.8m in relation to Group restructuring actions and 7.5m 2017: nil in relation to warranty issues in Oil & Gas, as disclosed in note 5.
There is no impact as at 31 December 2018 from the fair value uplift in ESCO note 5 as this was fully unwound during the year.
The Weir Group PLC 156 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 17.
Trade & other receivables Other receivables presented as non-current on the face of the Consolidated Balance Sheet of 78.5m 2017: 43.0m are in respect of insurance contracts.
The current year balance includes Trust Owned Life Insurance policy investments which provide a form of security for certain unfunded employee benefit plans operated by ESCO, and insurance contracts relating to asbestos-related claims in the USA, which were also present in the prior year.
Further detail on these claims is presented in note 21.
Current trade & other receivables are analysed in the following table.
Restated note 2 2018 2017 m m Trade receivables 501.5 515.8 Loss allowance 18.2 23.6 483.3 492.2 Other debtors 41.5 44.2 Sales tax receivable 12.4 14.7 Prepayments 35.4 29.5 Contingent consideration receivable 0.4 Contract assets 25.1 48.2 597.7 629.2 Trade & other receivables now classified as held for sale are included in note 8.
The average credit period on sales of goods is 66 days 2017: 73 days on a continuing basis, like for like.
Other debtors includes 2.6m 2017: 2.4m in respect of amounts due from joint ventures, and 9.1m 2017: 10.3m in respect of insurance contracts relating to asbestos-related claims made in the USA note 21.
Impairment of trade & other receivables The Group has two types of financial assets that are subject to IFRS 9s new expected credit loss model: i trade receivables for sales of products and services: and ii contract assets relating to construction contracts.
The Group applies the IFRS 9 simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses, which uses a lifetime expected loss allowance for all trade receivables and contract assets.
To measure the expected credit losses, trade receivables and contract assets have been grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics.
The contract assets relate to unbilled work in progress and have substantially the same risk characteristics as the trade receivables for the same types of contracts.
Due to the way in which these contracts are managed, expected credit loss is included within the loss allowance for trade receivables.
Due to the diverse end markets and customer geographies within the Group, the methodology applied to arrive at the expected loss rate is dictated by local circumstances.
For short-term trade receivables, historical loss rates might be an appropriate basis for the estimate of expected future losses.
These are then adjusted to reflect current and forward-looking information on macroeconomic factors affecting the ability of the customers to settle the receivables.
As such, one methodology applied is the use of a provision matrix, where different loss rates are applied depending on the number of days that a trade receivable is past due.
Alternatively the expected credit loss is calculated on an individual customer basis based on historical loss data for that customer, their receivables ageing, and any other knowledge of the customers current and forecast financial position.
Trade receivables and contract assets are written-off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery.
Impairment losses on trade receivables and contract assets are presented as net impairment losses within operating profit.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written-off are credited against the same line item.
The gross carrying amount of trade receivables, for which the loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit losses under the simplified method, is analysed below: Analysis of gross carrying amount of trade receivables by days past due Restated note 2 2018 2017 m m Not past due 325.4 321.8 Up to 3 months past due 112.3 122.5 Between 3 & 6 months past due 22.5 26.1 More than 6 months past due 41.3 45.4 501.5 515.8 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 157 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Reconciliation of opening to closing loss allowance for trade receivables 2018 2017 m m Balance at the beginning of the year 23.6 17.7 Transferred to assets held for sale 7.2 Impairment losses recognised on receivables 6.2 8.6 Amounts written off as uncollectable 3.4 0.5 Amounts recovered during the year 0.2 0.5 Impairment losses reversed 1.0 1.1 Exchange adjustment 0.2 0.6 Balance at the end of the year 18.2 23.6 The Group has recognised the following assets in relation to contracts with customers.
Restated note 2 2018 2017 m m Construction contract assets 3.2 18.8 Accrued income 21.9 29.4 25.1 48.2 The reduction in contract assets in the year primarily relates to assets now classified as held for sale 2017: 26.3m.
Cash & short-term deposits 2018 2017 m m Cash at bank & in hand 239.2 155.1 Government securities & short-term deposits 23.8 129.5 263.0 284.6 For the purposes of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash & cash equivalents comprise the following: Cash & short-term deposits 263.0 284.6 Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings note 19 0.1 Cash & short-term deposits held for sale note 8 16.1 Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings held for sale note 8 1.9 277.2 284.5 Cash at bank & in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earns interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
The Weir Group PLC 158 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 19.
Interest-bearing loans & borrowings 2018 2017 m m Current Bank overdrafts 0.1 Fixed-rate notes 164.3 94.0 Bank loans 0.6 Commercial paper 497.2 293.4 Obligations under finance leases note 26 1.0 0.3 662.5 388.4 Non-current Bank loans 120.0 Fixed-rate notes 619.4 738.7 Obligations under finance leases note 26 1.5 0.7 740.9 739.4 Interest-bearing loans & borrowings now classified as held for sale are detailed in note 8 Weighted average interest rate 2018 2017 2018 2017 Bank loans Maturity Interest basis % % m m Revolving credit facility Sterling variable rate loans 2021 LIBOR 1.08 120.0 Other United States Dollar pre-shipment credit inforeign currency 2018 US$ LIBOR 3.96 0.4 Indian Rupee working capital loan facility 2018 FIXED 9.20 0.2 Purchasing cards in discontinued operations note 8 2019 FIXED 24.00 0.3 120.3 0.6 Less: current instalments due on bank loans United States Dollar pre-shipment credit in foreign currency 2018 US$ LIBOR 0.4 Indian Rupee working capital loan facility 2018 FIXED 0.2 Purchasing cards in discontinued operations 2019 FIXED 0.3 Non-current bank loans 120.0 Weighted average interest rate 2018 2017 2018 2017 Commercial paper Maturity Interest basis % % m m Commercial paper United States Dollar variable rate commercial paper 2019 US$ LIBOR 3.21 19.6 Euro variable rate commercial paper 2019 EUR LIBOR 0.05 0.06 477.6 293.4 497.2 293.4 Less: current instalments due on commercial paper United States Dollar variable rate commercial paper 2019 US$ LIBOR 19.6 Euro variable rate commercial paper 2019 EUR LIBOR 477.6 293.4 Non-current commercial paper The weighted average interest rates include an applicable margin over and above the interest basis.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 159 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Fixed interest rate 2018 2017 2018 2017 Fixed-rate notes Maturity Interest basis % % m m Private placement Sterling fixed-rate notes 2018 FIXED 5.36 5.36 43.0 United States Dollar fixed-rate notes 2018 FIXED 5.03 5.03 51.0 United States Dollar fixed-rate notes 2019 FIXED 3.69 3.69 164.3 155.0 United States Dollar fixed-rate notes 2022 FIXED 4.27 4.27 462.7 435.9 United States Dollar fixed-rate notes 2023 FIXED 4.34 4.34 156.7 147.8 783.7 832.7 Less: current instalments due on fixed-rate notes Sterling fixed-rate notes 2018 FIXED 43.0 United States Dollar fixed-rate notes 2018 FIXED 51.0 United States Dollar fixed-rate notes 2019 FIXED 164.3 Non-current fixed-rate notes 619.4 738.7 The disclosures above represent the interest profile and currency profile of financial liabilities before the impact of derivative financial instruments.
At 31 December 2018, a total of 497.2m equivalent 2017: 293.4m equivalent was outstanding under the Groups US$1bn commercial paper programme.
At 31 December 2018, 120.0m 2017: nil was drawn under the US$950m multi-currency revolving credit facility.
The revolving credit facility was increased from US$800m during 2018 and matures in two tranches between September 2020 and September 2021.
At 31 December 2018, a total of 783.7m 2017: 832.7m was outstanding under private placement which includes total unamortised issue costs of 0.9m 2017: 1.5m.
Trade & other payables Restated note 2 2018 2017 m m Current Trade payables 347.0 341.8 Other creditors 8.9 8.6 Other taxes & social security costs 11.4 16.0 Accruals 216.8 177.5 Contingent consideration payable 0.2 3.4 Contract liabilities 45.6 67.0 629.9 614.3 Non-current Other payables 0.8 0.5 0.8 0.5 Trade & other payables now classified as held for sale are included in note 8.
The Group has recognised the following liabilities in relation to contracts with customers.
2018 2017 m m Construction contract liabilities 1.4 3.3 Deferred income 44.2 63.7 45.6 67.0 The reduction in contract liabilities in the year primarily relates to liabilities now classified as held for sale 2017: 27.9m.
The Weir Group PLC 160 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 20.
Trade & other payables Revenue recognised in relation to contract liabilities The following table shows the revenue recognised in the current reporting period related to carried forward contract liabilities.
2018 2017 m m Revenue recognised that was included in the contract liability balance at the beginning of the year 38.9 32.6 Transaction price allocated to unsatisfied performance obligations As the vast majority of contracts are expected to have a duration of one year or less, the Group does not disclose information about remaining performance obligations as permitted by the practical expedient in paragraph 121 of IFRS 15.
An additional amount has been provided for the legacy product warranty issue in Oil & Gas which has been classed as exceptional.
It is expected that all costs related to such claims will have been incurred within five years of the balance sheet date.
Provision has been made in respect of sales contracts entered into for the sale of goods in the normal course of business where the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contracts exceed the economic benefits expected to be received from the contracts.
Provision is made immediately when it becomes apparent that expected costs will exceed the expected benefits of the contract.
It is expected that the majority of these costs will be incurred within one year of the balance sheet date.
Asbestos-related claims Certain of the Groups US-based subsidiaries are co-defendants in lawsuits pending in the US in which plaintiffs are claiming damages arising from alleged exposure to products previously manufactured which contained asbestos.
The Group has comprehensive insurance cover for cases of this nature with all claims directly managed by the Groups insurers who also meet associated defence costs.
The insurers and their legal advisers agree and execute the defence strategy between them.
There are currently no related cash flows to or from the Group, and we expect this to continue for the foreseeable future.
There remains inherent uncertainty associated with estimating future costs in respect of asbestos-related diseases.
Actuarial estimates of future indemnity and defence costs associated with asbestos-related diseases are subject to significantly greater uncertainty than actuarial estimates for other types of exposures.
This uncertainty results from factors that are unique to the asbestos claims litigation and settlement process including but not limited to: i the possibility of future state or federal legislation applying to claims for asbestos-related diseases: ii the ability of the plaintiffs bar to develop and sustain new legal theory and or develop new populations of claimants: iii changes in focus of the plaintiffs bar: iv changes in the Groups defence strategy: and v changes in the financial condition of other co-defendants in suits naming the Group and affiliated businesses.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 161 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 A review of both the Groups expected liability for US asbestos-related diseases and the adequacy of the Groups insurance policies to meet future settlement and defence costs was completed in conjunction with external advisers in 2017 as part of our planned triennial actuarial update.
This review estimated future claims experience based on an industry standard epidemiological decay model, and the Groups claims settlement history.
Due to the inherent uncertainty resulting from the changing nature of the US litigation environment as outlined above, and in conjunction with the actuarial review, the Directors consider 10 years 2017: 10 years of projected claims to provide a reliable estimate of the future liability.
Confirmation was also received from external advisers that the insurance asset remained sufficient to match the Directors best estimate of the future liability and therefore a corresponding asset was recognised for insurance proceeds note 17.
A review of the claims submitted and those settled during the year confirmed that the actuarial review completed in 2017 remains appropriate.
As such the liability provision and corresponding asset have been updated accordingly to reflect the nature of the actuarial decay model and the projected claims profile a year further out.
A provision of 48.1m 2017: 53.3m represents the Directors best estimate of the future liability, with a corresponding asset remaining appropriate.
There can be no guarantee that the assumptions used to estimate the provision will result in an accurate prediction of the actual costs that may be incurred.
Sensitivity analysis reflecting reasonably probable scenarios has been conducted.
This involved: i increasing decreasing the number of projected future settled claims and estimated settlement value by 10%: or ii increasing decreasing the basis of provision by 2 years.
Application of these sensitivities would not lead to a material change in the provision.
In the UK, there are outstanding asbestos-related claims which are not the subject of insurance cover.
The extent of the UK asbestos exposure involves a series of legacy employers liability claims which all relate to former UK operations and employment periods in the 1960s and 1970s.
In 1989 the Groups employers liability insurer Chester Street Employers Association Ltd was placed into run-off which effectively generated an uninsured liability exposure for all future long-tail disease claims with an exposure period pre-dating 1 January 1972.
All claims with a disease exposure post 1 January 1972 are fully compensated via the  Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Any settlement to a former employee whose service period straddles 1972 is calculated on a pro rata basis.
The Group provides for these claims based on managements best estimate of the likely costs given past experience of the volume and cost of similar claims brought against the Group.
The UK provision was reviewed and adjusted accordingly for claims experience in the year, resulting in a provision of 4.2m 2017: 4.7m.
Employee-related Employee-related provisions arise from legal obligations, the majority of which relate to compensation associated with periods of service.
Exceptional rationalisation Restructuring and rationalisation charges during the year led to additions of 2.5m due to new projects in Minerals, 2.2m for combining our Middle East and Asia Oil & Gas businesses and 1.9m relating to the continuation of existing projects.
A further 4.5m was provided for costs in relation to the acquisition and integration of ESCO and 0.2m relating to legacy legal claims.
Exceptional provisions of 73.9m were acquired during the year including 67.0m which was utilised predominately to settle legacy share-based payments and transaction costs associated with ESCO.
The closing provision of 16.3m includes 8.0m which has been retained for costs incurred to date on the acquisition and integration of ESCO.
Other Other provisions include environmental obligations, penalties, duties due, legal claims and other exposures across the Group.
A provision has been recognised on the acquisition of ESCO in respect of environmental obligations.
These balances typically include estimates based on multiple sources of information and reports from third party advisers.
Where certain outcomes are unknown, a range of possible scenarios is calculated, with the most likely being reflected in the provision.
The Weir Group PLC 162 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 22.
Deferred tax 2018 2017 m m Deferred income tax assets Post-employment benefits 30.7 24.3 Decelerated depreciation for tax purposes 7.6 6.2 Intangible assets 2.4 1.4 Untaxed reserves 144.0 109.6 Offset against liabilities 143.0 95.9 Deferred income tax assets 41.7 45.6 Deferred income tax assets attributable to: Continuing operations 36.0 Discontinued operations 5.7 41.7 Deferred income tax liabilities Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes 29.3 16.3 Overseas tax on unremitted earnings 8.1 15.1 Intangible assets 190.5 108.7 Other temporary differences 7.6 14.0 Offset against assets 143.0 95.9 Deferred income tax liabilities 92.5 58.2 Deferred income tax liabilities attributable to: Continuing operations 92.2 Discontinued operations 0.3 92.5 Net deferred income tax liabilities 50.8 12.6 The movement in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the year was as follows.
Untaxed PostAccelerated Overseas tax on reserves & other employment depreciation for unremitted temporary benefits tax purposes earnings Intangible assets differences Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2017 26.4 18.0 23.1 185.8 142.1 58.4 Prior year adjustments 2.9 2.9 Acquisitions 0.2 3.7 3.5 Charged credited to the income statement note 7 3.2 3.9 7.1 65.3 38.6 34.5 Credited to equity note 7 1.5 0.8 2.3 Exchange adjustment 0.4 1.3 0.9 13.2 9.5 5.5 At 31 December 2017 24.3 10.1 15.1 107.3 95.6 12.6 Acquisitions 14.6 8.6 1.0 78.4 15.1 58.3 Charged credited to the income statement note 7 0.2 1.6 7.8 6.6 22.3 34.9 Credited to equity note 7 8.8 1.4 10.2 Exchange adjustment 0.8 1.4 0.2 9.0 4.8 4.6 At 31 December 2018 30.7 21.7 8.1 188.1 136.4 50.8 Continuing operations 29.6 18.6 8.1 186.5 127.4 56.2 Discontinued operations 1.1 3.1 1.6 9.0 5.4 At 31 December 2018 30.7 21.7 8.1 188.1 136.4 50.8 Untaxed reserves primarily relate to temporarily disallowed inventory receivable provisions and accruals provisions for liabilities where the tax allowance is deferred until the cash expense occurs.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 163 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Deferred tax asset balances for unused tax losses of 25.5m 2017: 18.2m have not been recognised on the grounds that there is insufficient evidence that these assets will be recoverable.
These assets will be recovered when future tax charges are sufficient to absorb these tax benefits.
Deferred tax asset balances for capital losses in the UK amounting to 5.9m 2017: 5.9m have not been recognised but would be available in the event of future capital gains being incurred by the Group.
Temporary differences associated with Group investments A deferred tax liability of 8.1m 2017: 15.1m has been recognised in respect of taxes on the unremitted earnings of the South American and Canadian subsidiaries.
As at 31 December 2018, this is the only recognised deferred tax liability in respect of taxes on unremitted earnings, as the Group does not foresee a distribution of unremitted earnings from other subsidiaries or joint ventures which would result in a reversal of deferred tax.
The temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised, aggregate to 2,254.0m 2017: 1,971.9m.
There are no income tax consequences attaching to the payment of dividends by the Company to its shareholders.
UK corporation tax rate changes Legislation was enacted on 26 October 2015 such that the main rate of UK corporation tax will be 19% from April 2017 and 17% from April 2020.
Consequently, UK deferred tax has been provided at the prevalent rates during the periods in which the UK temporary differences are expected to unwind.
Consequently, deferred tax has been provided on UK temporary differences at 17.4% 2017: 17.8%.
Pensions & other post-employment benefit plans The Group operates various defined benefit pension plans in the UK and North America.
All defined benefit plans are closed to new members.
The most significant defined benefit plan is the Main funded UK plan.
ESCO acquisition Following the acquisition of ESCO, the Group has taken on the assets and obligations for funded defined benefit pension plans in the US and Canada and certain unfunded post-employment healthcare and pension benefits for employees in the US.
The obligations inherited have been introduced onto the Groups balance sheet using consistent assumptions with those adopted by the Group for IAS 19 purposes as at 31 December 2017.
UK plans The Group has two funded defined benefit plans the Main Plan and the Executive Plan and an unfunded retirement benefit plan for retired Executive Directors.
The Group also operates a defined contribution plan, the contributions to which are in addition to those set out below, and are charged directly to the Consolidated Income Statement.
For the defined benefit plans, benefits are related to service and final salary.
The Main Plan closed to future accrual of benefits effective from 30 June 2015.
The weighted average duration of the expected benefit payments from the Main Plan is around 17 years and from the Executive Plan it is around 14 years.
The current funding target for the UK plans is to maintain assets equal to the value of the accrued benefits.
The Main Plan holds two insurance policies which match the liabilities in respect of a significant proportion of deferred and retired pensioners.
The Executive Plan entered into an insurance contract in 2017 which matches the liabilities of the plan in full.
The regulatory framework in the UK requires the pension scheme Trustees and Group to agree upon the assumptions underlying the funding target, and then to agree upon the necessary contributions required to recover any deficit at the valuation date.
There is a risk to the Group that adverse experience against these assumptions could lead to a requirement for the Group to make considerable contributions to recover any deficit.
This risk is significantly reduced for the Main Plan and the Executive Plan through the insurance policies held.
North American plans The Group also sponsors funded defined benefit pension plans in the US and Canada and certain unfunded arrangements including post-employment healthcare benefits for senior employees in the US.
Following the acquisition of ESCO, these plans combined make up 19% of the Groups pension and other post-employment benefit plan commitments and 13% of the Groups total associated assets.
The weighted average duration of these plans is around 11 years.
Following the announcement of the planned disposal of the Groups Flow Control business, some of the pension and post-retirement assets and obligations from the North American arrangement will be transferred out from the Group.
A total of 4.8m obligations has been transferred to non-current liabilities in the discontinued balance sheet note 8.
The Weir Group PLC 164 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 23.
Pensions & other post-employment benefit plans continued Assumptions The significant actuarial assumptions used for accounting purposes reflect prevailing market conditions in the UK and North America and are as follows.
North American pensions & post-retirement UK pensions healthcare 2018 2017 2018 2017 Significant actuarial assumptions: Discount rate % pa 2.9 2.4 4.1 3.4 Retail Prices Inflation assumption % pa 3.2 3.2 n a n a Post-retirement mortality life expectancies in years Current pensioners at 65 male 21.6 22.1 20.6 20.6 Current pensioners at 65 female 23.5 24.0 22.6 22.6 Future pensioners at 65 male 23.0 23.5 22.2 22.2 Future pensioners at 65 female 25.1 25.5 24.2 24.2 Other related actuarial assumptions: Rate of increases for pensions in payment % pa Pre 6 April 2006 service 3.1 3.1 n a n a Post 5 April 2006 service 2.1 2.1 n a n a Consumer Prices Inflation assumption % pa 2.1 2.1 n a n a Rate of increase in healthcare costs n a n a Between 7.4% and 20.9% per annum decreasing to 4.5% per annum and remaining static at that level from 2031 onwards.
Between 6.2% and 8.7% per annum decreasing to 4.5% per annum and remaining static at that level from 2028 onwards.
The assumptions used to determine end-of-year benefit obligations are also used to calculate the following years cost.
For North America, weighted average assumptions are shown where applicable.
The post-retirement mortality assumptions allow for expected increases in longevity.
The current disclosures above relate to assumptions based on longevity in years following retirement at the balance sheet date, with future being that relating to a member retiring in 2039 in 20 years time.
The assets and liabilities of the plans are as follows.
These fixed interest bonds are all held by two funded ESCO plans as in 2017, the government bonds held by the UK plans are all index linked.
The pension plans have not directly invested in any of the Groups own financial instruments, or in properties or other assets used by the Group.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 165 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 In the UK, where the majority of the Groups pension assets are held, the investment strategy is to hold equities and other return-seeking assets, such as diversified growth funds and a mixture of bonds, to meet the assessed value of the benefits promised for the non-insured deferred pensioners.
For the remaining deferred pensioners and the bulk of pensioners currently receiving their benefit, the liabilities are backed by insurance policies and suitable bonds.
The change in net liabilities recognised in the balance sheet is comprised as follows.
North American pensions & post-retirement UK pensions healthcare Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m m m Opening net liabilities 125.1 121.3 12.6 15.9 137.7 137.2 Net liability transferred on acquisition 64.2 64.2 Expense charged credited to the incomestatement 9.3 3.3 2.7 2.6 12.0 0.7 Amount recognised in Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 59.2 2.6 5.5 2.8 53.7 5.4 Employer contributions 3.1 2.1 6.5 2.1 9.6 4.2 Net liability transferred to held for sale 4.8 4.8 Exchange adjustment 3.3 1.4 3.3 1.4 Closing net liabilities 72.1 125.1 77.0 12.6 149.1 137.7 The amounts recognised for total Group in the Consolidated Income Statement and in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year are analysed as follows.
North American pensions & post-retirement UK pensions healthcare Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m m m Recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement Current service cost 0.5 0.5 Past service cost credit 6.3 3.5 6.3 3.5 Administrative expenses 0.1 0.1 0.6 0.4 0.7 0.5 Included in operating profit 6.4 0.1 1.1 3.1 7.5 3.0 Interest on net pension liability 2.9 3.2 1.6 0.5 4.5 3.7 Total expense charged to the income statement 9.3 3.3 2.7 2.6 12.0 0.7 Recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Actual return on plan assets 22.7 33.8 5.7 2.5 28.4 36.3 Less: interest on plan assets 19.1 20.7 2.6 0.5 21.7 21.2 41.8 13.1 8.3 2.0 50.1 15.1 Other actuarial gains losses due to: Changes in financial assumptions 70.2 32.9 1.8 2.2 72.0 35.1 Changes in demographic assumptions 18.0 17.2 0.4 0.1 18.4 17.3 Experience on benefit obligations 12.8 0.6 2.7 13.4 2.7 Actuarial gains losses recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 59.2 2.6 5.5 2.8 53.7 5.4 Current service cost and administration expenses are recognised in operating costs and interest on net pension liability is recognised in other finance costs.
Following a High Court ruling in the UK in October 2018, an allowance of 6.3m in relation to expected future costs of equalising guaranteed minimum pensions has been included in the obligations on the Balance Sheet at 31 December 2018 and recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as a past service cost under exceptional items note 5.
Pension contributions are determined with the advice of independent qualified actuaries on the basis of regular valuations using the projected unit method.
The Group made special contributions of 5.6m in 2018 2017: 3.0m in addition to the Groups regular contributions.
The actuarial funding valuation of the Main Plan as at 31 December 2017 is ongoing, and it is due to be completed in early 2019.
Under the previous recovery plan agreed with the Trustees for the 31 December 2014 valuation, the Group entered into a pension funding partnership structure under which it will contribute interests in a Scottish Limited Partnership SLP for the Main Plan.
The Main Plans interests in the SLP will reduce the deficit on a funding basis, although the agreement will not affect the position directly on an IAS 19 accounting basis as the investments held do not qualify as assets for IAS 19 purposes.
As a partner in the SLP, the Main Plan is entitled to receive a share of the profits of the SLP once a year for 15 years, subject to conditions being met.
The profits to be shared with the Plan will be reflected in the Groups financial statements as a pension contribution.
The Weir Group PLC 166 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 23.
Pensions & other post-employment benefit plans continued The Trustees of the UK Executive Scheme entered into a full buy-in transaction in the third quarter of 2017, meaning that all of the benefit payments due from the Executive Scheme are now covered by an insurance policy.
There remains an outstanding premium payment estimated to be 1.1m due from the Trustees to Scottish Widows, which is expected to be paid in 2019 following a data cleanse process to finalise the insurance policy.
The IAS 19 balance sheet at the 2018 year end reflects this expected payment due.
The Group has taken legal advice regarding its UK arrangements to confirm the accounting treatment under IFRIC 14 with regard to recognition of a current surplus and also recognition of a minimum funding requirement.
This confirmed that there is no requirement to adjust the balance sheet and that recognition of a current surplus is appropriate on the basis that the Group has an unconditional right to a refund of a current or projected future surplus at some point in the future.
For the same reason, there is no requirement for the Group to adjust the balance sheet to recognise the future agreed deficit recovery contributions.
Having considered the position, taking account of the legal input received and noting that the Trustees of the UK arrangements do not have discretionary powers to unilaterally wind up the schemes without cause, the Directors of the Group have concluded that the Group has an unconditional right to a refund of any surplus.
The total Group contributions for 2019 including those expected from the SLP in the UK are expected to be 18.4m.
Sensitivity analysis Changes in key assumptions can have a significant effect on the reported retirement benefit obligation and the Consolidated Income Statement expense for 2019.
The effects of changes in those assumptions on the reported retirement benefit obligation are set out in the table below.
Increase Decrease Increase Decrease 2018 2018 2017 2017 m m m m Discount rate Effect on defined benefit obligation of a 1.0% change 140.2 167.1 146.7 178.7 Effect on net liability of a 1.0% change 103.7 126.0 105.3 132.1 RPI inflation and associated assumptions Effect on defined benefit obligation of a 1.0% change 91.0 82.5 95.8 87.3 Effect on net liability of a 1.0% change 57.9 51.9 62.2 56.0 Life expectancy Effect on defined benefit obligation of a 1 year change 34.0 34.0 29.2 29.2 Effect on net liability of a 1 year change 18.2 18.2 14.0 14.0 The impact on the net liability is significantly reduced as a result of the insurance policies held.
In the absence of such policies, the impact on the net liability would be much closer to the significantly higher impact on the defined benefit obligation shown in the table.
These sensitivities have been calculated to show the movement in the defined benefit obligation and net liability in isolation and assume no other changes in market conditions at the accounting date.
In practice, for example, a change in discount rate is unlikely to occur without any movement in the value of the invested non-insurance policy assets held by the plans.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are analysed as follows.
North American pensions & post-retirement UK pensions healthcare Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m m m Opening defined benefit obligations 936.8 940.0 26.1 29.4 962.9 969.4 Obligations transferred on acquisition 183.3 183.3 Current service cost 0.5 0.5 Past service cost credit 6.3 3.5 6.3 3.5 Interest on benefit obligations 22.0 23.9 4.2 1.0 26.2 24.9 Benefits paid 42.9 42.8 9.5 3.0 52.4 45.8 Actuarial gains losses due to Changes in financial assumptions 70.2 32.9 1.8 2.2 72.0 35.1 Changes in demographic assumptions 18.0 17.2 0.4 0.1 18.4 17.3 Experience on benefit obligations 12.8 0.6 2.7 13.4 2.7 Obligations transferred to held for sale note 8 16.2 16.2 Exchange rate adjustment 7.2 2.6 7.2 2.6 Closing defined benefit obligations 821.2 936.8 192.8 26.1 1,014.0 962.9 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 167 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Changes in the fair value of plan assets are analysed as follows.
Share capital & reserves 2018 2017 Number Number million million Issued & fully paid share capital At the beginning of the year 224.7 218.4 Issued during the year in respect of ESCO acquisition note 13 33.5 Issued during the year in respect of KOP acquisition 5.1 Issued during the year in respect of scrip dividends note 10 1.4 1.2 At the end of the year 259.6 224.7 Treasury shares At the beginning of the year 0.5 0.7 Utilised during the year in respect of equity settled share-based payments 0.3 0.2 At the end of the year 0.2 0.5 The Company has one class of ordinary share with a par value of 12.5p which carries no rights to fixed income.
16,699,763 ordinary shares of 12.5p each were issued on 23 April 2018 raising cash proceeds of 355.5m net of fees which were used to fund the acquisition of ESCO Corporation.
As part of the final consideration a further 16,779,861 ordinary shares of 12.5p each were issued directly to ESCO shareholders on 12 July 2018 valued at 325.3m.
As at 31 December 2018, 3,803 shares 2017: 3,803 were held by the Kleinwort Employee Benefit Trust EBT with a market value of 0.1m 2017: 0.1m.
This trust has been wound up in early 2019.
As at 31 December 2018, 6,549 shares 2017: 28,181 were held by the Estera Employee Benefit Trust for the performance and restricted awards made under the LTIP.
These shares have a market value of 0.1m 2017: 0.6m.
As at 31 December 2018, 25,828 shares 2017: 42,875 were held by the Estera Employee Benefit Trust for the bonus shares awarded under the LTIP.
These shares have a market value of 0.3m 2017: 0.9m.
As at 31 December 2018, 21,128 shares 2017: nil were held by the Estera Employee Benefit Trust for the bonus shares awarded under the Share Reward Plan SRP.
These shares have a market value of 0.3m 2017: nil.
As at 31 December 2018, 47,207 shares 2017: nil were held by the Estera Employee Benefit Trust for the ESCO restricted awards made under the ESCO 2010 stock incentive plan.
These shares have a market value of 0.6m 2017: nil.
Reserves The period movements on the below reserves are summarised in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
Merger reserve The shares issued directly to ESCO shareholders on 12 July 2018 qualify for merger relief under Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006, resulting in an increase to the reserve of 323.2m.
The merger reserve was originally created by the issue of new equity in relation to the acquisition of Delta Industrial Valves Inc. during 2015.
Capital redemption reserve The capital redemption reserve was created by a repurchase and cancellation of own shares during the 53 weeks ended 1 January 1999.
The Weir Group PLC 168 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 24.
Share capital & reserves continued Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations and the Groups hedge of its net investment in foreign operations.
Hedge accounting reserve This reserve records the portion of the gains or losses on hedging instruments used as cash flow hedges that are determined to be effective.
Net gains losses transferred from equity during the year are included in the following line items in the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Additional cash flow information Restated note 2 2018 2017 Notes m m Total operations Net cash generated from operations Operating profit continuing operations 124.1 240.8 Operating loss discontinued operations 29.7 20.5 Operating profit total operations 94.4 220.3 Exceptional items 5, 8 209.3 23.8 Amortisation of intangible assets 5, 12 67.3 55.4 Share of results of joint ventures 15 2.4 10.9 Depreciation of property, plant & equipment 11 64.5 58.2 Impairment of property, plant & equipment 0.1 Grants received 1.5 1.2 Losses gains on disposal of property, plant & equipment 0.2 0.1 Exceptional item gains on disposal of joint ventures 5, 15 10.4 Funding of pension & post-retirement costs 2.5 4.8 Employee share schemes 27 8.6 7.0 Transactional foreign exchange 15.3 0.4 Decrease in provisions 2.9 0.3 Cash generated from operations before working capital cash flows 450.3 336.7 Increase in inventories 53.2 65.6 Decrease increase in trade & other receivables 36.5 113.0 Decrease increase in trade & other payables 22.8 62.4 Cash generated from operations before exceptional cash items 410.8 220.5 Additional pension contributions paid 5.6 3.0 Exceptional cash items 114.0 28.6 Income tax paid 73.3 60.5 Net cash generated from operating activities 217.9 128.4 Cash flows from discontinued operations included above are disclosed separately in note 8.
Exceptional items are detailed in note 5.
The employee-related provision and associated insurance asset in relation to US asbestos-related claims disclosed in note 21 will not result in any cash flows either to or from the Group and therefore they have been excluded from the table above.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 169 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 The following tables summarise the cash flows arising on acquisitions and disposals note 13.
2018 2017 m m Acquisitions of subsidiaries Acquisition of subsidiaries cash paid 470.8 92.5 Cash & cash equivalents acquired 41.2 3.2 Acquisition of subsidiaries current period acquisitions 429.6 89.3 Prior period acquisitions contingent consideration paid 0.8 Total cash outflow relating to acquisitions 429.6 90.1 Net cash inflow arising on prior period disposals Prior period disposals completion adjustment 0.3 3.5 Total cash inflow relating to prior period disposals 0.3 3.5 2018 2017 m m Net debt comprises the following Cash & short-term deposits note 18 263.0 284.6 Current interest-bearing loans & borrowings note 19 662.5 388.4 Non-current interest-bearing loans & borrowings note 19 740.9 739.4 Assets and liabilities held for sale note 8 13.9 1,126.5 843.2 Reconciliation of financing cash flows to movement in net debt Closing Opening balance at balance at 31 31 Transferred to Total December Cash Additions Non-cash December assets liabilities continuing 2017 movements acquisitions FX movements 2018 held for sale operations m m m m m m m m Cash & cash equivalents 284.5 3.5 3.8 277.2 14.2 263.0 Third-party loans 1,128.2 103.7 118.6 51.6 1,402.1 0.3 1,401.8 Leases 1.0 0.8 2.3 2.5 2.5 Unamortised issue costs 1.5 0.6 0.9 0.9 Amounts included in gross debt 1,127.7 102.9 120.9 51.6 0.6 1,403.7 0.3 1,403.4 Amounts included in net debt 843.2 106.4 120.9 55.4 0.6 1,126.5 13.9 1,140.4 Financing derivatives 9.2 49.9 40.8 18.3 18.3 Contingent consideration 3.4 0.2 0.1 3.5 0.2 0.2 Other liabilities relating to financing activities 12.6 49.9 0.2 0.1 44.3 18.5 18.5 Total financing liabilities 1,140.3 152.8 121.1 51.7 43.7 1,422.2 0.3 1,421.9 Total financing liabilities comprise gross debt plus other liabilities relating to financing activities.
The Weir Group PLC 170 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 25.
Additional cash flow information continued Closing Opening balance at balance at 31 31 Transferred to Total December Cash Additions Non-cash December assets liabilities continuing 2016 movements acquisitions FX movements 2017 held for sale operations m m m m m m m m Cash & cash equivalents 257.0 53.5 26.0 284.5 284.5 Third-party loans 1,093.2 110.1 75.1 1,128.2 1,128.2 Leases 0.8 0.4 0.6 1.0 1.0 Unamortised issue costs 2.5 1.0 1.5 1.5 Amounts included in gross debt 1,091.5 109.7 0.6 75.1 1.0 1,127.7 1,127.7 Amounts included in net debt 834.5 56.2 0.6 49.1 1.0 843.2 843.2 Financing derivatives 21.4 6.6 5.6 9.2 9.2 Contingent consideration 31.0 38.0 0.5 9.9 3.4 3.4 Other liabilities relating to financing activities 52.4 44.6 0.5 4.3 12.6 12.6 Total financing liabilities 1,143.9 65.1 0.6 74.6 5.3 1,140.3 1,140.3 Total financing liabilities comprise gross debt plus other liabilities relating to financing activities.
Commitments & legal claims Operating lease commitments The Group has entered into commercial leases for land & buildings, motor vehicles and plant & equipment.
Land & building leases have an average term of between two and ten years, motor vehicle leases have an average term of between two and four years and plant & equipment leases have an average term of between three and five years.
Certain leases have terms of renewal at the option of the lessee.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are shown in the table below.
2018 2017 m m Less than 1 year 47.4 34.6 After 1 year but no more than 5 years 98.2 94.2 More than 5 years 51.7 57.8 197.3 186.6 The above disclosures are given in relation to continuing operations for 2018 and total group basis for 2017.
Total 2017 operating lease commitments for discontinued operations was 15.0m Finance lease commitments The Group has finance leases for buildings and plant & equipment.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are shown in the table below.
Minimum Present value Minimum Present value of payments of payments payments payments 2018 2018 2017 2017 m m m m Less than 1 year 1.0 1.0 0.3 0.3 After 1 year but not more than 5 years 1.5 1.4 0.6 0.5 After 5 years 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 Total minimum lease payments 2.6 1.1 Less amounts representing finance charges 0.1 0.1 Present value of minimum lease payments 2.5 2.5 1.0 1.0 The weighted average outstanding lease term is 3.08 years 2017: 5.54 years.
For the year ended 31 December 2018, the weighted average effective borrowing rate was 8.2% 2017: 5.98%.
All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 171 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Capital commitments 2018 2017 m m Outstanding capital commitments contracted but not provided for property, plant & equipment 17.9 14.6 Outstanding capital commitments contracted but not provided for intangible assets 2.5 2.8 The Groups share of the capital commitments of its joint ventures amounted to 2.1m 2017: 1.5m.
Legal claims The Company and certain subsidiaries are, from time to time, parties to legal proceedings and claims which arise in the normal course of business.
Provisions have been made where the Directors have assessed that a cash outflow is likely and they believe all other claims are remote.
Equity settled share-based payments Employee share plans The Groups 2018 Share Reward Plan SRP allows for Restricted shares and Bonus shares to be awarded to employees under the Plan.
This replaces the LTIP 2014 Rules LTIP under which the types of awards which were granted included: Performance shares, Restricted shares and Bonus shares.
Details of both the SRP and LTIP are outlined in the Remuneration Report on pages 95 to 106.
As part of the ESCO acquisition certain Restricted Stock Units RSUs and Restricted Stock Awards RSA issued by ESCO pre-acquisition were rolled into Weir Group share awards.
The pre-acquisition cost of these awards totalled 1.4m and was recorded in reserves, with a corresponding increase in goodwill.
These awards are treated in line with other restricted awards noted above.
One-off conditional share awards are also occasionally granted to employees.
These transactions fall under the scope of IFRS 2 and are treated in line with awards issued under the Groups SRP in the year or LTIP in prior years.
The following tables illustrate the number and weighted average share prices WASP of shares awarded.
Performance shares 2018 2017 Number 2018 Number 2017 million WASP million WASP Outstanding at the beginning of the period 1.1 16.34 1.7 18.06 Awarded during the period 0.3 18.58 Forfeited during the period 0.5 18.07 0.9 24.91 Outstanding at the end of the period 0.6 15.09 1.1 16.34 Restricted shares 2018 2017 Number 2018 Number 2017 million WASP million WASP Outstanding at the beginning of the period 0.8 14.89 0.8 12.91 Awarded during the period 0.6 20.17 0.4 18.59 Exercised during the period 0.3 14.41 0.2 14.75 Forfeited during the period 0.2 13.84 Outstanding at the end of the period 1.1 18.14 0.8 14.89 An amount of 8.6m has been charged 2017: 7.0m to the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of the number of awards which are expected to be made at the end of the vesting period.
The remaining contractual lives of the outstanding LTIP and one-off conditional share awards at the end of the period are as follows.
2018 2018 2017 2017 Number Remaining Number Remaining Year of award million contractual life million contractual life 2015 0.5 3 months 2016 0.7 8 months 0.8 15 months 2017 0.5 12 months 0.6 27 months 2018 0.5 23 months The fair value at date of grant of the conditional awards under the LTIP has been independently estimated based on the type of award: i Restricted shares The grant date fair value of these awards is calculated as the share price at the date of grant less an adjustment for loss of reinvestment return on the dividend equivalent.
There are no performance conditions attached to these awards.
The fair value of occasional one-off conditional awards at grant date is also estimated on this basis.
The Weir Group PLC 172 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 27.
Equity settled share-based payments continued ii Performance shares The grant date fair value of the performance share awards subject to the EPS and ROCE performance targets was calculated in the same way as the restricted share awards except that a discount of 11% is applied to reflect the holding period which applies to these awards.
The EPS and ROCE performance targets are non-market vesting conditions for the purpose of IFRS 2 and so their effect is not allowed for in the grant date fair values.
The valuation of performance share awards subject to the TSR-related performance targets was performed using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The following table gives the assumptions made during the period ended 31 December 2017 in the calculation of the fair value of awards subject to the TSRrelated performance targets made in that year.
No performance shares were issued in 2018.
2017 Weighted average expected volatility % 37.00 Weighted average expected life years 3.00 Weighted average risk-free rate % 0.30 Weighted average share price 18.58 Weighted average fair value 8.17 The expected life of the awards is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur.
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends which may also not necessarily be the actual outcome.
Market-related performance conditions have been taken into account in the calculation of fair values.
Bonus shares Under the Groups annual bonus plan, Executive Directors and members of the Group Executive typically receive 30% of any bonus deferred into an award of Weir Group shares which will normally be released after three years.
These awards are entitled to accrue the value of the dividends payable on any deferred bonus awards during the three-year holding period.
The SRP and LTIP bonus shares are administered by the Estera EBT.
The shares are acquired on market at the grant date and are held in the Estera EBT until such time as they are vested.
Forfeited shares are reallocated in subsequent grants.
Under the terms of the Trust Deed, Weir Group is required to provide the Estera EBT with the necessary funding for the acquisition of the shares at the time of the grant.
The number of shares to be granted is determined based on the applicable annual bonus divided by the price at which the Companys shares are traded at the date of the grant.
The fair value of the rights at grant date was estimated by taking the market price of the Companys shares on that date.
Related party disclosure The following table provides the total amount of significant transactions which have been entered into by total operations with related parties for the relevant financial year and outstanding balances at the year end.
Purchases from Sales to related Purchases from related Sales to related parties related parties Amounts owed parties goods services parties goods services to related parties Related party m m m m m Joint ventures 2018 4.5 0.4 10.1 0.8 2017 48.7 0.5 0.2 0.3 Group pension plans 2018 6.3 2017 4.3 Contributions to the Group pension plans are disclosed in note 23.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 173 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Terms & conditions of transactions with related parties Sales to and from related parties are made at normal market prices.
Outstanding balances at the period end are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash.
There have been no guarantees provided or received for any related party balances.
For 2018, the Group has not raised any provision for doubtful debts relating to amounts owed by related parties 2017: nil as the payment history has been excellent.
This assessment is undertaken each financial year through examining the financial position of the related party and the market in which the related party operates.
2018 2017 Compensation of key management personnel m m Short-term employee benefits 7.5 6.9 Share-based payments 2.2 0.2 Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.2 9.9 7.3 2018 2017 Emoluments paid to the Directors of The Weir Group PLC m m Remuneration 2.9 3.0 Gains made on the exercise of Long Term Incentive Plan awards 1.4 0.1 4.3 3.1 Key management comprises the Board and the Group Executive.
Further details of the Directors remuneration are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 95 to 106.
Derivative financial instruments The Group enters into derivative financial instruments in the normal course of business in order to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange risk.
Derivatives are only used for economic hedging purposes and no speculative positions are taken.
Derivatives are recognised as held for trading and at fair value through profit and loss unless they are designated in IFRS 9 compliant hedge relationships.
The table below summarises the types of derivative financial instrument included within each balance sheet category.
2018 2017 m m Included in non-current assets Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges 1.4 Other forward foreign currency contracts 0.3 1.4 0.3 Included in current assets Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 0.3 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as net investment hedges 0.5 7.5 Other forward foreign currency contracts 17.8 8.9 18.3 16.7 Included in current liabilities Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 0.1 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as net investment hedges 26.4 1.6 Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges 8.9 Other forward foreign currency contracts 14.4 15.2 40.8 25.8 Included in non-current liabilities Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges 0.7 Other forward foreign currency contracts 0.2 0.2 0.7 Net derivative financial liabilities continuing operations 21.3 9.5 Net derivative financial liabilities held for sale note 8 0.4 Net derivative financial liabilities total Group 21.7 9.5 The Weir Group PLC 174 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 29.
Financial assets and liabilities Financial assets and liabilities with the exception of derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value net of transaction costs.
Subsequently they are recognised at either fair value or amortised cost.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently re-measured at fair value.
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: Quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2: Other techniques for which all inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly: Level 3: Techniques which use inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
At 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017, the Group has classified contingent consideration as level 3.
A reconciliation of the movements in the contingent consideration fair value has been included in note 13.
During the periods ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017, there were no transfers between level 1 and level 2 fair value measurements and no transfers into or out of level 3 fair value measurements.
Offsetting Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet where the Group currently has a legal right to offset the recognised amounts, and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
As at 31 December 2018, cash & short-term deposits of 279.1m 2017: 284.6m and current interest bearing loans & borrowings of 664.7m 2017: 388.4m were presented after elimination of debit and credit balances within individual pools of 0.8m 2017: 1.3m.
The Group has also entered into arrangements that do not meet the criteria for offsetting but still allow for the related amounts to be offset in specific circumstances.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group had derivative financial instruments of 19.9m which were subject to master netting arrangements but not offset.
Carrying amounts and fair values The table below shows the carrying amounts and fair values of the Groups financial instruments that are reported in the financial statements.
Fair value measurement using Level 2 Level 3 Carrying Level 1 Significant Significant amount Fair value Quoted prices in observable unobservable 2018 2018 active markets inputs inputs m m m m m Financial assets Continuing Operations Derivative financial instruments recognised at fair value through profit or loss 17.8 17.8 17.8 Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 1.9 1.9 1.9 Trade & other receivables excluding statutory assets, prepayments, contingent consideration & construction contractassets 625.2 625.2 625.2 Cash & short-term deposits 263.0 263.0 263.0 Financial assets held for sale 125.1 125.1 125.1 1,033.0 1,033.0 Financial liabilities Continuing Operations Derivative financial instruments recognised at fair value through profit or loss 14.6 14.6 14.6 Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 26.4 26.4 26.4 Contingent consideration payable 0.2 0.2 0.2 Amortised cost Fixed-rate borrowings 783.7 827.7 827.7 Floating-rate borrowings 617.2 617.2 617.2 Obligations under finance leases 2.5 2.5 2.5 Trade & other payables excluding statutory liabilities & contract liabilities 573.5 573.5 573.5 Financial liabilities held for sale 93.2 93.2 93.2 2,111.3 2,155.3 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 175 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Fair value measurement using Restated Restated Level 2 Level 3 note 2 note 2 Level 1 Significant Significant Carrying amount Fair value Quoted prices in observable unobservable 2017 2017 active markets inputs inputs m m m m m Financial assets total Group Derivative financial instruments recognised at fair value through profit or loss 9.2 9.2 9.2 Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 7.8 7.8 7.8 Contingent consideration receivable 0.4 0.4 0.4 Trade & other receivables excluding statutory assets, prepayments, contingent consideration & construction contractassets 608.8 608.8 608.8 Cash & short-term deposits 284.6 284.6 284.6 910.8 910.8 Financial liabilities total Group Derivative financial instruments recognised at fair value through profit or loss 15.2 15.2 15.2 Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 11.3 11.3 11.3 Contingent consideration payable 3.4 3.4 3.4 Amortised cost Fixed-rate borrowings 832.9 896.6 896.6 Floating-rate borrowings 293.8 293.8 293.8 Obligations under finance leases 1.0 1.0 1.0 Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings 0.1 0.1 0.1 Trade & other payables excluding statutory liabilities & contract liabilities 528.4 528.4 528.4 1,686.1 1,749.8 The fair value of cash & short-term deposits, trade & other receivables and trade & other payables approximate their carrying amount due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.
C. Hedging activities The Group designates certain derivative financial instruments in either cash flow hedging or net investment hedging relationships in accordance with IFRS 9.
Cash flow hedge Net investment hedge Hedge relationship Cash flow hedge of highly probable forecast Net investment hedge of foreign operations foreign currency purchases and sales Hedged risk Transactional foreign exchange risk Translational foreign exchange risk Hedging instruments Forward foreign currency contracts Foreign currency debt Cross currency swaps Forward foreign currency contracts The Weir Group PLC 176 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 29.
Financial instruments continued For each type of derivative financial instrument, the net carrying amount and maturity date ranges are set out in the table below.
Net carrying amount Maturity Year ended 31 December 2018 m dates Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 2019 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as net investment hedges 25.9 2019 Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges 1.4 2018 to 2021 Other forward foreign currency contracts at fair value through profit or loss 2.8 2019 to 2020 21.7 Net carrying amount Maturity Period ended 31 December 2017 m dates Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 0.2 2018 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as net investment hedges 5.9 2018 Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges 9.6 2018 to 2021 Other forward foreign currency contracts at fair value through profit or loss 6.0 2018 to 2019 9.5 For each type of derivative financial instrument, the amounts recognised for the period in profit or loss and equity are set out in the table below.
In the financial statements these amounts are offset by the retranslation of foreign currency denominated receivables and payables.
Amounts recognised in profit or loss Amounts recognised in equity Foreign Total amounts Hedge currency Other gains recognised in accounting translation Losses recycled losses profit or loss reserve reserve to inventory Year ended 31 December 2018 m m m m m Instruments measured at FVTPL Designated in hedge accounting relationships Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flowhedges 2.6 2.6 0.8 0.1 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as net investment hedges 52.1 Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges 0.7 Not designated in hedge accounting relationships Other forward foreign currency contracts at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL 13.9 13.9 Total gains losses on instruments measured at FVTPL 11.3 11.3 0.8 51.4 0.1 Amounts recognised in profit or loss Amounts recognised in equity Foreign Total amounts Hedge currency Other gains recognised in accounting translation Losses recycled losses profit or loss reserve reserve to inventory Year ended 31 December 2017 m m m m m Instruments measured at FVTPL Designated in hedge accounting relationships Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flowhedges 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.6 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as net investment hedges 22.4 Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges 6.5 Not designated in hedge accounting relationships Other forward foreign currency contracts at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL 9.8 9.8 Total gains losses on instruments measured at FVTPL 9.5 9.5 0.4 28.9 0.6 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 177 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Hedge ineffectiveness Hedge effectiveness is determined at the inception of the hedge relationship, and through periodic prospective effectiveness assessments to ensure that an economic relationship exists between the hedged item and hedging instrument.
For hedges of foreign currency revenue and cost of sales, the Group enters into hedge relationships where the critical terms of the hedging instrument match exactly with the terms of the hedged item.
The Group therefore performs a qualitative assessment of effectiveness.
If changes in circumstances affect the terms of the hedged item such that the critical terms no longer match exactly with the critical terms of the hedging instrument, the Group uses the hypothetical derivative method to determine whether an economic relationship remains, and so assess effectiveness.
As all critical terms matched during the year, the economic relationships were 100% effective.
Ineffectiveness may arise if the timing of the forecast transaction changes from what was originally estimated, or if there are changes in the credit risk of the Group or the derivative counterparty.
The Group enters into fixed-for-fixed cross currency interest rate swaps which are designated as hedging instruments in net investment hedges of the net assets of foreign operations.
The swaps have similar critical terms as the hedged items, as the coupon and principal settlements exchange currencies matching both denomination and amounts of the hedged net assets, for amounts denominated in the presentation currency of the Group.
The Group also utilises borrowings which are measured at amortised cost and denominated in the currency of the hedged net assets, as hedging instruments in net investment hedges.
The Group does not hedge 100% of its net assets of foreign operations, therefore the hedged item is identified as a proportion of the net assets of the foreign operations up to the notional amount of the swaps and principal amount of the borrowings.
Hedge ineffectiveness for the cross currency interest rate swaps is assessed using the same principles as for hedges of foreign currency revenue and cost of sales.
It may occur due to the credit value debit value adjustment on the cross currency interest rate swaps which is not matched by the net assets retranslation.
There was no ineffectiveness during 2018 or 2017 in relation to the cross currency interest rate swaps or foreign exchange forwards.
The Weir Group PLC 178 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 29.
Financial instruments continued Effects of hedge accounting on financial position and performance The effects of the foreign currency related hedging instruments on the Groups financial position and performance are as follows: Cash flow hedging: foreign currency forwards 2018 2017 Carrying amount m 0.3 Assets 0.2 0.4 Liabilities 0.2 0.1 Notional amounts m USD 4.5 21.5 GBP 3.2 7.6 Average exchange rates GBP:USD 1.37 1.41 USD:AUD 1.31 1.26 01 2019 01 2018 Maturity dates 09 2019 09 2018 Hedge ratios 1:1 1:1 Change in fair value of outstanding hedging instruments since 1 January m 0.8 0.4 Change in value of hedged item used to determine hedge effectiveness m 0.8 0.4 The foreign currency forwards are denominated in the same currency as the highly probable future transactions, therefore the hedge ratio is 1:1.
Net investment hedging: foreign currency forwards, cross currency swaps and borrowings 2018 2017 Carrying amount m 499.3 507.8 Assets 1.9 7.5 Liabilities derivatives 26.4 11.2 Liabilities borrowings 474.9 504.1 Notional amounts m USD 1,689.2 881.2 ZAR 345.0 345.0 AUD 176.2 185.0 EUR 117.6 117.7 Average exchange rates GBP:USD 1.35 1.41 GBP:ZAR 19.04 18.12 GBP:EUR 1.28 1.28 GBP:AUD 1.84 1.90 01 2019 01 2018 Maturity dates 02 2022 02 2022 Hedge ratios 1:1 1:1 Change in fair value of outstanding hedging instruments since 1 January m 72.8 54.0 Change in value of hedged item used to determine hedge effectiveness m 72.8 54.0 The derivatives and borrowings are denominated in the same currency as the highly probable future transactions, therefore the hedge ratio is 1:1.
D. Financial risk management Financial risk management of the Group is carried out by Group Treasury in conjunction with individual subsidiaries.
The principal financial risks to which the Group is exposed are market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Market risk The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk in the ordinary course of business.
i Foreign exchange risk The Group is exposed to both transactional and translational foreign exchange risk.
Transactional risk arises when subsidiaries enter into transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currency for operational or financing purposes or when the Groups Treasury function enters into transactions for financing or risk management purposes.
Translational risk arises on the translation of overseas earnings and investments into Sterling for consolidated reporting purposes.
Foreign currency transactional and translational risk could result in volatility in reported consolidated earnings and net assets.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 179 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 In respect of transactional foreign currency risk, the Group maintains a policy that all operating units eliminate exposures on material committed foreign currency transactions, usually by entering into forward foreign currency contracts through the Groups Treasury function.
Certain operating units apply cash flow hedge accounting in accordance with IFRS 9.
The Group does not engage in any speculative foreign exchange transactions.
The Group has material foreign investments in the US, Australia, Europe and South Africa.
In respect of translational risk, the Group has a policy of partially hedging its net investment exposure to US Dollar US$, Australian Dollar AUD, Euro EUR and South African Rand ZAR denominated subsidiaries.
This is achieved through designating an element of foreign currency borrowings, forward foreign currency contracts and cross currency swaps as net investment hedges against the Groups investments.
The Group does not hedge the translational exposure arising from profit and loss items.
Sensitivity to foreign exchange rates The Group considers the most significant transactional foreign exchange risk relates to the Australian Dollar, Euro and US Dollar.
The following table shows the impact of movements in derivative valuation as a result of a weakening of these currencies.
In the income statement, these amounts are offset by the retranslation of foreign currency denominated receivables and payables.
Effect on profit Effect on Increase in gain loss equity gain Transactional foreign exchange currency rate m m 2018 Australian Dollar 25% 10.2 19.0 Euro 25% 79.9 20.3 US Dollar 25% 13.8 262.8 2017 Australian Dollar 25% 11.1 19.5 Euro 25% 32.4 20.9 US Dollar 25% 0.7 130.1 The Group is also exposed to translational foreign exchange risk as a result of its global operations and therefore the earnings of the Group will fluctuate due to changes in foreign exchange rates in relation to Sterling.
The Groups operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation was denominated in the following currencies.
Restated note 2 2018 2017 m m US Dollar 224.6 168.0 Australian Dollar 29.8 29.0 Euro 22.1 16.1 Canadian Dollar 48.7 31.9 United Arab Emirates Dirham 7.3 4.1 Chilean Peso 40.5 37.7 South African Rand 5.9 8.8 Brazilian Real 4.7 4.9 Russian Rouble 4.9 5.2 UK Sterling 44.0 15.2 Other 3.6 5.8 Operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation 348.1 296.3 ii Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its outstanding borrowings.
Changes in interest rates will affect future interest cash flows on floating-rate debt and the fair value of fixed-rate borrowings.
The Weir Group PLC 180 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 29.
Financial instruments continued The earnings of the Group are sensitive to changes in interest rates in respect of floating rate borrowings.
As at 31 December 2018, 44% of the Groups borrowings were at floating interest rates.
The interest rate profile of the Groups interest bearing borrowings was as follows.
2018 2017 Floating-rate Fixed-rate Total Floating-rate Fixed-rate Total m m m m m m US Dollar 19.6 784.6 804.2 0.4 791.2 791.6 Euro 477.6 477.6 293.4 293.4 UK Sterling 120.0 0.3 120.3 43.0 43.0 Other 0.2 0.2 Sensitivity to interest rates Based on borrowings at 31 December 2018, a 1% increase in interest rates would have a 6.7m impact on the profit before tax and amortisation of the Group.
This assumes that the change in interest rates is effective from the beginning of the period and that all other variables are constant throughout the period.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its financial liabilities as they fall due.
Liquidity risk is managed by monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and ensuring that sufficient committed facilities are in place to meet possible downside scenarios.
The Groups objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of fixed-rate loan notes, bank loans, commercial paper and bank overdrafts.
Further details of the Groups borrowing facilities are disclosed in note 19.
The tables below show only the financial liabilities of the Total Group by maturity.
The amounts disclosed in the table are undiscounted cash flows and may therefore not agree to the amounts disclosed in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The Group manages its liquidity to ensure that it always has sufficient funding to grow the business and is able to meet its obligations as they fall due.
Year ended 31 December 2018 Less than 1 More than 5 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years years Total Total Group m m m m m Forward foreign currency contracts net outflow 15.9 0.3 0.4 15.8 Cash flows relating to derivative financial liabilities 15.9 0.3 0.4 15.8 Trade & other payables excluding statutory liabilities & contract liabilities 645.4 0.8 646.2 Obligations under finance leases 1.0 0.9 0.5 0.1 2.5 Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings 1.9 1.9 Bank loans 120.3 120.3 Commercial paper 498.0 498.0 Fixed-rate notes 194.4 26.6 666.5 887.5 Cash flows relating to non-derivative financial liabilities 1,459.1 28.3 667.0 0.1 2,154.5 1,476.9 29.6 666.6 0.1 2,172.2 Year ended 31 December 2017 More than 5 Less than 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years years Total Total Group m m m m m Cross currency swaps outflow 58.1 4.9 87.6 150.6 Cross currency swaps inflow 47.8 3.6 89.5 140.9 Forward foreign currency contracts net outflow 1.8 0.2 1.6 Cash flows relating to derivative financial liabilities 12.1 1.1 1.9 11.3 Trade & other payables excluding statutory liabilities & contract liabilities 531.7 0.5 532.2 Obligations under finance leases 0.3 0.2 0.3 0.2 1.0 Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings 0.1 0.1 Bank loans 0.7 0.7 Commercial paper 293.4 293.4 Fixed-rate notes 126.5 183.2 502.0 151.1 962.8 Cash flows relating to non-derivative financial liabilities 952.7 183.9 502.3 151.3 1,790.2 964.8 185.0 500.4 151.3 1,801.5 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 181 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Credit risk The Group is exposed to credit risk to the extent of non-payment by either its customers or the counterparties to its derivative financial instruments.
The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables with risk spread over a large number of countries and customers, with no significant concentration of risk.
Where appropriate, the Group endeavours to minimise risk by the use of trade finance instruments such as letters of credit and insurance.
In certain circumstances, operating entities are permitted to make use of invoice discounting facilities to reduce counterparty credit risk.
In addition, applicable credit worthiness checks are undertaken with external credit rating agencies before entering into contracts with customers and credit limits are set as appropriate and enforced.
As shown in note 17, the trade receivables presented in the balance sheet are net of the expected credit loss allowance.
Refer to those notes for detail of the loss allowance calculation.
The Groups exposure to the credit risk of financial instruments is limited by the adherence to counterparty credit limits, and by only trading with counterparties that have an investment grade credit rating or better at contract inception, based upon ratings provided by the major credit rating agencies.
Exposures to those counterparties are regularly reviewed and, when the market view of a counterpartys credit quality changes, adjusted as considered appropriate.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is equal to the carrying value of the financial assets of the Group.
Capital management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains robust capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise shareholder value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
The Group's banking arrangements include bi-annual financial covenants of net debt to EBITDA not greater than 3.5 and interest cover not less than 3.5.
The Group monitors capital using the following indicators.
Net debt to EBITDA cover Net debt to EBITDA comprises net debt divided by operating profit from total operations before exceptional items, intangibles amortisation and depreciation.
For the purposes of the covenants required by the Group's lenders, the net debt is to be converted at the exchange rate used in the preparation of the Group's income statement and cash flows, i. e. average rate.
In addition, results of businesses acquired in the financial year have to be included as if the acquisitions occurred at the start of the financial year, while the results of businesses disposed of in the year are to be excluded.
The Group considers that the ratio of net debt to EBITDA is the key metric from a capital management perspective and seeks to maintain the ratio below two times.
Given the recent downturn in oil and gas markets, the metric is currently 2.3 times but is on a downward trajectory and remains actively managed.
2018 2017 Net debt at average exchange rates m 1,085.6 873.7 Operating profit m 125.2 218.2 Exceptional items included in operating profit m 161.1 13.3 Depreciation and intangibles amortisation m 187.6 115.4 EBITDA m 473.9 346.9 Net debt to EBITDA cover ratio 2.3 2.5 Interest cover Interest cover comprises operating profit from total operations before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation divided by net finance costs excluding exceptional items and other finance costs.
2018 2017 Operating profit before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation m 401.8 286.9 Net finance costs excluding exceptional items and other finance costs m 33.8 38.0 Interest cover ratio 11.9 7.6 Gearing ratio Gearing comprises net debt divided by total equity.
Net debt comprises cash & short-term deposits and interest-bearing loans & borrowings note 25.
2018 2017 Net debt m 1,126.5 843.2 Total equity m 2,148.9 1,471.1 Gearing ratio % 52.4 57.3 2017 ratios presented on an as published basis and have not been restated.
The Weir Group PLC 182 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 31.
Exchange rates The principal exchange rates applied in the preparation of these financial statements were as follows.
2018 2017 Average rate per US Dollar 1.34 1.29 Australian Dollar 1.79 1.68 Euro 1.13 1.14 Canadian Dollar 1.73 1.67 United Arab Emirates Dirham 4.89 4.73 Chilean Peso 855.87 835.52 South African Rand 17.65 17.15 Brazilian Real 4.87 4.11 Russian Rouble 83.66 75.17 Closing rate per US Dollar 1.27 1.35 Australian Dollar 1.81 1.73 Euro 1.11 1.13 Canadian Dollar 1.74 1.69 United Arab Emirates Dirham 4.68 4.97 Chilean Peso 884.36 832.26 South African Rand 18.33 16.76 Brazilian Real 4.95 4.48 Russian Rouble 88.40 77.86 32.
Events after the balance sheet date On 25 February 2019, the Group announced an agreement had been entered into to sell its Flow Control division to First Reserve, a leading global private equity investment firm focused exclusively on energy, for an enterprise value of 275m, payable in cash and subject to customary working capital and debt-like adjustments at closing.
The transaction remains subject to certain regulatory and other approvals, with completion excpected in Q2 2019.
Flow Control has been classified as held for sale since the announcement on 19 April 2018 of the Group's intention to sell the Division.
Previously reported as an individual reporting segment, the division is now reported as a discontinued operation and the prior period comparatives have been restated accordingly.
