Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 209 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Shareholder Information Company Secretary & Registered Office about the markets in which we operate, our Managing your shareholding online with Mr Graham Vanhegan strategy and business performance, recent Investor Centre Investor Centre is a free, secure The Weir Group PLC news from the Group and product information.
online service run by Computershare, giving 1 West Regent Street The investor section is a key source of information you convenient access to information on your Glasgow for Shareholders, containing details on the share shareholdings.
Manage your shareholding G2 1RW price, our financial results, Shareholder meetings online and take advantage of all these features and dividends, as well as a Shareholders and more: Registered in Scotland.
View share balances and market values for all E-Communications of your Computersharemanaged holdings Registrar We are encouraging our shareholders to receive Update dividend mandate bank instructions Computershare Investor Services PLC their information by email and via our website.
including global payments and view dividend The Pavilions Not only is this quick, it helps to reduce paper, payment history Bridgwater Road printing and costs.
Register to receive company Bristol communications online BS99 6ZZ To register for e-communications, log on to Cast your Proxy Vote online for forthcoming www.
co. uk General Meetings Update personal details, such as your address Follow us Telephone: 0370 707 1402 Registration is quick and easy.
co. uk with your Shareholder Shareholder enquiries relating to shareholding, Reference Number SRN to hand.
dividend payments, change of name or address, lost share certificates or dividend cheques, After registering, you may be sent an activation transfer of shares etc.
should be addressed code in the post, used to validate your account.
Annual and Interim Reports to Computershare.
Once activated, you will have full access to Our Annual Report is available online.
Shareholder communications You can view or download the full Annual Online Communications Report and Interim Report from our website at Shareholders are encouraged to visit the www.
weir, Current and past Annual and Interim Reports are which contains a wealth of information about also available to view and download.
The website includes information Ordinary shareholder analysis at 31 By holding size December 2018 No.
Further details 2019 AGM can be obtained through our Registrar of 30.45 pence per share, for the year ended are contained in the Notice of Annual General by visiting www.
Payment of this dividend is Meeting 2019 which is available to download You will need details of the Control Number, your subject to approval at the 2019 Annual General from our website at www.
weir SRN and PIN which can be found on the Form Meeting.
Key dates relating to this dividend are  agm of Proxy or email, if you have asked to be sent given below.
Annual General Meeting 30 April 2019 Ex-dividend date 25 April 2019 Record date 26 April 2019 Payment date 6 June 2019 Dividend history pence per share 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Interim 8.8 15.0 15.0 15.0 15.0 15.75 Final 33.2 29.0 29.0 29.0 29.0 30.45 Total 42.0 44.0 44.0 44.0 44.0 46.20 IMPORTANT Future Payment of Dividends An Annual Dividend Confirmation detailing all ADR investor contact Mandatory Direct Credit payments made throughout the tax year will then Telephone: 1 781 575 4555 Citibank From 2019, the Company is simplifying the be sent to you once a year either electronically representatives are available from 8.30am to way in which it pays dividends to shareholders or to your registered address.
In 2019, the 6.00pm US Eastern Standard Time EST Monday by only paying cash dividends directly into a Dividend Confirmation will be dispatched with the to Friday.
com shareholders nominated bank account.
This is November 2019 dividend payment and contain In writing known as Mandatory Direct Credit.
The Company the payment information for dividends paid during Citibank Shareholder Services will no longer be issuing dividend cheques.
Box 43077 Shareholders recorded on the register of Global Payment Service Providence, members as receiving dividend payments by If you live overseas, Computershare offers a Rhode Island 029403077 cheque will be contacted by Computershare.
Global Payment Service which is available in ADR broker contact Those shareholders will need to take the required certain countries.
This may make it possible Telephone: 1 212 723 5435 action by selecting the appropriate option as set to receive dividends direct into your bank 44 207 500 2030 out in the Computershare notification.
account in your local currency.
Please note E-mail: citiadr@citi.
com that the fees applied for this service will be Shareholders on the register of members who Dividend tax allowance automatically deducted from the proceeds already have their dividends paid by any of the With effect from April 2018, the annual tax free before it is paid to you.
For further details go options set out below are not required to take allowance on dividend income was reduced from to www.
co. uk then select the any action.
5,000 to 2,000. information tab followed by FAQs then select Direct payment to your bank the Dividends and Payments tab and the Global Above this amount, individuals will pay tax on The best way to ensure that dividends are Payment Service tab.
their dividend income at a rate dependent on their received as quickly as possible is to have income tax bracket and personal circumstances.
your dividends paid directly to a UK bank American Depositary Receipt ADR We will continue to provide registered or building society account.
To switch to programme shareholders with confirmation of the dividends this method of payment you can register The Company has a sponsored level 1 ADR paid and this should be included with any other online or download a Dividend Mandate programme in the United States.
Each ADR dividend income received when calculating and Form by selecting Downloadable Forms at represents 2 ordinary shares of 12.5 pence reporting total dividend income received.
The form can also be each, in the Company.
The Companys ADR shareholders responsibility to include all dividend accessed via the FAQ section on the Companys programme is administered by Citibank, who income when calculating any tax liability.
weir investors were appointed in February 2016.  shareholders-faq.
This provision is enshrined in the Finance Act Alternatively, you can contact Computershare, 2016.
If you have any tax queries, please contact who will also be able to assist with any questions a financial advisor.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 211 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 United Kingdom capital gains tax These services are offered on an execution only For the purpose of capital gains tax, the market basis and subject to the applicable terms and value of an ordinary share of The Weir Group PLC conditions.
Computershare Investor Services as at 31 March 1982 was 29.75p.
This market PLC is authorised and regulated by the Financial value has been adjusted to take account of the Conduct Authority.
subdivision of the share capital whereby each This is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold ordinary share of 25p was sub-divided into two shares in The Weir Group PLC.
Shareholders who ordinary shares of 12.5p each on 28 June 1993. are unsure of what action to take should obtain Rights issues of ordinary shares took place in April independent financial advice.
Share values 1987 at 157p per share on the basis of one new may go down as well as up which may result ordinary share for every seven ordinary shares in a shareholder receiving less than he she held, in July 1990 at 250p per share on the basis originally invested.
of one new ordinary share for every five ordinary Shareholder warning alert shares held and in September 1994 at 252p per Unsolicited investment advice and fraud share on the basis of one new ordinary share for Many companies have become aware that their every four ordinary shares held.
shareholders have received unsolicited phone Share dealing services calls or correspondence concerning investment Shareholders have the opportunity to buy or matters.
Share scams are often run from boiler sell The Weir Group PLC shares using a share rooms where fraudsters cold-call investors dealing facility operated by our Registrar, offering them worthless, overpriced or even nonComputershare.
You will need to register for this existent shares.
service prior to using it.
To access this service, go These callers can be very persistent and to www.
extremely persuasive and their activities have Internet share dealing commission is 1% resulted in considerable losses for some of the value of each sale or purchase of shares, investors.
Whilst usually by telephone, the subject to a minimum charge of 30.
In addition, high-pressure sales tactics can also come by stamp duty, currently 0.5%, is payable on email, post, word of mouth or at a seminar.
There is no need to open a trading Shareholders are advised to be very wary of account in order to deal.
Real time dealing any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a is available during market hours 08:00 to discount, sell your shares at a premium or offers 16:30 Monday to Friday excluding bank holidays.
In addition, there is a convenient facility to place If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: your order outside of market hours.
Up to 90 day limit orders are available for sales.
To access Make sure you get the correct name of the the service, go to www.
person and organisation and take a note of any Shareholders should have their SRN available.
other details they provide, such as a telephone The SRN appears on share certificates and number or address.
Check that the caller is properly authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA by Please note that, at present, this service is only visiting www.
available to shareholders in certain jurisdictions.
Report any approach from such organisations Please refer to the Computershare website for an to the FCA using the share fraud reporting up-to-date list of these countries.
uk consumers reportTelephone share dealing commission , where you can also is 1% of the value of each sale or purchase find out about the latest investment scams.
In addition, stamp duty, You can also call the Consumer Helpline on currently 0.5%, is payable on purchases.
Shareholders should have their SRN ready when making the call.
The SRN appears on share certificates and dividend documentation.
Detailed terms and conditions are available at www.
co. uk or by contacting Computershare.
Please note this service is, at present, only available to shareholders resident in certain jurisdictions.
Please refer to the Computershare website for an up-to-date list of these countries.
