AUTHORISATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SECTION 2 AND STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH IFRSs The financial statements of J D Wetherspoon plc The Companys financial statements have been the Company for the year ended 29 July 2018 prepared in accordance with the European Unionwere authorised for issue by the board of directors on endorsed IFRSs and IFRSIC IFRS Interpretations 13 September 2018, and the balance sheet was signed Committee interpretations as adopted by the on the boards behalf by John Hutson and Ben Whitley.
European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 as applicable to J D Wetherspoon plc is a public limited company, companies reporting under IFRS.
The principal incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
accounting policies adopted by the Company are The Companys ordinary shares are traded on the set out on pages 32 to 35.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation as payable on surrender of the lease, where this is a The financial statements of the Company have been likely outcome.
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by Hedging the European Union, IFRSIC interpretations and The Company adopts hedge accounting, meaning that the Companies Act 2006, applicable to companies the effective portion of the changes in the fair value of reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have the derivatives is dealt with in comprehensive income.
been prepared on the going-concern basis, using the Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion would historical cost convention, except for the revaluation be recognised immediately in the income statement.
The Company makes assumptions on the requirements The accounting policies which follow set out those for future borrowings, as well as future interest rates, policies which apply in preparing the financial when assessing the effectiveness of interest-rate statements for the year ended 29 July 2018. swaps.
Changes in the forecast amount of future These policies have been consistently applied to borrowings or interest rates may result in all or part of all of the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
the gain or loss, which was originally reported in equity, Important estimates and judgements being transferred to the income statement.
Complex areas on judgement or estimates involving Exceptional items sums which are significant to the accounts are A degree of judgement is required in determining disclosed below.
whether certain transactions merit separate Impairment of property, plant and equipment presentation to allow shareholders to better understand The Company will impair the value of a pub if it is financial performance in the year, when compared with believes it will generate future cash flows lower than its that of previous years and trends.
Future cash flows will be the Segmental reporting greater of those generated by continued trading or the The Company operates predominantly one type of sale of the pubs assets.
Cash flows in future periods business pubs in the United Kingdom and the are reduced by applying a pre-tax discount rate for Republic of Ireland.
Given the size of the future years of 7%.
Companys hotel business and trading presence in the Judgements are made on the level of expected future Republic of Ireland, these have not been separately cash flows and possible sales values.
These disclosed as a business segment.
judgements directly affect the calculation of any Exceptional items impairment charges.
The Company presents, on the face of the income If a previously recognised impairment charge is statement, those items of income and expense which, reversed, the value of the pub will be increased to the because of the nature and magnitude of the event lower of the book value as if the asset had not been giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow impaired and the future cash flows which the pub will shareholders to better understand the elements of generate.
financial performance in the year.
This helps to facilitate comparison with previous years and to better Onerous leases assess trends in financial performance.
Impairment of A provision for onerous leases is made for pubs for fixed assets and onerous lease charges and reversals which future trading profits, or income from subleases, are reported as exceptional, regardless of magnitude, are not expected to cover rent.
The provision takes to provide consistency of treatment with previous several factors into account, including the expected years and a better understanding for the financial future profitability of the pub and the amount estimated statements users.
32 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds ACCOUNTING POLICIES Property gains and losses Provisions The Company defines property gains and losses as Provisions are recognised when the Company has a those items of income and expenditure which are the present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a result of owning and leasing assets which are nonpast event and it is probable that an outflow of recurring in nature.
These include the impairment of resources will be required to settle the obligation fixed assets, movements in the onerous lease provision and a reliable estimate can be made of that and proceeds and costs from the disposal of assets.
These items are presented on the face of the income Revenue recognition statement to more clearly show the Companys Revenue recognised at the time of sale is the fair value underlying performance.
of bar, food, slot machine and hotel room sales, Fixed assets after deducting discounts and sales-based taxes.
Fixed assets include property, plant and equipment, Revenue from hotel rooms is recognised when rooms intangible assets, investment property and lease are occupied and as services are provided, after premiums.
They are all stated at cost, less deduction of discounts and sales-based taxes.
accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Like-for-like sales Cost of assets includes acquisition costs, as well as Like-for-like sales growth is calculated by taking the other directly attributable costs in bringing the asset revenue, as per the accounting policy, for all pubs into use.
which have traded for more than 12 months and Depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis comparing their revenue to the corresponding over the estimated useful life of the asset as follows: revenue of the previous year.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Leases Freehold and long-leasehold buildings are depreciated to their estimated residual values over 50 Leases where the Company assumes substantially years.
all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified Short-leasehold buildings and lease premiums are as finance leases.
Assets acquired under finance depreciated over the lease period.
leases are capitalised at the lower of their fair value Equipment, fixtures and fittings are depreciated over and the present value of future lease payments.
The corresponding liability is included in the Computer software, including related development balance sheet as a finance lease payable.
Finance and implementation costs 3 to 10 years.
charges included in lease payments are charged as Assets are not depreciated until such time as they an expense to the income statement, while the asset are ready for use.
is depreciated in line with the accounting policy for Residual values and useful economic lives are property, plant and equipment.
reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all of the assets risks and benefits of ownership are classified as Profits and losses on disposal of fixed assets reflect the operating leases.
If the operating lease is subject to difference between the net selling price and the fixed uplifts over the term of the lease, rental payments carrying amount at the date of disposal and are are charged to the income statement on a straight-line recognised in the income statement.
basis, over the period of the lease, in line with adopted accounting standards.
If the operating lease is subject The carrying value of fixed assets is reviewed annually to open-market rents, rental payments are charged at for impairment, with any impairment losses recognised the prevailing rates.
The Company also has concession rentals, Assets held for sale payable based on turnover.
These are charged to Where the value of an asset will be recovered through operating profit at the higher of minimum contractual a sale transaction, rather than continuing use, the asset obligations under the agreements or based as a is classified as held for sale.
Assets held for sale are percentage of turnover.
valued at the lower of book value and fair value, less any costs of disposal, and are no longer depreciated.
Lease incentives Lease incentives are recognised as a reduction of Inventories rental expense and are amortised on a straight-line Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net basis.
Cost is calculated on a weighted average basis, with net realisable value being the Borrowing costs estimated selling price, less any costs of disposal.
Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving or in the period in which they are incurred, unless damaged inventory, where appropriate.
the requirements by the adopted accounting standards for the capitalisation of borrowing costs relating Bar and food inventory is recognised as an expense to assets are met.
For the purpose of the cash flow when sold.
Non-consumable inventory is recognised as reporting interest paid and received are considered an expense immediately on receipt at a pub or hotel.
J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 33 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Income taxes Receivables Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the Other receivables are recognised initially at fair value amount expected to be recovered from, or paid to, the and carried at amortised cost less an allowance for any taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws which uncollectible amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance is made when collection of the full amount is no longer sheet date.
Bad debts are written off when identified.
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary Cash and cash equivalents differences arising between the tax bases of assets Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term statements, with the following exceptions: deposits.
For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and Where the temporary difference arises from an asset short-term deposits as defined above.
Bank overdrafts or liability in a transaction which, at the time of the are shown within current financial liabilities on the transaction, affects neither accounting nor taxable balance sheet.
Financial liabilities Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to The Company classifies its financial liabilities as other the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be financial liabilities.
Other financial liabilities are available against which the deductible temporary measured at fair value on initial recognition and differences, carried-forward tax credits or tax losses subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are Trade and other payables measured at the tax rates which are expected to apply Trade and other payables are recognised initially at when the related asset is realised or liability settled, fair value and subsequently at amortised cost, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively using the effective-interest method.
enacted at the balance sheet date.
Bank loans and borrowings Income tax is charged or credited directly to the Interest-bearing bank loans and other borrowings are income statement, comprehensive income or equity.
recorded initially at fair value of consideration received, The income tax charged or credited will follow the net of direct issue costs.
Borrowings are subsequently accounting treatment of the underlying item which has recorded at amortised cost, with any difference given rise to the income tax charged or credited.
between the amount recorded initially and the redemption value recognised in the income Free cash flow statement over the period of the bank loans, The calculation of free cash flow is based on the using the effective-interest method.
net cash generated by business activities after funding interest, corporation tax, loan issue costs, Bank loans and loan notes are classified as current all reinvestment in information technology, head office liabilities, unless the Company has an unconditional and pubs trading at the start of the period excluding right to defer settlement of the liability for at least extensions and the purchase of own shares under 12 months after the balance sheet date.
the employee share incentive plan.
Derivative financial instruments and Financial instruments hedging activities Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Derivative financial instruments used by the Company date on which the Company becomes party to the are stated at fair value on initial recognition and at contractual provisions of the instrument giving rise to subsequent balance sheet dates.
Hedge accounting is used only where, at the inception Financial assets of the hedge, there is formal designation and The Company classifies its financial assets as documentation of the hedging relationship, it meets the loans and receivables.
The Company has no assets Companys risk-management objective for undertaking which would fall into a category outside of loans the hedge and is expected to be highly effective.
Interest-rate swaps Loans and receivables Interest-rate swaps are classified as hedges Loans and receivables are non-derivative where they hedge exposure to cash flow variability financial assets with fixed or determinable payments in interest rates.
which are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater For interest-rate swaps, the effective portion of the gain than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly are classified as non-current assets.
Loans and in comprehensive income, while the ineffective portion receivables comprise other receivables and is recognised in the income statement within fair value cash and cash equivalents on the balance sheet.
gain loss on financial derivatives.
34 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds ACCOUNTING POLICIES Share capital The cost of the awards in respect of these plans is Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental measured by reference to the fair value at the date at costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or which they are granted and is amortised as an expense options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, over the vesting period.
In valuing these transactions, from the proceeds.
no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than market conditions linked to the price of the shares When the Company repurchases its own shares the of the Company.
cost of the shares purchased and associated transaction costs are taken directly to equity and The Company currently has no other share-based deducted from retained earnings.
The nominal value of transactions.
shares purchases is transferred from share capital to Changes in standards the capital redemption reserve.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, certain new standards and amendments to Foreign currencies existing standards have been published which are not Transactions denominated in foreign currencies yet effective and have not been adopted early by the are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing Company.
Information on those expected to be at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and relevant to the financial statements is provided below: liabilities are translated at the year-end exchange rates, with the resulting exchange differences taken to the On 13 January 2016, the International Accounting income statement.
Standards Board issued IFRS 16 Leases which is effective for periods starting on or after 1 January 2019.
The Irish branchs results are translated at the average IFRS 16 requires lessees to recognise a lease liability exchange rate for the reporting period: the balance reflecting future lease payments and a right-of-use sheet is translated at the year-end exchange rate.
asset for lease contracts, subject to exceptions for Resulting exchange differences are recognised in short-term leases and leases of low-value assets.
The impact of this standard is expected to be material.
Revaluation gains and losses on the long-term On 28 May 2014, the International Accounting financing of the Irish branch are recognised in Standards Board issued IFRS 15 Revenue from comprehensive income.
Contracts with Customers which is effective for periods Retirement benefits starting on or after 1 January 2018.
The impact of this Contributions to personal pension schemes are accounting standard on the Companys accounts is recognised in the income statement in the period in considered immaterial.
All contributions are in respect of On 24 July 2014, the International Accounting a defined contribution scheme.
The Company has Standards Board issued IFRS 9 Financial no future payment obligations, once the contributions Instruments: Recognition and Measurement which is have been paid.
effective for periods starting on or after 1 January 2018.
Owners earnings IFRS 9 addresses the classification, measurement and Owners earnings measures the earnings attributable derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities to shareholders from current activities adjusted for and introduces new rules for hedge accounting and a significant non-cash items and one off items.
Owners new impairment model for financial assets.
earnings are calculated as profit before tax, exceptional Debt instruments currently classified as held to items, depreciation and amortisation and property maturity and measured at amortised cost will meet the gain and losses less reinvestment in current conditions for classification at amortised cost properties and cash tax.
Cash tax is defined as the under IFRS 9. current years current tax charge.
The Company believes that its current hedge Dividends relationships will qualify as continuing hedges, Dividends recommended by the board, but unpaid at on the adoption of IFRS 9. each period end, are not recognised in the financial statements until they are paid in the case of the interim Other standards which are not expected to have a dividend or approved by shareholders at the annual material impact are shown below: general meeting in the case of the final dividend.
Annual improvements to IFRS 2014-16 Cycle and 2015-17 Cycle Changes in net debt Amendments to IAS 40: Transfers of Changes in net debt are both the cash and non-cash Investment Property movements of the year, including movements in Amendments to IFRS 2: Classification and finance leases, borrowings, cash and cash equivalents.
Measurement of Share Based Payment Transactions Share-based charges IFRIC Interpretation 22: Foreign Currency The Company has an employee share incentive plan Transactions and Advance Considerations which awards shares to qualifying employees: there is IFRIC Interpretation 23: Uncertainty over also a deferred bonus scheme which awards shares to Income Tax Treatments directors and senior managers, subject to specific performance criteria.
J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 35
