A Ad dd dit iti ion onal al i in nf for orm ma at ti ion on Glossary Alternative performance measures In reporting financial information, the Group presents alternative performance measures, APMs, which are not defined or specified under the requirements of IFRS.
The Group believes that these APMs, which are not considered to be a substitute for or superior to IFRS measures, provide stakeholders with additional useful information on the underlying trends, performance and position of the Group and are consistent with how business performance is measured internally.
The alternative performance measures are not defined by IFRS and therefore may not be directly comparable with other companies alternative performance measures.
The key APMs that the Group uses are outlined below.
APM Closest equivalent Reconciling items Definition and purpose IFRS measure to IFRS measure Income Statement Measures Headline Group profit Group profit NonHeadline Group profit before tax excludes non-underlying items.
before tax before tax underlying items A reconciliation from Headline Group profit before tax to Group profit before tax is provided on the Group income statement on page 71.
High Street and Group Refer to definition Group profit from trading operations and High Street and Travel Travel trading profit, operating profit trading profit are stated after directly attributable share-based and Group profit from payment and pension service charges and before nontrading operations underlying items, unallocated costs, finance costs and income tax expense.
A reconciliation from the above measures to Group operating profit and Group profit before tax is provided in Note 2 to the financial statements.
Non-underlying items None Refer to definition Items which are not considered part of the normal operating costs of the business, are non-recurring and considered exceptional because of their size, nature or incidence, are treated as non-underlying items and disclosed separately.
The Group believes that the separate disclosure of these items provides additional useful information to users of the financial statements to enable a better understanding of the Groups underlying financial performance.
An explanation of the nature of the items identified as non-underlying is provided in Note 4 to the financial statements.
Headline earnings Earnings per share Non-underlying Profit for the year before non-underlying items divided by the per share items and dilutive weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the effect of shares financial year, adjusted for the effects of any potentially dilutive under option share options.
Effective Tax rate None NonTotal income tax charge excluding the tax impact of nonunderlying items underlying items divided by Group Headline profit before tax.
Fixed charges cover None Refer to definition This performance measure calculates the number of times Profit before tax is able to cover the total fixed charges included in calculating profit or loss.
Fixed charges included in this measure are net finance charges and net operating lease rentals.
The calculation of this measure is outlined in Note 8.
Gross margin Gross profit margin Not applicable Where referred to throughout the Annual report, gross margin is calculated as gross profit divided by revenue.
WH Smith PLC 116 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Alternative performance measures continued APM Closest equivalent Reconciling items Definition and purpose IFRS measure to IFRS measure Income Statement Measures Like-for-like revenue Movement in - Revenue change Like-for-like revenue is the change in revenue from stores that revenue per the from non like-forhave been open for at least a year, with a similar selling space at a constant foreign exchange rate.
A reconciliation of these income statement like stores percentages is provided below.
- Foreign Travel High Street Group exchange impact LFL revenue change 3% 3 % % Net new space impact 5% % 2% Foreign exchange impact % % % Total revenue change 8% 3 % 2% Balance Sheet Measures Net debt None Reconciliation of Net debt is defined as cash and cash equivalents, less bank net debt overdrafts and other borrowings and both current and noncurrent obligations under finance leases.
A reconciliation of Net debt is provided in Note 21.
Other measures Free cash flow Net cash See Free cash flow is defined as the net cash inflow from operating inflow from Financial review activities before non-underlying items and pension funding, less operating activities capital expenditure and repayments to HMRC.
The components of free cash flow are shown on page 16, as part of the Strategic report Financial review.
Return on capital None Not applicable Return on capital employed is calculated as trading profit employed ROCE expressed as a percentage of operating capital employed.
The calculation of ROCE is shown on page 17, as part of the Strategic report Financial review.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 117
