Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Corporate governance Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulation.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law.
In preparing the Group financial statements, the directors have also elected to comply with IFRSs, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and Company for that period.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs issued by IASB have been followed for the Group financial statements and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101, have been followed for the Company financial statements, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will continue in business.
The directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors confirmations Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 39, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Company financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the company: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union - Dual IFRS European Union and IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By order of the Board Stephen Clarke Group Chief Executive Robert Moorhead Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer 11 October 2018 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 63 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of WH Smith PLC Report on the audit of the group financial Our audit approach statements Overview Materiality Opinion Overall Group materiality: 7.2 million 2017: 6.8 million, In our opinion, WH Smith PLCs Group financial statements based on five per cent of profit before tax.
thefinancial statements : The WH Smith PLC Group operates under five components: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as High Street, Travel UK, Travel International, Central and at 31 August 2018 and of its profit and cash flows for the year the Company.
then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Audit scope Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the We performed a full scope audit on the High Street and Travel European Union: and UK components, while performing specific procedures over balances within the Central and Company ledgers based have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of on their overall size and values of their specific financial the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statement line items.
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our audit scoping gave us coverage of 95 per cent of profit We have audited the financial statements, included within the before tax, with 91 per cent coverage of revenue.
Annual report 2018 the Annual report, which comprise: the Group balance sheet as at 31 August 2018: the Group income Key audit matters statement, the Group statement of comprehensive income, the Property related provisions.
Group cash flow statement and the Group statement of changes Impairment review of store assets.
in equity for the year then ended: and the Notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant Inventory valuation.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Pension scheme valuation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in Note 1 to the financial statements, the Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion, the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that nonaudit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group.
Other than those disclosed in the Notes to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group in the period from 1 September 2017 to 31 August 2018.
WH Smith PLC 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information they related to the financial statements.
There are inherent The scope of our audit limitations in the audit procedures described above and the As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
thedirectors made subjective judgements, for example, inrespect of significant accounting estimates that involved We did not identify any key audit matters relating to making assumptions and considering future events that are irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we inherently uncertain.
also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including Key audit matters fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is of the financial statements of the current period and include higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing material misstatement in the Group and Company financial the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any statements, including, but not limited to, the Companies comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, Act 2006, the Listing Rules and UK tax legislation.
Our tests were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial included, but were not limited to, a review of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and statement disclosures and agreement to underlying supporting we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is documentation, review of correspondence with the regulators, not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
review of correspondence with legal advisees, enquiries of management and review of internal audit reports in so far as Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Property related provisions Refer to Note 1 p for the directors disclosure on the critical We obtained managements assessment of properties accounting judgements and key sources of estimation requiring provisions and obtained an understanding of the uncertainty and page34 for the views of the Audit Committee.
rationale, including the basis for the calculation.
We agreed a sample of the properties to underlying documents including Given the long history of WH Smith, the Group has an extensive lease agreements and written communications from third property portfolio of both existing and former WH Smith parties for onerous lease provisions.
In doing so, we agreed properties now sublet or vacant held under operating leases, the lease costs incurred by the Group and any amounts being which requires the directors to make significant judgements received as income from lessees where the Group is subandestimates relating to the need to provide for dilapidation letting properties at a shortfall.
costs and onerous leases when the store is making losses or when stores are earmarked for closure.
These judgements For dilapidations provisions, we compared managements include assessing: the duration of the lease, estimations of estimates to either: correspondence of amounts to be costs and future income potential and as such, remains a key paid where stores have been vacated : or in the case of audit matter for us stores yet to be vacated, historical amounts incurred by the group for similar stores previously vacated.
This confirmed managements estimates were in line with previous experience, or were supported by communication from landlords or property consultants.
We performed an independent assessment of provisions required through review of the schedule of leases and comparing these to the individual stores current and previous year contribution.
The work we performed indicated that management have sufficient provisions held for property matters at 31 August 2018.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 65 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of WH Smith PLC continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Impairment review of store assets Refer to Note 1 p Accounting policies for the directors Our audit work included obtaining managements impairment disclosure on the critical accounting judgements and key assessment and discussing the basis for their decision sources of estimation uncertainty and note 14 and 15 other whether or not to impair store assets.
intangible assets and property, plant & equipment.
We agreed individual store trading performance to underlying As at 31 August 2018 management assessed the Groups store records including trading data and confirmed that those that assets comprising leasehold improvements and fixtures and were loss making were appropriately impaired where an fittings for indication of impairment.
The economic and sector improvement in results could not be expected, this testing did trends facing the Group may adversely impact the recoverable not highlight any significant issues.
value of assets used within the store portfolio, which is We also reviewed the results for all stores to ensure that considered to be a triggering event for impairment review.
managements identification of loss making stores was Management considers each store to be a cash generating complete.
This did not identify any further stores for which an unit CGU and has performed a review of the trading results impairment should be recognised.
of the stores for the year.
Where a store is loss making and is not expected to return to profitability in the near future, an impairment charge is recognised over the assets that cannot be recycled within the store portfolio as set out in Note 14 property, plant and equipment.
We focused on this area because of the sales and cost pressure that could mean further impairment of the store assets is needed.
Inventory valuation Refer to Note 1 p for the directors disclosure on the critical We attended a number of stock counts across High Street accounting judgements and key sources of estimation and Travel stores and distribution centres.
In addition to uncertainty and page 34 for the views of the Audit Committee.
performing sample test counts, we assessed the effectiveness of the count controls in operation at each site.
Inventory consists of a number of product categories including books, news and magazines, impulse, stationery, travel We also evaluated the results of other cycle counts performed essentials and digital.
A large proportion of stock is supplied by management and third parties throughout the period to through sale or return arrangements, including the majority assess the level of count variances.
of books, newspapers and magazines, and therefore these We reviewed the shrink results from the counts performed are considered to be lower risk than stock acquired through in the year and compared them against historical shrink rate outright purchases such as stationery.
data to identify any significant unusual fluctuations which may Inventory is initially valued using a weighted average cost WAC indicate a different provision is required.
Provisions are then recognised against inventory for A substantive test was performed to ensure stock was held at estimated losses related to shrinkage and slow moving or the lower of cost versus its net realisable value.
The obsolescence provision is calculated by applying a We focused on the valuation of inventory due to the magnitude judgemental percentage to the year end stock levels, based on of the inventory balance, the range and age of the inventory historical obsolescence data, as well as managements view considering the nature of the business, and the judgements of the current stock profile and forecast sales by product line.
made by management when assessing the level of We performed an analysis of the provision applied per stock provision required.
category against the previous period, in the light of trading Inventory is counted by the Group throughout the year.
As such, results and the stock ageing profile.
the shrinkage provision at 31 August 2018 is based on historical We also tested the ageing of the stock and validated the source shrinkage rates and contains a degree of estimation.
stock balances upon which the provision is based.
Furthermore, we considered write-offs in the year as an indicator of a requirement for further or less provision.
In performing the above assessment, we concluded the valuation of the stock balance is appropriate as at 31 August 2018.
WH Smith PLC 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Recognition of supplier income Refer to Note 1 c Accounting policies and page 34 for the views Our audit work in respect of supplier income comprised of the Audit Committee.
substantive testing of a sample of income recognised in the income statement during the period and testing of accrued and The Group earns supplier income under numerous different deferred amounts in the balance sheet.
The main elements of arrangements with its suppliers.
The arrangements vary our work are considered in more detail below.
in nature and size but include volume based retrospective discounts and payments for space given to marketing Income statement testing campaigns.
Supplier income is recognised as a deduction We requested confirmations directly from a number of from cost of sales and is earned over the period of the different suppliers, in respect of a sample of supplier income contractual agreements with individual suppliers.
The confirmations allowed us to evaluate income recognised is therefore based on the expected whether the income had been appropriately recognised entitlement earned up to the balance sheet date under each accurately and in the period.
Where responses were not supplier agreement.
received, we performed alternative procedures including agreement to contracts and cash receipts.
We found The amount of supplier income recognised in the year accounting for these amounts did not require significant levels resulted from mainly high volume, low value transactions for of judgement or estimation as income such as volume based agreements such as volume based retrospective discounts and discounts are calculated based on actual sales data rather payments for guaranteed in store space dedicated to product.
No significant issues were identified Therefore, limited judgement or estimation was required in through the testing performed.
determining the amount the Group is entitled to, as the majority of volume based agreements are based on historical sales Furthermore, we analysed supplier income by type recognised as opposed to forecast volumes.
Our focus for all types of each month and compared it to the previous period to identify supplier income was therefore whether an agreement for the any unusual trends in the amounts or timing of supplier income income recognised existed, whether income was recognised in recognised in each period.
No unusual trends were identified.
accordance with the agreement and whether it was recognised in the correct period.
Balance sheet testing In the sample of confirmations detailed above, we included requests for the year end receivables to be confirmed.
We performed cut-off procedures and credit note testing to provide further evidence to support the timing of the recognition of supplier income and the value of the accrued and deferred balances.
Our cut-off work involved testing a sample of supplier income amounts by reference to documentation from suppliers to confirm the timing of recognition was appropriate.
Our credit note testing focused on credit notes raised after the year end in order to identify instances of supplier income being subsequently reversed.
We did not identify any exceptions from this work.
In respect of the Supplier Income balances set out in Note 15 to the financial statements we tested the recoverability and appropriateness of recognition through direct confirmation with suppliers for the invoiced amounts and corroboration to contracts and assessment of assumptions made for the uninvoiced amounts.
We assessed the ageing of both outstanding supplier income and promotional funding supplier income debtors, together with our understanding of details of any disputes.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 67 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of WH Smith PLC continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter We obtained the actuarial report for the WH Smith Pension Pension scheme valuation Refer to Note 1 n for the directors disclosure on the critical Trust Retail Section for the scheme as at 31 August 2018. accounting judgements and key sources of estimation We reviewed the pension assumptions, including discount uncertainty and Note5 Retirement benefit obligations and page rates, salary increases, inflation and mortality, utilising 34 for the views of the Audit Committee.
our specialist knowledge of pensions.
We considered and challenged the reasonableness of the actuarial assumptions The Group has two defined benefit pension plans, which comparing the discount and inflation rates used against our comprise total plan assets of 1,277m and total pension internally developed benchmark ranges, finding them to be liabilities of 983m which are significant in the context of within an acceptable range.
Other assumptions were also the overall balance sheet of the Group.
The valuation of the assessed and considered to be reasonable.
schemes liabilities requires significant level of judgement and technical expertise in choosing appropriate assumptions.
The most recent triennial valuation was completed in March Changes in a number of the key assumptions can have a 2017, therefore, census data supporting the actuarial report material impact on the position as disclosed in Note5 of the has been updated during the prior year.
We focused on this area because of the impact of the judgements inherent in the actual assumptions involved in the valuation of the schemes liabilities.
Non-underlying items The group has classified 11 million as non-underlying costs in We evaluated the assessment of management covering the the current period.
These items are not considered part of the nature of the item, cause of occurrence and the scale of the normal operating costs of the business and are non-recurring.
impact of that item on reported performance.
Our testing These costs are attributable to the business review of High Street noted that management were able to demonstrate the nature and costs related to an aborted transaction.
We focused on this of the expenses were non-recurring and related to the aborted area because of the magnitude of the amount of costs classified as transaction and business review.
We reviewed the disclosures non-underlyingin the current period and the element of judgement given in both the notes to the financial statements and in the involved in determining whether an item should be classified as a strategic and directors reports to ensure the disclosure of non-underlying item or included within the underlying results.
non-underlying items was sufficient for users of the accounts to understand the nature of and reasons for the costs.
How we tailored the audit scope Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial Overall Group statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the materiality 7.2 million 2017: 6.8 million.
Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry How we determined it Five per cent of profit before tax.
Rationale for This is a profit orientated As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and business and profit is one of the benchmarkapplied assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial primary measures used by the statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made shareholders in order to assess subjective judgements, for example, in respect of significant performance and this is a generally accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and accepted auditing benchmark.
considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across material misstatement due to fraud.
components was between 5.2 million and 7.1 million.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application them misstatements identified during our audit above 360k 2017: 340k as well as misstatements below that amount that, of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
WH Smith PLC 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Going concern Strategic report and Directors report In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic report and Reporting obligation Outcome Directors report for the year ended 31 August 2018 is consistent We are required to report if we We have nothing material with the financial statements and has been prepared in have anything material to add to add or to draw attention accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 or draw attention to in respect to.
However, because not all In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the directors statement future events or conditions its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not in the financial statements can be predicted, this identify any material misstatements in the Strategic report and about whether the directors statement is not a guarantee Directors report.
CA06 considered it appropriate to as to the Groups ability to adopt the going concern basis continue as a going concern.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group of accounting in preparing the and of the principal risks that would threaten the financial statements and the solvency or liquidity of the Group directors identification of any We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: material uncertainties to the The directors confirmation on page 20 of the Annual report Groups ability to continue as that they have carried out a robust assessment of the a going concern over a period principal risks facing the Group, including those that would of at least 12 months from threaten its business model, future performance, solvency the date of approval of the or liquidity.
We are required to report if the We have nothing to report.
The disclosures in the Annual report that describe those risks directors statement relating to and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
Going Concern in accordance The directors explanation on pages 24 and 25 of the Annual with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the materially inconsistent with our Group, over what period they have done so and why they knowledge obtained in the audit.
consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group Reporting on other information will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as The other information comprises all of the information in the they fall due over the period of their assessment, including Annual report other than the financial statements and our any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for qualifications or assumptions.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do We have nothing to report having performed a review of not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise the directors statement that they have carried out a robust explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the so, consider whether the other information is materially directors process supporting their statements: checking that inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures understanding of the Group its environment obtained in the to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the course of the audit.
Listing Rules financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic report and Directors report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 69 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of WH Smith PLC continued Other Code Provisions Use of this report We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and report when: only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other The statement given by the directors, on page 35, that they purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume consider the Annual report taken as a whole to be fair, responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to balanced and understandable, and provides the information whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come, necessary for the members to assess the Groups position save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group obtained in the Other required reporting course of performing our audit.
Companies Act 2006 exception reporting The section of the Annual report on page 33 describing the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address if, in our opinion: matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
we have not received all the information and explanations we The directors statement relating to the Companys require for our audit: or compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Responsibilities for the financial statements Appointment and the audit Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we Responsibilities of the directors for the financial were appointed by the members on 21 January 2015 to audit statements the financial statements for the year ended 31 August 2015 and As explained more fully in the Statement of directors subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted responsibilities set out on page 63, the directors are responsible engagement is four years, covering the years ended 31 August for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance 2015 to 31 August 2018. with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for Other matter such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable We have reported separately on the company financial the preparation of financial statements that are free from statements of WH Smith PLC for the year ended 31 August 2018 material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
and on the information in the Directors remuneration report In preparing the financial statements, the directors are that is described as having been audited.
responsible for assessing the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless John Ellis Senior Statutory Auditor the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or to cease for and on behalf of operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
 LLP Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about London whether the financial statements as a whole are free from 11 October 2018 material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
WH Smith PLC 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2018
