Financial statements Notes to the financial statements Except as outlined below, the directors anticipate that 1.
Accounting policies the adoption of these standards and interpretations in a Basis of preparation future years will have no material impact on the Groups The consolidated Group financial statements have been financial statements.
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers is effective Standards IFRS and IFRS Interpretations Committee from periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and will be IFRS IC as adopted by the European Union and with those effective in the Group financial statements for the year ended parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies 31 August 2019.
The standard establishes a principles-based reporting under IFRS.
These are the standards, subsequent approach for revenue recognition and is based on the concept of amendments and related interpretations issued and adopted by recognising revenue for obligations only when they are satisfied the International Accounting Standards Board IASB that have and the control of goods and services is transferred.
It applies to been endorsed by the European Union at the year end.
all contracts with customers, except those in the scope of other The consolidated Group financial statements have also been standards.
During the year ended 31 August 2018, the Group has prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted for use in the substantially completed an assessment of the impact of IFRS European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU 15 and it is expected that adoption will not materially impact IAS Regulation.
The consolidated financial statements have the recognition and measurement of the Groups revenue been prepared on a going concern basis as explained on page streams.
The majority of Group sales are for standalone 62 of the Directors report.
products made direct to customers at standard prices either through franchisees, in-store or online, where there is a single New standards performance obligation and revenue is recognised at the point The Group has adopted the following standards and of sale or, where later, delivery to the end customer.
interpretations which became mandatory during the current IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is a new standard which financial year.
These changes have had no material impact on enhances the ability of investors and other users of financial the Groups financial statements: information to understand the accounting for financial assets Amendments to IAS 12 Income taxes: Recognition and reduces complexity.
The standard uses a single approach to of deferred tax assets for determine whether a financial asset is measured at amortised unrealised losses cost or fair value, replacing the various rules in IAS 39, and also Amendments to IAS 7 Statement of cash flows introduces a new expected loss impairment model.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in This standard is effective for accounting periods commencing other entities on or after 1 January 2018 and will be adopted for the Groups 2018 19 financial year.
The new standard is not expected to have At the date of authorisation of these consolidated Group a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
financial statements, the following standards and interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial IFRS 16, Leases is effective for annual periods beginning on statements, were in issue but not yet effective and in some or after 1 January 2019.
This standard replaces IAS 17, and will cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : require entities to apply a single lessee accounting model, with lessees recognising right of use assets and lease liabilities on IFRS 9 Financial Instruments balance sheet for all applicable leases.
The Group anticipates Amendments to IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts that the adoption of IFRS 16 will have a material impact on with Customers the Income statement and Balance sheet including operating Amendments to IFRS 4 Amendments regarding profit, profit before tax, property plant and equipment, and implementation of IFRS 9 net debt.
There is no cash impact of adoption of this standard.
Amendments to IFRS 2 Classification and The Group is in the process of assessing the impact of IFRS Measurement of Share-based 16 and has invested in additional resource and systems in Payment Transactions order to assess the impact on its existing lease estate, which comprises approximately 1,300 property leases, as well as Amendments to IAS 40 Transfers of Investment Property equipment leases.
The Group has established a project group Amendment to IFRS 9 Financial instruments, on to lead the implementation and work is ongoing in respect of general hedge accounting assessment of the accounting impacts of the change, collection IFRS 16 Leases of the required data from across the business, and changes to systems and processes.
IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration A reliable estimate of the financial impact on the Groups Amendment to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of IFRS consolidated results is dependent on a number of unresolved regarding short-term exemptions areas, including: the choice of transition method, completion covering transition provisions of of discount rate data gathering and the refinement of the IFRS 7, IAS 19, and IFRS 10 incremental borrowing rate determination for each lease, Amendment to IAS 28 Investments in associates and joint estimates of lease-term for leases with options to break and ventures regarding measuring renew, and conclusion of lease attribute data gathering across their investments in associates or the Group.
In addition, the financial impact is dependent on the joint ventures at fair value through facts and circumstances at the time of transition.
For these profit or loss FVTPL reasons, it is not yet practicable to determine a reliable estimate of the financial impact on the Group.
WH Smith PLC 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Basis of consolidation 1.
Accounting policies continued The consolidated Group financial statements incorporate the a Basis of preparation continued financial statements of WH Smith PLC and all its subsidiaries.
New standards continued Subsidiary undertakings are all entities over which the Group The undiscounted amount of the Groups operating lease has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group commitments at 31 August 2018 disclosed under IAS 17, the is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its current leasing standard was 824 million see Note 7. involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully Alternative performance measures APMs consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to The Group has identified certain measures that it believes the Group.
will assist the understanding of the performance of the business.
These APMs are not defined or specified under the Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and requirements of IFRS.
initially measured at cost, being the excess of the fair value of consideration transferred over the Groups interest in the net The Group believes that these APMs, which are not considered fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measures, provide liabilities recognised.
If, after reassessment, the Groups stakeholders with additional useful information on the interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, underlying trends, performance and position of the Group and liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the fair value of are consistent with how business performance is measured consideration transferred, after taking into account recognised internally.
The Alternative Performance Measures are not goodwill, the excess is immediately recognised in the income defined by IFRS and therefore may not be directly comparable statement.
The separable net assets, both tangible and with other companies alternative performance measures.
intangible, of the newly acquired subsidiary undertakings are The key APMs that the Group uses include: Headline profit incorporated into the financial statements on the basis of the before tax, Headline earnings per share, High Street and Travel fair value as at the effective date of control, if appropriate.
trading profit, Group profit from trading operations, like-for-like Results of subsidiary undertakings disposed of during the revenue, gross margin, fixed charges cover, Net funds, Return financial year are included in the financial statements up to on capital employed and free cash flow.
These APMs are set the effective date of disposal.
Where a business component out in the Glossary on page 116 including explanations of how representing a separate major line of business is disposed of, they are calculated and how they are reconciled to a statutory or classified as held for sale, it is classified as a discontinued measure where relevant.
The post-tax profit or loss of the discontinued operations is shown as a single amount on the face of the Non-underlying items income statement, separate from the other results of the Group.
The Group has chosen to present a Headline measure of profit and earnings per share which excludes certain items, that All intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains are considered non-underlying and exceptional due to their ontransactions between Group companies are eliminated.
size, nature or incidence, and are not considered to be part of the normal operating costs of the Group.
These costs may b Revenue include the financial effect of non-underlying items which are Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration considered exceptional and occur infrequently such as, inter received or receivable and represents amounts receivable alia, restructuring costs linked to a Board agreed programme, for goods and services to customers which is the most impairment charges and onerous lease charges, and the related significant revenue stream, sale of wholesale goods to tax effect of these items.
The Group believes that the separate franchisees, and commission and fee income on concession disclosure of these costs provides additional useful information and franchise arrangements.
to users of the financial statements to enable a better Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards understanding of the Groups underlying financial performance.
of the goods or services provided have transferred to the Further details of the non-underlying items are provided in buyer, the amount of revenue can be measured reliably and Note 4. it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group.
Accounting convention The financial statements are drawn up on the historical cost Revenue excludes discounts, estimated returns, VAT and other basis of accounting, except for certain financial instruments, sales-related taxes.
Revenue on store sales of goods and share-based payments and pensions that have been measured concession sales is recognised when goods are sold to the at fair value.
The financial information is rounded to the nearest customer.
Internet sales are recognised when the goods are million, except where otherwise indicated.
The principal delivered to the customer and title has passed.
Revenue from accounting policies, which have been applied consistently gift vouchers and gift cards sold by the Group is recognised throughout both years, are set out below.
on the redemption of the gift voucher or gift card.
Revenue on wholesale sale of goods to franchisees is recognised on delivery.
Franchise and concession fees and commission are recognised in revenue as earned based on the terms of the contracts.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 77 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance 1.
Accounting policies continued sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit c Supplier income obligation, as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
The Group receives income from its suppliers in the form Any asset resulting from the calculation is limited to past of supplier incentives and discounts collectively Supplier service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and incomes.
These incomes are recognised as a deduction from reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Where the Group cost of sales on an accruals basis as they are earned for each is considered to have a contractual obligation to fund the supplier contract.
The level of complexity and judgement is low pension scheme above the accounting value of the liabilities, an in relation to establishing the accounting entries and estimates, onerous obligation is recognised.
and the timing of recognition.
e Leasing Supplier incomes that have been invoiced but not received at Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms the period end are recognised in Trade Receivables, or in Trade of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards Payables where we have the right of offset.
Incomes that have of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as been earned but not yet invoiced are accrued and are recorded operating leases.
in Prepayments and accrued income.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of The types of supplier income recognised by the Group, and the the Group at their fair value determined at the inception of the recognition policies are: lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in Retrospective discounts the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments Income earned based on sales or purchase volume triggers set are apportioned between finance charges and a reduction of bythe supplier for specific products over specific periods.
the lease obligations so as to achieve a constant rate of interest Income is calculated and invoiced based upon actual sales or on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are purchases over the period set out in the supplier agreement, recognised directly in the income statement.
and is recognised in the income statement as it is earned.
Rentals payable and receivable under operating leases are Where the period of an agreement spans accounting periods, charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over income is recognised based on forecasts for expected sales or the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable purchase volumes, informed by current performance, trends, as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread and the terms of the supplier agreement.
Income is invoiced on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The Group has a throughout the year in accordance with the specific supplier number of lease arrangements in which the rent payable is terms.
The carrying value of inventories is adjusted to reflect contingent on revenue.
Contingent rentals payable, based on unearned elements of supplier income as the product has not store revenues, areaccrued in line with revenues generated.
This income is subsequently recognised in cost ofsales when the product has been sold.
f Intangible assets Business combinations Promotional and marketing activity The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the Supplier income from promotional and marketing activity acquisition method.
The consideration transferred is measured includes income in respect of in-store marketing and point at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of sale, supplying dedicated promotional space or receiving of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity margin support for products on promotion.
instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control, Income for promotional and marketing activity is agreed of the acquiree.
Costs directly attributable to the business with suppliers for specific periods and products.
Income is combination are recognised in the income statement in the recognised over the period of the agreement.
Income is invoiced period they are incurred.
The cost of a business combination is when the performance conditions in the supplier agreement allocated at the acquisition date by recognising the acquirees have been achieved.
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that satisfy the recognition criteria at their fair values at that date.
d Retirement benefit costs Payments to the WHSmith Group defined contribution pension The acquisition date is the date on which the acquirer effectively schemes are recognised as an expense in the income statement obtains control of the acquiree.
Intangible assets are recognised as they fall due.
if they meet the definition of an intangible asset contained in IAS 38 and its fair value can be measured reliably.
The excess of The cost of providing benefits for the main defined benefit the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of scheme, WHSmith Pension Trust, and the United News Shops identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Retirement Benefits Scheme are determined by the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial calculations being carried out at the balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside the income statement in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
WH Smith PLC 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information g Property, plant and equipment 1.
Accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment assets are carried at cost less f Intangible assets continued accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment Goodwill in value.
The carrying values of tangible fixed assets Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of purchase previously revalued have been retained at their book amount.
consideration over the net fair value of identifiable assets and Depreciation is charged so as to write off the costs of assets, liabilities acquired.
other than land, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, with the annual rates applicable to the Goodwill is recognised as an asset at cost and subsequently principal categories being: measured at cost less accumulated impairment.
For the Freehold properties over 20 years purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to those cash-generating units CGUs that have benefited from the Short-term leasehold shorter of the lease period acquisition.
The CGUs are groups of stores within the Travel and and the estimated remaining High Street operating segments.
The carrying value of goodwill economic life is reviewed for impairment at least annually or where there is Fixtures and fittings up to ten years an indication that goodwill may be impaired.
If the recoverable Equipment and vehicles up to ten years amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, then the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the The residual values of property, plant and equipment are carrying amount of the goodwill allocated to the unit and then to re-assessed on an annual basis.
the other assets of the unit on a pro-rata basis.
Any impairment Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, subsequently reversed.
where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of At each balance sheet date, property, plant and equipment is goodwill isincluded in the determination of the profit and loss reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances on disposal.
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Other intangible assets When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable The costs of acquiring and developing software that amount is assessed by reference to the net present value is not integral to the related hardware is capitalised ofexpected future pre-tax cash flows of the relevant separately as an intangible asset.
These intangibles cash-generating unit or fair value, less costs to sell, if higher.
are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and Any impairment in value is charged to the income statement impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged so as to write off inthe period in which it occurs.
the costs of assets over their estimated useful lives, using the h Investments in joint ventures straight-line method, and is recorded in Distribution costs.
A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds an The estimated lives are usually a period of up to five years.
interest on a long-term basis and which is jointly controlled Software assets held under finance leases are depreciated over by the Group and one or more other venturers under a their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets contractual agreement.
or, where shorter, over the term oftherelevant lease.
Management has assessed whether it has joint control of the Other intangible assets are valued at cost and amortised arrangement.
Joint control exists only when decisions about the over their useful life, and the amortisation is recorded in relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties Administrative expenses, unless the asset can be demonstrated that collectively control the arrangement.
In assessing this joint to have an indefinite life.
The useful life and residual value of all control no significant judgements have been necessary.
intangible assets are determined at the time of acquisition and reviewed annually for appropriateness.
The Groups share of results of joint ventures is included in the Group consolidated income statement using the equity method All intangible assets are reviewed for impairment in accordance of accounting.
The results of joint ventures in the current and with IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, when there are indications prior year are not material to disclose.
Investments in joint that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
ventures are carried in the Group consolidated balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the entity less any impairment in value.
Additions to joint ventures in the year represent new investments in joint ventures in Oman and Brazil.
If the Groups share of losses in the joint venture equals or exceeds its investment in the joint venture, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations to do so, or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 79 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups 1.
Accounting policies continued overseas operations are translated into sterling at exchange i Inventories rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and Inventories comprise goods held for resale and are stated at the expense items are translated into sterling at the average lower of cost or net realisable value.
Consignment stocks are exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising, not included within stocks held by the Group.
Inventories are if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups valued using a weighted average cost method.
Cost is calculated to include, where applicable, duties, handling, l Taxation transport and directly attributable costs including a deduction The tax expense included in the income statement comprises for applicable supplier income in bringing the inventories to current and deferred tax.
their present location and condition.
Net realisable value is based on estimated normal selling prices less further costs Current tax is the expected tax payable based on the taxable expected to be incurred in selling and distribution.
Cost of profit for the period, using tax rates that have been enacted or inventories includes the transfer from equity of any gains or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
losses on qualifying cash flow hedges relating to purchases.
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying Provisions are made for obsolescence, markdown and shrinkage.
amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable j Provisions profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability Provisions are recognised in the balance sheet when the Group method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are will be available against which deductible temporary differences measured at the directors best estimate of the expenditure can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial Where the effect is material, the provision is determined by recognition other than in business combination of other assets discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit which reflects current market assessments of the time value of nor the accounting profit.
money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no Onerous contracts property provisions longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available The Groups property provisions represent the present value to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax of unavoidable future net lease obligations and related costs is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the of leasehold property net of estimated sublease income period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
and adjusted for certain risk factors where the space is vacant, loss-making or currently not planned to be used for Current and deferred tax is charged or credited in the income ongoing operations.
The unwinding of the discount is treated statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited as an imputed interest charge and is disclosed in Note 9 as directly to equity, in which case the current or deferred tax is Unwinding of discount on provisions.
also recognised directly in equity.
k Foreign currencies m Financial instruments Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups Trade receivables subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary Trade receivables are measured at initial recognition, do not economic environment in which the entity operates the carry any interest and are stated at their fair value and are functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective presented in pounds sterling GBP, which is WH Smith PLCs interest rate method.
Appropriate allowances for estimated functional and presentation currency.
irrecoverable amounts are recognised in the income statement when there is evidence that the asset is impaired.
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the Cash and cash equivalents transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary items Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences maturity of three months or less.
arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in the income Financial liabilities and equity statement for the period.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, according to the substance of the contractual arrangements the Group enters into forward contracts see below for details entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences of the Groups accounting policies in respect of such derivative a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all financial instruments.
WH Smith PLC 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other 1.
Accounting policies continued host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their m Financial instruments continued risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at Bank borrowings fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially income statement.
measured at fair value being proceeds received, net of direct issue costs, and are subsequently measured at amortised n Share schemes cost, using the effective interest rate method recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, WHSmith Employee Benefit Trust including premiums payable on settlement or redemptions and The shares held by the WHSmith Employee Benefit Trust are direct issue costs are accounted for on an accruals basis and valued at the historical cost of the shares acquired.
They are taken to the income statement using the effective interest rate deducted in arriving at shareholders funds and are presented method and are added to the carrying value of the instrument asan other reserve.
to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Share-based payments Employees of the Group receive part of their remuneration Trade payables in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby Trade payables are initially measured at fair value and are employees render services in exchange for shares or rights subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective over shares equity settled transactions.
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value is calculated using an Equity instruments appropriate option pricing model.
The fair value is expensed to Equity instruments issued are recorded at the proceeds the income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting received, net of direct issue costs.
period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting eventually vest.
The Group uses certain derivative financial instruments to For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is recognised reduce its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate at the current fair value determined at each balance sheet date, movements.
The Group does not hold or use derivative financial taking into account performance conditions and the extent instruments for speculative purposes.
to which employees have rendered service to date, with any Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments changes in fair value recognised in the profit or loss for the year.
that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows o Dividends are recognised directly in equity and any ineffective portion is Final dividends are recorded in the financial statements recognised immediately in the income statement.
in the period in which they are approved by the Companys If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecasted shareholders.
Interim dividends are recorded in the period in transaction results in the recognition of an asset or liability, which they are approved and paid.
then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had p Critical accounting judgements and key sources of previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial estimation uncertainty measurement of the asset or liability.
For hedges that do not The preparation of financial statements in conformity with result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts generally accepted accounting principles requires management deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement in the to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported same period in which the hedged item affects net income.
amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
Significant items subject to For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in the fair such assumption and estimate include the useful economic life value of a recognised asset or liability, changes in fair value of assets: the measurement and recognition of provisions: the of the hedging instrument are recognised in profit or loss at recognition of deferred tax assets: the liabilities for potential the same time that the recognised asset or liability that is corporation tax: and valuation of retirement benefit obligations.
being hedged is adjusted for movements in the hedged risk Actual results could differ from these estimates and any and that adjustment is also recognised in profit or loss in the subsequent changes are accounted for with an effect on income same period.
at the time such updated information becomes available.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments The most critical accounting policies in determining the that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the financial condition and results of the Group are those requiring income statement as they arise.
the greatest degree of subjective or complex judgement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument These relate to retirement benefit obligations, valuation of expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer goodwill and acquired intangible assets, onerous lease costs, qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative inventory valuation and taxation.
gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the net profit or loss for the period.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 81 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued Inventory valuation 1.
Accounting policies continued Inventory is carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value p Critical accounting judgements and key sources of which requires the estimation of the eventual sales price of estimation uncertainty continued goods to customers in the future.
Any difference between the Critical accounting judgements expected and the actual sales price achieved will be accounted for in the period in which the sale is made.
A description of the Non-underlying items Groups accounting policy in respect of inventories is included in The Group has chosen to present a Headline measure of profit Note 1 i. and earnings per share which excludes certain items that are considered non-underlying and exceptional due to their Provisions size, nature or incidence, and are not considered to be part Provisions have been estimated for taxation, onerous leases of the normal operating costs of the Group.
These costs may and contingent consideration.
These provisions represent the include the financial effect of non-underlying items which are best estimate of the liability at the time of the balance sheet considered exceptional and occur infrequently such as, inter date, the actual liability being dependent on future events alia, restructuring costs linked to a Board agreed programme, such as economic environment and marketplace demand.
impairment charges and onerous lease charges, and the Expectations will be revised each period until the actual liability related tax effect of these items.
The Group believes that they arises, with any difference accounted for in the period in which provide additional useful information to users of the financial the revision is made.
Further information in respect of the statements to enable a better understanding of the Groups Groups onerous lease provision is included in Note 19 and underlying financial performance.
further information in respect of the Groups tax provisions is The classification of items as non-underlying requires included in Note 10. significant management judgement.
The definition of nonunderlying items has been applied consistently year on year.
Further details of non-underlying items are provided in Note 4.
Sources of estimation uncertainty Retirement benefit obligation The Group recognises and discloses its retirement benefit obligation in accordance with the measurement and presentational requirement of IAS 19, Retirement Benefit Obligations.
The calculations include a number of judgements and estimations in respect of the expected rate of return on assets, the discount rate, inflation assumptions, the rate of increase in salaries, and life expectancy, among others.
Changes in these assumptions can have a significant effect on the value of the retirement benefit obligation.
Further information in respect of the Groups retirement benefit obligation is included in Note 5.
Goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment impairment reviews The Group is required to review goodwill annually to determine if any impairment has occurred.
Value-in-use calculations require the use of estimates in relation to future cash flows and suitable discount rates.
Further information in respect of the Groups goodwill and other intangible assets is included in Notes 13 and 14 respectively.
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount of an asset or a cash-generating unit is determined based on value-in-use calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates.
Further information in respect of the Groups property, plant and equipment is included in Note 15.
WH Smith PLC 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 2.
Segmental analysis of results For management and financial reporting purposes, the Group is organised into two operating divisions and reportable segments - Traveland High Street.
The Groups operating segments are based on the reports reviewed by the Board of Directors who are collectively considered to be thechief operating decision maker to make strategic decisions and allocate resources.
IFRS 8 requires segment information to be presented on the same basis as that used by the Board for assessing performance and allocating resources.
a Group revenue m 2018 2017 Travel 672 624 High Street 590 610 Group revenue 1,262 1,234 b Group results m 2018 2017 Non-underlying Headline items Total Total Travel trading profit 103 103 96 High Street trading profit 60 60 62 Group Profit from trading operations 163 163 158 Unallocated costs 16 16 16 Non-underlying items Note 4 11 11 Group operating profit 147 11 136 142 Finance costs 2 2 2 Income tax expense 26 26 24 Profit for the year 119 11 108 116 Included within Travel revenue and trading profit is International revenue of 132m 2017: 108m and International trading profit of 11m 2017: 9m.
c Balance sheet 2018 High m Travel Street Group Assets Segment assets 206 273 479 Unallocated assets 49 Consolidated total assets 206 273 528 Liabilities Segment liabilities 114 138 252 Unallocated liabilities 64 Consolidated total liabilities 114 138 316 Net assets 92 135 212 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 83 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Segmental analysis of results continued 2017 High m Travel Street Group Assets Segment assets 180 266 446 Unallocated assets 42 Consolidated total assets 180 266 488 Liabilities Segment liabilities 105 136 241 Unallocated liabilities 60 Consolidated total liabilities 105 136 301 Net assets 75 130 187 Segment assets include intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, inventories and receivables.
Segment liabilities comprise operating liabilities.
Included within Travel segment assets are International non-current assets of 30m 2017: 27m.
d Other segmental items 2018 High m Travel Street Group Capital additions 33 30 63 Depreciation and amortisation of non-current assets 18 25 43 Impairment losses 2 2 2017 High m Travel Street Group Capital additions 22 28 50 Depreciation and amortisation of non-current assets 17 24 41 Impairment losses 1 1 3.
Group operating profit m 2018 2017 Non-underlying Headline items Total Total Revenue 1,262 1,262 1,234 Cost of sales 501 501 501 Gross profit 761 761 733 1 Distribution costs 532 532 509 Administrative expenses 88 88 87 2 Other income 6 6 5 Non-underlying items Note 4 11 11 Group operating profit 147 11 136 142 1 During the year there was a 2m 2017: 1m impairment charge for property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets included in distribution costs.
2 Other income is profit attributable to property and the sale of plant and equipment.
WH Smith PLC 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 3.
Group operating profit continued m 2018 2017 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 501 501 Write-down of inventories in the year 5 5 Depreciation and amounts written off property, plant and equipment 38 36 Amortisation and amounts written off intangible assets 7 6 Net operating lease charges land and buildings 212 200 equipment and vehicles 1 Other occupancy costs 66 67 Staff costs Note 6 216 212 Auditors remuneration see below Audit services Fees payable to the Groups auditors, included in the income statement, relate to: Fees payable to the Groups auditors for the audit of the Groups financial statements 0.3 0.2 Fees payable to the Groups auditors for other services to the Group including the audit of the Companyssubsidiaries 0.1 0.1 Total audit and audit-related services 0.4 0.3 Non-audit services Fees payable to the Groups auditors for other services: Taxation compliance services Taxation advisory services Due diligence services relating to an uncompleted transaction 0.6 All other non-audit services 0.1 Non-audit fees including taxation and other services 0.6 0.1 Total auditors remuneration 1.0 0.4 Included in Administrative expenses is the auditors remuneration, including expenses for audit and non-audit services, payable to the Groups auditors  LLP and its associates as set out above.
A description of the work performed by the Audit Committee is set out in the corporate governance section of the Directors report and includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence are safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by auditors.
Non-underlying items Items which are not considered part of the normal operating costs of the business are non-recurring and are considered exceptional because of their size, nature and incidence, are treated as non-underlying items and disclosed separately.
Further details of nonunderlying items are included in Note 1, Accounting policies and in the Strategic report on page 15. m 2018 2017 High Street business review restructuring 3 Cardmarket and store closure costs, and onerous lease charge 6 Costs relating to an uncompleted transaction 2 11 Despite the good performance from our High Street business, we are not ignoring the challenging conditions being experienced on the high street more generally.
As such, we have undertaken a detailed review of our High Street businesses to ensure they remain fit for purpose now and for the future.
As a result of this review, we have made the following decisions: to increase the focus on our core categories: wind down non core trial initiatives including Cardmarket and WHSmith Local: restructure some operational activities: and close around six High Street stores.
The costs relating to the business review will be incurred in both our year ended 31 August 2018 and 31 August 2019.
Costs of 3m were incurred in the year relating to the restructuring of central costs.
Closure costs of 6m including onerous lease charges were incurred relating to Cardmarket and around six High Street stores which we will now close.
We expect the costs of this review to cover both our year ended 31 August 2018 and 31 August 2019, with a non-underlying charge in 2019 of around 5m and a cash flow impact of around 5m.
We also incurred 2m relating to fees on an acquisition outside of the UK which we chose not to complete.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 85 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 5.
Retirement benefit obligations WH Smith PLC has operated a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans.
The main pension arrangements for employees are operated through a defined benefit scheme, WHSmith Pension Trust, and a defined contribution scheme, WHSmith Retirement Savings Plan.
The most significant scheme is WHSmith Pension Trust, which is described in Note 5 a i.
The retirement benefit obligations recognised in the balance sheet within non-current liabilities for the respective schemes at the relevant reporting dates were: m 2018 2017 WHSmith Pension Trust 3 4 United News Shops Retirement Benefits Scheme 1 2 Retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet 4 6 Recognised as: Current liabilities 1 1 Non-current liabilities 3 5 a Defined benefit pension schemes i The WHSmith Pension Trust The WHSmith Pension Trust Final Salary Section is a funded final salary defined benefit scheme: it was closed to defined benefit service accrual on 2 April 2007 and has been closed to new members since 1996.
Benefits are based on service and salary at the date of closure or leaving service, with increases currently based on CPI inflation in deferment and RPI inflation in payment.
The WHSmith Pension Trust is independent of the Group and is administered by a Trustee.
The Trustee is responsible for the administration and management of the scheme on behalf of the members in accordance with the Trust Deed and relevant legislation.
Responsibilities include the investment of funds, the triennial valuation and determining the deficit funding schedule.
Under the terms ofthe Trust Deed there are ten Trustee directors of which three are appointed by the Sponsor, four are membernominated directors, andthree are independent.
Trustee directors are appointed for a term of six years, and are then eligible for re-appointment.
The WHSmith Pension Trust, has assets valued at 1,277m as at 31 August 2018, managed by third party investment managers.
In September 2005, the Pension Trust Trustee adopted a Liability Driven Investment LDI policy where the assets in the investment fund were invested such that they are expected to alter in value in line with changes in the pension liability caused by changes in interest rates and inflation.
The LDI structure that is in place has a number of inflation and interest rate hedges, with collateral posted daily to or from the scheme to the relevant counterparty.
The risk of failure of counterparties could expose the scheme to loss.
The schemes liabilities are also subject to changes in longevity.
The principal risks associated with the Groups defined benefit pension arrangements are as follows: Longevity risk Liabilities are sensitive to life expectancy, with increases in life expectancy leading to an increase in the valuation of liabilities.
Interest rate and Inflation risk Liabilities are sensitive to movements in interest rates and inflation, with lower interest rates or higher inflation leading to an increase inthe valuation of liabilities.
As a result of the LDI policy outlined above, these risks are largely hedged.
An Investment Committee of the Trustees to the scheme meets regularly to review the performance of the investment managers and the scheme as a whole.
The Company is represented on this Committee.
Although investment decisions are the responsibility of the Trustee, the Group is an active participant of the investment sub-committee to ensure that pension plan risks are managed efficiently.
The risk of failure of counterparties and of the investment manager is monitored regularly by the Committee.
The Trustees have the right to determine the level of contributions and the Company has agreed with the Trustees a deficit funding schedule.
A full actuarial valuation of the Scheme is carried out every three years with interim reviews in the intervening years.
The latest full actuarial valuation of the Pension Trust was carried out as at 31 March 2017 by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
At 31 March 2017 the deficit was 11m.
The Group had agreed a revised annual funding schedule with the Trustees from September 2017 for the following six years, which includes the deficit recovery contributions and other running costs of just under 3m.
During the year ending 31 August 2018, the Group made a contribution of 3m to the WHSmith Pension Trust 2017: 3m in accordance with the agreed pension deficit funding schedule, being 1m of deficit funding payable to the Trustee and 2m in relation to investment management costs.
The Group expects the cash payments for the year ended 31 August 2019 to be 3m.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 19 years.
WH Smith PLC 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 5.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Amounts recognised in the financial statements Balance Sheet The amounts recognised in the balance sheet under IAS 19 in relation to this plan are as follows: m 2018 2017 Present value of the obligations 983 1,071 Fair value of plan assets 1,277 1,340 Surplus before consideration of asset ceiling 294 269 Amounts not recognised due to effect of asset ceiling 294 269 Additional liability recognised due to minimum funding requirements 3 4 Retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet 3 4 In accordance with the requirements of IFRIC 14 we have recognised the schedule of contributions as a liability of 3m 2017: 4m.
The defined benefit pension schemes are closed to further accrual and the present value of the economic benefits of the IAS 19 surplus in the pension scheme of 294m 2017: 269m available on a reduction of future contributions is nil 2017: nil.
As a result, the Group has not recognised this IAS 19 surplus on the balance sheet.
There is an ongoing actuarial deficit primarily due to the different assumptions and calculation methodologies used compared to those on interpretation of IAS 19.
Income Statement The amounts recognised in the income statement were as follows: m 2018 2017 Net interest cost on the defined benefit liability The net interest cost has been included in finance costs Note 9.
Actuarial gains and losses have been reported in the statement of comprehensive income.
Statement of comprehensive income Total expense recognised in the statement of comprehensive income SOCI : m 2018 2017 Actuarial loss gain on defined benefit obligations arising from experience 7 111 Actuarial gain on defined benefit obligations arising from changes in financial assumptions 70 28 Actuarial gain on defined benefit obligations arising from changes in demographic assumptions 6 11 Total actuarial gain before consideration of asset ceiling 69 150 Return on plan assets excluding amounts included in net interest cost 54 51 Loss resulting from changes in amounts not recognised due to effect of asset ceiling excluding amounts recognised in net interest cost 18 101 Gain resulting from changes in additional liability due to minimum funding requirements excluding amounts recognised in net interest cost 1 Total actuarial loss recognised in other comprehensive income 2 2 In addition, a credit of 1m 2017: nil was recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in relation to actuarial gains in the year on the United News Shops Retirement Benefits Scheme.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 87 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 5.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Movements in the present value of the WHSmith Pension Trust defined benefit scheme assets, obligations and minimum funding requirement in the current year were as follows: 2018 2017 Effect of asset Effect of asset ceiling and Net retirement ceiling and Net retirement recognition of benefit recognition of benefit minimum obligation minimum obligation m Assets Liabilities funding liability recognised Assets Liabilities funding liability recognised At 1 September 1,340 1,071 273 4 1,424 1,260 169 5 Current service cost Interest income expense 33 26 7 28 25 3 Past service credit 12 12 Actuarial gains losses 54 69 17 2 51 150 101 2 Contributions from the sponsoring companies 3 3 3 3 Benefits paid 45 45 52 52 At 31 August 1,277 983 297 3 1,340 1,071 273 4 The actual return on scheme assets was a loss of 21m 2017: loss of 23m due to a decrease in the value of the bonds held to match the pension scheme liabilities.
The reduction in the value of the scheme liabilities as a result of decreases in the value of bonds, as well as a slight decrease in future inflation expectations, was greater than the reduction in scheme assets, resulting in an increase in the IAS 19 surplus of 25m.
An analysis of the defined benefit scheme assets at the balance sheet date is detailed below: 2018 2017 Quoted Unquoted Total Quoted Unquoted Total m m m % m m m % Bonds Government bonds 795 795 62 721 721 54 Corporate bonds UK 223 223 17 164 164 12 Non-UK 187 187 15 135 135 10 1 Investment funds 47 47 4 16 16 1 Derivatives Interest rate swaps 294 294 23 345 345 26 Inflation swaps 199 199 16 256 256 19 Other 2 2 272 272 20 Cash and cash equivalents 118 118 9 665 665 50 Total 1,323 46 1,277 100 1,685 345 1,340 100 1 These actively managed pooled funds seek to provide long-term positive returns through diversified assets and strategies.
No amount is included in the market value of assets relating to either financial instruments or property occupied by the Group.
The principal long-term assumptions used in the IAS 19 valuation were: % 2018 2017 Rate of increase in pension payments 3.17 3.26 Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.15 2.25 Discount rate 2.80 2.50 RPI inflation assumption 3.25 3.35 CPI inflation assumption 2.15 2.25 WH Smith PLC 88 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 5.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The mortality assumptions in years underlying the value of the accrued liabilities for 2018 and 2017 are: 2018 2017 Years Male Female Male Female Life expectancy at age 65 Member currently aged 65 23.1 24.5 23.2 24.6 Member currently aged 45 24.1 26.1 24.2 26.1 Sensitivity to changes in assumptions Sensitivity information has been derived using scenario analysis from the actuarial assumptions as at 31 August 2018, while keeping all other assumptions consistent: in practice changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.
Effect on liabilities m at 31 August 2018 Discount rate - 0.1% per annum -18 18 Inflation assumptions - 0.1% per annum 16 -16 Life expectancy - 1 year 41 -41 ii United News Shops Retirement Benefits Scheme United News Shops Retirement Benefits Scheme UNSRBS is closed to new entrants.
The scheme provides pension benefits for pensioners and deferred members based on salary at the date of closure, with increases based on inflation.
The latest full actuarial valuation of the scheme was carried out at 5 April 2015 by independent actuaries.
Following this valuation, the deficit was 1m.
The valuation of the UNSRBS used for the IAS 19 disclosures is based on consistent assumptions to those used for valuing the WHSmith Pension Trust.
Scheme assets are stated at their market value at the relevant reporting date.
The deficit funding contributions are immaterial in the context of these financial statements.
The present value of obligations and fair value of assets are consistent with their acquisition valuations, and are stated below.
m 2018 2017 Present value of the obligations 7 8 Fair value of plan assets 6 6 Retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet 1 2 There was a credit of 1m 2017: no adjustments recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in relation to actuarial losses in the year on the United News Shops Retirement Benefits Scheme.
b Defined contribution pension scheme The pension cost charged to income for the Groups defined contribution schemes amounted to 4m for the year ended 31 August 2018 2017: 4m.
Staff costs and employees a Staff costs The aggregate remuneration of employees was: m 2018 2017 Wages and salaries 194 189 Social security costs 14 13 Other pension costs 4 4 Share-based payments 4 6 Total Group 216 212 b Employee numbers The monthly average total number of employees including executive directors was: 2018 2017 Total retailing 13,796 13,743 Support functions 32 30 Total Group 13,828 13,773 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 89 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 7.
Operating lease commitments Amounts recognised in operating profit: m 2018 2017 Minimum lease payments 196 182 Contingent rent payments 17 20 Total rent paid 213 202 Sublease rentals received on operating leases 1 1 Net operating lease charges 212 201 Minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are payable as follows: 2018 2017 Land and Equipment and Land and Equipment and m buildings vehicles Total buildings vehicles Total Within one year 183 1 184 182 182 Within two to five years 464 2 466 465 1 466 In more than five years 174 174 191 2 193 821 3 824 838 3 841 The Group leases various properties under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
Contingent rents are payable on certain store leases based on store revenue.
For those leases that are turnover-related leases, the annual net lease commitment is calculated using the minimum lease liability.
The total future external sublease receipts are 2m 2017: 2m.
The average remaining lease length across the Group is 4.5 years.
Potential liabilities not included above that could crystallise under previous assignments of leases where the liability would revert to the Group if the lessee defaulted are discussed in Note 22.
Fixed charges cover m 2018 2017 Net finance charges Note 9 2 2 Net operating lease rentals Note 7 212 201 Total fixed charges 214 203 Headline profit before tax 145 140 Headline profit before tax and fixed charges 359 343 Fixed charges cover times 1.7x 1.7x An explanation of alternative performance measures, including fixed charges cover is provided in the Glossary on page 116.
Finance costs m 2018 2017 Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 2 2 Net interest cost on defined benefit pension liabilities 2 2 WH Smith PLC 90 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 10.
Income tax expense m 2018 2017 Tax on profit 29 29 Standard rate of UK corporation tax 19.00% 2017: 19.58% Adjustment in respect of prior year UK corporation tax 3 5 Total current tax charge 26 24 Deferred tax current year Note 20 1 1 Deferred tax prior year Note 20 1 1 Tax on profit 26 24 Reconciliation of the taxation charge m 2018 2017 Tax on profit at standard rate of UK corporation tax 19.00% 2017: 19.58% 25 27 Tax effect of items that are not deductible or not taxable in determining taxable profit 4 2 Adjustment in respect of prior years 3 5 Total income tax expense 26 24 The effective tax rate, before non-underlying items, was 18% 2017: 17%.
The UK corporation tax rate has been 19 per cent with effect from 1 April 2017 and will reduce to 17 per cent from 1 April 2020.
The Group provides against known tax exposures, on a reasonable basis, until we have received formal agreement from the relevant tax authority that an inquiry into a particular tax return has been closed.
Dividends Amounts paid and recognised as distributions to shareholders in the year are as follows: m 2018 2017 Dividends Interim dividend of 16.0p per ordinary share 2017: 14.6p per ordinary share 17 16 Final dividend of 33.6p per ordinary share 2017: 30.5p per ordinary share 37 34 54 50 The proposed dividend of 38.1p per share, amounting to a final dividend of 42m, is not included as a liability in these financial statements and, subject to shareholder approval, will be paid on 31 January 2019 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 11 January 2019.
The final dividend will be paid gross.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 91 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 12.
Earnings per share a Earnings m 2018 2017 Earnings attributable to shareholders 108 116 Non-underlying items Note 4 11 Headline Earnings attributable to shareholders 119 116 b Weighted average share capital Millions 2018 2017 Weighted average ordinary shares in issue 110 112 Less weighted average ordinary shares held in ESOP Trust 1 1 Weighted average shares in issue for earnings per share 109 111 Add weighted average number of ordinary shares under option 1 1 Weighted average ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 110 112 c Basic and diluted earnings per share Pence 2018 2017 Basic earnings per share 99.1 104.5 Adjustment for non-underlying items 10.1 Headline Basic earnings per share 109.2 104.5 Pence 2018 2017 Diluted earnings per share 98.2 103.6 Adjustment for non-underlying items 10.0 Headline Diluted earnings per share 108.2 103.6 Diluted earnings per share takes into account various share awards and share options including SAYE schemes, which are expected to vest, and for which a sum below fair value will be paid.
WH Smith PLC 92 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 13.
Goodwill m Cost At 1 September 2017 38 Additions Note 28 3 At 31 August 2018 41 Accumulated impairment At 1 September 2017 Impairment charge At 31 August 2018 Net book value at 31 August 2018 41 Cost At 1 September 2016 38 At 31 August 2017 38 Accumulated impairment At 1 September 2016 Impairment charge At 31 August 2017 Net book value at 31 August 2017 38 The carrying value of goodwill is allocated to the segmental businesses as follows: m 2018 2017 Travel 28 27 High Street 13 11 41 38 Goodwill has been tested for impairment by comparing the carrying amount of each cash-generating unit CGU, including goodwill, with the recoverable amount determined from value-in-use calculations.
Management has determined that no impairment was necessary for the current financial year 2017: nil.
All goodwill relates to the acquisitions of groups of retail stores which are considered to be CGUs and each CGU is sensitive to movements in the same key assumptions.
The key assumptions on which forecast three-year cash flows of the CGUs are based include sales growth, product mix and operating costs.
The values assigned to each of these assumptions were determined based on the extrapolation of historical trends within the Group and external information on expected future trends in the UK retail industry.
These cash flows are extrapolated for up to an additional nine years representing the average length of the lease for the relevant group of stores based on estimated long-term growth rates of between 0 and 2.5 per cent.
The rate used to discount the forecast cash flows was ten per cent pre-tax 2017: ten per cent.
A sensitivity analysis has been performed in assessing recoverable amounts of goodwill.
This has been based on changes in key assumptions considered to be possible by management.
This included an increase in the discount rate of up to one per cent and a decrease in the long-term growth rate of up to one per cent.
The sensitivity analysis showed that no impairment would arise under each scenario.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 93 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 14.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets comprise capitalised software costs that are not deemed to be an integral part of the related hardware whichisclassified within property, plant and equipment and certain tenancy rights.
The amortisation period for capitalised software costs is over a maximum period of five years.
Other intangible assets are either considered to have an indefinite life, therefore no amortisation has been charged, or are amortised over their useful economic life.
These assets are reviewed annually for indicators of impairment.
m Cost At 1 September 2017 102 Additions 9 At 31 August 2018 111 Accumulated amortisation At 1 September 2017 73 Amortisation charge 7 Impairment charge At 31 August 2018 80 Net book value at 31 August 2018 31 Cost At 1 September 2016 92 Additions 10 At 31 August 2017 102 Accumulated amortisation At 1 September 2016 67 Amortisation charge 6 Impairment charge At 31 August 2017 73 Net book value at 31 August 2017 29 Included in the net book value of other intangible assets are software costs of 26m 2017: 23m, tenancy agreements of 4m 2017: 5m, and brands and franchise contracts of 1m 2017: 1m.
Included in other intangible assets are certain assets considered to have an indefinite life, 4m 2017: 4m, representing certain rights under tenancy agreements, which include the right to renew leases.
Management has determined that the useful economic life of these assets is indefinite because the Company can continue to occupy and trade from certain premises for an indefinite period.
The net book value of software assets held under finance leases included within these balances as at 31 August 2018 was nil 2017: 1m.
WH Smith PLC 94 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 15.
Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings Freehold Short-term Fixtures Equipment m properties leasehold and fittings and vehicles Total Cost or valuation: At 1 September 2017 22 189 130 98 439 Additions 21 21 12 54 Disposals 3 1 4 Foreign exchange differences 1 1 At 31 August 2018 22 207 149 110 488 Accumulated depreciation: At 1 September 2017 14 122 85 54 275 Depreciation charge 1 14 9 12 36 Impairment charge 1 1 2 Disposals 3 1 4 Foreign exchange differences At 31 August 2018 15 134 93 67 309 Net book value at 31 August 2018 7 73 56 43 179 Cost or valuation: At 1 September 2016 22 182 126 117 447 Additions 17 13 10 40 Disposals 11 10 29 50 Foreign exchange differences 1 1 2 At 31 August 2017 22 189 130 98 439 Accumulated depreciation: At 1 September 2016 13 120 85 71 289 Depreciation charge 1 13 9 12 35 Impairment charge 1 1 Disposals 11 10 29 50 Foreign exchange differences At 31 August 2017 14 122 85 54 275 Net book value at 31 August 2017 8 67 45 44 164 The net book value of assets held under finance leases included within these balances as at 31 August 2018 was 14m 2017: 12m, being 2m short-term leasehold 2017: 2m, 3m fixtures and fittings 2017: 1m, and 9m equipment and vehicles 2017: 9m.
Trade and other receivables m 2018 2017 Current debtors Trade debtors 27 28 Other debtors 8 3 Prepayments and accrued income 25 23 60 54 Non-current debtors Prepayments and accrued income 7 6 Total trade and other receivables 67 60 Included in prepayments and accrued income is 9m 2017: 8m of accrued supplier income relating to retrospective discounts and other promotional and marketing income that has been earned but not yet invoiced.
Supplier income that has been invoiced but not yet settled against trade payables balances is included in trade payables where the Group has a right to offset.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 95 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 16.
Trade and other receivables continued The ageing of the Groups current trade and other receivables is as follows: m 2018 2017 Trade and other receivables gross 38 34 Allowance for doubtful debts 1 1 Trade and other receivables net 37 33 Of which: Amounts neither impaired nor past due on the reporting date 28 25 Amounts past due but not impaired: Less than one month old 6 5 Between one and three months old 1 1 Between three and six months old 1 1 Between six months and one year old 1 1 Trade and other receivables net carrying amount 37 33 An allowance has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts from sales at 31 August 2018 of 1m 31 August 2017: 1m.
The ageing analysis of these receivables is given in the table below.
This allowance reflects the application of the Groups provisioning policy in respect of bad and doubtful debts and is based upon the difference between the receivable value and the estimated net collectible amount.
The Group establishes its provision for bad and doubtful debts by reference to past default experience.
Ageing analysis of bad and doubtful debt provisions: m 2018 2017 Less than one month old Between one and three months old Between three and six months old Between six months and one year old 1 1 1 1 No trade and other receivables that would have been past due or impaired were renegotiated during the year.
No interest is charged on the receivables balance.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not include impaired assets.
The Group does not hold collateral over these balances.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
Trade and other payables current m 2018 2017 Trade payables 96 100 Other tax and social security 19 24 Other creditors 76 64 Accruals and deferred income 47 44 238 232 Trade and other payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 62 days 2017: 61 days.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
Trade payables is stated net of 12m 2017: 15m amounts receivable from suppliers in relation to supplier income, that has been invoiced, for which the Group has the right to set off against amounts payable at the balance sheet date.
WH Smith PLC 96 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 18.
Obligations under finance leases 2018 2017 Present value Present value of Minimum lease of minimum Minimum lease minimum lease m payments lease payments payments payments Amounts payable under finance leases: Within one year 6 5 4 4 Within two to five years 9 9 9 8 After five years Total 15 14 13 12 Less: future finance charges 1 1 Present value of lease obligations 14 14 12 12 Less: amount due for settlement within 12 months shown under current liabilities 5 4 Amount due for settlement after 12 months 9 8 The Group leases certain fixtures and equipment under finance leases.
All lease obligations are denominated in sterling.
The average lease term is five years.
Interest rates are fixed at the contract date.
All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
The fair value of the Groups lease obligations approximates to their carrying amount.
Provisions Contingent Property consideration m provision provision Total At 1 September 2017 5 5 Charge in the year 1 1 2 Utilised in year 1 1 Unwinding of discount At 31 August 2018 5 1 6 Property m provision Total At 1 September 2016 6 6 Charge in the year Utilised in year 1 1 Unwinding of discount At 31 August 2017 5 5 Total provisions are split between current and non-current liabilities as follows: m 2018 2017 Included in current liabilities 1 1 Included in non-current liabilities 5 4 6 5 The property provision relates to the estimated future unavoidable lease costs in respect of non-trading properties, stores earmarked for closure and loss-making stores.
The costs include provision for required dilapidation costs and any anticipated future rental shortfalls, and the provision is expected to be utilised over the length of each lease.
These provisions have been discounted at two per cent, and this discount will be unwound over the life of the leases.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 97 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 20.
Deferred tax The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior years.
Retirement Short-term Accelerated tax Lease Share-based benefit timing m depreciation incentives payments obligations differences Total At 1 September 2017 3 4 1 8 Credited charged to income 1 1 Charged to equity 1 1 At 31 August 2018 4 2 1 7 At 1 September 2016 2 5 1 1 9 Credited charged to income 1 1 Charged to equity 1 1 At 31 August 2017 3 4 1 8 Changes to UK corporation tax rates reduced the tax rate to 19 per cent from 1 April 2017 and will reduce the tax rate to 17 per cent from 1 April 2020.
The effects of these changes are included in these financial statements.
Other gross deductible temporary differences of 87m 2017: 95m in respect of capital losses carried forward have not been recognised on the basis that their future economic benefit is uncertain.
All deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset as there is considered to be a legally enforceable right to do so.
The following is an analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: m 2018 2017 Deferred tax liabilities non-current liabilities Deferred tax assets 7 8 7 8 21.
Analysis of net debt Movements in net debt funds can be analysed as follows: Currency m 2017 Cash flow Non cash translation 2018 Cash and cash equivalents 38 8 1 45 Borrowings Revolving credit facility 22 11 33 Obligations under finance leases 12 5 7 14 Net funds debt 4 2 7 1 2 Currency m 2016 Cash flow Non cash translation 2017 Cash and cash equivalents 38 38 Borrowings Revolving credit facility 18 4 22 Obligations under finance leases 13 4 3 12 Net funds 7 3 4 An explanation of alternative performance measures, including net debt is provided in the Glossary on page 116.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates to their fair value.
The Group has in place a five-year committed multi-currency revolving credit facility of 140m with Barclays Bank PLC, HSBC Bank PLC, BNP Paribas and Santander UK PLC.
The revolving credit facility is due to mature on 8 December 2022.
The utilisation is interest-bearing at LIBOR plus 85 basis points.
As at 31 August 2018, the Group has drawn down 33m 2017: 22m on this facility.
WH Smith PLC 98 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 22.
Contingent liabilities and capital commitments m 2018 2017 Bank guarantees and guarantees in respect of lease agreements 19 16 Other potential liabilities that could crystallise are in respect of previous assignments of leases where the liability could revert to the Group if the lessee defaulted.
Pursuant to the terms of the Demerger Agreement with Connect Group PLC formerly Smiths News PLC, any such contingent liability which becomes an actual liability will be apportioned between the Group and Connect Group PLC in the ratio 65:35 provided that the actual liability of Connect Group PLC in any 12-month period does not exceed 5m.
The Groups 65 per cent share of these leases has an estimated future rental commitment at 31 August 2018 of 2m 2017: 3m.
The movement in the future rental commitment is due to the crystallisation of lease liabilities, lease expiries and the effluxion of time.
Contracts placed for future capital expenditure approved by the directors but not provided for in this combined financial information amount to 8m 2017: 8m.
m 2018 2017 Commitments in respect of property, plant and equipment 6 7 Commitments in respect of other intangible assets 2 1 8 8 23.
Cash generated from operating activities m 2018 2017 Group operating profit 136 142 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 36 35 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 2 1 Amortisation of intangible assets 7 6 Share-based payments 4 5 Increase in inventories 4 4 Increase in receivables 8 5 Decrease in payables 1 Pension funding 3 3 Income taxes paid 27 27 Movement on provisions 1 Cash generated from operating activities 144 149 24.
Financial instruments Categories of financial instruments Carrying value m 2018 2017 Financial assets 1 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 1 2 Loans and receivables including cash and cash equivalents 98 85 Financial liabilities 3 Amortised cost 297 278 1 All derivatives are categorised as Level 2 under the requirements of IFRS 13.
The fair value measurements relating to the instruments are derived from inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
2 Included within loans and receivables are trade and other receivables excluding prepayments and cash and cash equivalents.
3 Included within amortised cost are trade and other payables, borrowings, finance lease obligations and other non-current liabilities.
Comparison of carrying values and fair values There were no material differences between the carrying value of non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities and their fair values as at the balance sheet date.
Risk management The Groups treasury function seeks to reduce exposures to interest rate, foreign exchange and other financial risks, and to ensure liquidity is available to meet the foreseeable needs of the Group and to invest cash assets safely and profitably.
The Group does not engage in speculative trading in financial instruments and transacts only in relation to underlying business requirements.
The Groups treasury policies and procedures are periodically reviewed and approved by the Groups Audit Committee and are subject to regular Group Internal Audit review.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 99 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 24.
Financial instruments continued Capital risk The Groups objectives with respect to managing capital defined as net debt funds plus equity are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, in order to optimise returns to shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, through an appropriate balance of debt and equity funding.
Refer to Note 21 for the value of the Groups net debt funds and refer to the Group statement of changes in equity for the value of the Groups equity.
In managing the Groups capital levels, the Board regularly monitors the level of debt in the business, the working capital requirements, forecast financing and investing cash flows.
Based on this analysis, the Board determines the appropriate return to investors while ensuring sufficient capital is retained in the business to meet its strategic objectives.
The Board has a progressive dividend policy and expects that, over time, dividends would be broadly covered twice by earnings calculated on a normalised tax basis.
As at 11 October 2018, the Group has in place a 140m committed multi-currency revolving credit facility, carrying certain financial covenants which have been met throughout the period.
The covenants, tested half-yearly, are based on fixed charges cover and net borrowings.
Liquidity risk The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk by reviewing the cash resources required to meet its business objectives through both short and long-term cash flow forecasts.
The Group has a five-year committed multi-currency revolving credit facility with a number offinancial institutions which is available to be drawn for general corporate purposes including working capital.
The Group has a policy of pooling cash flows in order to optimise the return on surplus cash and also to utilise cash within the Group to reduce the costs of external short-term funding.
The table below shows the maturity analysis of the undiscounted remaining contractual cash flows of the Groups financial liabilities: Due within Due between Due between Due over 2018 m 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years Total Non-derivative financial liabilities Bank loans and overdrafts 33 33 Trade and other payables 246 246 Finance leases 5 4 5 14 Total cash flows 284 4 5 293 Due within Due between Due between Due over 2017 m 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years Total Non-derivative financial liabilities Bank loans and overdrafts 22 22 Trade and other payables 244 244 Finance leases 4 4 5 13 Total cash flows 270 4 5 279 Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty may default on their obligation to the Group in relation to lending, hedging, settlement and other financial activities.
The Groups principal financial assets are trade and other receivables, and bank balances and cash.
The Group has credit risk attributable to its trade and other receivables, including a number of sale or return contracts with suppliers.
The amounts included in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables.
An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of cash flows.
The Group has low retail credit risk due to the transactions being principally of a high volume, low-value and short maturity.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with the exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is considered to be low, as the Board approved Group treasury policy limits the value that can be placed with each approved counterparty to minimise the risk of loss.
These limits are based on a short-term credit rating of P-1.
The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk.
The Group does not hold collateral over any of these financial assets.
WH Smith PLC 100 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 24.
Financial instruments continued Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to cash flow interest rate risk on floating rate bank loans and overdrafts.
At 31 August 2018, the Group had drawn down 33m 2017: 22m from its committed revolving credit facility.
The Group draws down on its facility, but does not view any draw down as long-term in nature and therefore does not enter into interest rate derivatives to mitigate this risk.
Foreign currency risk Foreign exchange rate risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of the changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Groups foreign currency exposures are principally to the US dollar, euro and Australian dollar.
The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge significant future transactions and cash flows denominated in currencies other than pounds sterling.
The hedging instruments have been used to hedge purchases in US dollars and to minimise foreign exchange risk in movements of the USD GBP exchange rates.
These are designated as cash flow hedges.
At 31 August 2018 the Group had no material un-hedged currency exposures.
The Groups euro and Australian dollar exposure is principally operational and arises mainly through the operation of retail stores in France, Ireland, Spain, Germany, Italy and Australia.
The Group does not use derivatives to hedge balance sheet and profit and loss translation exposure.
Forward foreign exchange contracts have been used to hedge France and Ireland retail stores purchases in GBP to minimise foreign exchange risk in movements of the GBP EUR exchange rates.
The fair value of cash flow hedges recognised on the balance sheet within derivative assets liabilities is shown below: m 2018 2017 Fair value of derivative assets 1 At 31 August 2018, the total notional amount of outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts to which the Group has committed is US$37m 2017: US$40m and 3m 2017: 6m.
These instruments will be used to hedge cash flows occurring within up to two years of the balance sheet date.
Losses of nil 2017: gains of 2m have been transferred to the income statement and losses of nil 2017: gains of 1m have been transferred to inventories in respect of contracts that matured during the year ended 31 August 2018.
In the year to 31 August 2018 the fair value gain on the Groups currency derivatives that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges amounted to 1m 2017: nil.
All the derivatives held by the Group at fair value are considered to have fair values determined by level 2 inputs as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement.
There are no non-recurring fair value measurements nor have there been any transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy.
Sensitivity analysis as at 31 August 2018 Financial instruments affected by market risks include borrowings, deposits and derivative financial instruments.
The following analysis, required by IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, is intended to illustrate the sensitivity to changes in market variables, being UK interest rates, and USD GBP, EUR GBP and AUD GBP exchange rates.
The following assumptions were made in calculating the sensitivity analysis: Exchange rate fluctuations on currency derivatives that form part of an effective cash flow hedge relationship affect the hedging reserve in equity and the fair value of the hedging derivatives.
Group debt and hedging activities remain constant, reflecting the positions at 31 August 2018 and 31 August 2017 respectively.
As aconsequence, the analysis relates to the position at those dates and is not necessarily representative of the years then ended.
The above assumptions are made when illustrating the effect on the Groups income statement and equity given reasonable movements in foreign exchange and interest rates before the effect of tax.
The Group considers a reasonable interest rate movement in GBP LIBOR base rate to be one per cent, based on interest rate history.
Similarly, sensitivity to movements in USD GBP, EUR GBP and AUD GBP exchange rates of ten per cent are shown, reflecting changes of reasonable proportion in the context of movement in those currency pairs over time.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 101 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 24.
Financial instruments continued Using these assumptions, the following table shows the illustrative effect on the Group income statement and equity.
2018 2017 Income Equity Income Equity m gains loss gains loss gains loss gains loss GBP LIBOR base rate interest rates 1% increase USD GBP exchange rates 10% increase 2 2 EUR GBP exchange rates 10% increase 1 1 1 AUD GBP exchange rates 10% increase GBP LIBOR base rate interest rates 1% decrease USD GBP exchange rates 10% decrease 4 4 EUR GBP exchange rates 10% decrease 1 AUD GBP exchange rates 10% decrease 1 25.
Called up share capital Allotted and fully paid 2018 2017 Number Nominal Number Nominal of shares value of shares value m millions m millions m Equity: 6 Ordinary shares of 22 67p 110 24 111 24 Total 110 24 111 24 During the year the Company repurchased 1,297,022 of its own shares in the open market for an aggregate consideration of 26m.
In total, 1,297,022 shares were cancelled during the year and 40,000 shares were purchased prior to 31 August 2018, but the settlement of 1m took place after 31 August 2018.
During the year, 144,575 ordinary shares were allotted under the terms of the Companys Sharesave Scheme.
The effect of this allotment was to increase share premium by 2m 2017: nil.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at the meetings of the Company.
The ESOP reserve of 4m 2017: 9m represents the cost of shares in WH Smith PLC purchased in the market and held by the WHSmith Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy awards and options under the Groups executive share schemes.
Share-based payments continued Pence 2018 2017 Weighted average exercise price of awards: Outstanding at the beginning of the year 216.26 111.76 Granted in the year 342.60 Exercised in the year 208.83 41.13 Lapsed in the year 194.39 224.25 Outstanding at the end of the year 162.83 216.26 Exercisable at the end of the year 763.43 187.47 Detail of movements in options and awards 2012 Co-Investment Plan CIP Under the terms of the 2012 Co-Investment Plan, executive directors and key senior executives have invested their own money to buy ordinary shares in WH Smith PLC and have been granted matching awards in the form of nil cost options in WH Smith PLC to acquire further ordinary shares in proportion to the amount they have invested.
These awards will only vest and become exercisable to the extent that the related performance target is met.
Outstanding awards granted under the CIP are as follows: Number of shares Exercise price Date of grant 2018 2017 pence Exercise period 17 October 2013 4,199 Nil Oct 2016 Oct 2023 23 October 2014 4,079 349,272 Nil Oct 2017 Oct 2024 6 November 2014 31,395 Nil Nov 2017 Nov 2024 22 October 2015 272,620 278,105 Nil Oct 2018 Oct 2025 276,699 662,971 LTIPs Under the terms of the LTIP, executive directors and key senior executives may be granted conditional awards to acquire ordinary shares in the Company in the form of nil cost options which will only vest and become exercisable to the extent that the related performance targets are met.
Awards made on or after October 2016 are subject to holding periods preventing the delivery and sale of shares until the fifth anniversary of the date of grant.
For Awards made in October 2016 and October 2017, the holding period will apply to 50 per cent of any shares which vest.
The Awards will accrue dividends paid over the performance and any holding period.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 103 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 26.
Share-based payments continued Sharesave Scheme Under the terms of the Sharesave Scheme, the Board grants options to purchase ordinary shares in the Company to employees with at least six months service who enter into an HM Revenue & Customs approved Save-As-You-Earn SAYE savings contract for a term of three or five years.
Options are granted at up to a 20 per cent discount to the market price of the shares on the date ofoffer and are normally exercisable for a period of six months after completion of the SAYE contract.
Outstanding options granted under the Sharesave Scheme at 31 August 2018 are as follows: Number of shares Exercise price Date of grant 2018 2017 pence Exercise period 3 June 2015 3 year 48,219 200,285 1147.20 01.08.18 31.01.19 7 June 2017 3 year 192,006 215,645 1434.40 01.08.20 31.01.21 240,225 415,930 Performance Share Plan PSP Under the terms of the Performance Share Plan, the Board may grant conditional awards to executives.
The exercise of awards is conditional on the achievement of a performance target, which is determined by the Board at the time of grant.
The executive directors donot participate in this Plan.
The exercise of options is conditional on the achievement of a performance target, which is determined by the Board at the time of grant.
Outstanding options granted under the Executive Share Option Schemes as at 31 August 2018 are as follows: Number of shares Exercise price Date of grant 2018 2017 pence Exercise period 5 November 2009 3,584 497.37 05.11.12 04.11.19 15 November 2011 11,102 520.17 15.11.14 14.11.21 14,686 Cash-settled schemes Under the terms of the LTIP, PSP and CIP, the Board may grant cash-settled awards to executives.
These awards will be settled in cash based on the share price at the date of exercise.
As at 31 August 2018 there were 34,674 outstanding nil-cost cashsettled awards 2017: 42,759, which will be settled between 31 August 2018 and October 2026.
The carrying amount of liabilities arising from share-based payment transactions is less than 1m 2017: 1m.
Fair value information 2018 2017 Weighted average share price at date of exercise of share options exercised during year pence 2027.75 1,576.41 Weighted average remaining contractual life at end of year years 7 6 WH Smith PLC 104 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 26.
Share-based payments continued Share options and awards granted The aggregate of the estimated fair value of the options and awards granted in the year is: m 2018 2017 11 10 The fair values of the CIP, LTIP and PSP awards granted were measured using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The input range into the Monte Carlo models was as follows: 2018 2017 Share price pence 2,078 1,577 Exercise price pence Nil Nil Expected volatility per cent 22 23 Expected life years 2.9 3.0 Risk free rate per cent 0.56 0.27 Dividend yield per cent Nil 2.80 Weighted average fair value of options pence 1,926.69 1,313.48 Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the expected life of the option.
The fair values of the Sharesave options granted in the year ended 31 August 2017 were measured using a Black Scholes model.
None were granted in the year ended 31 August 2018.
The input range into the Black Scholes models was as follows: 2017 Share price pence 1,762 Exercise price pence 1,434 Expected volatility per cent 22 Expected life years 3.5 Risk free rate per cent 0.19 Dividend yield per cent 2.49 Weighted average fair value of options pence 354.00 Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the expected life of the option.
Related party transactions Transactions between businesses within this Group which are related parties have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the executive and non-executive directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures.
Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the Directors remuneration report on pages 40 to 59.
000 2018 2017 Short-term employee benefits 2,641 2,694 Post-employment benefits 225 225 Share-based payments 1,275 1,686 4,141 4,605 There are no other transactions with directors.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 105 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 28.
Acquisitions On 13 December 2017, the Group acquired entire share capital of The SQL Workshop Limited, for a cash consideration of 2m and contingent consideration of 1m, payable over two years based on certain performance and profit target criteria.
The business is a leading online specialist pen retailer with over 18,000 products, trading as www.
This acquisition complements our existing stationery ranges in both our High Street stores and online at www.
The fair value of assets acquired was 1m stock and other working capital, resulting in recognition of goodwill of 2m.
Events after the balance sheet date As at 10 October 2018, the Company has repurchased a further 289,585 of its own shares in the open market as part of the Companys share buyback programme for a consideration of 6m.
On 11 October 2018, the Company announced its intention to return up to 50m of cash to shareholders through a rolling share buyback programme.
WH Smith PLC 106 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 30.
Subsidiary companies The subsidiary companies included within the financial statements are disclosed below.
Country of incorporation Registered Percentage Percentage Name registration address Class of shares owned % controlled % Principal activity Held directly by WH Smith PLC: WH Smith Retail Holdings Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Holding Company Held indirectly: Books & Stationers Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Retailing Card Market Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Retailing funkypigeon.
com Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Retailing Lexicon Book Company Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Property Modelzone Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Dormant Sussex Stationers Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Dormant The SQL Workshop Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Retailing The Websters Group Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Dormant WH Smith Qatar Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Dormant WH Smith 1955 Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Holding Company WH Smith Asia Limited Hong Kong 2 Ordinary 100 100 Product sourcing for WHSmith Group companies WH Smith Australia Pty Limited Australia 3 Ordinary 100 100 Retailing WH Smith Austria GmbH Austria 4 Ordinary 100 100 Retailing WH Smith - DFA Brasil Cafeteria, Livraria E Brazil 18 Ordinary 50 50 Retailing Conveniencia Eireli WH Smith France S. A.
S France 5 Ordinary 100 100 Retailing WH Smith Germany GmbH Germany 6 Ordinary 100 100 Retailing WH Smith Group Holdings USA Inc. USA 7 Ordinary 100 100 Dormant WH Smith High Street Holdings Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Holding Company WH Smith High Street Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary & 100 100 Retailing Preference WH Smith Hospitals Holdings Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary & 100 100 Holding Company Preference WH Smith Hospitals Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Retailing WH Smith Ireland Limited Ireland 8 Ordinary 100 100 Retailing WH Smith Italia S. R. L Italy 9 Ordinary 100 100 Retailing WH Smith Jersey Limited Jersey 10 Ordinary 100 100 Retailing WH Smith LLC Qatar 11 Ordinary 49 100 Retailing WH Smith LLC Oman 12 Ordinary 50 50 Retailing WH Smith Malaysia SDN BHD Malaysia 13 Ordinary 50 50 Retailing WH Smith Music Inc. USA 7 Ordinary 100 100 Dormant WH Smith Nederland B. V. Netherlands 14 Ordinary 100 100 Dormant WH Smith Nevada Enterprises LLC USA 7 Ordinary 100 100 Dormant WH Smith New Zealand Limited New Zealand 15 Ordinary 100 100 Dormant WH Smith PLC England & Wales 1 Ordinary N A N A Parent WH Smith Promotions Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Retailing WH Smith Retirement Savings Plan Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Dormant WH Smith Singapore Pte.
Limited Singapore 16 Ordinary 100 100 Retailing WH Smith Spain S. L. Spain 17 Ordinary 100 100 Retailing WH Smith Travel 2008 Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Holding Company WH Smith Travel Holdings Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Holding Company WH Smith Travel Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary & 100 100 Retailing Preference Wild Retail Group Pty Limited Australia 3 Ordinary 100 100 Retailing WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 107 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 30.
Subsidiary companies continued Registered addresses 1 Greenbridge Road, Swindon, Wiltshire SN3 3RX 2 Suites 13A01-04 13 Floor, South Tower, World Finance Centre, Harbour City, Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong 3 Suite 401, 80 William Street, Woolloomooloo NSW 2011, Australia 4 Brucknerstrasse 2 4, 1040 Vienna, Austria 5 248, Rue fide Rivoli, 75001 Paris, France 6 Terminal Ring 1, Zentralgebaude Ost, Zi.
035, 40474 Dusseldorf, Germany 7 c o Greenbridge Road, Swindon, Wiltshire SN3 3RX 8 6th Floor, Grand Canal Square, Dublin 2, Ireland 9 Via Borgogna, Cap 20122, Milano, Italy 10 72 74 King Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE2 4WE 11 27 Um Ghwalinah Road, 230 C-ring Road, Doha, Qatar 12 PO Box 3275, PC112, Ruwi, Oman 13 C2-6-1, Solaris Dutamas, 1, Jalan Dutamas 1, 50480, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 14 Weteringschans 94, 1017 XS, Amsterdam, Netherlands 15 c oMinter Ellison Rudd Watts, Lumley Centre, 88 Shortland Street, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand 16 9 Battery Road, #15-01 Straits Trading Building, Singapore 049910 17 Paseo fide Recoletos, 27, 7, 28004, Madrid, Spain 18 Avenida das Americas, No.
3434, Barra da Tijuca, CEP 22640-102, Rio fide Janeiro, RJ, Brazil WH Smith PLC 108 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members ofWH Smith PLC The scope of our audit Report on the Company financial statements As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and Opinion assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial In our opinion, WH Smith PLCs Group Company financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made statements the financial statements : subjective judgements, for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
as at 31 August 2018: We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory have been properly prepared in accordance with United framework applicable to the Company and the industry Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 the Company which were contrary to applicable laws and Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures to have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting the Companies Act 2006. a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve We have audited the financial statements, included within deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional the Annual report and accounts the Annual report, which misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws comprise: the company balance sheet 31 August 2018 and and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement the company statement of changes in equity for the year then in the Companys financial statements, including, but not limited ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a to, the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules and UK tax description of the significant accounting policies.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting Audit Committee.
documentation, review of correspondence with the regulators, review of correspondence with legal advisees, enquiries of management and review of internal audit reports in so far as Basis for opinion they related to the financial statements.
There are inherent We conducted our audit in accordance with International limitations in the audit procedures described above and the Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for We did not identify any key audit matters relating to our opinion.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, Independence including testing journals and evaluating whether there was We remained independent of the Group in accordance with evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the material misstatement due to fraud.
financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we Key audit matters have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors with these requirements.
professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that nonthe most significant assessed risks of material misstatement audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including provided to the Group or the Company.
those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit Other than those disclosed in the Directors report, we have strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing provided no non-audit services to the Group and its subsidiaries the efforts of the engagement team.
We determined that in the period from 1 September 2017 to 31 August 2018. there were no key audit matters applicable to the Company to communicate in our report.
Our audit approach Overview Overall materiality: 5.2 2017: 4.3m, based on one per cent oftotal assets.
We performed a full scope audit over the Company ledger, providing us with 100 per cent coverage over the Company accounts.
We have no key audit matters to report.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 109 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members ofWH Smith PLC continued How we tailored the audit scope Going concern We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial Reporting obligation Outcome statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of We are required to report if we We have nothing material the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the have anything material to add to add or to draw attention industry in which it operates.
or draw attention to in respect to.
However, because not all As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and of the directors statement future events or conditions assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial in the financial statements can be predicted, this statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made about whether the directors statement is not a guarantee subjective judgements, for example, in respect of significant considered it appropriate to as to the Companys ability to accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and adopt the going concern basis continue as a going concern.
considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in of accounting in preparing the all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management financial statements and the override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there directors identification of any was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material uncertainties to the material misstatement due to fraud.
Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a Materiality period of at least 12 months The scope of our audit was influenced by our application from the date of approval of the of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for financial statements.
These, together with qualitative considerations, We are required to report if the We have nothing to report.
helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, directors statement relating to timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual Going Concern in accordance financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate materially inconsistent with our on the financial statements as a whole.
knowledge obtained in the audit.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Reporting on other information Overall materiality 5.2 2017: 4.3m.
The other information comprises all of the information in the How we determined it 1% of total assets.
Annual report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for As the parent entity, WH Smith Rationale for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements PLC is essentially a holding benchmarkapplied does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do Company for the Group, the not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise materiality benchmark has explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
been determined to be based on total assets which is a generally In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our accepted auditing benchmark.
responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge them misstatements identified during our audit above 260k obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially 2017: 214k as well as misstatements below that amount that, misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic report and Directors report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
WH Smith PLC 110 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Strategic report and Directors report Other Code Provisions In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to of the audit, the information given in the Strategic report and report when: Directors report for the year ended 31 August 2018 is consistent The statement given by the directors, on page 35, that they with the financial statements and has been prepared in consider the Annual report taken as a whole to be fair, accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 balanced and understandable, and provides the information In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and necessary for the members to assess the companys position its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not and performance, business model and strategy is materially identify any material misstatements in the Strategic report and inconsistent with our knowledge of the company obtained in Directors report.
CA06 the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual report on page 33 describing the The directors assessment of the prospects of the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address Company and of the principal risks that would threaten matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
the solvency or liquidity of the company We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors statement relating to the companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from The directors confirmation on page 20 of the Annual Report a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing that they have carried out a robust assessment of the Rules, for review by the auditors.
principal risks facing the company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency Directors Remuneration or liquidity.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to The disclosures in the Annual report that describe those risks be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
CA06 The directors explanation on pages 24 and 25 of the Annual Responsibilities for the financial statements report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the company, over what period they have done so and why they and the audit consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement Responsibilities of the directors for the financial as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the statements company will be able to continue in operation and meet its As explained more fully in the Statement of directors liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, responsibilities set out on page 63, the directors are responsible including any related disclosures drawing attention to any for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance necessary qualifications or assumptions.
with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they We have nothing to report having performed a review of give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for the directors statement that they have carried out a robust such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable assessment of the principal risks facing the company and the preparation of financial statements that are free from statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the company.
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and In preparing the financial statements, the directors are only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors responsible for assessing the companys ability to continue as a process supporting their statements: checking that the going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering the directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 111 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members ofWH Smith PLC continued Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial Other required reporting statements Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you whether the financial statements as a whole are free from if, in our opinion: material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
we have not received all the information and explanations we Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not require for our audit: or a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs adequate accounting records have not been kept by the UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered received from branches not visited by us: or material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
law are not made: or A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements and the part of the Directors the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with www.
This description forms the accounting records and returns.
part of our auditors report.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Use of this report Appointment This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with were appointed by the members on 21 January 2015 to audit Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other the financial statements for the year ended 31 August 2015 and purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to engagement is four years, covering the years ended 31 August whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come, 2015 to 31 August 2018. save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter We have reported separately on the group financial statements of WH Smith PLC for the year ended 31 August 2018.
John Ellis Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 11 October 2018 WH Smith PLC 112 Annual Report and Accounts 2018
