Glossary Accommodation sales EBITDAR Occupancy Premier Inn accommodation revenue Underlying earnings before interest, tax, Number of hotel bedrooms occupied excluding non-room income such as depreciation, amortisation and rent, byguests expressed as a percentage food and beverage.
excluding income from Joint Ventures ofthe number of bedrooms available and Associates.
Average room rate ARR Closest IFRS measure: No direct Hotel revenue divided by the number Operating margin margins equivalent ofrooms occupied by guests.
Operating profit expressed as a Reconciliation: Refer below Closest IFRS measure: No direct percentage of total revenue.
equivalent Engagement score Operating profit Reconciliation: N A The engagement score is calculated by Profit before interest and tax.
adding together the positive responses Capitalised leases to the YourSay questions regarding OTAs The treatment of leases as an asset for pride in the organisation, advocacy, Online travel agents the purposes of calculating Whitbreads recommending the Company as a place leverage ratio.
Calculated as multiplying Promoters of work and intention to stay and the annual property rent cost by 8x in Customers that score nine to ten motivation.
These scores are then line with external credit rating agency whencompleting a survey with ten averaged to produce an overall assessments of the lodging industry.
Detractors Profit from operations Equity stores Customers that score zero to six when Profit before central costs, interest Costa stores leased or owned by completing a survey with ten score andtax Whitbread, as opposed to those leased choices.
or operated under franchise agreements.
RevPAR Direct bookings Revenue per available room is also Fixed charge cover Bookings made direct to the Premier Inn known as yield.
This hotel measure Ratio of underlying operating profit website, Premier Inn app, Premier Inn isachieved by multiplying the ARR before total property rent compared customer contact centre or hotel byOccupancy.
2 tointerest plus total property rent.
Closest IFRS measure: No direct Closest IFRS measure: No direct equivalent equivalent Direct digital Reconciliation: N A Reconciliation: Refer below Based on stayed bookings made direct to the Premier Inn website and Premier Return on Capital Food and beverage F&B sales Inn app based on stayed bookings in Underlying operating profit for the year Food and beverage revenue from all the financial year.
divided by net assets at the balance Whitbread owned pub restaurants sheet date, adding back debt, taxation andintegrated hotel restaurants.
Directors forum liabilities, the pension deficit and A group of Whitbreads senior leaders.
IFRS derivative financial assets and liabilities.
International Financial Reporting Discretionary free cash flow Closest IFRS measure: No direct Standards.
Cash generated from operations after equivalent payments for interest, tax and Reconciliation: Refer below Joint sites 1 maintenance capital.
A site which has both a Premier Inn Team retention Closest IFRS measure: Cash generated andWhitbread-owned pub restaurant The number of permanent new from operations inone location.
starters that we retain for the first Reconciliation: FDs report, page 47 90 days 3 months.
Like for like sales Earnings per share EPS Period over period change in revenue Underlying basic EPS Profit attributable to the parent 3 for outlets open for at least one year.
Underlying profit attributable to the shareholders divided by the basic Closest IFRS measure: No direct parent shareholders divided by the weighted average number of ordinary equivalent basicweighted average number of shares in issue during the year after Reconciliation: N A ordinary shares.
deducting treasury shares and shares Closest IFRS measure: Basic EPS held by an independently managed Net debt Reconciliation: Note 10 share ownership trust ESOT.
Total company borrowings after deducting cash and cash equivalents.
Underlying net finance cost EBITDA Closest IFRS measure: Borrowings Finance costs net of finance revenue Underlying earnings before interest, tax, lesscash and cash equivalents excluding non-underlying finance costs depreciation and amortisation, Reconciliation: Note 20 or revenue.
excludingincome from Joint Ventures Closest IFRS measure: Net finance costs and Associates.
Net Recommend Reconciliation: Note 8 Closest IFRS measure: No direct Based on the fundamental perspective equivalent that every companys customers can Underlying operating profit Reconciliation: Refer below bedivided into three categories when Operating profit before non-underlying completing a survey with ten score operating costs.
choices: Promoters score nine to ten, Closest IFRS measure: Operating profit Passives score seven to eight, and Reconciliation: Note 4 Detractors score zero to six.
The Net Guest Score can be calculated by taking the percentage of customers who are Promoters and subtracting the percentage who are Detractors.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 167 S Sha har re eh ho olld fide er r i in nf for orma mat tiion on Glossary continued Alternative Performance Measures 1 New measure used to demonstrate the conversion Underlying profit before tax We use a range of measures to monitor the of underlying operating profit into cash before Profit before tax before financial performance of the Group.
These considering discretionary cash flows.
measures include both statutory measures 2 New measure to demonstrate the Groups ability Closest IFRS measure: Profit before tax inaccordance with IFRS and alternative to meet its fixed operating costs.
Reconciliation: Note 4 performance measures APMs which are 3 Redefined to reflect wider industry practice.
consistent with the way that the business Underlying tax Comparatives have been presented using the performance is measured internally.
Tax expense excluding non-underlying We report underlying measures because we tax items.
believe they provide both management and Closest IFRS measure: Tax Expense investors with useful additional information aboutthe financial performance of the Reconciliation: Note 9 Groupsbusinesses.
WINcard Underlying measures of profitability represent Whitbread In Numbers balanced theequivalent IFRS measures adjusted for scorecard to measure progress against specific items that we consider relevant for comparison ofthe financial performance of key performance targets.
theGroups businesses either from one period YourSay toanother orwith other similar businesses.
Whitbreads annual employee opinion APMs are not defined by IFRS and therefore may survey to provide insight into the views not be directly comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
should be considered in addition to, and are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRSmeasures.
Reconciliations of APMs Notes 2017 18 2016 17 EBITDA and EBITDAR Underlying operating profit 4 622.1 592.4 Depreciation 4 208.7 202.5 Amortisation 4 21.2 15.1 EBITDA 852.0 810.0 Total property rent 5 282.1 261.2 EBITDAR 1,134.1 1,071.2 Return on Capital Net assets 4 2,802.5 2,524.8 Net debt 20 832.8 890.0 Current tax liabilities 9 44.8 45.9 Deferred tax liabilities 9 82.4 62.0 Pension deficit 29 288.6 425.1 Derivative financial assets 23 21.7 55.6 Derivative financial liabilities 23 7.9 10.6 Net assets for return on capital 4,037.3 3,902.8 Underlying operating profit 4 622.1 592.4 Return on capital 15.4% 15.2% Fixed charge cover Underlying operating profit 4 622.1 592.4 Total property rent 5 282.1 261.2 Underlying operating profit before rent 904.2 853.6 Underlying interest 8 31.4 27.2 Total property rent 5 282.1 261.2 Underlying interest plus rent 313.5 288.4 Fixed charge cover 2.9 3.0 Underlying operating profit Operating profit Income Statement 589.8 552.7 Non-underlying operating costs 6 32.3 39.7 Underlying operating profit 4 622.1 592.4 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 168 Designed and produced by Printed by Park Communications onFSC certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
Bringing customers brands theylove Whitbread Court Houghton Hall Business Park Porz Avenue Dunstable Bedfordshire LU5 5XE www.
