FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Contacts REGISTERED OFFICE OF THE COMPANY AND ITS SUBSIDIARY, AUDITOR WITAN INVESTMENT SERVICES LIMITED Grant Thornton UK LLP 14 Queen Annes Gate 30 Finsbury Square London SW1H 9AA London EC2P 2YU The Company is a public company limited by shares.
STOCKBROKER J. P. Morgan Cazenove REGISTERED NUMBER 25 Bank Street Registered as an investment company in England and Wales, Canary Wharf Number 101625.
London E14 5JP COMPANY SECRETARY SOLICITORS Frostrow Capital LLP Dickson Minto W. S. 25 Southampton Buildings 16 Charlotte Square London WC2A 1AL Edinburgh EH2 4DF Telephone: 020 3008 4910 Herbert Smith Freehills LLP CUSTODIAN, INVESTMENT ADMINISTRATOR AND DEPOSITARY Exchange House Primrose Street BNP Paribas Securities Services London EC2A 2EG 10 Harewood Avenue London NW1 6AA The Company is a member of REGISTRAR Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 6ZZ Telephone: 0370 707 1408 Calls cost no more than calls to geographic numbers 01 or 02 and must be included in inclusive minutes and discount schemes in the same way.
Calls from landlines are typically charged up to 9p per minute: calls from mobiles typically cost between 3p and 55p per minute.
Calls from landlines and mobiles are included in free call packages.
Disability Act Copies of this annual report and other documents issued by Witan Investment Trust plc are available from the Company Secretary.
Ifneeded, copies can be made available in a variety of formats, including Braille, audio tape or larger type as appropriate.
You can contact our Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, which has installed textphones to allow speech and hearing impaired people who have their own telephone to contact them directly, without the need for an intermediate operator, by dialling 0370702 0005.
Specially trained operators are available during normal business hours to answer queries via this service.
Alternatively, ifyou prefer to go through a typetalk operator provided by The Royal National Institute for Deaf People, you should dial 18001 followed by the number you wish to dial.
UNSOLICITED APPROACHES FOR SHARES: WARNING TO SHAREHOLDERS Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell themwhat often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in US or UK investments.
They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
Shareholders are therefore advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
Please note that it is very unlikely that either the Company or the Companys Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, would make unsolicited telephone calls to shareholders and that any such calls would relate only to official documentation already circulated to shareholders and never in respect of investment advice.
Shareholders who suspect they may have been approached by fraudsters should advise the Financial Conduct Authority FCA using the share fraud report form at www.
uk scams or call the FCA Customer Helpline on 0800 1116768.
You may also wish tocall either the Company Secretary or the Registrar at the numbers provided above.
94 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual report 2018 ROYAL HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY With effect from 2019, the Company is no longer a financial sponsor of the RHSs activities.
However, for this final year shareholders on the main register and those who were members of the Companys Savings Schemes as at 20 February 2019 are eligible to apply for a ballot for a ticket that will allow free entry for two adults to any one of the four RHS gardens in the UK.
If you would like to request a ticket then please phone us on 0800 082 8180, giving your full name and address.
Tickets will be sent out on 3rd May 2019 to shareholders who are successful in the ballot.
Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Arcoprint, sourced from well-managed, responsible, FSC certified forests and other controlled sources.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using an elemental chlorine free ECF process.
Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2018 www.
