Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 18 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 53 weeks ended 4 February 2018 8 Pensions continued 8.4 Present value of obligations continued 8.4.
2 Sensitivity analysis on significant actuarial assumptions The following table summarises the impact on the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period if each of the significant actuarial assumptions listed above were changed, in isolation, assuming no other changes in market conditions at the accounting date.
In practice any movement in assumptions could be accompanied by a partially offsetting change in asset values, and the corresponding overall impact on the net asset liability is therefore likely to be lower than the amounts below in a number of scenarios.
Extrapolation of the sensitivities shown may not be appropriate.
2018 2018 2017 2017 CARE RSP CARE RSP m m m m Discount rate applied to Scheme obligations 0.1% p. a.
95 7 105 5 Inflation assumption RPI and associated assumptions 0.1% p. a.
85 3 95 3 Longevity one year 170 180 8.5 Funding The Morrison Scheme is entirely funded by the parent Company and the Safeway Scheme is funded by Safeway Limited and its subsidiaries.
The parent Company and its subsidiaries participate in the RSP.
There is no contractual agreement or stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost between the parent Company and its subsidiaries.
The contribution of each participating subsidiary to the RSP is currently calculated in proportion to the number of employees that are members of the RSP.
The latest full actuarial valuations were carried out as at 1 April 2016 for the Safeway Scheme and 5 April 2016 for the Morrison Scheme and the RSP.
The valuations indicated that, on the agreed funding basis, the Safeway, Morrison and RSP Schemes had surpluses of 100m, 1m and 10m respectively.
As a result of these funding positions there are currently no deficit contributions payable.
As such there is no minimum funding requirement in force.
The results of the 2016 actuarial valuations for the CARE Schemes have been used and updated for IAS 19 Employee benefits purposes for the period to 4 February 2018 by a qualified independent actuary.
For the RSP an actuarial valuation for the purposes of IAS 19, based on member data as at 31 December 2017, has been completed and updated to 4 February 2018 by a qualified independent actuary.
The Schemes expose the Group to inflation risk, interest rate risk and market investment risk.
In addition, the CARE Schemes expose the Group to longevity risk.
At 4 February 2018, schemes in surplus have been disclosed within the assets on the balance sheet.
The Group has taken legal advice with regard to the recognition of a pension surplus and also recognition of a minimum funding requirement under IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirement and their interaction.
This advice concluded that recognition of a surplus is appropriate on the basis that the Group has an unconditional right to a refund of a surplus.
In respect of the RSP this is on the basis that paragraph 11 a of IFRIC 14 applies, enabling a refund of surplus during the life of the RSP.
In respect of the Morrison Scheme, it is on the basis that paragraph 11 b or 11 c of IFRIC 14 applies enabling a refund of surplus assuming the gradual settlement of the scheme liabilities over time until all members have left the scheme or the full settlement of the Schemes liabilities in a single event i. e. as a scheme wind up.
In respect of the Safeway Scheme, a refund is available on the basis that paragraph 11 b of IFRIC 14 applies.
Amendments to the current version of IFRIC 14 are currently being considered.
The legal advice received by the Group has considered the proposed new wording to paragraph 12 A of IFRIC 14 concerning whether other parties have a unilateral power to use a schemes surplus to settle in full the schemes liabilities and has concluded that the above accounting treatment should not be affected by the current exposure draft of the revised wording to IFRIC 14.
The current best estimate of Group contributions to be paid to the defined benefit schemes for the accounting period commencing 5 February 2018 is 73m 2017: 79m.
This estimate includes amounts payable from the SLP and salary sacrificed contributions from employees.
8.6 Defined contribution scheme As previously announced, the Group opened a new defined contribution pension scheme called the Morrisons Personal Retirement Scheme MPRS for employees during the 53 weeks ended 4 February 2018.
The MPRS has become the Auto Enrolment scheme for the Group and as such the Group was liable for backdated contributions for eligible employees to 1 October 2012.
The pension scheme set-up credit of 13m recognised as an adjustment to underlying earnings see note 1.4, relates to the cost of back dated contributions in respect of this new defined contribution scheme.
The credit represents the difference between the expected back dated contributions previously accrued for and the cost based on actual participation rates.
As the MPRS is a defined contribution scheme, the Group is not subject to the same investment, interest rate, inflation or longevity risks as it is for the defined benefit schemes.
The benefits that employees receive are dependent on the contributions paid, investment returns and the form of benefit chosen at retirement.
During the 53 weeks ended 4 February 2018, the Group paid contributions of 4m to the MPRS, and expects to contribute 23m for the following period.
