Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 18 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 53 weeks ended 4 February 2018 6 Capital and borrowings 6.1 Accounting policies Borrowings Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair value, net of attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, any difference between the redemption value and the initial carrying amount is recognised in profit for the period over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest rate basis.
Borrowing costs All borrowing costs are recognised in the Groups profit for the period on an effective interest rate basis except for interest costs that are directly attributable to the construction of buildings and other qualifying assets, which are capitalised and included within the initial cost of the asset.
Capitalisation commences when both expenditure on the asset and borrowing costs are being incurred, and necessary activities to prepare the asset for use are in progress.
In the case of new stores, this is generally once planning permission has been obtained.
Capitalisation ceases when the asset is ready for use.
Interest is capitalised at the effective rate incurred on borrowings before taxation of 5% 2017: 5%.
Capitalised interest is included within interest paid in cash flow from operating activities.
Leases Leases in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases: all other leases are classified as finance leases.
Property leases are analysed into separate components for land and buildings and tested to establish whether the components are operating leases or finance leases.
Rental payments on operating leases in which the Group is lessee are taken to profit for the period on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Sale and leaseback of properties The accounting treatment of the sale and leaseback depends upon the substance of the transaction by applying the lease classification principles described above.
For sale and operating leasebacks, the assets are sold at fair value, and accordingly the profit or loss from the sale is recognised immediately in the Statement of comprehensive income.
When forming the conclusion of operating lease classification, consideration is given to the key lease classification indicators of IAS 17.
The leases are typically for a 25 year period.
On making this assessment the Directors reviewed the remaining useful lives for these particular properties and concluded they are significantly longer than the period of the lease.
As disclosed on page 81 a review of the useful economic lives of each of the property, plant and equipment categories has been performed in the year with no changes made.
Other key indicators considered in reaching an operating lease classification were the present value of the minimum lease payments and the ownership clauses in the contracts upon expiry of the lease.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including directly attributable incremental costs, is deducted from retained earnings until the shares are cancelled.
On cancellation, the nominal value of the shares is deducted from share capital and the amount is transferred to the capital redemption reserve.
Own shares held The Group has employee trusts for the granting of Group shares to executives and members of the employee share plans.
Shares in the Group held by the employee share trusts are presented in the balance sheet as a deduction from retained earnings.
The shares are deducted for the purpose of calculating the Groups earnings per share.
Net debt Net debt is cash and cash equivalents, long-term cash on deposit, bank and other current loans, bonds and derivative financial instruments stated at current fair value.
