ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
General information Wizz Air Holdings plc the Company is a public company incorporated in Jersey under the address [44 The Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey JE4 9WG].
The Company is managed from Switzerland.
The Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group or Wizz Air provide low-cost, low-fare passenger air transportation services on scheduled short-haul and medium-haul point-to-point routes across Europe and the Middle East.
Accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the presentation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs and IFRS IC interpretations.
Based on the exemption provided in Article 105 11 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 the Company does not present its individual financial statements and related notes.
The financial statements are presented in Euros, which is the functional currency of all companies in the Group other than Wizz Air UK Ltd. and two dormant entities, Dnieper Aviation LLC and Wizz Air Ukraine Airlines LLC.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets, and financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS legislates the use of certain critical accounting estimates and requires management to exercise judgments in the process of applying the Group's accounting policies.
The areas involving a high degree of judgment or complexity or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in Note 4.
New standards and interpretations a Standards, amendments and interpretations effective and adopted by the Group The Group adopted IFRS 9, Financial Instruments as of 1 April 2017.
The adoption of IFRS 9 had the following implications for the Group: The classification of financial assets and liabilities have been changed, see more details in Accounting Policies section, Financial assets and liabilities part.
Changes in the time value of unexpired hedge instruments are recorded in other comprehensive income.
In transitioning from IAS 39 to IFRS 9 the Group restated the 1 April 2017 opening position of reserves but did not restate the prior period financial statements.
Accordingly, the 6.1 million gain that related to the time value of open hedge instruments as at 1 April 2017 was reclassified from retained earnings into the cash flow hedging reserve.
A revised impairment policy has been implemented, see more details in Accounting Policies section, Trade and receivables part.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 83 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Accounting policies continued New standards and interpretations continued b Standards early adopted by the Group There are no other standards early adopted by the Group.
c Interpretations and standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group } IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers deals with revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful information to users of financial statements about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entitys contracts with customers.
Revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of a good or service and thus has the ability to direct the use and obtain the benefits from the good or service.
The standard replaces IAS 18, Revenue and IAS 11, Construction Contracts and related interpretations.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and earlier application is permitted.
The Group is adopting IFRS 15 from 1 April 2018.
Based on the assessment of management, under IFRS 15 some ancillary revenue types need to be recognised on the date of flight rather than the date of sale, as it was the case until 2018.
The Group will apply the Cumulative Effect Method or modified retrospective method of transition for adopting IFRS 15, which results in a one-off reduction of retained earnings against an increase in deferred income of approximately 5 million on 1 April 2018 the date of initial application.
Compensations paid to customers would, to some extent, be netted with revenues however, this is not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements. }
IFRS 16, Leases effective for the accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of leases with the objective of ensuring that lessees and lessors provide relevant information that faithfully represents those transactions.
The standard supersedes IAS 17, Leases and was endorsed by the EU in 2017.
The Group currently leases all of its aircraft under operating leases: therefore, IFRS 16 brings a very significant change for the Group.
An assessment of the estimated impacts of IFRS 16 has been performed by management and is explained below.
The following key issues were considered for the modelling: Year of adoption: The date of application is 1 April 2019, the date required by the standard.
Existing leases: The Group expects that all of its aircraft and spare engine operating leases that will exist at the date of initial application would come on balance sheet under the new rules.
Other smaller value operating leases e. g. offices were ignored as being immaterial for the purposes of this analysis.
In the modelling for existing leases the full retrospective method of transition was assumed, as per paragraph C5 a of the standard.
Future aircraft: New aircraft scheduled to arrive from the beginning of 2019 are not yet financed.
For the purposes of this modelling, for the aircraft expected to arrive between January 2019 and March 2020 the following was assumed: } deliveries of the Airbus A320ceo family altogether three, in the AprilJune 2019 period will be leased in the form of operating leases and under terms similar to those that the Group most recently entered into: } deliveries of the Airbus A320neo family out of which three fall into the JanuaryMarch 2019 period, i. e. prior to the date of initial application of IFRS 16 will be purchased by the Group hence were ignored for the purposes of this modelling.
Foreign exchange: Calculations were performed assuming an EUR USD FX rate of 1.23 for all future transactions and for the date of initial application.
No change was assumed to this rate therefore potential foreign exchange gains and losses were not included.
Component accounting: It was assumed that component accounting is required for the right-of-use assets, similar to that applicable to owned aircraft.
Component accounting was not assumed in the analysis prepared a year ago which explains the more significant retained earnings impact 0.2 billion, as below when compared to the disclosure made in the 2017 annual report 0.1 billion impact.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 84 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Accounting policies continued New standards and interpretations continued c Interpretations and standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group continued Results of the analysis not audited data : The impact in the year of initial application can be summarised as follows: } right-of-use assets will be recognised in the amount of 1.2 billion at the date of initial application.
Deferred credit existing under the current standard in the amount of 0.1 billion will be eliminated and will be part of the 1.2 billion balance of right-of-use assets By the end of the year of initial application 31 March 2020 the balance of right-of-use assets will decrease to 1.0 billion: } lease liabilities will be recognised in the amount of 1.5 billion at the date of initial application.
By the end of the year of initial application the balance will decrease to 1.3 billion: } retained earnings will be decreased by 0.2 billion this applies both at the date of initial application and at the end of the year of initial application: and } the impact on profits for the year of initial application will be a loss of 1520 million.
In 20192020 the average age of the Groups fleet approximately five years will be around half of the average lease tenure of the fleet approximately ten years, which makes the earnings impact for the year of initial application relatively limited.
Basis of consolidation The Company controls an entity when the Company is exposed, or it has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
The Company controls an entity if the Company has all of the following: } power over the entity: } exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity: } the ability to use its power over the entity to affect the amount of its returns from the entity.
Subsidiaries are all entities controlled by the Company.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date when control commences until the date when control ceases.
The results of all the subsidiaries are consolidated up to 31 March, which is the financial year end of the Company.
Intra-group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Going concern The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis which assumes that the Group will continue in business for the foreseeable future.
This assumption is based on the Directors assessment of the Groups financial performance and position to date, together with a review of its forecasts, in light of the risks to which the Group is exposed.
Foreign currency The Groups presentational currency is the Euro.
The functional currency of all the Group entities with the exception of Dnieper Aviation LLC, Wizz Air Ukraine Airlines LLC and Wizz Air UK Ltd. is the Euro.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the statement of financial position date are translated into Euros at the exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income as financial income or expense.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and which are recognised at their historical cost are translated into Euros at the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and which are stated at fair value are translated into Euros at exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
The functional currency of Dnieper Aviation LLC and Wizz Air Ukraine Airlines LLC is the Ukrainian Hryvnia UAH while the functional currency of Wizz Air UK Ltd is English pounds GBP.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 85 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Accounting policies continued Foreign currency continued The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentational currency are translated into the presentational currency as follows: } assets and liabilities for each statement of financial position presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that statement of financial position: } income and expenses for each statement of comprehensive income are translated at monthly average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rate on the dates of the transactions : and } all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity cumulative translation adjustments.
The below exchange rates were used for the translation of UAH into Euros in the respective financial years: 2018 2017 Closing rate 32.66 28.96 Average rate for the year 32.42 28.42 The below exchange rates were used for the translation of GBP into Euros in the respective financial years: 2018 2017 Closing rate 0,876 N A Average rate for the year 0.883 N A Financial assets and liabilities The Group adopted IFRS 9, Financial Instruments as of 1 April 2017.
The Group determined the classification for financial assets and liabilities under IFRS 9 as follows.
The below table also presents for comparison purpose the classification of financial assets and liabilities applied by the Group before 1 April 2017 in line with IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The change of classification as a result of adopting IFRS 9 did not affect the measurement and the carrying value of financial assets and liabilities.
Description in the statement of financial position IFRS 9 Category IAS 39 Category Non-current assets Restricted cash Financial assets measured at amortised cost Loans and receivables Trade and other receivables Financial assets measured at amortised cost Loans and receivables Current assets Trade and other receivables Financial assets measured at amortised cost Loans and receivables Financial assets available for sale Fair value through other comprehensive income Available-for-sale assets Derivative financial instruments Fair value through profit or loss Fair value through profit or loss Restricted cash Financial assets measured at amortised cost Loans and receivables Cash and cash equivalents Financial assets measured at amortised cost Loans and receivables Non-current liabilities Borrowings Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Other financial liabilities Convertible debts Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost measured at amortised cost Other financial liabilities measured at amortised cos Current liabilities Trade and other payables Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Other financial liabilities Borrowings Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost measured at amortised cost Convertible debt Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Other financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments Fair value through profit or loss measured at amortised cost Other financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Fair value through profit or loss The classification of financial assets depends on the business model for managing the financial assets and contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial assets determined by the Management at initial recognition.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 86 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Accounting policies continued Financial assets and liabilities continued a Financial assets measured at amortised costs These are non-derivative financial assets hold by the Group in order to collect contractual cash flows and the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
The Groups financial assets measured at amortised costs comprise trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash in the statement of financial position.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than twelve months after the statement of financial position date, which are classified as non-current assets.
b Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income These are non-derivative financial assets hold by the Group in order both to collect contractual cash flows and selling the financial assets.
The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
c Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets not valued either at amortised costs or at fair value through comprehensive income are valued at fair value through profit or loss.
Derivatives are measured at fair value through profit or loss.
d Financial liabilities measured at amortised costs All financial liabilities are measured at amortised costs unless they are measured at fair value through profit or loss.
The Groups other financial liabilities comprise trade and other payables and interest-bearing loans and borrowings including convertible debt in the statement of financial position.
They are included in current liabilities, except for maturities greater than twelve months after the statement of financial position date that are classified as non-current liabilities.
e Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss Derivatives are measured at fair value through profit and loss by the Group.
The Group invests excess cash in a conservative way, primarily in short-term time deposits and money market funds.
Management does not, in the short term, plan to have held-to-maturity investments.
The recognition and measurement criteria are described in the relevant accounting policy section.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income within financial income or expenses.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged see below.
The Group enters into foreign exchange and jet fuel price hedging transactions to minimise the impact of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and fuel price on the Group.
Both types of hedging transactions are cash flow hedges under IFRS 9.
Cash flow hedges The Group uses zero cost collar and outright forward contracts to hedge commodity and foreign exchange risks.
Derivatives can only be entered into with counterparties with investment grade credit rating.
The spot and forward elements of forward contracts and the entire value intrinsic and time value of options are designated as the hedging instrument.
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any unrealised gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in the hedging reserve within other comprehensive income.
Any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income as financial income or expenses.
The associated cumulative gain or loss on the effective part is removed from other comprehensive income and recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the respective operating expense line s in the same period or periods as the hedged forecast transaction.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 87 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Accounting policies continued Financial assets and liabilities continued Derivative financial instruments and hedging continued Cash flow hedges continued The Group considers a hedge relationship to be effective if } an economic relationship exists between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, and there is an expectation that the value of the hedging instrument and the value of the hedged item would move in the opposite direction as a result of the common underlying or hedged risk, and } the effect of credit risk does not dominate the value changes associated with the hedged risk, and } the hedge ratio is aligned with the requirements of the Groups risk management strategy.
The Group does not fide-designate and thereby discontinue a hedging relationship that still meets the risk management objective: and continues to meet all other qualifying criteria after taking into account any rebalancing, if applicable.
The hedge ratio applied by the Group is always 100%.
Hedge ratio is defined as the relationship between the quantity of the hedging instrument and the quantity of the hedged item.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in other comprehensive income and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the hedged transaction is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income immediately, net of tax, within the cash flow hedging reserve.
Before expiry, the fair value of an option comprises: i its intrinsic value, being a function of the difference between contracted and market or spot prices: and ii its time value, being the difference between the fair value and the intrinsic value at any point in time.
Subject to hedge effectiveness, any increase or decrease in the fair value of the hedging instrument is taken to equity within other comprehensive income or expense.
Accordingly: } Initial recognition: the open position on the derivative hedging instrument is recorded as an asset or liability in the statement of financial position at fair value. }
Subsequent remeasurement of unexpired options: i the effective portion of changes in the fair value is recorded in other comprehensive income, ii the ineffective portion, if any, are recorded as financial income or expense in the statement of comprehensive income. }
The realised gains or losses on the hedging instrument are recorded against the respective operating expense line s in the statement of comprehensive income.
The calculation method of hedge effectiveness is critical terms match.
Hedge effectiveness testing is performed at inception, at each reporting date, and upon a significant change in the circumstances affecting the hedge effectiveness requirements.
Such significant change can occur as follows: } changes in timing of the payment of the hedged item: } reduction in the total amount or price of the hedged item: } location differences: and } a significant change in the credit risk of either party to the hedging relationship.
The ineffective part of changes in fair value, if any, is recorded as financial income or expense in the statement of comprehensive income.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 88 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Accounting policies continued Financial assets and liabilities continued Derivative financial instruments and hedging continued Hedging with non-derivatives The Group uses its selected financial assets denominated in US Dollars to hedge highly probable future expenses in US Dollar.
The Group applies hedge accounting to part of its non-derivate financial assets, in the interest of reducing the amount of unrealised foreign exchange gains or losses resulting from the periodic revaluation of these assets.
The accounting treatment of non-derivatives designated as hedging instruments is identical to with the accounting treatment of derivatives in the sense that: } the unrealised gains or losses on hedging instruments are recorded as an asset or liability in the statement of financial position at fair value, and the effective portion of changes in the fair value is recorded in other comprehensive income: and } the realised gains or losses on the hedging instruments are recorded against the respective expense line s in the statement of comprehensive income.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are initially recognised when the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument and subsequently measured at their amortised cost using the effective interest rate method less impairment losses.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the trade and other receivables account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income within other expenses.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against other expenses in the statement of comprehensive income.
Other receivables also comprise insurance claims related to events that are covered by insurance contracts.
The Group recognises the income in the financial statements only from those insurance claims which, based on managements judgment, are virtually certain to be received by the Group.
Impairment policy of trade and other receivables Management reviewed the Groups different customer payment channels and the receivables from these channels.
The most significant business case is ticket sales and the various forms of payment for tickets.
The vast majority of tickets are paid either by bank cards or with bank transfer, in any case prior to flight.
Based on their nature, in practice there is no impairment required for these.
The other, less significant business cases involving credit risk are commissions receivable from non-ticket revenue partners and marketing support receivable from airports and other parties.
Management reviewed the historic payment and impairment statistics for the transactions in these channels and considered the future plans of the Group, and concluded that the impairment of receivables in these channels does not have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits repayable on demand or which mature within three months of inception.
Cash held in money market funds is also included in cash and cash equivalents.
Cash and cash equivalents do not include restricted cash.
Cash and cash equivalents are netted only when right of offset has been obtained.
Restricted cash Restricted cash represents cash deposits held by the banks that cover letters of credit, issued by the same bank, to certain suppliers.
Restricted cash is split between non-current and current assets depending on the maturity period of the underlying letters of credit.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are initially recognised when the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument and subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Trade and other payables comprise balances payable to suppliers, authorities and employees.
Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the statement of comprehensive income as a financial expense over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest rate basis.
Financial expenses also include withholding tax paid on the interest if according to the loan agreement the payment of withholding tax is the liability of the Group.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 89 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Accounting policies continued Financial assets and liabilities continued Interest-bearing borrowings continued Convertible debt Convertible debt instruments that can be converted to share capital at the option of the holder, where the number of shares issued does not vary with changes in their fair value, are accounted for as compound instruments.
Transaction costs that relate to the issue of a compound instrument are allocated to the liability and equity components in proportion to the allocation of proceeds.
The liability component is recognised initially at the fair value of a similar liability that does not have an equity conversion option.
The equity component of the compound instrument is calculated as the excess of the issue proceeds over the value of the liability component.
Classification of compound instruments issued by the Group Compound instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity i. e. forming part of Shareholders funds only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions: a they include no contractual obligations upon the Company or Group as the case may be to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Company or Group : and b where the instrument will or may be settled in the Companys own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a variable number of the Companys own equity instruments or it is a derivative that will be settled by the Company exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability.
Where the instrument so classified takes the legal form of the Companys own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called up share capital and share premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Where a compound instrument that contains both equity and financial liability components exists these components are separated by recognising the liability at fair value and accounted for individually under the above policy.
The finance cost on the financial liability component is correspondingly higher over the life of the instrument.
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as part of finance expenses.
Finance payments associated with compound instruments that are classified in equity are dividends and are recorded directly in equity.
Impairment of financial assets A loss allowance is recognised on financial assets carried at amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive income for expected credit losses.
At each reporting date the Group measure the loss allowance for financial assets at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit losses if the credit risk on a financial asset has increased significantly since initial recognition.
If at the reporting date the credit risk on a financial asset has not increased significantly since initial recognition, the Group measure the loss allowance for that asset at an amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses.
If the Group has measured the loss allowance for a financial instrument at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses in the previous reporting period, but determines at the current reporting date that the credit risk on a financial asset has not increased significantly since initial recognition, the Group measure the loss allowance at an amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses at the current reporting date.
The Group recognise in profit or loss, as an impairment gain or loss, the amount of expected credit losses or reversal that is required to adjust the loss allowance at the reporting date to the amount that is required to be recognised in accordance with IFRS 9.
Current trade and other receivables are discounted where the effect is material.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 90 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Accounting policies continued Non-financial assets and liabilities Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment.
Depreciation is charged to the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis to write off cost to residual value over the estimated useful economic lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
In the case of certain aircraft maintenance assets, the useful economic life of the asset can be defined in terms of flight hours or flight cycles, and in this case the depreciation charge is determined based on the actual number of flight hours or flight cycles.
The estimated useful lives of the relevant asset categories are as follows: Land and buildings three to five years, being the shorter of useful economic life and the lease term Aircraft maintenance assets two to seven years, being the shorter of useful economic life and the lease term Aircraft parts seven years Fixtures and fittings three years The residual values and useful lives are re-assessed annually.
Assets received free of charge In certain cases the Group receives assets free of charge.
These are treated as non-cash items in the statement of cash flows.
Advances paid for aircraft pre-delivery payments PDP Pre-delivery payments PDP are paid by the Group to aircraft and engine manufacturers for financing the production of the ordered aircraft or spare engine as determined by the contractual terms.
Such advance payments for aircraft or spare engines are recognised at cost and classified as property, plant and equipment in the statement of financial position.
The amount is not depreciated.
The Group may enter into sale and leaseback arrangements with lessors to finance future aircraft or spare engine deliveries.
These arrangements are structured such that the right and the commitment to purchase the aircraft or spare engine are assigned to the lessor only on the date of delivery a delivery date assignment : as such, the recognition and classification of the PDP balance does not change when the sale and leaseback contracts are signed.
On the delivery of the aircraft or spare engine the lessor pays the full purchase price of the asset to the manufacturer and the Group receives from the manufacturer a refund of the PDPs paid.
At this moment the fixed asset is fide-recognised from the statement of financial position and any gain or loss arising is transferred to the statement of comprehensive income as an operating income or expense.
In some instances PDPs are paid in the name of the Group by the lessors directly to the aircraft manufacturer.
These PDPs are also recognised by the Group in the statement of financial position as advances paid for aircraft and as received loans until the delivery of the aircraft.
In the statement of cash flows these PDPs and loans are treated as non-cash items and are eliminated both from advances paid for aircrafts refunds of advances paid for aircraft and commercial loan lines.
Advances paid for aircraft maintenance assets engine fleet our agreements FHA Advances paid for aircraft maintenance assets represent advance payments made in relation to heavy maintenance scheduled to be performed in the future for the definition of heavy maintenance see the accounting policy section on maintenance.
Such advance payments are made by the Group particularly to the engine maintenance service provider under fleet hour agreements FHA.
The balance of such assets is re-categorised into aircraft maintenance assets at the time when the aircraft maintenance asset is recognised in respect of the same component and the same heavy maintenance event.
This is when the component no longer meets the conditions set out in the lease agreement.
Advances paid for aircraft maintenance are not depreciated.
In the statement of cash flows the FHA payments are shown under the purchase of maintenance assets line together with other aircraft maintenance asset purchases.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 91 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Accounting policies continued Non-financial assets and liabilities continued Intangible assets Intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Web development costs are capitalised to the extent they are expected to generate future economic benefits and meet the other criteria described in IAS 38, Intangible Assets.
Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
Amortisation is charged to the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic lives of intangible assets, except where the asset is expected to have indefinite useful economic life.
Intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Software licences three to eight years Web and other software development costs three to five years Airport landing rights indefinite Inventories Inventories mainly spares are purchased for internal use and are stated at cost unless impaired or at net realisable value if any items are to be sold or scrapped.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of the business less the estimated selling expense.
Cost is based on the average price method and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition.
Emissions Trading Scheme As of 1 January 2012 the scope of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme 2008 101 EC EU ETS covers airlines.
The Group is required to formally report its annual emissions to the relevant authorities and surrender emission allowances EUAs equivalent to the emissions made during the year.
Surrendered allowances are a combination of the free allowances granted by the authorities and allowances purchased by the Group from other parties.
The Group follows the cost method of booking the allowances: the free allowances have nilcost value so therefore are not recognised as an asset: and allowances purchased in the market are recorded at the purchase price in inventory.
The Group is given free allowances by the competent authorities, and the net economic impact to the Group is therefore represented by the shortfall between the actual carbon emitted and the free allowances given to the Group for that period.
The shortfall is recorded at forward prices as a cost.
Application of this accounting treatment means that the statement of comprehensive income and the statement of financial position reflect the net economic impact and are not grossed up to reflect the full obligation.
Deferred interest The Group enters into sale and leaseback agreements to finance future aircraft or spare engine deliveries.
In some cases it also enters into arrangements to finance the PDPs of such deliveries.
Interest accrued on loans to finance the PDPs on aircraft or spare engines is initially recognised under property plant and equipment advances paid for aircraft.
When the leased aircraft or spare engine is delivered, the PDP interest balance is reclassified within the statement of financial position from property, plant and equipment into deferred interest.
From this point forward the interest is amortised to the statement of comprehensive income during the term of the respective lease contract.
The Group recognises in the deferred interest line also the effect of the discounting adjustment of non-current receivables.
Impairment of non-financial assets The carrying amounts of the Groups assets are reviewed at each statement of financial position date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to dispose and value in use.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 92 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Accounting policies continued Employee benefits Share based payment transactions The Group operates an equity-settled share option programme that allows Group employees to acquire shares in the Company.
The options are granted by the Company.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using an option valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted at any measurement date so that the cumulative expense to date reflects the actual number of share options that are expected to vest.
The share award programme allows the Directors of the Company to acquire shares in the Company at nominal value.
The fair value of the awards granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which there are restrictions in place in respect of the transfer of the award shares by the Directors.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability please see further details of aircraft maintenance provisions in the accounting policy section on maintenance.
Revenue Revenue comprises the invoiced value of flight seats and ancillary revenues.
Passenger ticket revenue arises from the sale of flight seats and is recognised net of government taxes in the period in which the service is provided, that being when the airplane has departed.
Where charges levied by airports or government authorities on a per passenger basis represent a government tax in fact or in substance, then such amounts are presented on a net basis in the statement of comprehensive income netted between revenue and airport, handling and en-route charges lines.
Unearned revenue represents flight seats sold but not yet flown and is included in deferred income.
Refunds made to passengers are recorded as reductions in revenue.
Ancillary revenue arises from the sale of other services made by the Group and from commissions earned in relation to services sold on behalf of other parties.
Revenues from other services comprise mainly baggage charges, booking payment handling fees, airport check-in fees, fees for various convenience services priority boarding, extended legroom and reserved seats, loyalty programme membership fees, and hotel and other services sold by the tour operator unit of the Group.
Commission revenue arises in relation to the sale of onboard catering, accommodation, car rental, travel insurance, bus transfers, premium calls and co-branded credit cards.
Ancillary revenues are recognised as revenue on the date that the right to receive consideration occurs, which is the date when the underlying service was provided.
This, depending on the type of service, might be either the date of sale, the date of flight or in the case of membership fees over the period when customers take benefit of a paid membership.
Leases Finance leases If the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an asset are substantially transferred to Wizz Air then it is accounted for as a finance lease.
The following five criteria can indicate such situation: } there is transfer of ownership of the asset at the end of lease term: } there is an option to purchase the asset at sufficiently below fair value: therefore, it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised: } the lessee holds the assets for the major part of the assets' economic life: } the asset is so special that it can be used only by the lessee: and } the present value of minimum lease payments is substantially all of the fair value of the asset.
Management uses the above criteria as guidelines for its analyses: however, the substance of a transaction is always considered during the assessment.
Management assesses each leasing contract individually at initial recognition based on the above discussed criteria.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases commencement at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 93 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Accounting policies continued Leases continued Operating leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income as an integral part of the total lease expense.
Sale and leaseback transactions The Group enters into transactions whereby it assigns to a third party the right to acquire new aircraft or spare engines.
On delivery of the aircraft or spare engine, the Group will lease the aircraft or spare engine back through an operating lease from the same party.
Any gain arising on disposal, where the price that the aircraft is sold for is above fair value, is recognised initially in deferred income and then amortised on a straight-line basis over the lease term of the asset.
Maintenance Aircraft maintenance provisions For aircraft held under operating lease agreements, the Group is contractually committed to either return the aircraft in a certain condition or to compensate the lessor based on the actual condition of the aircraft and its major components upon return.
Provision is made for the minimum unavoidable costs of specific future obligations created by the lease at the time when such obligation becomes certain.
This is when the respective aircraft component no longer meets the lease re-delivery conditions.
The provision is used through the completion of a maintenance event such that the component again meets the re-delivery conditions.
Aircraft maintenance assets Heavy maintenance relates to the overhaul of engines and associated components, the replacement of life limited parts, the replacement of landing gears and the non-routine airframe inspection and rectification works.
Under normal operating conditions heavy maintenance relates to work expected to be performed no more frequently than every two to four years.
The cost of heavy maintenance is capitalised and recognised as a tangible fixed asset and classified as aircraft maintenance assets at the earlier of: a the time the lease re-delivery condition is no longer met see above under aircraft maintenance provisions : or b when maintenance, including enhancement, is carried out.
Other maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
Such maintenance assets are depreciated over the period the Group benefits from the asset which is the shorter of: a the estimated period until the next date when the lease re-delivery condition is no longer met: or b the end of the assets operational life: or c the end of the lease.
For engines and associated components, depreciation is charged on the basis of flight hours or cycles, while for other aircraft maintenance assets depreciation is charged evenly over the period the Group expects to derive benefit from the asset.
Components of newly leased aircraft such as life limited parts and engines are not accounted for as separate assets, and the inherent benefit of these assets which are utilised in the period from inception of the lease until the time the assets no longer meet the lease re-delivery condition is reflected in the payments made to the lessor over the life of the lease.
Aircraft maintenance assets are non-monetary items.
Non-Euro amounts are translated on inception to Euro and are not retranslated.
The recognition of aircraft maintenance assets against provisions for other liabilities and charges in the statement of financial position is a transaction not involving cash flows.
In the statement of cash flows the spending on these assets is presented as purchase of aircraft maintenance assets in the period when cash actually flows out of the Group.
This can happen either before or after the recognition of the asset, depending on the exact facts and circumstances associated with the relevant asset or assets.
Please refer also to the property, plant and equipment section of accounting policies.
Other receivables from lessors maintenance reserve Payments for aircraft and engine maintenance, as stipulated in the respective operating lease agreements, are made to the lessors as a security for the performance of future heavy maintenance works.
The payments are recorded as receivables from the lessors until the respective maintenance event occurs and the reimbursement with the lessor is finalised.
Any payment that is not expected to be reimbursed by the lessor is recognised within operating expenses aircraft rentals in the statement of comprehensive income.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 94 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Accounting policies continued Maintenance continued Other The Group enters into agreements with maintenance service providers that guarantee the maintenance of major components at a rate defined in the contract, the prime example being fleet hour agreements FHAs for aircraft engines.
Such FHAs cover the cost of both scheduled and unscheduled engine overhauls.
FHA payments are accounted for as follows: } Payments for scheduled maintenance work are recognised as advances paid for aircraft maintenance assets until the maintenance asset for the respective engine overhaul is created.
After this point any further FHA payments are either used to settle previously established aircraft maintenance provisions to the extent a provision for the respective FHA contract exists or, in the absence of a provision, are added to the amount previously capitalised within property, plant and equipment as advances paid for aircraft maintenance assets. }
Payments that are made to provide guaranteed coverage for the performance of unscheduled maintenance events are considered as insurance payments and are expensed as incurred.
Please refer to the property, plant and equipment section of accounting policies.
Supplier credits The Group receives certain assets cash contributions or aircraft spares for nil consideration in connection with its acquisition of aircraft and of major aircraft parts.
Cash contributions or aircraft spares received are recognised as an asset in the statement of financial position.
The corresponding credits are recognised as income, spread equally across the shorter of useful economic life and the lease term of the respective aircraft.
In certain cases the concessions receivable from a component manufacturer are linked to the Groups commitment to purchase a number of new aircraft with the manufacturers components installed on those.
In such case, in substance, the right to the concessions is earned by the Group through the delivery of the respective aircraft.
In certain cases the concessions might be delivered by the component manufacturer later than the date when the respective aircraft is taken by the Group.
If so, then the right earned for the concession is recognised at the date of the aircraft delivery as part of trade and other receivables, with a corresponding credit to deferred income.
Following this, the credits are amortised on a straight-line basis over the lease term of the respective asset, decreasing aircraft rental expenses.
Net financing costs Net financing costs comprise interest payable, finance charges on finance leases, interest receivable on funds invested and foreign exchange gains and losses that are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Interest income and interest payable are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income using the effective interest method.
Non-cash elements of financial income and expenses are eliminated from the statement of cash flows as an adjusting item whereas cash elements, e. g. realised foreign exchange gains and losses, are included in the statement of cash flows.
Share capital Ordinary Shares are classified as equity.
Qualifying transaction costs directly attributable to the issuing of new shares are debited to equity, reducing the share premium arising on the issue of shares.
Taxation Taxation on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted at the statement of financial position date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination: and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that sufficient future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 95 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Accounting policies continued Exceptional items Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the financial statements where it is necessary to do so to provide further understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
They are material items of income or expense that are shown separately due to the significance of their nature or amount.
Underlying profit after tax is a non-statutory profit measure introduced by the Company to help investors better understand the trading performance of the Group.
It is a measure used by the Company also in determining the variable remuneration of senior management see Short-term Incentive Plan or annual bonus in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Underlying profit excludes the effect of exceptional items and of unrealised foreign exchange gains and losses.
These items, for various reasons, had significant impact particularly during the 20152017 financial years.
Going forward the Company expects that it will not incur exceptional items of recurring nature so there would be no difference between IFRS and underlying earnings.
Segment reporting Operating and reportable segments The Group has two reportable segments: the airline and the tour operator business units, marketed under the Wizz Air and Wizz Tours brand names, respectively.
Wizz Air sells flight tickets and related services to external customers and, to a smaller extent, to Wizz Tours.
Wizz Tours sells travel packages to external customers covering the network of Wizz Air.
Management information is provided to the senior management team, which in the context of IFRS 8 Operating segments is the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM.
Resource allocation decisions are made by the CODM for the benefit of the route network as a whole, rather than for individual routes within the network.
The performance of the network is assessed primarily based on the operating profit or loss for the period.
Financial risk management Financial risk factors The Group is exposed to market risks relating to fluctuations in commodity prices, interest rates and currency exchange rates.
The objective of financial risk management at Wizz Air is to minimise the impact of commodity price, interest rate and foreign exchange rate fluctuations on the Group's earnings, cash flows and equity.
To manage commodity and foreign exchange risks, Wizz Air uses various derivative financial instruments, including foreign currency and commodity zero-cost collar contracts.
Risk management is carried out by the treasury department under policies approved by the Board of Directors.
The Board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, fuel price risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments, adherence to hedge accounting, and hedge coverage levels.
The Board has mandated the Audit Committee of the Board to supervise the hedging activity of the Group and the compliance with the policies approved by the Board.
Risk analysis Market risks Foreign currency risk The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales, purchases and commitments that are denominated in a currency other than the Euro.
The foreign currency exposure of the Group is significant for two reasons: i only a small portion of the Groups revenues are denominated in or linked to the US Dollar while a significant portion of the Groups expenses are US Dollar denominated, including fuel, aircraft leases, maintenance reserves and aviation insurance: and ii there are various currencies in which the Group has significantly more revenues than expenses, primarily the British Pound GBP and to a smaller extent the Polish Zloty PLN.
The Group chooses the Euro USD foreign currency rate as the major underlying foreign currency pair in its foreign currency rate hedging strategies.
The main objective is to cover the Groups ongoing US Dollar cash flow requirements.
The Groups maximum hedge coverage level is 85 per cent.
of the total anticipated US Dollar purchases hedged by the time the respective quarter on a monthly rolling forward basis is reached.
This maximum target hedge coverage level was 75 per cent.
until January 2017 when it was increased to 85 per cent.
as a result of the revision of the Groups Hedging Policy in January 2017.
These levels were not always reached during the current or prior years.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 96 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Financial risk management continued Risk analysis continued Market risks continued Foreign currency risk continued The new Hedging Policy defines also the hedging of the GBP Euro foreign currency rate exposure, as a new measure of risk management.
The Groups maximum target coverage on this currency pair is 60% on a rolling twelve-month basis, but there were no hedges open at 31 March 2018.
The table below analyses the financial instruments by the currencies of future receipts and payments as follows: EUR USD Other Total At 31 March 2018 million million million million Financial assets Trade and other receivables 96.2 118.6 24.3 239.0 Derivative financial assets - 34.2 - 34.2 Cash 889.4 62.7 27.5 979.6 Restricted cash 161.3 0.7 0.2 162.2 Total financial assets 1,146.9 216.2 52.0 1,415.1 Financial liabilities Borrowings 5.3 - - 5.3 Convertible debt 26.9 - - 26.9 Trade and other payables 191.9 36.2 26.6 254.7 Derivative financial liabilities - 13.7 - 13.7 Total financial liabilities 224.1 49.9 26.6 300.6 EUR USD Other Total At 31 March 2017 million million million million Financial assets Trade and other receivables 55.0 138.0 15.7 208.7 Financial assets available for sale - - 1.0 1.0 Derivative financial assets - 10.1 - 10.1 Cash 757.8 0.4 15.8 774.0 Restricted cash 154.7 0.9 0.3 155.9 Total financial assets 967.5 149.4 32.8 1,149.7 Financial liabilities Borrowings 5.9 - - 5.9 Convertible debt 27.1 - - 27.1 Trade and other payables 135.6 35.6 26.5 197.7 Derivative financial liabilities - 1.9 - 1.9 Total financial liabilities 168.6 37.5 26.5 232.6 As explained in the paragraph on foreign currency in the accounting policy, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that is currencies other than the Euro are translated into Euros at the statement of financial position date at the exchange rates ruling at that date, and foreign exchange differences arising on the translation are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income as financial income of expense.
If the net balance of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies is high then this translation process can result in material volatility to financial income and expense, and thus to earnings.
Interest rate risk The Group has future commitments under certain operating lease contracts that are based on floating interest rates.
The floating nature of the interest charges on the operating leases exposes the Group to interest rate risk.
Interest rates charged on convertible debt liabilities and on short and long-term loans to finance the deposits of aircraft are not sensitive to interest rate movements as they are fixed until maturity.
The Group is also exposed to interest rate risk in relation to the valuation of financial instruments as they are carried at fair value.
The Group has not used financial derivatives to hedge its interest rate risk during the year.
The Directors may in the future consider hedging interest rate risk to reduce the potential Group earnings volatility arising from fluctuations in interest rates.
Commodity risks One of the most significant costs for the Group is jet fuel.
The price of jet fuel can be volatile and can directly impact the Groups financial performance.
The Groups maximum hedge coverage is 70 per cent.
on a rolling twelve-month basis and 60 per cent.
The average hedge coverage in F18 was 53 per cent.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 97 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Financial risk management continued Risk analysis continued Market risks continued Hedge transactions during the periods The Group uses non-derivatives, zero-cost collar instruments and outright forward contracts to hedge its foreign exchange exposures, and uses zero-cost collar instruments to hedge its jet fuel exposures.
The time horizon of the hedging programme with derivatives is usually up to a maximum of 18 months: however, this horizon can be exceeded at the Boards discretion.
The volume of hedge transactions that expired during the periods was as follows: a Foreign exchange hedge USD versus EUR : US$517 million 2017: US$333.5 million.
b Foreign exchange hedge GBP versus EUR : GBP 48 million 2017: nil.
The gains and losses arising from the expired hedge transaction during the year were as follows: a Foreign exchange hedge USD versus EUR : 510.7 million loss 2017: 2.4 million gain.
Out of it 7.4 million loss effect on fuel cost 2017: 1.1 million gain, while 3.3 million loss 2017: 1.3 million gain effect on lease rental cost.
b Foreign exchange hedge GBP versus EUR : 1.9 million gain 2017: nil.
GBP foreign exchange hedge affects revenue.
c Fuel hedge: 24.4 million gain 2017: 5.9 million loss.
Hedge year-end open positions At the end of the year and the prior year the Group had the following open hedge positions: a Foreign exchange hedge with derivatives: The fair value of the open positions was a 12.8 million loss 2017: 5.8 million gain recognised within other comprehensive income, assets 0.8 million in 2018 and 5.8 million in 2017 or liabilities 13.7 million in 2018 and nil 2017, respectively.
The 12.8 million loss can be analysed further into 7.5 million intrinsic value loss and 5.3 million time value loss components.
The notional amount of the open positions was US$726 million 2017: US$297 million.
There was no open position on the GBP Euro zero-cost collar instruments at the end of the current and the prior year.
b Foreign exchange hedge with non-derivatives: The notional amount of the open positions was US$393.4 million 2017: US$238.5 million.
Non-derivatives are existing financial assets that hedge highly probable foreign currency cash flows in the future and therefore act as a natural hedge.
At the end of the year out of its non-derivative financial assets position the Group had US$13.5 million designated for hedge accounting 2017: US$23.6 million.
This amount is part of trade and other receivables on the consolidated statement of financial position.
In preparation for the Company to potentially buy aircraft and bring them on balance sheet the Company altered the settlement process of payable and receivable Pre-Delivery Payments PDPs to from Airbus in March 2018.
This change in settlement method will significantly reduce the exposure of the Companys income statement to unpredictable FX gains and losses arising on returned USD deposits.
In addition, the change will improve the efficiency of cash management between Airbus and the Company with less cash transactions going backwards and forwards.
Therefore, the PDP balance kept with Airbus is no longer considered as a natural hedge of future USD cash outflows as it is intended to be kept with Airbus without any commitment and timing of its return.
Under a scenario of purchasing aircraft the PDP is a down-payment of the final purchase price of the aircraft, and upon the delivery of the aircraft Airbus will irrevocably retain the PDP.
The FX gains or losses in this case would therefore be capitalized as part of the cost of the aircraft asset and depreciated over the life of the aircraft.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 98 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Financial risk management continued Risk analysis continued Market risks continued Hedge year-end open positions continued c Fuel hedge: The fair value of the open positions was a 33.3 million gain 2017: 2.5 million gain recognised within other comprehensive income and assets 33.3 million in 2018 and 4.3 million in 2017 or liabilities nil in 2018 and 1.8 million in 2017, respectively.
The 33.3 million gain can be analysed further into 37.7 million intrinsic value gain and 4.4 million time value loss components.
The notional amount of the open positions was 626,000 metric tons 2017: 598,000 metric tons.
In relation to these open hedge positions the cash flows will occur and the hedge relationships will impact the statement of comprehensive income during the year ending 31 March 2019.
The company had only cash flow hedges in the year.
The amounts removed from equity during the year were all recycled to the statement of comprehensive income.
During the year the Group realised 16 million gain 2017: 15.5 million in other comprehensive income in relation to change in fair value of cash flow hedge open positions and as of 1 April 2017 in amount of 6.1 million time value gain was reclassified from retained earnings as a result of adoption of IFRS 9.
Hedge effectiveness During the year covered by these financial statements, based on the evaluation of the Group, the hedging transactions did not give rise to material ineffectiveness under IFRS 9.
As explained below in the credit risk section, in the opinion of the management none of the hedge counterparties had a material change in their credit status that would have influenced the effectiveness of the hedging transactions.
Sensitivity analysis The table below shows the sensitivity of the Groups profits to various markets risks for the current and the prior year.
2018 2017 Difference in Difference in profit after tax profit after tax in million in million Fuel price sensitivity Fuel price $100 higher per metric ton -77.0 -67.0 Fuel price $100 lower per metric ton 77.0 67.0 FX rate sensitivity USD EUR FX rate 0.05 higher meaning EUR stronger 35.4 29.8 FX rate 0.05 lower -35.4 -29.8 FX rate sensitivity GBP EUR FX rate 0.03 higher meaning EUR stronger -10.0 -7.7 FX rate 0.03 lower 10.0 7.7 FX rate sensitivity PLN EUR FX rate 0.15 higher meaning EUR stronger -5.1 -4.1 FX rate 0.15 lower 5.1 4.1 Interest rate sensitivity EUR Interest rate is higher by 100 bps 1.8 2.7 Interest rate is lower by 100 bps -1.8 -2.7 The interest rate sensitivity calculation considers the effects of varying interest rates on the interest income on bank deposits and on the expense from floating lease rentals.
The impact of these macro-economic variables on equity is the same as the impact on profit after tax, except for the fuel price and for the USD EUR FX rate variables where the equity impact would also include the change in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments that are open at the year end.
The fair value of these instruments was provided by the hedge counterparties and management has not calculated the theoretical value of these instruments for other scenarios.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 99 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Financial risk management continued Liquidity risks Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and the availability of funding.
The Group has an adequate liquidity position.
The Group invested excess cash in a conservative way, primarily in EUR and USD denominated short-term time deposits with high quality bank counterparties.
The table below analyses the Groups financial assets and liabilities receivable or payable either on cash base or net-settled derivative financial assets and liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the statement of financial position date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table below are the contractual undiscounted cash flows except for derivatives where fair values are presented.
Therefore, for certain asset and liability categories the amounts presented in this table can be different from the respective amounts presented in the statement of financial position.
Between three Within three months Between one and More than five months and one year five years years Total At 31 March 2018 million million million million million Financial assets Trade and other receivables 163.9 31.4 42.1 2.6 240.0 Derivative financial assets 15.0 16.7 2.5 - 34.2 Cash 979.6 - - - 979.6 Restricted cash 0.1 2.6 105.2 54.3 162.2 Total financial assets 1,158.6 50.7 149.8 56.9 1,416.0 Financial liabilities Borrowings 0.3 0.8 4.0 2.2 7.3 Convertible debt - 2.1 27.4 - 29.5 Trade and other payables 254.7 - - - 254.7 Derivative financial liabilities 2.0 10.8 0.9 - 13.7 Financial guarantees 1,004.3 - - - 1,004.3 Total financial liabilities 1,261.3 13.7 32.3 2.2 1,309.5 Between three Within three months Between one and More than five months and one year five years years Total At 31 March 2017 million million million million million Financial assets Trade and other receivables 124.8 11.8 69.9 4.5 211.0 Financial assets available for sale 1.0 - - - 1.0 Derivative financial assets 2.8 7.2 0.1 - 10.1 Cash 774.0 - - - 774.0 Restricted cash 0.1 1.0 48.9 105.9 155.9 Total financial assets 902.7 20.0 118.9 110.4 1,152.0 Financial liabilities Borrowings 0.3 0.8 4.0 3.3 8.4 Convertible debt - 2.1 29.5 - 31.6 Trade and other payables 197.7 - - - 197.7 Derivative financial liabilities 0.1 0.9 0.9 - 1.8 Financial guarantees 645.6 - - - 645.6 Total financial liabilities 843.7 3.8 34.4 3.3 885.1 The Group has obligations under financial guarantee contracts as detailed in Note 31.
The Company provided guarantees to third parties to guarantee the performance of its airline subsidiary in relation to aircraft lease contracts on a regular basis, and from 2017 also in relation to a contract for the provision of public services in Hungary.
These possible obligations are disclosed in the table above, with the shortest maturity under the financial guarantees line.
Management does not expect that any payment under these guarantee contracts will be required by the Company.
Other financial guarantee contracts relate to hedging, and convertible notes.
The respective liabilities are reflected under the appropriate line of the financial liabilities part of the table above.
Since the liability itself is already reflected in the table, it would not be appropriate to include also the financial guarantee provided by another Group entity for the same obligation.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 100 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Financial risk management continued Credit risk The Groups exposure to credit risk from individual customers is limited as the large majority of the payments for flight tickets are collected before the service is provided.
However, the Group has significant banking, hedging, aircraft manufacturer and card acquiring relationships that represent counterparty credit risk.
The Group analysed the creditworthiness of the relevant business partners in order to assess the likelihood of non-performance of liabilities due to the Group.
The credit quality of the Groups financial assets is assessed by reference to external credit ratings published by Standard & Poors or similar institutions of the counterparties as follows: AAA AA A AOther Unrated Total At 31 March 2018 million million million million million million million Financial assets Trade and other receivables - 3.3 - - 2.5 233.3 239.1 Derivative financial assets - 20.1 - 4.3 9.7 - 34.2 Cash and cash equivalents - 926.5 - - 51.7 1.3 979.6 Restricted cash - 162.2 - - - - 162.2 Total financial assets - 1,112.0 - 4.3 63.9 234.6 1,414.8 AAA AA A AOther Unrated Total At 31 March 2017 million million million million million million million Financial assets Trade and other receivables - - 1.6 - 2.0 205.1 208.6 Derivative financial assets - - 6.5 2.1 1.5 - 10.0 Financial assets available for sale - 1.0 - - - - 1.0 Cash and cash equivalents 0.5 - 622.5 100.0 50.7 0.3 774.0 Restricted cash - - 155.9 - - - 155.9 Total financial assets 0.5 1.0 786.4 102.1 54.2 205.4 1,149.6 The Other column in 2018 includes 52.2 million balance out of which 50.0 million is bank deposit with one of the banking partners of the Group, that has BBB rating.
From the unrated category within trade and other receivables the Group has 91.4 million 2017: 110.3 million receivables from different aircraft lessors in respect of maintenance reserves and lease security deposits paid see also Note 18.
However, given that the Group physically possesses the aircraft owned by the lessors and that the Group has significant future lease payment obligations towards the same lessors see Note 32, management does not consider the credit risk on maintenance reserve receivables to be material.
Based on the information above management does not consider the counterparty risk of either party being material and therefore no fair value adjustment was applied to the respective cash or receivable balances.
Fair value estimation The Group classifies its financial instruments based on the technique used for determining fair value into the following categories: Level 1: Fair value is determined based on quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: Fair value is determined based on inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: Fair value is determined based on inputs that are not based on observable market data that is, on unobservable inputs.
The following table presents the Groups financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 March 2018.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total million million million million Assets Derivative financial instruments - 34.2 - 34.2 - 34.2 - 34.2 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments - 13.7 - 13.7 - 13.7 - 13.7 The Group measures its derivative financial instruments at fair value, calculated with a technique by the banks involved in the hedging transactions that falls into the Level 2 category.
All the other financial assets and financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 101 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Financial risk management continued Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for Shareholders, to provide benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The capital structure of the Group consists of financial liabilities, cash and cash equivalents and equity.
Financial liabilities primarily consist of finance leases and convertible debt as disclosed in Notes 23 and 24 respectively.
Equity comprises issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the statement of changes in equity.
The overall capital risk management strategy of the Group remains unchanged from prior years.
Management reviews the Groups cost of capital on an ongoing basis as well as the risks associated with each capital instrument and makes recommendations to the Board for approval.
Critical accounting estimates and judgments made in applying the Groups accounting policies a Maintenance policy For aircraft held under operating lease agreements, provision is made for the minimum unavoidable costs of specific future obligations created by the lease at the time when such obligation becomes certain.
The amount of the provision involves making estimates of the cost of the heavy maintenance work that is required to discharge the obligation, including any end of lease costs.
The cost of heavy maintenance is capitalised and recognised as a tangible fixed asset and classified as an aircraft maintenance asset at the earlier of: a the time the lease re-delivery condition is no longer met: or b when maintenance, including enhancement, is carried out.
The calculation of the depreciation charge on such assets involves making estimates for the future utilisation of the aircraft and in the case of engines also of the future operating conditions of the engine.
The policy adopted by the Company, as summarized above, is only one of the policies available under IFRS in accounting for heavy maintenance for aircraft held under operating lease agreements.
A principal alternative policy involves recognising provisions for future maintenance obligations in accordance with hours flown or similar measure, and not only when lease re-delivery conditions are not met.
The directors believe the policy adopted by the Company provides the most reliable and relevant information about the Company's obligations to incur major maintenance expenditure on leased aircraft and at the same time it best reflects the fact that an aircraft has lower maintenance requirements in the early years of its operation.
b Hedge and derivative accounting Fair value of derivatives namely the open position of cash flow hedges is determined by the contracting financial institutions as per their industry practice.
As required, the fair values ascribed to those instruments are verified also by management using high-level models.
Further, the effectiveness of hedges is tested both prospectively and retrospectively to determine the appropriate accounting treatment of hedge gains and losses.
c Net presentation of government taxes and other similar levies The Groups accounting policy stipulates that where charges levied by airports or government authorities on a per passenger basis represent a government tax in fact or in substance, then such amounts are presented on a net basis in the statement of comprehensive income netted between the revenue and the airport, handling and en-route charges lines.
Management reviews all passenger-based charges levied by airports and government authorities to ensure that any amounts recovered from passengers in respect of these charges are appropriately classified within the statement of comprehensive income.
Given the variability of these charges and the number of airports and jurisdictions within which the Group operates, the assessment of whether these items constitute taxes in nature is an inherently complex area, requiring a level of judgment.
d Accounting for membership fees The Group operates the Wizz Discount Club WDC loyalty program for its customers.
Under this program customers can pay an annual membership fee, with the key benefit that during most of the twelve-month membership period they get access to special fares that are lower than the standard ticket prices.
The Group recognises the revenue from the membership fees following the pattern of customers taking benefits from the program.
This pattern is determined by management once a year, on the basis of the actual distribution of member flights in the preceding twelve months, and then applied prospectively.
It is unlikely that there would be a material change in the pattern within one year, because the underlying fact patterns for customers to buy membership, to buy tickets and then to fly those tickets are reasonably stable.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 102 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5.
Segment information Reportable segment information The chief operating decision maker CODM of the Group, as defined in IFRS 8 Operating segments is the senior management team of the Group.
The Group has two reportable segments: the airline and the tour operator business units, marketed under the Wizz Air and Wizz Tours brand names, respectively.
2018 2017 2018 Tour 2018 2017 Tour 2017 Airline operator Group Airline operator Group million million million million million million Total revenue 1,939.0 18.0 1,957.0 1,562.0 18.1 1,581.0 Less: inter-segment revenue 9.0 0.0 9.0 8.8 - 8.8 Revenue from external customers 1,930.0 18.0 1,948.0 1,553.1 18.0 1,571.2 Operating expenses 1,645.9 19.0 1,656.2 1,314.5 18.9 1,324.5 Operating profit loss 293.0 1.0 291.8 247.4 0.8 246.7 Profit loss after tax 276.4 1.0 275.1 246.7 0.9 246.0 Underlying profit loss after tax 276.4 1.0 275.1 226.1 0.9 225.3 In 2018 Financial income, financial expenses, depreciation and amortisation, and income tax expenses reported for the Group in the period are all related to the airline business.
There were no material non-cash items in the period for the tour operator business.
Entity-wide disclosures Products and services Revenue from external customers can be analysed by groups of similar services as follows: 2018 2017 million million Airline passenger ticket revenue 1,126.0 909.3 Airline ancillary revenue 804.0 643.9 Tour operator package revenue 18.0 18.1 Total revenue from external customers 1,948.0 1,571.2 Airline ancillary revenues arise mainly from baggage charges, booking payment handling fees, airport checkin fees, fees for various convenience services priority boarding, extended legroom and reserved seats, loyalty programme membership fees, and from commission on the sale of on-board catering, accommodation, car rental, travel insurance, bus transfers, premium calls and co-branded cards, all directly attributable to the lowfare business.
Geographic areas Revenue from external customers can be analysed by geographic area as follows: 2018 2017 million million EU 1,722.2 1,421.3 Other non-EU 225.8 149.9 Total revenue from external customers 1,948.0 1,571.2 Revenue was allocated to geographic areas based on the location of the first departure airport on each ticket booking.
Major customers The Group derives the vast majority of its revenues from its passengers and sells most of its tickets directly to the passengers as final customers rather than through corporate intermediaries tour operators, travel agents or similar.
Therefore, the Group does not have any major corporate customers.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 103 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 6.
Operating profit Auditors remuneration 2018 2017 000 000 Fees payable to Companys auditors for the audit of the consolidated financial statements 242 251 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and their associates for other services Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 39 39 Other services relating to taxation 417 446 Audit-related assurance and transaction services - - All other services 19 - Total remuneration of auditors 717 736 Inventories Inventories totalling 5.1 million were recognised as an expense in the year 2017: 3.3 million.
Staff numbers and costs The average monthly number of persons employed during the year, including Non-Executive Directors but excluding subcontracted staff such as rented pilots, analysed by category, was as follows: Number of persons 2018 2017 Non-Executive Directors 9 9 Crew and pilots 3,113 2,481 Administration and other staff 265 235 Total staff number 3,387 2,725 The aggregate compensation of these persons was as follows: 2018 2017 million million Wages and salaries 106.8 77.9 Pension costs 5.6 4.5 Social security costs other than pension 12.7 10.5 Share based payments 3.2 1.0 Subtotal 128.3 93.9 Subcontracted staff costs rented pilots 19.5 19.0 Total staff costs 147.8 112.9 8.
Directors emoluments 2018 2017 million million Salaries and other short-term benefits 1.6 1.5 Social security costs 0.2 0.1 Share based payments 1.1 0.4 Directors services and related expenses 0.2 0.2 Total Directors emoluments 3.1 2.2 2018 2017 Directors receiving emoluments 10 10 The number of Directors who in respect of their services received LTIP share options under long-term incentive schemes during the year 1 1 Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 104 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 9.
Exceptional items and underlying profit Exceptional items Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the financial statements where it is necessary to do so to provide further understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
They are material items of income or expense that have been shown separately due to the significance of their nature or amount.
Until 31 March 2017 the Group used to identify exceptional items and calculate an underlying profit measure that was different from the statutory profit after tax measure.
The principal source of these exceptional items was the change in the time value of open hedges, the accounting for which was passed through the income statement.
Following the adoption of IFRS 9, the Group changed its treatment of the change in the time value of such open hedges, recording them as reserve movements rather than through the income statement.
As a consequence, unless new material exceptional items arise, from the current year the Group has decided to present only the statutory profit after tax measure in its reporting.
In the 2017 financial year the Group had a net exceptional income of 18.8 million, consisting of: i exceptional gain of 14.3 million relating to the change in time value of open hedge positions, particularly on fuel caps: and ii exceptional income of 4.5 million relating to closing of fuel cap deals.
The Group had no similar transactions or impacts in 2018.
While the Group had some unrealised foreign exchange differences also in 2018, the impact of these was limited 3.8 million, see in Note 10 below and therefore this item on its own does not justify determining an underlying profit measure for the year, that would be different from the IFRS profit for the year.
Underlying profit 2018 2017 million million Profit for the period 275.1 246.0 Adjustments exclusions : Unrealised foreign exchange gain - 1.9 Exceptional items net gain - 18.8 Sum of adjustments - 20.7 Underlying profit after tax 275.1 225.3 The tax effects of the adjustments made above are insignificant.
Net financing income and expense 2018 2017 million million Interest income 2.8 0.3 Ineffective hedge gain - 0.3 Financial income 2.8 0.6 Interest expense Convertible debt 1.8 1.2 Finance lease 0.5 0.5 Other 2.7 2.3 Premium of expired fuel cap deals - 9.0 Financial expenses 5.0 13.0 Foreign exchange gain loss Realised 0.2 0.7 Unrealised 3.8 1.9 Net foreign exchange loss gain 3.6 2.6 Net exceptional financial income Note 9 - 18.8 Net financing expense income 5.8 9.1 Interest income and expense contain interest on financial instruments and, under the Other category the effect of the initial discounting of long-term deposits and the later unwinding of such discounting.
The fuel caps premium of 9.0 million in 2017 relates to the option fees for fuel caps expired in the period these were paid in the 2015 financial year.
No fuel cap deals were used by the Group in this year ended in March 2018.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 105 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 11.
Income tax expense Recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 2018 2017 million million Current year corporate tax 3.9 2.6 Other income based taxes 6.4 5.6 Deferred tax 0.7 1.6 Total tax charge 11.0 9.8 The Company has a tax rate of 7.8 per cent.
The tax rate relates to Switzerland, where the Company is tax resident.
The current tax charge for the year is different to the standard rate of corporation tax of 7.8 per cent.
The difference is explained below.
Reconciliation of effective tax rate 2018 2017 million million Profit before tax 286.1 255.8 Tax at the corporation tax rate of 7.8 per cent.
22.3 20.0 Effect of different tax rate of subsidiaries versus the parent company 17.7 15.8 Other income based foreign tax 6.4 5.6 Total tax charge 11.0 9.8 Effective tax rate 3.8% 3.8% The Company had no taxable income.
Substantially all the profits of the Group in 2018 and 2017 were made by Wizz Air Hungary Kft, the airline subsidiary of the Group, and substantially all the tax charges presented in this Note were incurred by this entity.
Other income based foreign tax represents the innovation contribution and the local business tax payable in Hungary in 2018 and 2017 by the Hungarian subsidiaries of the Group, primarily Wizz Air Hungary Kft.
Hungarian local business tax and innovation contribution are levied on an adjusted profit basis.
Recognised in the statement of other comprehensive income 2018 2017 million million Deferred tax 0.2 - Total tax charge 0.2 - Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 106 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 12.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during each period.
2018 2017 Profit from the year, million 275.1 246.0 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue 68,739,736 57,254,581 Basic earnings per share, EUR 4.00 4.30 There were also 29,830,503 Convertible Shares in issue at 31 March 2018 see Note 28.
These shares are non-participating, i. e. the profit attributable to them is nil.
Therefore, these shares are not included in the basic earnings per share calculation above.
Diluted earnings per share Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue with the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares that could have been issued in the respective year as a result of the conversion of the following convertible instruments of the Group: } Convertible Shares see Note 28 : } Convertible Notes see Note 24 : and } employee share options see Note 27 vested share options are included in the calculation.
The profit for the year has been adjusted for the purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share in respect of the interest charge relating to the debt which could have been converted into shares.
2018 2017 Profit for the year, million 275.1 246.0 Interest expense on convertible debt net of tax, million 1.8 1.2 Profit used to determine diluted earnings per share, million 277.0 247.2 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue 68,739,736 57,254,581 Adjustment for assumed conversion of convertible instruments 58,111,974 69,514,785 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for diluted earnings per share 126,851,711 126,769,366 Diluted earnings per share, EUR 2.18 1.95 The dilution effect of each class of convertible instrument from the total 58,111,974 dilutive shares in 2018 was the following: Convertible Shares: 33,693,517 shares: convertible debt: 24,246,715 shares: employee share options: 171,743 shares.
Proforma earnings per share The proforma earnings per share is a fully diluted non-IFRS measure defined by the Company, calculated as follows: 2018 2017 Underlying profit for the year, million 275.1 225.3 1 Interest expense on convertible debt, million 1.8 1.2 Profit used to determine proforma earnings per share, million 277.0 226.5 2 Number of shares in issue at year end 102,576,674 102,235,474 3 Adjustment for assumed conversion of convertible debt instruments 24,246,715 24,246,715 Adjustment for assumed conversion of employee share options 187,500 288,700 Fully diluted number of shares for proforma earnings per share 127,010,889 126,770,889 Proforma earnings per share, EUR 2.18 1.79 1 Interest expense on convertible debt is higher in 2018 because in 2017 it was reduced by refunds of interest withholding tax incurred in earlier periods.
2 The issued share number includes also the 29.8 million Convertible Shares in issue at 31 March 2018 2017: 44.8 million.
See Note 28 for share capital.
3 Interest outstanding on Convertible Notes in issue at year end is not taken into account for conversion because it is more likely to be paid in cash than converted into shares as it was the case also in the past.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 107 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 12.
Earnings per share continued Proforma earnings per share continued The calculation of the proforma underlying EPS is different from the calculation of the IFRS-diluted EPS measure in the following: } for earnings, the underlying profit for the year was used see Note 9, as opposed to the statutory IFRS profit for the year: and } for the fully diluted number of shares the year-end position was taken rather than the weighted average for the year.
While these factors had relevance until March 2017 they did not have relevance in the current year: therefore, the proforma earnings per share measure is now equal to the diluted earnings per share.
The proforma earnings per share measure is being disclosed only because of its relevance in the prior year.
Most of this increase in 2018 was related to the delivery of a spare engine from IAE.
Additions to aircraft maintenance assets were 88.2 million 2017: 69.9 million.
These additions were due to the fact that there were a significant number of engine-related new assets created in both years as engines became out of condition for LLP replacement.
Additions to advances paid to aircraft maintenance assets reflect primarily the advance payments made by the Group to the engine maintenance service provider under fleet hour agreements FHA.
Land and buildings includes the following amounts where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease: 2018 2017 million million Cost from capitalised finance lease 7.5 7.5 Accumulated depreciation 2.5 1.8 Net book amount 5.0 5.7 Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 108 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 14.
Intangible assets million Cost At 1 April 2016 12.5 Additions 7.2 Disposals 0.9 At 31 March 2017 18.8 Additions 11.1 Disposals - At 31 March 2018 29.9 Accumulated amortisation At 1 April 2016 6.8 Amortisation charge for the year 2.6 Disposals 0.9 At 31 March 2017 8.5 Amortisation charge for the year 3.8 Disposals - At 31 March 2018 12.3 Net book amount At 31 March 2018 17.6 At 31 March 2017 10.3 Of the 11.1 million additions during the year 4.5 million relates to landing slots at London Luton airport, purchased from Monarch Airlines.
As these landing slots have no expiry date and are expected to be used in perpetuity, they are considered to have indefinite life and accordingly are not amortized.
Tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax liabilities recognised Provisions for Advances paid for other liabilities Property, plant aircraft maintenance and charges and equipment assets Other Total million million million million million At 1 April 2016 2.1 1.4 1.4 - 4.9 Charged credited to: Profit or loss 0.1 1.1 0.2 0.6 1.6 Other comprehensive income - - - - - At 31 March 2017 2.2 2.5 1.2 0.6 6.5 Charged credited to: Profit or loss 0.3 0.5 0.4 0.1 0.7 Other comprehensive income - - - 0.2 0.2 At 31 March 2018 1.9 3.0 1.6 0.9 7.4 Less than one year - - - 0.9 0.9 Greater than one year 1.9 3.0 1.6 - 6.5 Deferred tax assets recognised Hedging reserve recognised in OCI Total million million At 1 April 2016 0.2 0.2 Charged to: Profit or loss - - Other comprehensive income 0.2 0.2 At 31 March 2017 - - Charged to: Profit or loss - - Other comprehensive income - - At 31 March 2018 - - Less than one year - - Greater than one year - - Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 109 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 15.
Tax assets and liabilities continued Unrecognised deferred tax assets Until 31 March 2010 Wizz Air Hungary was Hungarian tax resident and up to this date had accumulated a 30.0 million tax loss in Hungary.
This balance remained unchanged at 31 March 2018.
This loss can be utilised only to offset profits generated under Hungarian tax residency.
The Group does not expect to have profit generated under Hungarian tax residency in the foreseeable future and therefore no deferred tax asset is recognised in this respect.
Subsidiaries The Group has the following subsidiaries: Country of Class of Percentage Financial incorporation Principal activity shares held held year end Subsidiary undertakings Wizz Air Hungary Kft Hungary Airline operator Ordinary 100 31 March Cabin Crew Professionals Sp.
z o. o. Poland Dormant Ordinary 100 31 December Wizz Air Bosnia Bosnia and Crew company Ordinary 100 31 December Herzegovina Wizz Air Netherland Holding B. V. Netherlands Dormant Ordinary 100 31 March Dnieper Aviation LLC Ukraine Dormant Ordinary 100 31 December Wizz Air Ukraine Airlines LLC Ukraine Dormant Ordinary 100 31 December Wizz Tours Kft.
Hungary Online tour operator Ordinary 100 31 March Wizz Aviation Professionals Moldova Crew company Ordinary 100 31 December WA Pilot Academy Sp.
z. o. o. Poland Special purpose Ordinary 100 31 December company Wizz Air UK Limited UK Airline operator Ordinary 100 31 March WA Pilot Academy Sp.
z. o. o. was newly acquired in the period.
Its future purpose is to provide loans to students entering into the Groups cadet school programme in Poland.
The acquired company was insignificant hence the acquisition was not treated as a business combination.
Wizz Air UK Limited was newly registered in the period, with the purpose of establishing airline operations licensed by the UK Civil Aviation Authority.
The liquidation of Wizz Air Polska Sp.
z o. o. was finished in the period and the company was deleted from the Polish companies register.
Certain subsidiaries have a financial year end different from the Groups financial year due to the requirements of local legislation.
Inventories 2018 2017 million million Aircraft consumables 13.6 13.0 Emission trading scheme purchased allowances 8.0 11.9 Total inventories 21.6 24.9 During the year remnant stock with the book value of 0.1 million was written off to maintenance expenses 2017: 0.2 million.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 110 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 18.
Trade and other receivables 2018 2017 million million Non-current Receivables from lessors 43.7 67.3 Non-current trade and other receivables 43.7 67.3 Current Trade receivables 81.7 48.5 Other receivables from lessors 50.6 44.6 Other receivables 2.4 2.5 Total current other receivables 53.0 47.1 Less: provision for impairment of other receivables - - Other current receivables net 54.0 47.1 Prepayments, deferred expenses and accrued income 60.7 45.8 Current trade and other receivables 195.4 141.4 Total trade and other receivables 239.0 208.7 Receivables from lessors both current and non-current represent the deposits provided by Wizz Air to lessors as security in relation to the lease contracts and in relation to the funding of future maintenance events.
Impairment of trade and other receivables 2018 2017 million million Impaired receivables 2.8 other receivables 2.6 Allowances on impaired receivables - other receivables - The Group previously recorded 2.1 million receivables from Warsaw Modlin airport as compensation for damages which was immediately impaired in full.
However, the Group is legally claiming the full amount in court the next hearing is scheduled to 24 May 2018.
Financial assets available for sale 2018 2017 million million Unit-linked insurance serving as security deposit - 1.0 Total financial assets available for sale - 1.0 Financial assets available for sale represent a unit-linked insurance product which is invested in government bonds by the insurer.
This insurance serves as a security for the acquirer bank which collects card payments for the Group.
The Group was required to place a security deposit of 300 million Hungarian Forints approximately one million EUR behind this insurance.
This construction expired during this financial year.
Derivative financial instruments 2018 2017 million million Assets Non-current derivatives Cash flow hedges 2.5 0.1 Current derivatives Cash flow hedges 31.7 10.0 Total derivative financial assets 34.2 10.1 Liabilities Non-current derivatives Cash flow hedges 0.9 0.8 Current derivatives Cash flow hedges 12.8 1.1 Total derivative financial liabilities 13.7 1.8 The derivative financial instruments represent cash flow hedges see also Note 3.
The full value of a hedging derivative is classified as a current asset or current liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than twelve months.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 111 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 20.
Derivative financial instruments continued The cash flow hedges expiring in 2018 had an ineffective portion of nil 2017: 0.3 million.
Until 2017 the net position of assets and liabilities did not match the cash flow hedging reserve in the statement of financial position because: i the hedging reserve does not include the time value of open options, only the intrinsic value: and ii hedging with non-derivatives has an impact on the hedging reserve.
Starting from 1 April 2018 the Group adopted IFRS 9 and as a consequence the net position of assets and liabilities does not match the cash flow hedging reserve in the statement of financial position only due to hedging with non-derivatives has an impact on the hedging reserve.
The high mark-to-market gain derivative financial assets is due to the fact that fuel prices increased by more than 30% between 31 March 2017 and 31 March 2018, so there are significant gain on bought call option in the money and only a very minor loss on the puts as they are really out of the money.
The mark-to-market loss derivative financial liabilities is due to the foreign exchange hedge: USD lost 15% vs EUR, which means, that the hedges where the Group have a sold USD put at stronger levels, were creating losses 21.
Deferred interest 2018 2017 million million Non-current Deferred PDP interest 2.4 2.6 Deferred interest expense 1.0 2.1 3.4 4.7 Current Deferred PDP interest 0.2 1.2 Total deferred interest 0.2 5.9 Deferred interest expense represents the deferred initial discount adjustments calculated for non-current receivables.
Deferred PDP interest is the deferred part of PDP interest expenses incurred on leased aircraft or spare engines.
Such interest relates to aircraft or spare engine PDP payments financed by third parties, and is initially recognised under property, plant and equipment advances paid for aircraft.
When the leased aircraft or spare engine is delivered, PDP interest is reclassified to deferred interest expense.
It is then amortised on a straight-line basis over the lease term of the respective asset and the amortisation charge is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income as aircraft rental expense.
Restricted cash 2018 2017 million million Non-current financial assets 159.4 154.7 Current financial assets 2.8 1.2 Total restricted cash 162.2 155.9 Restricted cash comprises cash in bank, against which there are letters of credit issued or other restrictions in place governing the use of that cash, resulting from agreements with aircraft lessors or other business partners.
Restricted cash is excluded from cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement Restricted cash during the 2018 and 2017 financial years was held mainly on current account in Euros, earning no interest.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 112 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 23.
Borrowings 2018 2017 million million Non-current liabilities Finance lease liabilities 4.7 5.3 Total non-current borrowings 4.7 5.3 Current liabilities Finance lease liabilities 0.6 0.6 Total current borrowings 0.6 0.6 Total borrowings 5.3 5.9 Finance lease liabilities relate to an aircraft flight simulator asset and a maintenance hangar building leased by the Group.
2018 2017 million million Gross finance liabilities minimum lease payments No later than one year 1.0 1.0 Later than one year and no later than five years 4.0 4.0 Later than five years 2.3 3.3 7.3 8.3 Future finance charges on finance lease liabilities 2.0 2.4 Present value of finance lease liabilities 5.3 5.9 2018 2017 million million Present value of finance liabilities No later than one year 0.6 0.6 Later than one year and no later than five years 3.0 2.8 Later than five years 1.7 2.5 Present value of finance lease liabilities 5.3 5.9 The prior year numbers in the last two brackets have been corrected compared to the original disclosure made in 2017.
Convertible debt 2018 2017 million million Non-current financial liabilities 26.6 26.8 Current financial liabilities 0.3 0.3 Total convertible debt 26.9 27.1 Convertible debt is Convertible Notes held by Indigo Hungary LP and Indigo Maple Hill LP Indigo.
Principal and any accrued interest on the Convertible Notes are convertible into Ordinary Shares in Wizz Air Holdings Plc at conversion factors in the range of 1.01.5 for one share.
Such Ordinary Shares issued as a result of conversion in certain cases might be subject to restrictions on voting and dividend rights.
Until the notes are converted, interest on the notes is payable in cash with a coupon rate of interest of 8 per cent.
per annum, twice a year in February and in August.
Convertible Notes are guaranteed by Wizz Air Hungary Kft see Note 31.
For more information about the Groups exposure to interest rate risk, see Note 3.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 113 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 25.
Trade and other payables 2018 2017 million million Current liabilities Trade payables 60.1 72.1 Other trade payables 10.0 7.2 Accrued expenses 184.6 118.4 Total trade and other payables 254.7 197.7 26.
Deferred income 2018 2017 million million Non-current financial liabilities Deferred income 107.3 107.9 Current financial liabilities Unflown revenue 304.4 260.0 Other 25.7 20.9 330.1 280.9 Total deferred income 437.4 388.8 Non-current deferred income represents the value of benefit for the Group coming from concessions cash credits and free aircraft components received from aircraft and certain component suppliers, that will be recognised as a credit an aircraft rentals expenses decreasing item on a straight-line basis over the lease term of the respective asset.
Current deferred income represents the value of tickets paid by passengers for which the flight service is yet to be performed and the current part of the value of supplier credits received.
Employee benefits Share based payments The share based payment charge in the financial statements for the year relates to employee share options issued i during 20052015 under the 2005 International Employee Share Option Plan ESOP and ii during 2015 2017 under the 2014 Employee Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP of the Group.
The options are classified as equity-settled share based payments.
The Company issues new shares for any options exercised, irrespective of the method of exercise.
The fair value of the awards and options is recognised as staff cost over the estimated vesting period with a corresponding charge to equity.
The expenses other than social security recognised in relation to these instruments were the following: 2018 2017 million million ESOP options 0.2 0.4 LTIP options 3.0 0.6 Total share based payments charge 3.2 1.0 Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 114 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27.
Employee benefits continued Share based payments continued Long-term Incentive Plan LTIP Share options issued during the financial year Terms and conditions: Restricted Performance Options Options Number of options 35,292 282,982 Exercise price nil nil Vesting period 3 years 3 years Termination 10 years 10 years There are no individual performance conditions set for the employees to exercise their options after the threeyear vesting period other than that the employee must be in employment with one of the Group entities until and on the date of exercise of the options.
For the Performance Options the performance conditions are set as follows, with 50 per cent.
weighting for each: } total shareholder return TSR of the Group relative to the TSR of certain selected European airlines over the three-year period following the award: and } absolute growth in underlying, fully diluted earnings per share of the Group, measured over the period from 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2020.
The percentage of Performance Options that will vest will be determined on a pro-rata basis payout rate to the extent that the target levels for these performance conditions will be met by the Group.
The fair value of options granted was determined by using the Black-Scholes model, resulting in 25.4037.12 per share, depending on the date of grant.
The total cost of the grant was determined based on: i the fair value of options: ii the number of options expected to be forfeited due to employee turnover: and iii the estimated payout rate for Performance Options.
Share options in issue The number of LTIP share options in issue at year end is as follows: Restricted Performance Options Options Outstanding at the beginning of the year 55,250 324,573 Granted during the year 35,292 282,982 Exercised during the year - - Forfeited during the year 5,750 28,250 Outstanding at the end of the year 84,792 579,305 Exercisable at the end of the year - - Employee Share Option Plan ESOP Share options issued during the financial year There were no share options issued either during the year or in the prior year.
The last options under the ESOP were issued in January 2015 and by the end of the financial year all open options got vested.
There are no individual performance conditions set for the employees to exercise their vested options other than that the employees must be in employment with one of the Group entities until and on the date of exercise of the options.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 115 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27.
Employee benefits continued Share based payments continued Employee Share Option Plan ESOP continued Share options in issue The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows: 2018 2017 Weighted Weighted average 2018 average 2017 exercise price Number exercise price Number of options of options Outstanding at the beginning of the year 7.41 528,700 5.15 1,025,390 Granted during the year - - - - Exercised during the year 4.20 341,200 2.76 482,800 Forfeited during the year - - 2.00 13,890 Outstanding at the end of the year 13.22 187,500 7.41 528,700 Exercisable at the end of the year 13.22 187,500 2.55 288,700 The range of exercise prices on options outstanding at the year end was 2.2413.68 2017: 2.2413.68.
At the end of the financial year, the outstanding options had a weighted average outstanding contractual life of six years and seven months 2017: five years and four months.
Taxation Under the terms of both programmes all taxes payable on share options are the liability of the recipients of these benefits.
However, in certain cases the Company or one of its subsidiaries has a legal obligation to pay the employer social security on the income realised by the recipients.
To the extent the additional social security obligations can be estimated, the Group makes a provision for these already during the vesting period of the instruments.
Capital and reserves Share capital Number of shares 2018 2017 In issue at beginning of the year 102,235,474 101,752,674 Issued during the year for cash 341,200 482,800 Converted during the year from bonds - - In issue at end of the year fully paid 102,576,674 102,235,474 Ordinary Shares 72,746,171 57,404,971 Convertible Shares 29,830,503 44,830,503 2018 2018 2017 2017 Value of shares Authorised Equity: 170,000,000 2017: 170,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 0.0001 each and 80,000,000 2017: 80,000,000 non-voting, non-participating Convertible Shares of 0.0001 each 25,000 34,415 25,000 34,415 Allotted, called up and fully paid Equity: 102,576,674 2017: 102,235,474 shares of 0.0001 each 10,258 13,758 10,223 13,721 Ordinary Shares 7,275 9,757 5,740 7,704 Convertible Shares 2,983 4,001 4,483 6,017 During both 2018 and 2017 the increase in the total number of issued shares was due to the exercise of certain employee share options.
Ordinary Shares The holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 116 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 28.
Capital and reserves continued Convertible Shares In March 2015, linked to the listing of the Companys shares on the London Stock Exchange, certain convertible loans and notes including accrued interest were converted into non-voting non-participating Convertible Shares of the Company.
There were 29,830,503 Convertible Shares in issue at 31 March 2018, all fully paid 2017: 44,830,503.
The Convertible Shares are held by Indigo and can be converted into Ordinary Shares of the Company by Indigo on the condition of meeting certain criteria post-conversion regarding the overall shareholding structure of the Company.
Capital reserves Share premium Share premium has two main components.
207.2 million was recognised as a result of the Group reorganisation in October 2009.
It represents the estimated fair value of the Group at the date of the transaction.
The remaining 171.9 million as at 31 March 2018 was recognised as a result of new share issues made since October 2009.
These new share issues comprised the primary offering on the initial public offering of the Companys shares on the London Stock Exchange in March 2015, the conversion of some of the convertible debt instruments into shares and the conversion of certain employee share options into shares.
Within this, during the 2018 financial year 1.0 million increase was recorded in the share premium, all related to conversion of employee share options.
Reorganisation reserve Reorganisation reserve of 193.0 million was recognised as a result of the Group reorganisation in October 2009.
It is equal to the difference between the fair value of the Group at the date of reorganisation 209.0 million and the share capital of the Group at the same date 16.0 million.
Equity part of convertible debt The equity part of convertible debt in equity comprises the equity component of compound instruments issued by the Company.
The amount of the convertible debts classified as equity of 8.3 million 2017: 8.3 million is net of attributable transaction costs of 0.5 million.
Share based payment charge The share based payment balance of 7.1 million credit 2017: 3.9 million corresponds to the recognised cumulative charge of share options and share awards provided to the employees and Directors under longterm incentive schemes.
This balance is recognised directly in retained earnings.
Cash flow hedging reserve The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative unrealised net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
The gross amount of cumulative unrealised change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments was 19.0 million gain 2017: 2.6 million gain, while the deferred tax effect was 0.3 million loss 2017: 0.03 million loss.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges Aircraft maintenance Other Total million million million At 1 April 2016 83.7 1.2 84.9 Non-current provisions 41.2 - 41.2 Current provisions 42.5 1.2 43.7 Capitalised within property, plant and equipment 67.9 - 67.9 Charged to comprehensive income - 1.2 1.2 Used during the year 39.8 0.5 40.3 At 31 March 2017 111.8 1.9 113.7 Non-current provisions 77.5 - 77.5 Current provisions 34.3 1.9 36.2 Capitalised within property, plant and equipment 87.6 - 87.6 Charged to comprehensive income - 1.4 1.4 Used during the year 48.7 1.0 49.7 At 31 March 2018 150.7 2.3 153.0 Non-current provisions 94.8 - 94.8 Current provisions 55.9 2.3 58.2 Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 117 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 29.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges continued Non-current provisions relate to future aircraft maintenance obligations of the Group on leased aircraft and spare engines, falling due beyond one year from the balance sheet date.
Current aircraft maintenance provisions relate to heavy maintenance obligations expected to be fulfilled in the coming financial year.
The amount of provision reflects managements estimates of the cost of heavy maintenance work that will be required in the future to discharge obligations under the Groups operating lease agreements see Note 4.
Maintenance provisions in relation to engines covered by FHA agreements are netted off with the FHA prepayments made to the engine maintenance service provider in respect of the same group of engines.
The increase in maintenance provisions from 2017 to 2018 relates primarily to new provisions made for engine Life Limited Part LLP replacements.
Other provisions relate to future liabilities under the Groups customer loyalty programme, all within one year.
Financial instruments Fair values The fair values of the financial instruments of the Group together with their carrying amounts shown in the statement of financial position are as follows: Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value 2018 2018 2017 2017 million million million million Trade and other receivables due after more than one year 43.7 43.7 67.3 67.3 Restricted cash 162.2 162.2 155.9 155.9 Financial assets available for sale - - 1.0 1.0 Derivative financial assets 34.2 34.2 10.1 10.1 Trade and other receivables due within one year 195.4 195.4 141.4 141.4 Cash and cash equivalents 979.6 979.6 774.0 774.0 Trade and other payables due within one year 254.7 254.7 197.7 197.7 Derivative financial liabilities 13.7 13.7 1.9 1.9 Convertible debt 26.9 26.9 27.1 27.1 Borrowings 5.3 5.3 5.9 5.9 Net balance of financial instruments asset 1,114.5 1,114.5 917.1 917.1 The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market such as long-term deposits among the non-current other receivables is determined by estimated discounted cash flows.
The carrying value less impairment provision of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values due to the short-term nature of trade receivables and payables.
Long-term financial assets and liabilities which are classified as fair value through profit and loss are recognised on fair value.
Trade and other receivables due after more than one year are almost exclusively maintenance reserves, with an average term of approximately four years.
The fair value of these assets is determined by discounting at a rate of interest of four-years US Dollar swap rate prevailing on the last day of the financial year.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is based on their actual mark-to-market evaluation of the financial institutions.
During the year a 15.6 million gain 2017: 24.5 million loss was realised on derivative financial assets and liabilities in the income statement.
During the year a 2,000 gain 2017: 16,000 gain was realised on financial assets available for sale.
Effective interest rates analysis Interest-bearing financial liabilities The following table indicates the effective interest rate of the interest-bearing liabilities of the Group on the statement of financial position date and the periods in which they mature.
Convertible loans and notes are denominated in EUR, while the other short-term loans are denominated in US Dollars.
2018 2017 Within One to Two to Above Within One to Two to Above one two five five one two five five Effective Total year years years years Effective Total year years years years interest interest rate million million million million million rate million million million million million Convertible Notes 7.4% 26.9 0.3 - 7.4% 27.1 0.3 - 26.8 - 26.6 - Finance lease liability 1 8.4% 2.9 0.5 0.5 1.9 - 8.4% 3.4 0.5 0.5 1.7 0.7 Finance lease liability 2 7.4% 2.4 0.1 0.1 0.5 1.7 7.4% 2.5 0.1 0.1 0.5 1.8 Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 118 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30.
Financial instruments continued Interest earning financial assets The Group invests excess cash in a conservative way, primarily in in short-term time deposits on market rate at major banking groups.
Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities The following table includes changes in net borrowings reconciled with their effects on the Consolidated statement of cash flows.
2018 2017 million million Net borrowings at the beginning of the year 33.0 33.6 Paid interest 1.7 1.1 Repayment of convertible debt and other borrowings 0.6 0.5 Change in net borrowings from cash flows 2.3 1.6 Accrued interest 1.5 0.9 Net borrowings at the end of the year 32.2 33.0 Interest paid in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows also contains 1.1m 2017: 1.3m additional interests not related to net borrowings: these are negative interests incurred on deposits held at different banks.
Financial guarantees The Company has provided parent guarantees to certain lessors of its aircraft fleet, to guarantee the performance of its airline subsidiaries under the respective lease contracts.
The Company has provided parent guarantee to the Hungarian Government, to guarantee the performance of its airline subsidiary in relation to a public services contract for the scheduled transport of passengers between Hungary and five West-Balkan countries.
The Company has provided parent guarantees to certain hedging counterparties, to guarantee the performance of Wizz Air Hungary Kft, under the respective hedge contracts.
The Company in April 2018 provided parent guarantee to the UK Civil Aviation Authority, to guarantee the performance of Wizz Air UK Limited in the context of the UK Operating License application process of Wizz Air UK Limited.
The note purchase agreement for Convertible Notes contains a guarantee and indemnity, pursuant to which Wizz Air Hungary Kft, inter alia, guarantees to Indigo Hungary LP and Indigo Maple Hill LP the punctual performance by the Company of its obligations under the note purchase agreement.
Lease commitments The total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating lease rentals are as follows: 2018 2017 million million Payments due: Within one year 334.8 309.7 Between one and five years 1,307.1 1,269.5 More than five years 743.1 831.1 Total operating lease commitments 2,385.0 2,410.3 The majority 97 per cent.
of the commitments relate to aircraft operating lease contracts.
The above table includes also the lease costs of those aircraft that are not yet delivered but for which the lease contract was already signed before the statement of financial position date.
The lease payments are not subject to future escalation, but 14 of the aircraft lease contracts are on a floating rate and thus the lease payments for these vary with the US Dollar market rates of interest.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 119 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 33.
Capital commitments At 31 March 2018 the Group had the following capital commitments: } a commitment to purchase 276 Airbus aircraft of the A320 family in the period 20182026.
Of the 276 aircraft 20 relate to the ceo version of the A320 family from purchase orders placed prior to 2015 and in June 2017 while the remaining 256 relate to the neo version 110 from the purchase order placed in June 2015 and 146 from the purchase order placed in November 2017.
The total commitment is valued at US$34.1 billion 27.7 billion at list prices in 2018 US Dollar terms as at 31 March 2017: US$16.5 billion 15.4 billion, valued at 2017 list prices.
As at the date of approval of this document 20 of the 276 aircraft all related to the ceo version are covered by a sale and leaseback agreement: and } a commitment to purchase 19 IAE spare aircraft engines in the period 20182024.
Of the 19 engines three relate to the ceo version of the IAE engines while the remaining 16 to the neo version.
With regards to the neo engines, the Group in July 2016 entered into an engine selection agreement with Pratt & Whitney that, among other matters, included a commitment for the Group to purchase 16 spare engines starting from 2019.
The total commitment is valued at US$276.0 million 224.2 million at list prices in 2018 US Dollar terms as at March 2017: US$146.4 million 136.9 million, valued at 2017 list prices.
As at the date of approval of this document the 19 engines are not yet financed.
Contingent liabilities Legal disputes European Commission state aid investigations Five of the European Commissions ongoing state aid investigations, which are in their formal phase, concern arrangements between Wizz Air and certain airports to which it flies, namely, Timioara, Cluj-Napoca, Trgu Mure, Beauvais and Girona.
Wizz Air has submitted its legal observations and supporting economic analyses of these arrangements to the European Commission.
Ultimately, an adverse decision by the European Commission could result in a repayment order for the recovery from Wizz Air of any amount determined by the European Commission to be illegal state aid.
None of these ongoing investigations are expected to lead to exposure that is material to the Group.
The European Commission has given notice that the state aid investigations involving Wizz Air will be assessed on the basis of new EU Guidelines on State aid to airports and airlines which were adopted by the European Commission on 20 February 2014.
Where relevant, Wizz Air has made further submissions to the European Commission in connection with this notification.
Claims by Carpatair Carpatair, a regional airline based in Romania, started a number of cases in the Romanian courts during 2012 and 2013 which relate to Carpatairs allegations that Timioara airport granted unlawful state aid to Wizz Air pursuant to an agreement between the parties or by virtue of the publicly available scheme of charges published by Timioara airport.
Wizz Air is intervening in the defence of these claims, either in its own right or in support of Timioara airport.
One of these cases determined that state aid existed in the 2010 scheme of charges, but failed to substantiate that decision or to quantify the amount involved.
Following this decision, Carpatair began a case in which both Timioara airport and Wizz Air are named as defendants and, pursuant to which, Carpatair aims to have the alleged state aid under the 2010 scheme of charges quantified and a repayment order issued.
Wizz Air understands that the Romanian Chamber of Accounts has issued a decision requiring Timioara airport to recover from Wizz Air an amount of approximately 3 million in respect of the state aid attributable to the 2010 and 2011 scheme of charges despite there having been no expert quantification of the amount and the airport has now started proceedings which Wizz Air is defending.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 120 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 34.
Contingent liabilities continued Legal disputes continued Claims by Carpatair continued In January 2016 Carpatair filed a new legal action registered with the Bucharest Tribunal against Timioara airport, the Romanian Ministry of Transports, the Ministry of Public Finances representing the Romanian State and Wizz Air.
By the said legal action Carpatair asked the court to order the four defendants to pay, jointly, to Carpatair damages preliminarily estimated to amount to 92 million and interest related to the said amount, resulting from alleged state aid granted by Timioara airport to Wizz Air, from the existence of a marketing agreement between Timioara airport and Wizz Air and from an abuse of dominant position on the part of Timioara airport.
The courts decision delivered in December 2016 upheld the objection raised by the Company that the Bucharest Tribunal lacked jurisdiction to hear the case and that the case should be heard by the Administrative Litigation Section of the Bucharest Court of Appeals.
The case was therefore forwarded to the Bucharest Court of Appeals Administrative and Fiscal Litigation Section where a hearing was scheduled in May 2017.
The Bucharest Court of Appeals decided however that the competent court was the Bucharest Tribunal and sent the case to the High Court to settle the conflict of jurisdiction.
On 27 September 2017 the High Court confirmed that the competent court to hear the case was the Bucharest Tribunal.
The first hearing took place in April 2018 with no significant developments, the second hearing is set to 18 June 2018.
Subsequent events There were no matters arising, between the statement of financial position date and the date on which these financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors, requiring adjustment or disclosure in accordance with IAS 10, Events after the reporting period, other than the following: } in April 2018 the Group received investment grade credit ratings from Fitch rating BBB and from Moodys rating Baa3 : and } Wizz Air UK Limited, the new airline subsidiary of the Group, was in April 2018 granted an Air Operators Certificate and Operating Licence by the United Kingdoms Civil Aviation Authority.
Related parties Identity of related parties Related parties are: } Indigo Hungary LP and Indigo Maple Hill LP collectively referred to as Indigo here, because it appointed two Directors to the Board of Directors all in service at 31 March 2018 : } key management personnel Directors and Officers : and Indigo, Directors and Officers altogether held 23.8 per cent.
of the voting shares of the Company at 31 March 2018 2017: 23.3 per cent..
Transactions with related parties There were no transactions with related parties during the fiscal year except as indicated below.
Transactions with Indigo During the period Indigo sold 10,740,633 of its existing holding of Ordinary Shares in the Company and converted 15,000,000 of its holding of Convertible Shares into Ordinary Shares of the Company.
At 31 March 2018 Indigo held 15,000,000 Ordinary Shares equal to 20.6 per cent.
of the Companys issued share capital and 29,830,503 Convertible Shares of the Company 2017: 10,740,633 Ordinary Shares and 44,830,503 Convertible Shares.
Indigo has interest in convertible debt instruments issued by the Company see Note 24.
The Companys liability to Indigo, including principal and accrued interest, was 26.9 million at 31 March 2018 2017: 27.1 million.
During the year ended 31 March 2018 the Company entered into transactions with Indigo as follows: } the Company recognised interest expense on convertible debt instruments held by Indigo in the amount of 2.0 million 2017: 2.0 million : and } fees of 0.1 million 2017: 0.1 million were paid to Indigo in respect of the remuneration of two of the Directors who were delegated by Indigo to the Board of Directors of the Company.
Accounts and other information Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 121 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 36.
Related parties continued Transactions with related parties continued Transactions with key management personnel Officers members of executive management and Directors of the Board are considered to be key management personnel.
The compensation of key management personnel, including Non-Executive Directors, is as follows: 2018 2017 million million Salaries and other short-term employee benefits 5.1 4.3 Social security costs 1.1 0.7 Share based payments 2.3 0.6 Amounts paid to third parties in respect of Directors service 0.2 0.2 Total key management compensation expense 8.7 5.7 The total key management compensation expense was higher than in 2017 primarily because the notional charge for the Long-term Incentive Plan increased due to a number of factors new annual batch of options issued in 2017, new Officer nominations promotions in 2017, higher payout ratio expected on performance options, etc.
Transactions with den Rent Kft.
den Rent Kft is no longer a related party as of 31 March 2018.
Ultimate controlling party In the opinion of the Directors there is no individual controlling party in relation to the Company's issued Ordinary Shares.
As at 24 April 2018 approximately 51.8 per cent.
of the Ordinary Shares in the Company were owned by Qualifying Nationals.
Shareholders and potential investors are reminded that the Groups Hungarian operating licence depends, inter alia, on Qualifying Nationals owning more than 50 per cent.
The Companys articles of association enable the Directors to take action to ensure that the amount of Ordinary Shares held by Non-Qualifying Nationals does not reach a level that could jeopardise the Groups entitlement to continue to hold or enjoy the benefit of any operating licence that benefits the Group.
Qualifying Nationals include: i EEA nationals, ii nationals of Switzerland and iii in respect of any undertaking, an undertaking that satisfies the conditions as to nationality of ownership and control of undertakings granted an operating licence contained in Article 4 f of the Air Services Regulation, as such conditions may be amended, varied, supplemented or replaced from time to time, or as provided for in any agreement between the EU and any third country whether or not such undertaking is itself granted an operating licence.
A Non-Qualifying National is any person who is not a Qualifying National in accordance with the definition above.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 122
