Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information General information There are a number of standards and interpretations issued by the IASB Company information that are effective for financial statements after this reporting period.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC is a public limited company These are detailed below: incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 Registration number 358949.
The Company is domiciled in the United IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Kingdom and its registered address is Hilmore House, Gain Lane, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was published in July 2014 and will be Bradford, BD3 7DL, United Kingdom.
effective for the Group from the period beginning 5 February 2018.
The standard replaces IAS 39 Recognition and Measurement and is Basis of preparation applicable to financial assets and financial liabilities.
The financial statements have been prepared for the 53 weeks ended The main changes the new standard introduces are: 4 February 2018 2017: 52 weeks ended 29 January 2017 in accordance new requirements for the classification and measurement of financial with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International assets and financial liabilities: Financial Reporting Standards Interpretation Committee IFRS IC interpretations as adopted by the European Union and with those parts a new model for recognising impairments of financial assets: and of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under changes to hedge accounting by aligning hedge accounting more IFRS.
IFRS and IFRS IC interpretations are issued by the International closely to an entitys risk management objectives.
Accounting Standards Board the IASB and must be adopted into The Group will apply the modified retrospective approach for European Union law, referred to as endorsement, before they become transition, including no requirement to restate comparative amounts.
mandatory under the IAS Regulation.
Any differences in carrying values will be recognised as an adjustment The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
to the opening balance sheet at 5 February 2018.
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, rounded The Group has assessed in detail the impact of the three areas of the to the nearest million, except in some instances, where it is deemed new standard on the consolidated financial statements.
The Group relevant to disclose the amounts up to two decimal places.
They are does not expect any material changes in relation to accounting policies, drawn up on the historical cost basis of accounting, except as disclosed classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities, nor in the accounting policies set out within these financial statements.
for hedge accounting as detailed in note 7.1 of the financial statements.
IFRS 9 also introduces a forward looking approach to impairment of The Groups accounting policies have, unless otherwise stated, financial assets which results in earlier recognition of credit losses.
been applied consistently to all periods presented in these The Group has assessed the impact of IFRS 9 in this area, with reference financial statements.
to all financial assets including trade receivables, and concluded that Accounting reference date the impact will be immaterial.
The accounting period of the Group ends on the Sunday falling IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers between 29 January and 4 February each year.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers was published in May 2014 and will be effective for the Group from the period New IFRS and amendments to IAS and interpretations beginning 5 February 2018.
The standard replaces IAS 18 Revenue, IAS The following amendments to standards are mandatory for the first 11 Construction contracts and related interpretations.
The standard time for the financial period ended 4 February 2018: introduces a five-step approach to the timing and recognition of revenue based on performance obligations in customer contracts.
Amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows Under IFRS 15, revenue should only be recognised when a customer The amendment to IAS 7 requires additional disclosures about changes obtains control of goods or services and has the ability to direct the in an entitys financing liabilities arising from both cash flow and use and obtain the benefits from the goods or services.
It applies to all non-cash flow items.
The amendment applies to changes in financial contracts with customers, except those in the scope of other standards.
assets as well as liabilities if the cash flows from those financial assets are included in cash flows from financing activities in the cash flow The Group will apply the modified retrospective approach for transition statement.
The Group has applied the amendment to the disclosures set out in the standard.
The cumulative effect of initial application in the financial statements see note 6.4.
There is no material impact will be recognised as an adjustment to the opening balance sheet on the Group as a result of applying this amendment.
at 5 February 2018, without restating comparative amounts.
Other than the amendment to IAS 7 noted above, there have The Group has performed a detailed impact assessment, identifying been no significant changes to accounting under IFRS which have all current sources of revenue and analysing accounting requirements affected the Groups reported results for the period.
The Group has for each under IFRS 15.
The Group has concluded that the adoption considered the following amendments to published standards that of IFRS 15 will not have a material impact on the consolidated financial are effective for the first time for the 53 weeks ended 4 February 2018 statements as the vast majority of transactions volume and value are and concluded that they are either not relevant to the Group or they for sale of goods in stores or online where the transfer of control is do not have a significant impact on the Groups financial statements.
clear either at the till or on delivery of goods.
The impact assessment These amendments are: also covered areas which require further specific consideration such as customer loyalty schemes, rights of return and wholesale supply Amendments to IAS 12 Income taxes on recognition of deferred arrangements and concluded that there is no material impact on the tax assets for unrealised losses: and current accounting policies for revenue recognition applied by the Annual improvements 2014-2016.
Group, which are disclosed in note 1.1 of the financial statements.
67 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 18 General information continued Amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits New IFRS and amendments to IAS and interpretations An amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits was published in February continued 2018 and will be effective for the Group from the period beginning IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration 4 February 2019.
The amendment applies prospectively in connection IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration with accounting for plan amendments, curtailments and settlements.
was issued in December 2016 and will be effective for the Group from The amendment requires entities to use updated assumptions to the period beginning 5 February 2018.
The interpretation clarifies the determine current service cost and net interest for the remainder date to be used in determining the initial exchange rate for transactions, of the period after a plan amendment, curtailment or settlement.
relating to advance payments or receipts in a foreign currency, to be The Group is in the process of assessing the impact of the amendment.
the date the related non-monetary asset or liability is first recognised.
However, at this stage it is not yet practicable to fully quantify the effect The Group will apply the interpretation prospectively to assets, of this amendment on these consolidated financial statements.
expenses and income recognised on or after 5 February 2018, including where related non-monetary assets and liabilities from advance IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over income tax treatments consideration have been recognised before this date.
IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over income tax treatments was issued in June 2017 and will be effective for the Group from the period beginning The Group has performed an impact assessment and believes that 4 February 2019.
The interpretation covers how the Group accounts the interpretation will not have a material impact on the consolidated for taxation, where there is some uncertainty over whether treatments financial statements as sales and purchases involving advanced in the tax return will be accepted by HMRC or the relevant overseas consideration in foreign currencies are negligible.
Each uncertain treatment or combination of treatments IFRS 16 Leases is considered for whether it will be accepted, and if probable taxable IFRS 16 Leases was published in January 2016 and will be effective profits losses, tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax for the Group from the period beginning 4 February 2019, replacing rates are accounted for consistently with the tax return.
The main principle of the standard is to eliminate the dual Group accounts for each treatment using whichever of the two allowed accounting model for lessees under IAS 17, which distinguishes between measurement methods is expected to best predict the final outcome on-balance sheet finance leases and off-balance sheet operating leases, the single most likely outcome or a probability weighted-average value and to provide a single model for lessee accounting.
IFRS 16 requires of a range of possible outcomes.
lessees to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for leases.
The new standard allows for two different transition approaches, Accounting requirements for lessors as disclosed in note 3.1 will be fully retrospective and modified retrospective.
The Group has not yet substantially unchanged from IAS 17. concluded on a transition method and as such it is not possible to fully The standard represents a significant change in the accounting and quantify the impact of IFRIC 23 at this stage, though it is not expected reporting of leases for lessees and it will impact the income statement to be material as the Group has taken a comparable approach to the and balance sheet as well as statutory and alternative performance interpretation in previous periods.
measures used by the Group.
Basis of consolidation The impact on the financial statements on transition to IFRS 16, where the Group is the lessee, will depend on the approach taken by the Subsidiaries including partnerships are all entities over which the Group.
The new standard allows for two different transition approaches, Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when it has power fully retrospective and modified retrospective.
Both approaches will over that entity, is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its impact the income statement, balance sheet and disclosure when involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns adopted including the opening balance sheet at 4 February 2019, through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated although the amounts will differ dependent on the approach taken.
from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date the control ceases.
The financial The Group is currently in the process of assessing the impact of the statements of subsidiaries used in the consolidation are prepared for new standard, deciding on the transition approach and identifying the same reporting period as the Company and are based on consistent process, systems and information required when adopted.
Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and phase of work, which is still in progress, has involved assessing and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions are modelling the impact of the new standard for a sample of leases and eliminated on consolidation.
beginning to consider assumptions and assessing data requirements.
The Group has not yet concluded on a transition approach and as such it is not possible to fully quantify the impact of IFRS 16 at this stage.
68 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information Stock Foreign currencies Certain estimates are required to assess the net realisable value Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange of stock, along with provisions for obsolete and slow moving stock, at the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary where estimation is required.
The Groups accounting policy for assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currency are stock is provided in note 5.1. retranslated at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the income Pensions statement for the period.
Accounting for defined benefit pension schemes requires the application of a number of assumptions which have an impact on Critical accounting judgements the valuation of the schemes assets and liabilities.
The significant assumptions include discount rate, inflation, rate of salary increases The critical judgement made in the process of applying the Groups and longevity.
Details of these assumptions are provided in note 8. accounting policies are detailed below: Items excluded from underlying earnings Alternative Performance Measures The Directors consider that the underlying earnings measure The Directors measure the performance of the Group based on a range provides useful information for shareholders on underlying trends of financial measures, including measures not recognised by EU-adopted and performance.
These measures are consistent with how IFRS.
These Alternative Performance Measures may not be directly business performance is measured internally by the Board and the comparable with other companies Alternative Performance Measures Executive Committee.
and the Directors do not intend these to be a substitute for, or superior Underlying profit and underlying earnings per share measures are to, IFRS measures.
For definitions of the Alternative Performance not recognised measures under EU-adopted IFRS and may not be Measures used, see the Glossary on page 127. directly comparable with adjusted measures used by other companies.
The classification of items excluded from underlying earnings requires judgement after considering the nature andintentions of a transaction.
The Groups definition of items excluded from underlying earnings, together with further details of adjustments made during the period, are provided in note1.4.
Sources of estimation uncertainty The areas of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of resulting in material adjustment to carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are detailed below.
These estimates and assumptions are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors that the Directors believe to be reasonable.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets and onerous property commitments Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are reviewed annually for impairment or where changes in circumstances indicate impairment or impairment reversal.
The recoverable amount is estimated when the impairment review is conducted.
Further detail is provided in notes 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3.
Where property contracts for which expected future cash flows are less than the future contract commitments, an onerous contract provision is recognised.
Judgement is required in applying estimates to assess the level of provision required.
Further detail is provided in notes 5.1 and 5.5.
Commercial income Commercial income is accounted for as a deduction from the cost of purchase, and it is recognised in accordance with signed supplier agreements, with most income subject to little or no subjectivity or judgement.
However, a certain level of estimation or judgement is required in assessing future sales or purchase volumes and whether performance obligations are achieved.
The Groups recognition policy for commercial income along with areas of estimation is included in note1.1.
