Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information Information at your fingertips You are also able to preview selected items Webcasts Customer from ranges such as Nutmeg and Market Street, Webcasts of the Directors delivering the Our website, www.
com, allows you and our new caf offers, in-store services, preliminary results for 2017 18 on 14 March 2018 to shop online, search hundreds of inspirational award wins, pharmacies, glass hire and details are available.
products and recipes for the food we make and of our new store openings online.
As standard, Shareholder information provide, and find out useful information about morrisons.
com also provides a mobile-friendly Other relevant shareholder information is our stores and the services they offer.
online Store Finder where you can find details available, for example share price history, of your nearest store, opening times and The delivery service of Morrisons.
com now dividends, financial calendar and corporate services it offers.
covers over 60% of Great Britain.
that we cover is growing all the time with the Electronic communications North East, Isle of Wight and parts of East Anglia Corporate Electronic communications eComms is the opened up to customers in the last 12 months.
fastest and most environmentally friendly way Our corporate website, A postcode checker makes it easy to see if you to communicate with our shareholders.
com, is a one-stop are eligible for our home delivery service.
Instead of receiving paper copies of the annual portal that exists for the benefit of our At Morrisons.
com you can: investors, the public and the media.
This site and financial results, notices of shareholder Purchase over 29,000 Morrisons grocery meetings and other shareholder documents, has the following sections: products, including over 1,000 Best you will receive an email to let you know this About Morrisons products and 9,000 General Merchandise information is available on our website.
You will find information about the Group, branded products: its operations, strategy and structure, and Visiting our website to obtain our results Navigate from our home page to all our various past financial information.
reduces our environmental impact by saving websites, including our newly deployed online on paper and also reduces our print and Jobs Florist www.
co. uk, and our new distribution costs.
Career opportunities and information all year round order and collect service for about working for Morrisons.
Sign up to eComms on our website at gatherings and special occasions: For our dedicated recruitment website, go to www.
com and follow Benefit from competitive one-off delivery www.
co. uk jobs theinvestor eComms link.
charges or purchase a delivery pass for unlimited deliveries for a one-off fee: Media centre Latest releases about the growing estate Check out latest promotions and seasonal of Morrisons, along with promotions and events, including online exclusive deals: product news.
Review and research in-store only events and Corporate responsibility when its gone its gone promotions, such Here you can find out about our corporate as those offered on Black Five Days: responsibility ethos, including how we take Sign up for our latest offers and our marketing good care of our environment, society and how by email: we go about business.
co. uk cr Find recipes based on our ingredients and Investors inspired by our campaigns and events: Presentations, announcements and Read content on healthy eating, reducing food financial reports can be quickly and easily waste and our support for various charitable downloaded or viewed on-screen as PDFs.
causes such as CLIC Sargent or the Morrisons You can easily navigate around the Annual Foundation: and Report and Financial Statements 2017 18 Leave or research a Trustpilot review about on-screen, viewing only the parts you want the customer service received at Morrisons, to, at www.
com annualand with four stars Morrisons is rated the report-2018 highest of the UK multiples.
You can also sign up to and manage your More Card account on our website, and earn points on all your purchases.
In our dedicated area, you can find out what our loyalty card scheme has to offer, check your points balance and make changes to preferences.
Designed & Produced by Printing by Not all products are available online.
However, Radley Yeldar Geoff Neal Group the website is an excellent vehicle for finding Paper stock: This report is printed ry.
com out more about things we offer and you can on Amadeus Offset uncoated, do this on the website through your desktop, a 100% recycled paper.
Photography your smartphone using our App and even using Amadeus Offset is manufactured your voice through an Alexa device a first for Board and Executive to the certified environmental a UK Supermarket.
Committee portraits by management system ISO 14001.
131 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Hilmore House, Gain Lane Bradford BD3 7DL Telephone: 0845 611 5000 Visit our website: www.
