Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information 7 Financial risk and hedging 7.1 Accounting policies Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Derivatives are transacted to mitigate financial risks that arise as a result of the Groups operating activities and funding arrangements.
At the inception of a hedge, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
The Group assesses whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item at inception and it also assesses whether the hedge has been and will continue to be effective on an ongoing basis.
All derivatives are initially recognised at fair value and are also measured at fair value at each reporting date.
Derivatives with positive fair values are recognised as assets and those with negative fair values as liabilities.
They are also categorised as current or non-current according to the maturity of each derivative.
All gains or losses arising due to changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognised in profit or loss except when the derivative qualifies for cash flow hedge accounting.
Cash flow hedges The Group designates derivatives into a cash flow hedge where they have been transacted to hedge a highly probable forecast transaction or a particular risk associated with an asset or liability.
The effective portion of the change in the fair value of the derivatives, that are designated into cash flow hedge relationships, are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Cumulative gains or losses on derivatives are reclassified from other comprehensive income into profit or loss in the period when the transaction occurs.
Any ineffective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is immediately recognised in profit or loss.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs at which point the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to profit or loss in the period.
Fair value hedge The Group designates derivatives into a fair value hedge relationship when they hedge the Groups exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or a firm commitment.
The change in fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk is recognised in profit or loss for the period as well as the gain or loss from changes in the fair value of the derivative.
7.2 Financial risk management The Group has a centralised treasury function which manages funding, liquidity and other financial risk in accordance with the Board approved Treasury Policy.
The objective of the policy and controls that are established is to mitigate the risk of an adverse impact on the performance of the Group as a result of its exposure to financial risks arising from the Groups operations and its sources of finance.
It is the Groups policy not to engage in speculative trading of financial instruments.
The Board retains ultimate responsibility for treasury activity and is involved in key decision making.
A Treasury Committee is established to provide governance and oversight to treasury activity within delegated authority limits and formally reports to the Audit Committee.
Foreign currency risk The majority of purchases made by the Group are denominated in sterling, however some trade purchases are made in other currencies, primarily the euro and US dollar.
The Groups objective is to reduce short-term profit volatility from exchange rate fluctuations.
Group policy specifies the minimum percentage of committed and highly probable exposures that must be hedged.
Cross-currency interest rate swaps are used to mitigate the Groups currency exposure arising from payments of interest and principal in relation to foreign currency funding.
At the reporting date, the sensitivity to a reasonable possible change -10% in the US dollar and euro exchange rates would equate to a 9m post-tax profit or loss exposure in relation to the euro and 2m in relation to the US dollar, for the unhedged forecast foreign currency exposures over the next 12 months.
A movement of the pound sterling by -10% against the euro and US dollar exchange rates would impact other comprehensive income by 27m for the hedged amount.
Liquidity risk The Group policy is to maintain an appropriate maturity profile across its borrowings and a sufficient level of committed headroom to meet obligations.
The Group finances its operations using a diversified range of funding providers including banks and bondholders.
A central cash forecast is maintained by the treasury function who monitor the availability of liquidity to meet business requirements and any unexpected variances.
The treasury function seek to centralise surplus cash balances to minimise the level of gross debt.
Short-term cash balances, together with undrawn committed facilities, enable the Group to manage its day-to-day liquidity risk.
Any short-term surplus is invested in accordance with Treasury Policy.
The Treasury Committee compares the committed liquidity available to the Group against the forecast requirements including policy headroom.
This policy includes a planning assumption that supply chain finance facilities are not available.
