STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate and operational structure OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT Officer, Andrew Bell, who is an employee.
Witan is an investment trust with a ARRANGEMENTS Given its outsourced model and small Premium Listing on the London Stock number of direct employees, the Group In addition to the appointment of third Exchange.
It has a single, whollyhas no specific policies in respect of party investment managers, Witan and owned subsidiary, Witan Investment environmental or social and community WIS contract with third parties for other Services Limited WIS which acts affairs.
services, including: as the Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
WITAN INVESTMENT SERVICES Witan Investment Services Limited is BNP Paribas Securities Services The overwhelming majority of the authorised and regulated by the Financial London Branch BNPSS for portfolio is in segregated accounts, Conduct Authority FCA.
It is authorised depositary services, custody, held in custody by the Companys to act as Witans AIFM, to provide investment accounting and depositary.
The operations of the investment savings accounts and administration: marketing services and to give investment custodian and the safeguarding Frostrow Capital LLP for company advice to professional investors.
oftheCompanys assets are secretarial services: supervised by the depositary.
WISs principal activities are acting DST Services Ltd. DST as the as Witans AIFM, providing executive savings plan administrator of management services to the WitanWisdom and Jump Savings: Boards of Witan and Witan Pacific and Investment Trust plc Witan Pacific the Company takes specialist and communicating information advice on regulatory compliance about the Companies to the market.
issues and, as required, procures legal, investment consulting, WISs operational objectives for 2018 were: financial andtax advice.
to fulfil its responsibilities as Witans AIFM: The service quality and value received to provide suitable advice to the from major service providers are reviewed Boards of its corporate clients: regularly bythe Board.
to facilitate the implementation The contracts governing the provision ofnew arrangements for members of ofall services are formulated with legal the Witan Wisdom and Jump Savings advice and stipulate clear objectives and Schemes, which are due to close in guidelines for the service required.
May 2019: to reduce the net operating costs STAFFING forWitan: and The Companys policy towards its to seek appropriate business employees is to attract and retain staff opportunities that can add value with the skills and expertise required to forshareholders.
manage the affairs of an investment trust company.
Details of the Companys In 2018, WIS had two principal sources remuneration policies and required ofincome.
These were savings plan disclosures are set out in the Directors revenues and the fees as AIFM or Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 52.
Executive Manager and for marketing Employees and those who seek to work at services paid by Witan and Witan Pacific.
Witan are treated equally regardless of The main costs incurred were fees to the gender, marital status, colour, race, savings schemes administrator DST, religion or ethnic origin.
The Company has staff costs and professional advice to seven direct employees, four men and ensure compliance with regulatory and three women.
The Board currently consists accounting obligations.
of seven non-executive directors six men and one woman and the Chief Executive 20 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual report 2018
