Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information 3 Operating assets 3.1 Accounting policies Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill arising on a business combination is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if there are indicators that it may be impaired.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units that will benefit from the synergies of the business combination for the purpose of impairment testing.
Software development costs Costs that are directly attributable to the creation of identifiable software, which meet the development asset recognition criteria as laid out in IAS38 Intangible assets, are recognised as intangible assets.
Direct costs include consultancy costs, the employment costs of internal software developers, and borrowing costs.
All other software development and maintenance costs are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Software development assets are held at historic cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment, and are amortised over their estimated useful lives three to ten years on a straight-line basis.
Amortisation is charged in cost of sales.
Licences Separately acquired pharmaceutical licences and software licences are recognised at historic cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Those acquired in a business combination are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Pharmaceutical licences and software licences are amortised over their useful lives three to ten years on a straight-line basis or over the life of the licence if shorter.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Costs include directly attributable costs such as borrowing costs and employment costs of those people directly working on the construction and installation of property, plant and equipment.
Depreciation rates Depreciation rates used to write off cost less residual value on a straight-line basis are: Freehold land 0% Freehold buildings 2.5% Leasehold land Over the lease period Leasehold buildings Over the shorter of lease period and 2.5% Plant, equipment, fixtures and vehicles 10% to 33% Assets under construction 0% Depreciation expense is primarily charged in cost of sales with an immaterial amount in administration expenses.
Investment property Property held to earn rental income is classified as investment property and is held at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
The depreciation policy is consistent with that described for property above.
Non-current assets classified as held-for-sale Non-current assets are classified as held-for-sale if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction, rather than continuing use within the Group, and the sale is considered highly probable.
The sale is expected to complete within one year from the date of classification and the assets are available for sale in their current condition.
Non-current assets held-for-sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs of disposal and are not depreciated.
Lessor accounting operating leases Assets acquired and made available to third parties under operating leases are recorded as property, plant and equipment or investment property and are depreciated on a straight-line basis to their estimated residual values over their estimated useful lives.
Operating lease income is credited on a straight-line basis to the date of the next rent review.
Finance leases Assets funded through finance leases are capitalised as property, plant and equipment and depreciated over their useful economic life or lease term, whichever is shorter.
The amount capitalised is the lower of the fair value and the present value, calculated using the interest rate implicit in the lease, of the future minimum lease payments.
The obligations to pay future rentals are included within liabilities.
Rental payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the outstanding obligation so as to produce a constant rate of finance charge on the remaining balance.
