Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information 5 Working capital and provisions 5.1 Accounting policies Stock Stock represents goods for resale and is measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Cost is calculated on a weighted average basis and comprises purchase price, and other directly attributable costs, including import duties and other non-recoverable taxes, reduced by promotional funding and commercial income and a provision for estimated losses relating to shrinkage and obsolescence.
Losses relating to shrinkage in stores are based on historical losses verified by physical stock counts conducted by an independent third party.
Provision is made for obsolete and slow moving items.
Trade and other debtors Trade and other debtors are initially recognised at fair value, which is generally equal to face value, and subsequently held at amortised cost.
Provision is made when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to recover balances in full, with the charge being included in administrative expenses.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents for cash flow purposes includes cash-in-hand, cash-at-bank and bank overdrafts.
In the balance sheet, bank overdrafts that do not have right of offset are presented within current liabilities.
Cash and cash equivalents includes debit and credit card payments made by customers which clear the bank shortly after the sale takes place.
Cash held by the Groups captive insurer, Farock Insurance Company Limited, is not available for use by the rest of the Group as it is restricted for use against the specific liability of the captive.
As the funds are available on demand, they meet the definition of cash in IAS 7 Cash flow statements.
Trade and other creditors Trade and other creditors are initially recognised at fair value, which is generally equal to face value of the invoices received, and subsequently held at amortised cost.
Trade creditors are presented net of commercial income due when the Groups trading terms state that income from suppliers will be netted against amounts owing to that supplier.
Provisions Provisions are created where the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, where it is probable that it will result in an outflow of economic benefits to settle the obligation, and where it can be reliably measured.
For petrol filling station decommissioning costs this is when the filling station is first constructed and for dilapidations on leased buildings, when the lease is entered into.
Provisions for onerous leases and other onerous contracts are recognised when the Group believes that the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under the contract.
The amounts provided are based on the Groups best estimate of the least net cost of exit.
Where material, these estimated outflows are discounted to net present value using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assumptions.
The unwinding of this discount is recognised as a financing cost in the income statement.
5.2 Stock 2018 2017 m m Finished goods 686 614 Unearned elements of commercial income are deducted from finished goods as the stock has not been sold.
