Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion, Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLCs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 4 February 2018 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the 53 week period the period then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Financial Statements the Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated balance sheet and Company balance sheet as at 4 February 2018: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: the consolidated cash flow statement: the consolidated statement of changes in equity: the Company statement of changes in equity for the 53 week period then ended: the general information: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in note 1.6 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 30 January 2017 to 4 February 2018.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Areas of focus Overall Group materiality: 18.7m 2017: 16.9m, based Impairment of property, plant and on 5% of underlying profit before tax.
Overall Company materiality: 16.8m 2017: 16.0m, based Onerous property contracts Materiality on the amount of component materiality allocated Group and Company.
to the Company as part of the Group audit.
Commercial income and manual promotional funding Group Audit scope and Company.
We identified two reporting units, Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC and Safeway Stores Limited, which Impairment of intangible assets Audit scope in our view, required a full scope audit based on their Group and Company.
In addition, we determined that certain Stock valuation Group and Company.
account balances of a further four reporting units were Pension accounting in the scope of our Group audit to address specific risk Group and Company.
characteristics or to provide sufficient overall Group Areas of coverage of particular financial statement line items.
focus The Group engagement team performed the audit procedures for each reporting unit in the scope of our Group audit, which accounted for 99% of total Group revenue and 84% of profit before tax.
Our audit scope provided sufficient appropriate audit evidence as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
