Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information 8 Pensions continued 8.2 Defined benefit schemes: summary and description continued The Schemes are registered schemes under the provisions of Schedule 36 of the Finance Act 2004 and the assets are held in legally separate, trustee-administered funds.
The Board of each scheme is required by law to act in the best interests of the scheme participants within the context of administering the scheme in accordance with the purpose for which the trust was created, and is responsible for setting the investment, funding and governance policies of the fund.
A representative of the Group attends Trustee Investment Committee meetings in order to provide the Groups view on investment strategy, but the ultimate power lies with the Trustees.
The Deed and Rules of the Morrison Scheme gives the Trustees the power to set contributions, while in the Safeway Scheme and the RSP this power is given to the Group, subject to regulatory override.
Settlement and curtailment gains in the 53 weeks ended 4 February 2018 include 8m relating to the settlement of retirement benefits resulting from actions taken to further fide-risk the Groups pension schemes.
8.3 Scheme assets Assets of the Schemes generate returns and ultimately cash that is used to satisfy the Schemes obligations.
They are not necessarily intended to be realised in the short term.
The Trustees of each Scheme invest in different categories of asset and with different allocations amongst those categories, according to the investment principles of that Scheme.
Currently, the investment strategy of the CARE Schemes is to maintain a balance of growth assets equities and diversified growth funds, income assets comprising credit investments, corporate bonds and absolute return bonds and protection assets comprising a liability driven investment LDI portfolio and the Safeway Scheme buy-in policy, with a weighting towards protection assets.
There are no direct investments in the parent Companys own shares or property occupied by any member of the Group.
Fair value of Scheme assets: 2018 2018 2017 2017 CARE RSP CARE RSP m m m m Equities quoted 562 130 770 107 Corporate bonds quoted 375 382 Absolute return bonds quoted 382 Diversified growth funds quoted 573 82 489 50 Credit funds unquoted 468 417 Liability driven investments unquoted 2,189 102 1,998 61 Annuity policies unquoted 336 Cash quoted 39 1 17 1 Total 4,542 315 4,455 219 Liability driven investments LDI Part of the investment objective of the Schemes is to minimise fluctuations in the Schemes funding levels due to changes in the value of the liabilities.
This is primarily achieved through the use of liability driven investments LDI, whose main goal is to align movements in the value of assets with movements in the Schemes liabilities arising from changes in market conditions.
The Schemes have hedging that broadly covers interest rate movements and inflation movements, as measured on the Trustees funding assumptions which use a discount rate derived from gilt yields.
LDI primarily involves the use of government bonds including re-purchase agreements.
Derivatives such as interest rate and inflation swaps are also used.
There are no annuities or longevity swaps.
The value of the LDI assets is determined based on the latest market bid price for the underlying investments, which are traded daily on liquid markets.
Annuity policies During the 53 weeks ended 4 February 2018, the Safeway Scheme entered into a buy-in policy that provides insurance for a proportion of the pensioner population.
The policy pays an income to the scheme that is exactly equal to the benefits paid to the insured population.
This has removed all investment, interest rate, inflation and longevity risks in respect of these members.
The value of the annuity is determined using the disclosed assumptions used for valuing the benefits of the Schemes and is equal to the accounting liabilities of the insured pensioner population.
Diversified growth funds The Schemes employ diversified growth funds in order to reduce their exposure to equity markets.
These funds typically invest in a range of public and private market assets, including equities, bonds, commodities, property and other assets.
99 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 18 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 53 weeks ended 4 February 2018 8 Pensions continued 8.3 Scheme assets continued Credit funds The Schemes invest in credit funds in order to improve returns available from their bond assets.
These funds typically lend directly to corporations on a senior secured basis, rather than purchasing debt issued in the public markets.
The credit funds invest in a portfolio of different debt instruments and their value is equal to the value of the component assets.
For high yield debt, the value is based on the latest available market price.
For senior debt and private credit, where no such market price exists, the value is taken either at par value or by determining a fair enterprise value using a variety of techniques.
For real-estate related investments, the value is derived from market comparables or third party valuations.
Absolute return bonds The Schemes employ absolute return bond managers to target a moderate investment return whilst aiming to preserve capital in most market environments.
These funds typically invest in a range of fixed income instruments and derivatives, across different countries and currencies, actively managing their exposure according to their market views and opportunities available.
The movement in the fair value of the Schemes assets over the period was as follows: 2018 2018 2017 2017 CARE RSP CARE RSP m m m m Fair value of scheme assets at start of period 4,455 219 3,812 138 Interest income 125 7 138 7 Return on scheme assets excluding interest 159 25 612 20 Employer contributions 8 67 10 56 Employee contributions 3 3 Settlement and curtailment paid 37 Benefits paid 165 5 114 4 Administrative expenses 3 1 3 1 Fair value of scheme assets at end of period 4,542 315 4,455 219 Scottish Limited Partnership The Group has previously entered into a pension funding partnership structure.
In January 2013, Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC made a contribution to the CARE Schemes of 90m.
On the same day, the CARE Schemes invested 90m in the Wm Morrison Property Partnership SLP as a limited partner.
The SLP holds properties which have been leased back to the Group in return for rental income payments.
The Group retains control over these properties, including the flexibility to substitute alternative properties.
As partners in the SLP, the CARE Schemes are entitled to receive a fixed distribution of 6.6m p. a. from the profits of the SLP for 20 years from 2013, subject to certain conditions.
The distributions shared with the Schemes are reflected in the Group financial statements as employer pension contributions.
In July 2015, the SLP was amended to enhance the security provided to the Schemes by including additional properties.
The terms of these additional properties are such that the CARE Schemes have no entitlement to receive a distribution.
The CARE Schemes interests in the SLP reduce the respective deficits on a funding basis, although the agreements do not affect the position directly on an IAS 19 accounting basis because the investments held by the CARE Schemes do not qualify as scheme assets for IAS 19 purposes.
