CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the annual report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and We confirm, to the best of our knowledge, that: regulations.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by Company law requires the directors to prepare financial the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the are required to prepare the Group financial statements in undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the parent the strategic report includes a fair review of the development company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
and performance of the business and the position of the Under company law the directors must not approve the financial Company and the undertakings included inthe statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of the on pages 21 and 22 of the principal risks and uncertainties profit or loss of the Group and Company for that period.
preparing these financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: We also confirm that the financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, and provide the properly select and apply accounting policies: information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys present information, including accounting policies, in a position, performance, business model and strategy.
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: By order of the Board provide additional disclosures when compliance with the H M Henderson A L C Bell specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users Chairman Chief Executive Officer to understand the impact of particular transactions, other 11 March 2019 11 March 2019 events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and Note to those who access this document by electronic means: make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as The annual report for the year ended 31 December 2018 has been a going concern.
approved by the Board of Witan Investment Trust plc.
Copies of the annual report and the Half Year Report are circulated to The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting shareholders, to those who hold shares through Witan Investment records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys Services Limiteds savings schemes and, where possible, to transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time investors through other providers products and nominee the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure companies or written notification is sent when they are that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act published online.
It is also made available in electronic format 2006. forthe convenience of readers.
Printed copies are available from the Companys Registered Office in London.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Witan Investment Trust plc 57 Annual report 2018
