Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information Glossary Alternative Performance Measures In response to the Guidelines on Alternative Performance Measures APMs issued by the European Securities and Markets Authority ESMA, we have provided additional information on the APMs used by the Group.
The Directors use the APMs listed below as they are critical to understanding the financial performance and financial health of the Group.
As they are not defined by IFRS, they may not be directly comparable with other companies who use similar measures.
Closest equivalent 1 Measures IFRS measure Definition and purpose Reconciliation for 2017 18 Group measures Profit measures Like-for-like LFL Revenue Percentage change in year-on-year sales excluding VAT, removing 53 weeks ended 4 February sales growth the impact of new store openings and closures in the current or 2018 % previous financial year.
fuel 2.8% The measure is used widely in the retail industry as an indicator Group LFL inc. fuel 4.1% of underlying sales performance.
It is also a key measure for Director 53rd week impact 2.0% and management remuneration.
See page 45 in the Directors Impact of store closures 0.3 % remuneration report for more information.
Total revenue year-on-year 5.8% Total sales growth Revenue Including fuel: A reconciliation of total sales including and Percentage change in year-on-year total reported revenue.
excluding fuel is provided in note 1.2 of the financial statements.
Excluding fuel: Percentage change in year-on-year total reported sales excluding fuel.
This measure illustrates the total year-on-year sales growth.
This measure is a key measure for Director and management remuneration.
See page 45 in the Directors remuneration report for more information.
Underlying profit Profit before tax Reported profit before tax excluding impairment and provisions for A reconciliation of this measure is provided before tax UPBT onerous contracts, profit loss on disposal and exit of properties and in note 1.4 of the financial statements.
sale of businesses and investments, the impact of pension volatility and other items that do not relate to the Groups principal activities on an ongoing basis.
This measure is a key measure used by the Directors.
It provides key information on underlying trends and performance of the Group and is used for Director and management remuneration.
Underlying profit Profit after tax UPBT adjusted for a normalised tax charge.
UPBT of 374m less a normalised tax after tax charge of 89m see note 1.4 of the This measure is used by the Directors as it provides key information financial statements.
on underlying trends and performance of the Group, including a normalised tax charge.
2 Underlying Operating profit Reported operating profit excluding impairment and provisions for Reported operating profit 458m less operating profit onerous contracts, profit loss on disposal and exit of properties and impairment and provisions for onerous sale of investments and other items impacting operating profit that contracts 6m, profit loss on disposal do not relate to the Groups principal activities on an ongoing basis.
and exit of properties and sale of investments 19m, pension scheme This measure is used by the Directors as it provides key information set-up credit 13m, plus other exceptional on underlying trends and performance of the Group.
Underlying net Finance costs Reported net finance costs excluding net pension income and other A reconciliation of this measure is provided finance costs items impacting net finance costs that do not relate to the Groups in note 6.2 of the financial statements.
principal activities on an ongoing basis.
This measure is used by the Directors as it provides key information on underlying cost of financing excluding the impact of exceptional items.
Underlying basic Basic earnings Basic earnings per share based on underlying profit after tax rather A reconciliation of this measure is included earnings pershare per share than reported profit after tax as described above.
in note 1.5 of the financial statements.
1 Certain ratios referred to in the financial statements are calculated using more precise numbers rather than rounded numbers.
These stated ratios may therefore differ slightly to those calculated by the numbers in this report due to rounding as numbers in the financial statements are presented in round millions.
2 Operating profit is not defined under IFRS.
However, it is a generally accepted profit measure.
