GOVERNANCE STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Companies Jersey Law 1991 requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: } select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: } make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: } state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and } prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and the Directors Remuneration Report complies with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in Jersey and the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 35 to 37 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: } the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and } the Strategic Report contained in the annual report includes a fair, balanced and understandable review of the position and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
On behalf of the Board Jzsef Vradi Director 23 May 2018 Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 70
