Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 18 Notes to the Group financial statements 53 weeks ended 4 February 2018 1 Performance in the period 1.1 Accounting policies Revenue recognition Sale of goods in-store and online, and fuel Revenue from the sale of goods in-store and online comprises cash from customers and excludes VAT.
It is stated net of returns, colleague discounts, coupons, vouchers, More points earned in-store and online, and the free element of multi-save transactions.
Sale of fuel is recognised net of VAT and More points earned on fuel.
Revenue is recognised when transactions are completed in-store, or, in the case of Food Online, when goods are accepted by the customer on delivery.
Other sales Other sales includes income from concessions and commissions based on the terms of the contract, and wholesale sales made direct to third party customers recognised on despatch of goods.
Revenue collected on behalf of others is not recognised as revenue, other than the related commission.
Sales are recorded net of VAT and intra-group transactions.
More points The fair value of More points is determined to be the value to the customer of the points issued, adjusted for factors such as the expected redemption rate.
The Group continues to assess the appropriateness of the expected redemption rates against actual redemptions.
The fair value is treated as a deduction from revenue at the time the points are issued, and is deferred until the rewards are redeemed by the customer in a future sale.
Cost of sales Cost of sales consists of all costs of the goods being sold to the point of sale, net of promotional funding and commercial income, and includes property, manufacturing, warehouse and transportation costs.
Store depreciation, store overheads and store-based employee costs are also allocated to cost of sales.
Promotional funding Promotional funding refers to investment in the customer offer by suppliers by way of promotion.
The calculation of funding is mechanical and system generated based on a funding level agreed in advance with the supplier.
Funding is recognised as units are sold and invoiced in accordance with the specific supplier agreement.
Funding is recorded effectively as a direct adjustment to the cost price of the product in the period.
Funding is invoiced and collected through the year, shortly after the promotions have ended.
Commercial income Commercial income is recognised as a deduction from cost of sales, based on the expected entitlement that has been earned up to the balance sheet date for each relevant supplier contract.
The Group only recognises commercial income where there is documented evidence of an agreement with an individual supplier and when associated performance conditions are met.
The types of commercial income recognised by the Group, and the recognition policies are: Type of commercial income Description Recognition Marketing and advertising Examples include income in respect of Income is recognised over the period as set out in the specific supplier funding in-store marketing and point of sale, as agreement.
Income is invoiced once the performance conditions in the well as funding for advertising.
supplier agreement have been achieved.
Volume-based rebates Income earned by achieving volume or Income is recognised through the year based on forecasts for expected spend targets set by the supplier for sales or purchase volumes, informed by current performance, trends and specific products over specific periods.
the terms of the supplier agreement.
Income is invoiced throughout the year in accordance with the specific supplier terms.
In order to minimise any risk arising from estimation, supplier confirmations are also obtained to agree the final value to be recognised at year end, prior to it being invoiced.
Uncollected commercial income at the balance sheet date is classified within the financial statements as follows: Creditors: A large proportion of the Groups trading terms state that income due from suppliers is netted against amounts owing to that supplier.
Any outstanding invoiced commercial income relating to these suppliers at the balance sheet date are included within trade payables.
Any amounts received in advance of income being recognised are included in accruals and deferred income.
Debtors: Where the trading terms described above do not exist, the Group classifies outstanding commercial income within trade debtors.
Where commercial income is earned and not invoiced to the supplier at the balance sheet date, this is classified within accrued commercial income.
Stock: The carrying value of stock is adjusted to reflect unearned elements of commercial income when it relates to stock which has not yet been sold.
This income is subsequently recognised in cost of sales when the product has been sold.
In order to provide users of the financial statements with greater understanding in this area, additional income statement and balance sheet disclosure is provided in notes 1.6, 5.2, 5.3 and 5.4 to the financial statements.
