Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC  53 weeks ended 4 February 2018 11 Company financial statements 11.1 General information The principal activity of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC the Company is the operation of retail supermarket stores under the Morrisons brand and associated activities.
The Company is incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of its registered office is Hilmore House, Gain Lane, Bradford, BD3 7DL, United Kingdom.
11.2 Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared for the 53 weeks ended 4 February 2018 2017: 52 weeks ended 29 January 2017.
These separate financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101 and the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
FRS 101 sets out a reduced disclosure framework for a qualifying entity as defined in the standard which addresses the financial reporting requirements and disclosure exemptions in the individual financial statements of qualifying entities that otherwise apply the recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements of EU-adopted IFRS.
The Company is a qualifying entity for the purposes of FRS 101 as it is a member of a group which prepares publicly available consolidated financial statements and it is included in the consolidation for that group.
The disclosure exemptions adopted by the Company in preparation of these financial statements in accordance with FRS 101 are as follows: a IFRS 2 Share-based payment paragraphs 45 b and 46 to 52 details of the number and weighted-average exercise prices of share options, and how the fair value of goods or services received was determined: b IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: c IFRS 13 Fair value measurement paragraphs 91 to 99 disclosure of valuation techniques and inputs used for fair value measurement of assets and liabilities: d IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements paragraph 38 comparative information requirements in respect of: i paragraph 79 a iv of IAS 1: ii paragraph 73 e of IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment: iii paragraph 118 e of IAS 38 Intangible assets reconciliations between the carrying amount at the beginning and end of the period: and iv paragraph 76 and 79 d of IAS 40 Investment property: e The following paragraphs of IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements: i 10 d, statement of cash flows : ii 111 cash flow statement information : and iii 134-136 capital management disclosures : f IAS 7 Statement of cash flows: g IAS 8 Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors paragraph 30 and 31 requirement for the disclosure of information when an entity has not applied a new IFRS that has been issued but is not yet effective: h The following requirements of IAS 24 Related party disclosures: i paragraph 17 key management compensation: and ii the requirements to disclose related party transactions entered into with two or more wholly owned members of a group.
108 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information 11 Company financial statements continued 11.2 Basis of preparation continued In addition to the FRS 101 exemptions above, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption available under section 408 of the Act and not presented a profit and loss account for the Company.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention except as disclosed in the Summary of accounting policies in note 11.3.
The Companys accounting policies have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these financial statements.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with FRS 101 requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Companys accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements are the same for the Company as they are for the Group.
For further details, see page 69 in the Group financial statements.
Accounting reference date The accounting period of the Company ends on the Sunday falling between 29 January and 4 February each year.
11.3 Summary of accounting policies The accounting policies listed below are the same for the Company as for the Group.
As such, for further detail see the following notes: a Revenue recognition 1.1 : b Cost of sales 1.1 : c Promotional funding and commercial income 1.1 : d Other operating income 1.1 : e Taxation 2.1 : f Intangible assets 3.1 : g Property, plant and equipment 3.1 : h Investment property 3.1 : i Impairment of non-financial assets 3.1 : j Lessor accounting operating leases 3.1 : k Finance leases 3.1 : l Stock 5.1 : m Trade and other debtors 5.1 : n Cash and cash equivalents 5.1 : o Trade and other creditors 5.1 : p Provisions 5.1 : q Borrowings and borrowing costs 6.1 : r Leases 6.1 : s Sale and leaseback 6.1 : t Share capital 6.1 : u Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting 7.1 : v Pensions 8.1 : and w Share-based payments 9.1.
109 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC  53 weeks ended 4 February 2018 11 Company financial statements continued 11.3 Summary of accounting policies continued The following accounting policies are those policies which are specific, and which deal with items considered material, in relation to the Companys financial statements.
Investments Investments in subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
All other equity instruments are held for long-term investment and are measured at fair value, where the fair value can be measured reliably.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value are presented in the profit and loss account within finance income or expenses in the period they arise.
Where the fair value of the instruments cannot be measured reliably, for example, when there is variability in the range of estimates, the investments are recognised at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment losses or reversals of previous impairment losses are presented in the profit and loss account in the period they arise.
Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be confirmed only on the occurrence or non-occurrence of uncertain future events outside the Companys control, or present obligations that are not recognised because it is not probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation or the amount cannot be measured reliably.
The Company does not recognise contingent liabilities but does disclose any such balances see note 11.21.
The disclosure includes an estimate of their potential financial effect and any uncertainties relating to the amount or timing of any outflow, unless the possibility of settlement is remote.
Financial guarantees Where the Company enters into financial contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
