FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Additional Shareholder Information ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUND MANAGERS DIRECTIVE Witan Investment Trust plc is an alternative investment fund AIF for the purposes of the EU Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive Directive 2011 61 EU the AIFMD and the Company has appointed its subsidiary, Witan Investment Services Limited WIS, to act as its AIFM.
WIS is authorised and regulated by the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority as a full scope UK AIFM.
The Company is required to make certain disclosures available to investors in accordance with the AIFMD.
Those disclosures that are required to be made pre-investment are included within the Investor Disclosure Document IDD which can be found on the Companys website, www.
There have not been any material changes to the disclosures contained within the IDD since it was last updated in December 2018.
The Company and AIFM also wish to make the following disclosures to investors: the investment strategy, geographic and sector investment focus and principal stock exposures are included in the strategic report.
A list of the top 50 portfolio holdings is included on page 30: none of the Companys assets is subject to special arrangements arising from their illiquid nature: the strategic report and note 14 to the accounts set out the risk profile and risk management systems in place.
There have been no changes to the risk management systems in place in the period under review and no breaches of any of the risk limits set, with no breach expected: there are no new arrangements for managing the liquidity of the Company or any material changes to the liquidity management systems and procedures employed by the Company: all authorised Alternative Investment Fund Managers are required to comply with the AIFMD Remuneration Code in respect of the AIFMs remuneration.
The relevant disclosures required are within the IDD: and information in relation to the Companys leverage is contained within the IDD.
DEFINITIONS OF ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES: Benchmark: This is a composite of five indices: the FTSE All-Share Index 30%, the FTSE All-World North America Index 25%, the FTSE All-World Europe ex UK Index 20%, the FTSE All-World Asia Pacific Index 20% and the FTSE Emerging Markets Index 5%.
Gearing: The difference between shareholders funds and the total market value of the investments including the face value of futures positions expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Net asset value per share debt at par and debt at fair value : This is the value of total assets less all liabilities of the Company.
The Net Asset Value, or NAV, per Ordinary Share is calculated by dividing this amount by the total number of Ordinary Shares in issue excluding those shares held in Treasury.
Please refer to note 18 on page 86.
Net asset value total return: Total return on net asset value NAV, on a debt at fair value to debt at fair value basis, assuming that all dividends paid out by the Company were reinvested, without transaction costs, into the shares of the Company at the NAV per share at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Year ended Year ended Total return calculation 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Opening cum income NAV per share p A 1096.17 939.24 Closing cum income NAV per share p B 983.36 1096.17 1 Total dividend adjustment factor C 1.020824 1.019871 Adjusted closing cum income NAV per share B x C D 1003.8 1118.0 Net asset value total return D A - 1 -8.4% 19.0% 1 The dividend adjustment factor is calculated on the assumption that the dividends paid out by the Company are reinvested into the shares of the Company at the cumincome NAV at the ex-dividend date.
Ongoing charge: The ongoing charge reflects those expenses of a type which are likely to recur in the foreseeable future, whether charged to capital or revenue as a collective fund, excluding the costs of acquisition and disposal, finance costs and gains or losses arising on investments.
The calculation is performed in accordance with the guidelines issues by the AIC.
Please refer to page 19 of this annual report.
Premium discount: The amount by which the market price per share is either higher premium or lower discount than the net asset value per share expressed as a percentage of the net asset value per share.
Witan Investment Trust plc 91 Annual report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Additional Shareholder Information continued DEFINITIONS OF ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES BENCHMARK CONTINUED: Share price total return: Share price total return, on a last traded price to last traded price basis, assuming that all dividends received were reinvested, without transaction costs, into the shares of the Company at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Year ended Year ended Total return calculation 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Opening share price p A 1079 902 Closing share price p B 971 1079 1 Total dividend adjustment factor C 1.021141 1.020478 Adjusted closing share price B x C D 991.5 1101.1 Share price total return D A - 1 -8.1% 22.1% 1 The dividend adjustment factor is calculated on the assumption that the dividends paid out by the Company are reinvested into the shares of the Company at the last traded price quoted at the ex-dividend date.
The share price discount reflects this calculation.
2 The net asset value per ordinary share is calculated by deducting from the total assets less current liabilities of the Group the fixed borrowings at their par nottheirmarket values.
3 The average discount to the net asset value, including income, with debt at fair value, in 2018 was 2.4% 2017: 2.8%.
source: Datastream HOW TO INVEST There are various ways to invest in Witan Investment Trust plc.
Witans shares can be traded through any UK stockbroker and most sharedealing services and platforms that offer investment trusts including Alliance Trust Savings, Hargreaves Lansdown, Barclays Stockbrokers, Halifax Share Dealing Limited, Interactive Investor and A J Bell, as well as Computershare, the Companys Registrars.
Advisers who wish to purchase Witan shares for their clients can do so via a stockbroker or via a growing number of dedicated platforms including Seven Investment Management, Transact and Fidelity FundsNetwork.
The Company conducts its affairs so that its shares can be recommended by independent financial advisers IFAs to retail private investors.
The shares are excluded from the Financial Conduct Authoritys restrictions which apply to non-mainstream investment products because they are shares in a UK-listed investment trust.
92 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION AND ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Points of reference You can follow the progress of your investment through the newspapers.
Witans share price appears daily in the national press stock exchange listings under Investment Trusts or Investment Companies and is also included on the Witan website www.
TheLondon Stock Exchange Daily Official List SEDOL code is 0974406. Dividend A fourth interim dividend of 7.75p per share has been declared, payable on 21 March 2019.
The record date for the dividend was 1 March 2019 and the ex-dividend date for the dividend was 28 February 2019 see pages 13 and 75. Dividend Tax Allowance From April 2018 individuals have an annual 2,000 tax-free allowance on dividend income across an individuals entire share portfolio.
Above this amount, individuals pay tax on their dividend income at a rate dependent on their income tax bracket and personal circumstances.
The Company will continue to provide registered shareholders with a confirmation of the dividends it has paid and this should be included with any other dividend income received when calculating and reporting total dividend income received.
It is the shareholders responsibility to include all dividend income when calculating any tax liability.
Capital Gains Tax The calculation of the tax on chargeable gains will depend on your personal circumstances.
If you are in any doubt about your personal tax position, you are recommended to contact your professional adviser.
Please note that tax assumptions may change if the law changes, and the value of tax relief if any will depend upon your individual circumstances.
Investors should consult their own tax advisers in order to understand any applicable tax consequences.
Beneficial Owners of Shares Information Rights Beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated by the registered holder of those shares to receive information rights under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 should direct all communications to the registered holder of their shares rather than to the Companys Registrar, Computershare, or to the Company directly.
Witan Investment Trust plc 93 Annual report 2018
