Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Property portfolio 2018 unaudited Glossary of terms continued Adjusted trading profit after interest is net rental income, joint Market rental values see ERV.
Lettable Net rent roll of floor area occupied units venture trading and finance income, less administrative expenses, Property name Postcode Category sq.
ft. 000s less finance costs but excluding exceptional finance costs.
Net asset value per share NAV is net assets divided by the number of shares at the period end.
The Light Box W4 5PY Refurbishment 65,761 1,322,489 BlackRock JV BlackRock Workspace Property Trust, a joint venture The Light Bulb SW18 4GQ Like-for-like 52,644 1,558,765 property fund with the BlackRock UK Property Fund in which the Net debt is the amount drawn on bank and other loan facilities, The Print Rooms SE1 0LH Like-for-like 45,806 2,639,529 Group held a 20.1% interest until June 2016. including overdrafts, less cash deposits.
This excludes any foreign The Record Hall EC1N 7RJ Refurbishment 57,563 2,143,494 exchange movements.
The Salisbury EC2M 7EB Acquisition 235,411 11,234,959 Customer Advocacy is a measure of how likely our customers are to recommend Workspace.
Net rents are rents excluding any contracted increases and after The Shaftesbury Centre W10 6BN Like-for-like 12,629 295,534 deduction of inclusive service charge revenue.
Thurston Road SE13 7SH Redevelopment 0 0 Customer Satisfaction score is a combination of responses to our Vestry Street Studios N1 7RE Like-for-like 22,769 826,836 customer survey focused on how likely customers are to recommend Occupancy percentage is the area of space let divided by the total Vox Studios part SE11 5JH Like-for-like 80,277 3,534,035 Workdspace and their view on standards of customer service.
net lettable area excluding land used for open storage.
Vox Studios part SE11 5JH Refurbishment 0 0 Earnings per share EPS is the profit after taxation divided by the Open market value is an opinion of the best price at which the sale Wenlock Studios N1 7EU Like-for-like 31,155 1,266,178 weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
of an interest in the property would complete unconditionally for cash Westbourne Studios W10 5JJ Like-for-like 58,428 2,780,259 consideration on the date of valuation as determined by the Groups Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT is the trust created by external valuers.
the Group to hold shares pending exercise of employee share options.
Profit loss before tax PBT is income less all expenditure other EPRA NAV is a definition of net asset value as set out by the than taxation.
European Public Real Estate Association.
It represents net assets after excluding mark to market adjustments of effective cash flow hedges Property Income Distribution PID a dividend generally subject financial derivatives and deferred tax relating to revaluation to withholding tax that a UK REIT is required to pay from its taxmovements, capital allowances and derivatives.
exempted property rental business and which is taxable for UK resident shareholders at their marginal tax rate.
Equivalent yield is a weighted average of the initial yield and reversionary yield and represents the return a property will produce REIT is a Real Estate Investment Trust as set out in the UK Finance based upon the timing of the occupancy of the property and timing Act 2006 Sections 106 and 107.
REITs pay no corporation tax on of the income receivable.
This is approximated by the reversionary profits derived from their property rental business.
yield multiplied by the Group trend occupancy of 90%.
ft. is the net rent divided by the occupied area.
Estimated Rental Value ERV or market rental value is the Groups external valuers opinion as to the open market rent which, on the Rent roll is the annualised net rental income of occupied units at date of valuation, could reasonably be expected to be obtained on a reporting date.
a new letting or rent review.
Reversion reversionary income is the increase in rent estimated by Exceptional items are significant items of income or expense that by the Groups external valuers, where the net rent is below the current virtue of their size, incidence or nature are shown separately on the estimated rental value.
The increases to rent arise on rent reviews, Consolidated income statement to enable a full understanding of the letting of vacant space, expiry of rent free periods or rental increase Groups financial performance.
Gearing is the Groups net debt as a percentage of net assets.
Reversionary yield is the anticipated yield, which the initial yield will rise to once the rent reaches the estimated rental value.
It is Initial yield is the net rents generated by a property or by the calculated by dividing the ERV by the valuation.
portfolio as a whole expressed as a percentage of its valuation.
Total Shareholder Return TSR is the growth in ordinary share Interest cover is the number of times net interest payable is covered price as quoted on the London Stock Exchange plus dividends per by net rental income.
share received for the year, expressed as a percentage of the share price at the beginning of the year.
IPD Quarterly Universe is the IPD quarterly universe property fund benchmark of approximately 240 196bn UK domestic property Total Property Return is a percentage measure calculated by MSCI funds.
IPD and defined in the MSCI Global Methodology for Real Estate Investment as the percentage of value change plus net income LIBOR is the British Bankers Association London Interbank Offer accrued relative to the capital employed.
Unique web visits is the number of unduplicated counted only once Like-for-like are those properties that have been held throughout visitors to a website over the course of a specified time period.
a 12-month period and have not been subject to a refurbishment or redevelopment programme in the last 24 months.
Loan to value is net debt divided by the current value of properties owned by the Group as valued by CBRE.
MSCI IPD MSC Inc is a company that produces independent benchmarks of property returns under the brand IPD.
186Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 187Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018
