Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Independent Auditors Report to the members of Workspace Group PLC 1.
Our opinion is unmodified We were appointed as Auditor by the Shareholders on 14 July 2017.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement We have audited the financial statements of Workspace Group PLC The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the one financial Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and the Company for the year ended 31 March 2018 which comprise year ended 31 March 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the Consolidated and Parent Companys Balance Sheets, the under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key Other Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Cash applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were Flows, the Consolidated and Parent Companys Statement of prohibited by that standard were provided.
addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial Changes in Equity, and the related notes, including the accounting statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate policies on pages 146 to 183. opinion on these matters.
Overview Materiality: 22.0 million The risk Our response In our opinion: Group financial 0.9% of total Group assets the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Valuation of investment Subjective valuation Our procedures included: statements as a whole Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2018 property Group Investment properties is the largest balance in the Assessing valuers credentials: We assessed Lower materiality: 3.0 million and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Group: 2,288.7 million: financial statements and is held at fair value in the CBREs objectivity, professional qualifications components of 4.9% of profit before tax excluding fair the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 2017: 1,839.0 million Groups financial statements.
and experience through discussions with them adjusted trading profit value valuation movements and profit on accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as and reading their valuation report.
after interest disposals adopted by the European Union: Refer to page 105 Audit The portfolio is externally valued by qualified Methodology choice: We critically assessed the the Parent Company financial statements have been properly Committee Report, independent valuers, CBRE.
methodology used by the valuers by using our Coverage 100% of total Group assets prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including page 150 accounting policy own property valuation specialist to assist us in Risks of material misstatement FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and and page 161 financial Each property is unique and determining fair value considering whether the valuation report is in the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Recurring risk Valuation of investment property disclosures.
requires significant judgement and estimation, in accordance with the RICS Valuation Professional the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group particular over the key assumptions of the estimated Standards the Red Book, IFRS and that the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
rental value and the yield.
The key assumptions will valuation methodology adopted is appropriate Recurring risk Accounting for financial instruments be impacted by a number of factors including by reference to acceptable valuation practice.
Parent Basis for opinion location, quality and condition of the building and Benchmarking assumptions: With the assistance We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards occupancy.
Valuing investment properties either of our own property valuation specialist, we held on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under development or with development potential discussions with CBRE to critically assess are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have can be further complicated by the need to assess movements in property values.
For a sample of obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our the likelihood of planning consent and an allowance properties selected using various criteria including audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
Whilst comparable market analysis of the value of a property as well as transactions can provide valuation evidence, the correlation with movements in market rent, we flexible office sector is still maturing and the unique evaluated and challenged as appropriate the key nature of each property means that a key factor in assumptions upon which these valuations were the property valuations are the assumptions made based, including those relating to forecast market by the valuer.
rents and yields, by making a comparison to our own understanding of the market.
Data capture Test of detail: We compared a sample of key Each property valuation includes source data inputs used in the valuations, such as rental provided by management and relied on as income and lease length to the Groups property accurate by the external valuer, primarily the management system and lease contracts.
The relatively short Test of detail: For a selection of properties under average lease length in the Workspace portfolio and development, we assessed the progress of the reduced market comparable information for such development and evaluated assumptions over flexible office space means the valuer is more reliant constructions costs, agreeing them to construction on tenancy data to support their market rent contracts and managements project appraisals.
assumptions than may be the case in other property Assessing transparency: We considered the sectors.
Therefore the valuation is more sensitive adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the to the source data than may be the case for more degree of estimation and sensitivity to key mature sectors with longer leases.
Further, given the assumptions made when valuing properties.
higher turnover of tenants, the valuers will have less working knowledge of the current tenancy position, Our results and less reason to question changes.
We found the valuation of investment properties to be acceptable.
140Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 141Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018
