Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Report of the Directors Statement of Directors responsibilities continued in respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements One of the main initiatives was the targeted installation of the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the annual Optergy Building Management System BMS which is a smart the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance financial report metering technology that has enabled real-time energy monitoring with applicable law and regulations.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: at the building level right down to individual plant equipment.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the The data provided by the BMS has enabled us to engage with our Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view in-house Facility Management teams to improve energy management Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the practices and reduce GHG emissions.
Other initiatives that have been law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken implemented include ongoing LED lighting upgrades, ongoing in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as a whole: and Automatic Meter Reading AMR installations, BMS and boiler as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development optimisation, insulation improvements and refurbishment projects.
and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Parent Company and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and financial statements in accordance with UK accounting standards, the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, Future including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties To further reduce our GHG emissions, we will continue to focus on that they face.
designing and implementing energy efficiency initiatives within our Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial buildings and actively engage with both our site staff and customers statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, to implement energy conservation measures.
We have set of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information challenging objectives and targets for the next year and will be profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and necessary for Shareholders to assess the Groups position and monitoring our performance throughout the year to ensure that Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: performance, business model and strategy.
we achieve our goal of reducing our GHG emissions.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Signed on behalf of the Board on 5 June 2018 by: Disclosure required under the Listing Rules make judgements and estimates that are reasonable, relevant, For the purpose of LR9.8.
4C R, the information required to be reliable and prudent: Jamie Hopkins disclosed by LR 9.8.
4R can be found in the Annual Report in the for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been Chief Executive Officer following locations: prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether Graham Clemett Section Topic Location in the Annual Report applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject Chief Financial Officer to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent 1 Interest capitalised Financial Statements, page 156 Company financial statements: note 4 assess the Group and Parent Companys ability to continue as a 4 Details of long-term Remuneration Report, pages going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going incentive schemes 129, 130 and 134 concern: and use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease All the information cross-referenced above is hereby incorporated operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
by reference into this Directors Report.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Post Balance sheet events records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys Details of post Balance sheet events can be found on page 178. transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure 2018 Annual General Meeting that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
The 32nd Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the They are responsible for such internal control as they determine is Companys business centre at 160 Fleet Street, London EC4A 2DQ on necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are Friday 13 July 2018 at 10.00am.
The Notice of the Meeting, together free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and with an explanation of the business to be dealt with at the Meeting, have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably is included as a separate document sent to shareholders who have open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent elected to receive hard copies of shareholder information and is also and detect fraud and other irregularities.
available on the Companys website.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also By Order of the Board responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Carmelina Carfora Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
Company Secretary 5 June 2018 The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
138Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 139Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018
