Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2018 Workspace Group PLC the Company and its subsidiaries together Significant accounting policies Capitalised interest on refurbishment redevelopment expenditure Property, plant and equipment the Group are engaged in property investment in the form of letting The significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of is added to the assets carrying amount.
Borrowing costs capitalised Equipment and fixtures of high-quality business accommodation to businesses across London.
these Consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These are calculated by reference to the actual interest rate payable on Equipment and fixtures are stated at historical purchase cost less policies have been consistently applied to all years presented unless borrowings, or if financed out of general borrowings by reference accumulated depreciation.
Historical cost includes the original The Company is a public limited company which is listed on the stated otherwise.
to the average rate payable on funding the assets employed by purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing London Stock Exchange and is incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
the Group and applied to the direct expenditure on the property the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Basis of consolidation undergoing redevelopment.
Interest is capitalised from the date of The registered number of the Company is 2041612.
The Consolidated financial statements include the financial statements commencement of the redevelopment activity until the date when Subsequent expenditure is charged to the assets carrying amount of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings up to 31 March 2018. substantially all the activities necessary to prepare the asset for its or recognised as a separate asset only when it is probable that future Basis of preparation Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over which intended use are complete.
economic benefits associated with the expenditure will flow to the These financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group Group and the cost of each item can be reliably measured.
All other Companys functional currency and the Groups presentation is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement Investment properties are recognised as assets held for sale when repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the Consolidated currency and have been prepared on a going concern basis, in with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its it is considered highly probable that sale completion will take place.
income statement during the period in which they are incurred.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the This is assumed when a sale has exchanged by the balance sheet date and IFRS IC interpretations as adopted by the European Union and date on which control is transferred to the Group until the date that and completed before the date of signing the financial statements.
Depreciation is provided using the straight-line method to allocate the with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies control ceases.
cost less estimated residual value over the assets estimated useful reporting under IFRS.
The details of the going concern assessment Income from the sale of assets is recognised when the significant risks lives which range from four to 10 years.
Inter company transactions, balances and unrealised gains from and returns have been transferred to the buyer.
In the case of sales of intra group transactions are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also properties this is generally taken on completion of the contract.
In the The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted, The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment case of a part disposal agreement, the part of the asset being disposed if appropriate, at least at each financial year end.
An assets carrying convention as modified by the revaluation of investment properties of the asset transferred.
will be derecognised from investment property when completion is amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if its and certain financial assets and liabilities including derivative reached or when a finance lease agreement is signed i. e. when the carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss or equity.
Investment properties risks and rewards of this part of the site transfer to the developer.
Investment properties are those properties owned or leased by Profit or loss on disposal is taken as the consideration receivable Joint ventures Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates the Group that are held either to earn rental income or for capital net of costs less the latest valuation net book value and is taken Joint ventures are those entities over which the Group, either directly The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally appreciation, or both, and are not occupied by the Company or to other operating income expense.
or indirectly, is in a position to jointly control the financial and operating accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and subsidiaries of the Group.
Joint ventures are accounted for under the judgements that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities Consideration can take the form of cash, new commercial buildings equity method whereby the Groups investment is initially accounted at the balance sheet date and the reported amounts of revenues and Investment property is measured initially at cost, including related and a right to future overage generally being a share in the proceeds for at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Groups share of expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are transaction costs.
After initial recognition investment property is held of any future sale of the residential development to be constructed the gains or losses in the joint venture.
These are adjusted for any based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or at fair value based on a valuation by an independent professional by the developer.
Revenue is recognised when all relevant criteria gains or losses arising from transactions between the Group and actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
external valuer at each reporting date.
The valuation methods and in IAS 18 are met, specifically when the inflow of economic benefit the joint venture.
key assumptions applied are explained in note 10.
Changes in fair is probable and when the amount can be measured reliably.
The Groups significant accounting policies are stated below.
Not all value of investment property at each reporting date are recorded Other investments of these accounting policies require management to make subjective in the Consolidated income statement.
Consideration including overage is measured at the fair value of the Investments in unlisted shares are accounted for at cost where the fair or complex judgements.
The following is intended to provide an consideration received receivable.
value cannot be reliably measured.
Subsequently they are reviewed understanding of the significant judgements within the accounting Investment properties acquired under finance leases are capitalised for impairment by management on an annual basis.
policies that management consider critical because of the at the leases commencement at the lower of the fair value of the Commercial property to be received is fair valued using the residual assumptions or estimation involved in their application and their leased property and the net present value of the minimum lease method described in note 10 and is included in investment property.
Impairments and reversals are recognised through the Consolidated impact on the Consolidated financial statements.
The investment properties acquired under finance leases Changes in fair value are recognised through the Consolidated income statement.
are subsequently carried at fair value plus an adjustment for the income statement in accordance with IAS 40.
Investment property valuation carrying amount of the finance lease obligation.
The corresponding Trade and other receivables The Group uses the valuation performed by its independent valuer rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in current and Overage is only recognised once an agreement has been signed with Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value as the fair value of its investment properties.
The valuation is based non-current borrowings.
Each lease payment is allocated between a residential developer.
Overage represents a financial asset and is and subsequently measured at amortised cost less provision for upon the key assumptions of estimated rental values and market liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the designated as a financial asset at fair value through profit or loss upon impairment where it is established there is objective evidence that based yields.
With regard to redevelopments and refurbishments, finance balance outstanding.
The interest element of the finance cost initial recognition.
The carrying value of overage is assessed at each the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to future development costs and an appropriate discount rate are also is charged to the income statement.
period end and changes in fair value are taken to Other operating the original terms of the receivable.
The amount of the provision used.
In determining fair value the valuers make reference to market income.
is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the evidence and recent transaction prices for similar properties.
Properties are treated as acquired at the point the Group assumes present value of estimated future cash flows.
The provision is the significant risks and rewards of ownership and are treated as Acquisitions recorded in the Consolidated income statement.
Details of the valuation methodology and key assumptions are given disposed when these are transferred outside of the Groups control.
Where properties are acquired through corporate acquisitions and in note 10.
Management consider the significant assumptions to the there are no significant assets other than investment property and Deferred consideration on the disposal of investment properties valuation of investment properties to be estimated rental values and Existing investment properties which undergo redevelopment and liabilities, and without a business being acquired, the acquisition is is included within trade and other receivables.
It is fair valued on market based yields.
Sensitivities on these assumptions are provided refurbishment for continued future use remain in investment property treated as an asset acquisition.
In all other cases, the acquisition is recognition and at each year end with any movement taken to in note 10. where the purpose of holding the property continues to meet the treated as a business combination.
definition of investment property as defined above.
Subsequent expenditure is charged to the assets carrying amount only when Intangible assets Trade and other payables it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the Intangible assets are stated at historical cost, less accumulated Trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value and expenditure will flow to the Group, and the cost of each item can be amortisation.
Acquired computer software licences and external subsequently held at amortised cost.
Certain internal staff costs directly attributable to costs of implementing or developing computer software programs capital redevelopment projects are capitalised.
All other repairs and and websites are capitalised.
These costs are amortised over their maintenance costs are charged to the income statement during the estimated useful lives of five years on a straight-line basis.
period in which they are incurred.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programs are recognised as an expense as they fall due.
150Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 151Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Notes to the financial statements continued Cash and cash equivalents Share capital Share based payments New accounting standards, amendments and guidance Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, restricted cash in the Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly The Group operates a number of share schemes under which the a During the year to 31 March 2018 the Group adopted the following form of tenants deposits and deposits held on call with banks.
Bank attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a Group receives services from employees as consideration for equity accounting standards and guidance: overdrafts are included in current liabilities but within cash and cash deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Amendments to IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities equivalents for the purpose of the cash flow statement.
and IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Investment in own shares The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the amendments regarding the consolidation exemption.
Borrowings The Group operates an Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT grant of share awards and options is recognised as an expense over Amendment: IAS7 Statement of cash flows on disclosure Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction and a trust for the Share Incentive Plan SIP.
When the Group funds the vesting period.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost, these trusts in order to purchase Company shares, the loan is with any difference between the initial amount net of transaction deducted from Shareholders equity as investment in own shares.
Fair value is measured by the use of Black-Scholes and Binomial These standards or guidance had no material impact on the Groups costs and the redemption value being recognised in the income option pricing models.
The expected life used in the models has been financial statements or resulted in changes to presentation and statement over the period of the borrowings, using the effective Operating segments adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of disclosure only.
interest method, except for interest capitalised on redevelopments.
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
b T he following accounting standards and guidance are not yet Foreign currency translation chief operating decision maker is the person or group that allocates effective but are not expected to have a significant impact on the Foreign currency transactions are translated into Sterling using the resources to and assesses the performance of the operating Pensions Groups financial statements or will result in changes to exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign segments of an entity.
The Group has determined that its chief The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme.
They have not been adopted exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such operating decision maker is the Executive Committee of the Contributions are charged to the Consolidated income statement early by the Group: transactions and from the translation at year-end rates of monetary Company.
The Group considers that it has only one operating on an accruals basis.
Standard or interpretation Content assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised segment being a single portfolio of commercial property providing in the Consolidated income statement, except when deferred in Other business accommodation for rent in London.
Taxation IFRS 9 Financial instruments comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges.
Current income tax is tax payable on the taxable income for the year IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with Revenue recognition and any prior year adjustment, and is calculated using tax rates that customers Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Revenue comprises rental income, service charges and other sums have been substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
The Group enters into derivative transactions in order to manage its receivable from the Groups investment properties.
Other sums IFRS 16 Leases exposure to foreign currency fluctuations and interest rate risks.
comprise insurance charges, supplies of utilities, premia associated with Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences between the Financial derivatives are recorded at fair value calculated by valuation surrender of tenancies, commissions, fees and other sundry income.
tax base of an asset or liability and its carrying amount in the balance techniques based on market prices, estimated future cash flows and sheet.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been IFRS 9 Financial Instruments forward interest rates.
All the Groups properties are leased out under operating leases and enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred This standard covers the classification and measurement of financial are included in investment property in the balance sheet.
Rental tax assets are recognised when it is probable that taxable profits will instruments.
Having carried out an assessment of the standard, the For financial derivatives where hedge accounting is not applied income from operating leases is recognised in the Consolidated be available against which the deferred tax asset can be utilised.
Group believes the main impact will be the measurement and movements in fair value are recognised in the Consolidated income income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Rent presentation of trade receivables due to the change in impairment statement.
In line with IFRS 13, fair values of financial derivatives are received in advance is deferred in the Consolidated balance sheet and Compliance with the Real Estate Investment Trust REIT model to expected credit losses.
It is not currently expected that any measured at the estimated amount that the Group would receive or recognised in the period to which it relates to.
If the Group provides taxation regime impact will be material.
pay to terminate the agreement at the balance sheet date, taking into incentives to its customers the incentives are recognised over the The Group is a REIT and is thereby exempt from tax on both rental account the current interest expectations and current credit value lease term on a straight-line basis.
profits and chargeable gains from its UK property rental business.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers adjustment of the counterparties.
In order to retain REIT status, certain ongoing criteria must be This standard is based on the principle that revenue is recognised Service charges and other sums receivable from tenants are maintained.
The main criteria are as follows: when control passes to a customer.
In our case, the standard is most The Group applies hedge accounting for certain derivatives that are recognised on an accruals basis by reference to the stage of At the start of each accounting period, the assets of the tax applicable to the recognition point for service charge income and designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows cash flow completion of the relevant service or transactions at the reporting exempt business must be at least 75% of the total value of the disposals of investment properties.
As the standard excludes rental hedges.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction date.
These services generally relate to a 12-month period.
Groups assets: income, which falls within the scope of IAS 17 IFRS 16 Leases, it is the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as At least 75% of the Groups total profits must arise from the tax not expected that IFRS 15 will have a significant impact on the well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking Direct costs exempt business: and Groups financial statements.
There may be changes to presentation various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents its Direct costs comprise service charges and other costs directly At least 90% of the tax exempt business earnings must be and disclosure.
assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of recoverable from tenants and non-recoverable costs directly distributed.
whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are attributable to investment properties and other revenue streams.
IFRS 16 Leases highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of Dividend distributions For operating leases in excess of one year, this standard requires hedged items.
The fair values of various derivative instruments used Exceptional items Final dividend distributions to the Companys Shareholders are lessees to recognise a right-of-use asset and a related lease liability for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 16.
Movements on the Exceptional items are those items that in the Directors view are recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the representing the obligation to make lease payments.
The right-of-use hedging reserve in other comprehensive income are shown in note 20. required to be separately disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence period in which the dividends are approved, while interim dividends asset is assessed for impairment annually and is amortised on a to enable a full understanding of the Groups financial performance.
The lease liability is amortised using the effective For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of changes in the fair interest method.
Lessor accounting is substantially unchanged from value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow current accounting.
Therefore, since the Group is primarily a lessor, hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or this standard does not significantly impact the Groups financial loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in statements.
the Consolidated income statement within other gains losses.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss for example, to offset the currency movement on borrowings that are hedged at each period end.
The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of swaps hedging the currency of borrowings is recognised in the Consolidated income statement.
152Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 153Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018
