qxp 03 07 2018 12:28 Page 84 Further Information Regulatory Disclosures unaudited Global Data Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive Amount of assets engaged in TRS AIFMD Disclosures The following table represents the total value of assets Investment Objective and Leverage engaged in TRS: A description of the investment strategy and objectives of the Company, the types of assets in which the Company may 000 % of AUM invest, the techniques it may employ, any applicable TRS 34,105 2.6 investment restrictions, the circumstances in which it may use Concentration Data leverage, the types and sources of leverage permitted and the Counterparties associated risks, any restrictions on the use of leverage and the maximum level of leverage which the AIFM and Portfolio The following table provides details of the counterparties and Manager are entitled to employ on behalf of the Company and their country of incorporation based on gross volume of the procedures by which the Company may change its outstanding transactions with exposure on a gross basis in investment strategy and or the investment policy can be found respect of TRS as at the balance sheet date: on page 6 under the heading Investment Strategy.
Country of The table below sets out the current maximum permitted Incorporation 000 limit and actual level of leverages for the Company: As a Goldman Sachs U. S. A.
78,572 percentage of net assets JPMorgan U. S. A.
47,553 Gross Commitment Aggregate transaction data Method Method Type, quality, maturity, tenor and currency of collateral Maximum level of leverage 140.0% 140.0% Actual level at 31 March 2018 117.4% 116.4% No collateral was received by the Company in respect of TRS during the year to 31 March 2018.
The collateral provided by Remuneration of AIFM Staff the Company to the above counterparties is set out below.
Following completion of an assessment of the application of Type Currency Maturity Quality 000 the proportionality principle to the FCAs AIFM Remuneration Cash USD less than n a 9,932 Code, the AIFM has disapplied the pay-out process rules with 1 day respect to it and any of its delegates.
This is because the AIFM considers that it carries out non-complex activities and Maturity tenor of TRS is operating on a small scale.
The following table provides an analysis of the maturity tenor of open TRS positions with exposure on a gross basis as at Further disclosures required under the AIFM Rules can be the balance sheet date: found within the Investor Disclosure Document on the Companys website: www.
TRS Value Maturity 000 Security Financing Transactions Disclosures 1 to 3 months 44,939 As defined in Article 3 of Regulation EU 2015 2365, 3 to 12 months 81,186 securities financing transactions SFT include repurchase 126,125 transactions, securities or commodities lending and securities or commodities borrowing, buy-sell back transactions or sell-buy back transactions and margin lending transactions.
Whilst the Company does not engage in such SFTs, it does engage in Total Return Swaps TRS therefore, in accordance with Article 13 of the Regulation, the Companys involvement in and exposure to Total Return Swaps for the accounting year ended 31 March 2018 are detailed below.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 84 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 249336 WWH pp71-end.
qxp 03 07 2018 12:28 Page 85 Further Information Regulatory Disclosures unaudited Settlement and clearing OTC derivative transactions including TRS are entered into by the Company under an International Swaps and Derivatives Associations, Inc. Master Agreement ISDA Master Agreement.
An ISDA Master Agreement is a bilateral agreement between the Company and a counterparty that governs OTC derivative transactions including TRS entered into by the parties.
All OTC derivative transactions entered under an ISDA Master Agreement are netted together for collateral purposes, therefore any collateral disclosures provided are in respect of all OTC derivative transactions entered into by the Company under the ISDA Master agreement, not just total return swaps.
Safekeeping of collateral There was no non-cash collateral provided by the Company in respect of OTC derivatives including TRS with the counterparties noted above as at the statement of financial position date.
Return and cost All returns from TRS transactions will accrue to the Company and are not subject to any returns sharing arrangements with the Companys AIFM, Portfolio Manager or any other third parties.
Returns from those instruments are disclosed in Note 9 to the Companys financial statements.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 85
