qxp 03 07 2018 12:28 Page 82 Further Information Explanatory Notes to the Resolutions Resolution 1 To receive the Annual Report and Accounts Directors to allot shares otherwise than by a pro rata issue to The Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 existing shareholders.
Special Resolution 11 will, if passed, March 2018 will be presented to the Annual General Meeting give the Directors power to allot for cash equity securities up AGM.
These accounts accompany this Notice of Meeting and to 10% of the Companys existing share capital on shareholders will be given an opportunity at the meeting to 15 June 2018 or if changed, the number representing 10% of ask questions.
the issued share capital of the Company at the date at which the resolution is passed, as if Section 551 of the Act does not Resolutions 2 to 7 Re-election and election of Directors apply.
This is the same nominal amount of share capital Resolutions 2 to 7 deal with the re-election and election of which the Directors are seeking the authority to allot each Director.
Biographies of each of the Directors can be pursuant to Resolution 10.
This authority will also expire on found on pages 26 and 27 of the annual report.
the date of the next Annual General Meeting or after a period of 15 months, whichever is earlier.
This authority will not be The Board has confirmed, following a performance review, used in connection with a rights issue by the Company.
that the Directors standing for re-election and election continue to perform effectively.
Under the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 as amended the Treasury Share Resolution 8 Re-appointment of Auditors and the Regulations the Company is permitted to buy-back and determination of their remuneration hold shares in treasury and then sell them at a later date for Resolution 8 relates to the re-appointment of cash, rather than cancelling them.
The Treasury Share  LLP as the Companys independent Regulations require such sale to be on a pre-emptive, pro Auditors to hold office until the next AGM of the Company rata, basis to existing shareholders unless shareholders and also authorises the Audit Committee to set their agree by special resolution to disapply such pre-emption remuneration.
Accordingly, in addition to giving the Directors power to allot unissued share capital on a non pre-emptive basis Resolution 9 Remuneration Report pursuant to Resolution 11, Resolution 12, if passed, will give The Directors Remuneration Report is set out in full in the the Directors authority to sell shares held in treasury on a annual report on pages 43 to 45. non pre-emptive basis.
No dividends may be paid on any shares held in treasury and no voting rights will attach to Resolutions 10, 11 and 12 Issue of Shares such shares.
The benefit of the ability to hold treasury shares Ordinary Resolution 10 in the Notice of AGM will renew the is that such shares may be resold.
This should give the authority to allot the unissued share capital up to an Company greater flexibility in managing its share capital, and aggregate nominal amount of 1,249,219 equivalent to improve liquidity in its shares.
It is the intention of the Board 4,996,877 shares, or 10% of the Companys existing issued that any re-sale of treasury shares would only take place at a share capital on 15 June 2018, being the nearest practicable narrower discount to the net asset value per share than that date prior to the signing of this Report or if changed, the at which they had been bought into treasury, and in any event number representing 10% of the issued share capital of the at a discount no greater than 5% to the prevailing diluted Company at the date at which the resolution is passed.
Such cum income net asset value per share, and this is reflected in authority will expire on the date of the next AGM or after a the text of Resolution 12.
It is also the intention of the Board period of 15 months from the date of the passing of the that sales from treasury would only take place when the resolution, whichever is earlier.
This means that the Board believes that to do so would assist in the provision of authority will have to be renewed at the next AGM.
The number of treasury shares which When shares are to be allotted for cash, Section 551 of the may be sold pursuant to this authority is limited to 10% of the Companies Act 2006 the Act provides that existing Companys existing share capital on 15 June 2018 or if shareholders have pre-emption rights and that the new changed, the number representing 10% of the issued share shares must be offered first to such shareholders in capital of the Company at the date at which the resolution is proportion to their existing holding of shares.
However, passed reduced by any equity securities allotted for cash on shareholders can, by special resolution, authorise the Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 82 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 249336 WWH pp71-end.
qxp 03 07 2018 12:28 Page 83 Further Information Explanatory Notes to the Resolutions a non-pro rata basis pursuant to Resolution 10, as described Under the current Listing Rules, the maximum price that above.
This authority will also expire on the date of the next may be paid on the exercise of this authority must not exceed Annual General Meeting or after a period of 15 months, the higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market whichever is earlier.
quotations for the shares over the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii the The Directors intend to use the authority given by higher of the last independent trade and the highest current Resolutions 10, 11 and 12 to allot shares and disapply independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is pre-emption rights only in circumstances where this will be carried out.
The minimum price which may be paid is 25p per clearly beneficial to shareholders as a whole.
Existing shares which are purchased under this proceeds would be available for investment in line with the authority will either be cancelled or held as Treasury Shares.
No issue of shares will be made which would effectively alter the control of the Special Resolution 13 in the Notice of AGM will renew the Company without the prior approval of shareholders in authority to purchase in the market a maximum of 14.99% of general meeting.
Ordinary Shares in issue as at the date of the passing of the resolution.
Such authority will expire on the date of the next New Shares will only be issued at a premium to the AGM or after a period of 15 months from the date of passing Companys Cum income net asset value per share at the time of the resolution, whichever is earlier.
This means in effect of issue.
that the authority will have to be renewed at the next AGM or earlier if the authority has been exhausted.
Resolution 13 Share Repurchases The Directors wish to renew the authority given by Resolution 14 General Meetings shareholders at the previous AGM.
The principal aim of a Special Resolution 14 seeks shareholder approval for the share buy-back facility is to enhance shareholder value by Company to hold General Meetings other than the AGM at acquiring shares at a discount to net asset value, as and 14 clear days notice.
The Board confirms that the shorter when the Directors consider this to be appropriate.
The notice period would only be used where it was merited by the purchase of Shares, when they are trading at a discount to purpose of the meeting.
net asset value per share should result in an increase in the net asset value per share for the remaining shareholders.
Recommendation This authority, if conferred, will only be exercised if to do so The Board considers that the resolutions relating to the would result in an increase in the net asset value per share above items are in the best interests of shareholders as a for the remaining shareholders and if it is in the best whole.
Accordingly, the Board unanimously recommends to interests of shareholders generally.
Any purchase of shares the shareholders that they vote in favour of the above will be made within guidelines established from time to time resolutions to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM as the by the Board.
It is proposed to seek shareholder authority to Directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial renew this facility for another year at the AGM.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 83
