qxp 03 07 2018 12:26 Page 31 Governance Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Financial Going concern Statements in accordance with applicable law and The financial statements have been prepared on a going regulations.
In preparing these financial statements, the concern basis.
The Directors consider this is the appropriate Directors have: basis as the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, being taken selected suitable accounting policies and applied them as 12 months after approval of the financial statements.
In consistently: considering this, the Directors took into account the made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and diversified portfolio of readily realisable securities which can prudent: be used to meet funding commitments and the ability of the Company to meet all of its liabilities, including the overdraft followed applicable UK accounting standards: and and ongoing expenses from its assets.
prepared the financial statements on a going concern basis.
Disclosure of information to the auditors So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate information of which the Auditors are unaware.
The accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy Directors have taken all steps they ought to have taken to at any time the financial position of the Company and enable make themselves aware of any relevant audit information them to ensure that the financial statements comply with and to establish that the Auditors are aware of such the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for information.
safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of Responsibility statement of the directors in fraud and other irregularities.
respect of the annual financial report The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Report of The Directors, whose details can be found on pages 26 and the Directors and other information included in the Annual 27, confirm to the best of their knowledge that: Report is prepared in accordance with company law in the the Financial Statements, within this Annual Report, United Kingdom.
They are also responsible for ensuring that have been prepared in accordance with applicable the Annual Report includes information required by the accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the Listing Rules of the FCA.
assets, liabilities, financial position and the return for the The financial statements are published on the Companys year ended 31 March 2018: website www.
com and via Frostrows website the Chairmans Statement, Strategic Report and the www.
The maintenance and integrity of these Report of the Directors include a fair review of the websites, so far as it relates to the Company, is the information required by 4.1.
11R of the FCAs responsibility of Frostrow.
The work carried out by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: and Auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of these websites and, accordingly, the Auditors the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred whole are fair, balanced and understandable and provide to the financial statements since they were initially the information necessary to assess the Companys presented on these websites.
Visitors to the websites need performance, business model and strategy.
to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
On behalf of the Board Sir Martin Smith Chairman 15 June 2018 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 31
