ADDITIONAL INFORMATION TASKFORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES TCFD We support the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures and aim to develop our disclosures in line with its recommendations.
This voluntary framework seeks to encourage businesses to disclose climate-related risks and opportunities and is structured around four themes: governance, strategy, risk management, and metrics and targets.
Our disclosure, across these four themes, is set out below.
GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT Paul Richardson, WPPs Group Finance Director, was the Board Climate change-related risks are integrated into our overall risk Director responsible for sustainability in 2018.
Performance and updated risk implications  for our climate change strategy and risk are reviewed by the Audit Committee on a bi-annual basis.
He gives an annual assessment of sustainability Assessment of risk is informed by feedback from investors, clients risksand opportunities including climate change and performance and our people.
Our overall risk management process is outlined on to theBoard.
At Board level, the Nomination and Governance pages 78-83.
Committee has responsibility for sustainability and climate change.
Andrea Harris, Group Chief Counsel and Head of Group-level sustainability risks and opportunities including climate Sustainability, has operational responsibility for the Companys are reviewed at least quarterly by the sustainability team.
The response to climate change.
assessment is informed by feedback from investors, clients and employees.
Factors considered include regulatory requirements, STRATEGY reputational risk, physical risks, and opportunities to advise our Climate change is a major threat to global social and economic clients.
Evaluation criteria include relevance to our industry, development.
With operations in 112 countries globally, WPP and our relevance to sustainability, regulatory legal risks, financial clients are exposed to many of its physical and transition impacts.
implications and the operations affected.
In 2018 19 we are providing These include risks relating to climate change regulation and the guidance to operating companies on assessing climate-related risk, impact of more frequent extreme weather events on our offices and and our operating companies will be forming Risk Committees with people in some locations.
The most material opportunity for WPP is sustainability including climate risk as part of their remit.
the potential to work with clients on  briefs.
Around 13% of our revenues come from clients who have engaged METRICS AND TARGETS with us on sustainability and as more sectors are impacted by We have been reporting on a range of climate change indicators climatechange this will increase.
WPPs climate-related risks since 2006 and have an ambitious reduction target, in line with andopportunities are disclosed in our Sustainability Report and climate science.
A summary is provided on page 72 with further CDPdisclosure.
information in our Sustainability Report.
Our most material climaterelated opportunities relate to our client work.
Examples of work relating to climate change are included in our downloadable Sustainability Report 2018: wpp.
