FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES ACCOUNTING POLICIES The consolidated financial statements of WPP plc and its subsidiaries the IMPACT OF THE ADOPTION OF IFRS 9 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Group for the year ended 31December 2018 have been prepared in The Group has adopted IFRS 9 Financial Instruments from 1 January 2018 which accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted resulted in the movements in fair value of certain equity investments by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group previously designated as available-for-sale being designated as fair value for the year ended 31 December 2018. through other comprehensive income or fair value through profit or loss.
The cumulative movements in fair value taken to equity up to 31 December 2017 for The Groups financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with these investments have been transferred from other reserves to retained International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International earnings, resulting in an increase in retained earnings of 407.4 million and a Accounting Standards Board.
corresponding decrease in other reserves.
BASIS OF PREPARATION Amounts classified as loans and receivables under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical Recognition and Measurement have been reclassified to amortised cost under cost convention, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
Further details on reclassification are set out in note 24.
The principal accounting policies are set out below.
The requirement under IFRS 9 to use an expected loss method of impairment BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION of financial assets did not have a material effect on the Group due to the The consolidated financial statements include the results of the Company short-term nature of the Groups trade and other receivables, which are mainly andall its subsidiary undertakings made up to the same accounting date.
due from large national or multinational companies.
Allintra-Group balances, transactions, income and expenses are eliminated infull on consolidation.
The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or The Group continues to apply the hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39, disposed of during the period are included or excluded from the consolidated aspermitted by IFRS 9. income statement from the effective date of acquisition or disposal.
Comparatives have not been restated in accordance with the transitional NEW IFRS ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS guidance in IFRS 9 and the cumulative impact of adopting the standard on At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following reserves at 1 January 2018 is shown in the consolidated statement of changes Standards, which have not been applied in these financial statements, in equity.
wereinissue but not yet effective: IFRS 16 Leases: and IMPACT OF THE ADOPTION OF IFRS 15 REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments.
WITH CUSTOMERS The Group has adopted IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers from IFRS 16 is effective from 1 January 2019.
The standard eliminates the 1 January 2018 which resulted in changes in certain aspects of our accounting classification of leases as either operating or finance leases and introduces a policies and adjustments to the amounts recognised in the financial single accounting model.
Lessees will be required to recognise a right-of-use statements.
In accordance with the transition provisions in IFRS 15, the Group asset and related lease liability for the majority of their operating leases and has adopted the new rules retrospectively and has restated comparatives for show depreciation of leased assets and interest on lease liabilities separately each prior year presented in the consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 16 will require the Group to recognise substantially all of its operating leases on the balance sheet.
The new standard establishes a five-step model where consideration receivedor expected to be received is recognised as revenue when The Group will adopt IFRS 16 effective 1 January 2019 on a modified  obligations are satisfied by transferring control of retrospective basis and apply the standard retrospectively with the cumulative therelevant goods or services to the customer.
Adopting IFRS 15 did not have effect of initially applying the standard recognised at the date of initial asignificant impact on the timing of the Groups revenue recognition nor on application as an adjustment to retained earnings.
Accordingly, prior year theGroups equity.
financial information will not be restated and will continue to be reported under IAS 17 Leases.
The right-of-use asset and lease liability will initially be However, for certain of our contracts, the adoption of IFRS 15 resulted in a measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments, with the change in our accounting for certain third-party costs.
Third-party costs are right-of-use asset being subject to certain adjustments.
The estimated included in revenue when the Group acts as principal with respect to the right-of-use asset and lease liability recorded on the balance sheet as of 1 services provided to the client and are excluded when the Group acts as agent.
January 2019 will be approximately 2.0 billion to 2.5 billion.
Depreciation of Under IFRS 15, the principal versus agent assessment is based on whether the the right-of-use asset and recognition of interest on the lease liability in the Group controls the relevant services before they are transferred to the client.
As income statement will replace amounts recognised as rent expense under IAS a result of the adoption of IFRS 15, there was an increase in third-party costs 17, resulting in an estimated increase to operating margin of approximately 0.4 included in revenue and costs of services.
This change increased revenue and to 0.6 margin points and an estimated decrease to diluted earnings per share costs of services by the same amount and therefore had no impact on gross of approximately 1.3p to 1.6p.
IFRIC 23 is effective from 1 January 2019.
The Group does not consider that this The following table summarises the impact of adopting IFRS 15 on the Groups Standard will have a significant impact on the financial statements of the Group.
consolidated income statement for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016.
In the current year, the following Standards and Interpretations became effective: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
Year ended 31 December 2017 Year ended 31 December 2016 As previously IFRS 15 As As previously IFRS 15 As million reported adjustments restated reported adjustments restated Revenue 15,265.4 538.8 15,804.2 14,388.9 498.4 14,887.3 Costs of services 12,090.2 538.8 12,629.0 11,348.1 498.4 11,846.5 Gross profit 3,175.2 3,175.2 3,040.8 3,040.8 Revenue less passthrough costs 13,139.6 30.0 13,169.6 12,397.8 30.8 12,428.6 122 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ACCOUNTING POLICIES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS carrying value.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost Work in progress includes outlays incurred on behalf of clients, including less estimated residual value of each asset on a straight-line basis over its production costs, and other third-party costs that have not yet been billed estimated useful life, as follows: andare considered receivables under IFRS 15.
As such, 401.1 million of Work Freehold buildings 50 years.
in progress has been reclassified as Trade and other receivables as of Leasehold land and buildings over the term of the lease or life of the 31December 2017.
Other than this reclassification, the impact of the asset, if shorter.
adoptionof IFRS 15 on the consolidated balance sheet, consolidated cash flow Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3-10 years.
statement, consolidated statement of changes in equity and earnings per Computer equipment 3-5 years.
INTERESTS IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence.
Intangible assets comprise goodwill, certain acquired separable corporate Incertain circumstances, significant influence may be represented by factors brand names, acquired customer relationships, acquired proprietary tools other than ownership and voting rights, such as representation on the Board andcapitalised computer software not integral to a related item of hardware.
Goodwill represents the excess of fair value attributed to investments in The Groups share of the profits less losses of associate undertakings net of businesses or subsidiary undertakings over the fair value of the underlying tax, interest and non-controlling interests is included in the consolidated netassets, including intangible assets, at the date of their acquisition.
income statement and the Groups share of net assets is shown within interestsin associates in the consolidated balance sheet.
The Groups share Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually or more frequently ofthe profits less losses and net assets is based on current information ifevents or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment.
The produced by the undertakings, adjusted to conform with the accounting carrying value of goodwill is compared to the net present value of future cash policies of the Group.
flows derived from the underlying assets using a projection period of up to fiveyears for each cash-generating unit.
After the projection period a steady The Group assesses the carrying value of its associate undertakings to growth rate representing an appropriate long-term growth rate for the determine if any impairment has occurred.
Where this indicates that an industry is applied.
Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense investment may be impaired, the Group applies the requirements of IAS 36 and is not subsequently reversed.
inassessing the carrying amount of the investment.
This process includes comparing its recoverable amount with its carrying value.
Corporate brand names, customer relationships and proprietary tools acquired as part of acquisitions of businesses are capitalised separately from The Group accounts for joint venture investments under the equity method goodwill as intangible assets if their value can be measured reliably on initial which is consistent with the Groups treatment of associates.
recognition and it is probable that the expected future economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will flow to the Group.
OTHER INVESTMENTS The Group has adopted IFRS 9 Financial Instruments from 1 January 2018 which Certain corporate brands of the Group are considered to have an indefinite resulted in the movements in fair value of certain equity investments economic life because of the institutional nature of the corporate brand previously designated as available-for-sale being designated as fair value names, their proven ability to maintain market leadership and profitable through other comprehensive income or fair value through profit or loss.
operations over long periods of time and the Groups commitment to develop Further details on reclassifications are set out in note 24.
Movements in fair and enhance their value.
The carrying value of these intangible assets is value through profit or loss are recorded in the consolidated income reviewed at least annually for impairment and adjusted to the recoverable statement within revaluation of financial instruments.
ACCRUED AND DEFERRED INCOME Amortisation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated Accrued income is a contract asset and is recognised when a performance residual value of each asset on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life obligation has been satisfied but has not yet been billed.
Contract assets are as follows: transferred to receivables when the right to consideration is unconditional and Brand names with finite lives 1020 years.
billed per the terms of the contractual agreement.
In certain cases, payments are received from customers prior to satisfaction of Other including capitalised computer software 35 years.
performance obligations and recognised as deferred income.
These balances are considered contract liabilities and are typically related to prepayments for CONTINGENT CONSIDERATION third party expenses that are incurred shortly after billing.
Contingent consideration is accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Contingent consideration only applies to situations where TRADE RECEIVABLES AND WORK IN PROGRESS contingent payments are not dependent on future employment of vendors Trade receivables are stated net of provisions for bad and doubtful debts.
and any such payments are expensed when they relate to future employment.
TheGroup has adopted IFRS 9 Financial Instruments from 1 January 2018 which requires an expected loss method of impairment of financial assets to be used.
Future anticipated payments to vendors in respect of contingent The implementation of this did not have a material impact on the Group.
consideration earnout agreements are initially recorded at fair value which isthe present value of the expected cash outflows of the obligations.
The The Group has applied the simplified approach to measuring expected credit obligations are dependent on the future financial performance of the interests losses, as permitted by IFRS 9.
Therefore the Group does not track changes in acquired typically over a fourto five-year period following the year of credit risk, but recognises a loss allowance based on the financial asset's acquisition and assume the operating companies improve profits in line lifetime expected credit loss.
The Group measures expected credit losses withDirectors estimates.
The Directors derive their estimates from internal based on the ageing of the receivable, based on the Group's historical business plans together with financial due diligence performed in experience and informed credit assessment.
The Group considers a loss connectionwith the acquisition.
allowance to be required for 50% of all invoices aged 180 days to 1 year and 100% of all invoices aged over 1 year, with adjustments where there is specific Subsequent adjustments to the fair value are recorded in the consolidated information to indicate that recoverability of the balance is likely.
Further income statement within revaluation of financial instruments.
credit losses are recognised where the Group has information that indicates it is unlikely to recover balances in full.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Property, plant and equipment are shown at cost less accumulated Further details on provisions for bad and doubtful debts are provided in note16.
depreciation and any provision for impairment with the exception of freehold land which is not depreciated.
The Group assesses the carrying value of its Work in progress includes outlays incurred on behalf of clients, including property, plant and equipment to determine if any impairment has occurred.
production costs, and other third-party costs that have not yet been billed Where this indicates that an asset may be impaired, the Group applies the andare considered receivables under IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets in assessing the carrying amount withCustomers.
This process includes comparing its recoverable amount with its 123 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES FOREIGN CURRENCY AND INTEREST RATE HEDGING DEBT The Groups policy on interest rate and foreign exchange rate management Interest-bearing debt is recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct sets out the instruments and methods available to hedge interest and currency issuecosts.
risk exposures and the control procedures in place to ensure effectiveness.
BORROWING COSTS The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to foreign Finance costs of borrowing are recognised in the consolidated income exchange risk and interest rate movements.
The Group does not hold or issue statement over the term of those borrowings.
derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
REVENUE RECOGNITION Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative The Group is a leading worldwide creative transformation organisation offering contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at national and multinational clients a comprehensive range of communications, each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or experience, commerce and technology services.
Contracts often involve loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging multiple agencies offering different services in different countries.
As such, the instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss terms of local, regional and global contracts can vary to meet client needs and depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
Consistent with the industry, contracts are typically short-term in nature and tend to be cancellable by either party with 90 days At the inception of the hedge relationship the entity documents the notice.
The Group is generally entitled to payment for work performed to date.
relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge The Group is generally paid in arrears for its services.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing payable within 30 to 60 days.
Revenue comprises commissions and fees earned basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in in respect of amounts billed and is stated exclusive of VAT, sales taxes and trade ahedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values discounts.
Pass-through costs comprise fees paid to external suppliers when orcash flows of the hedged item.
they are engaged to perform part or all of a specific project and are charged directly to clients, predominantly media and data collection costs.
Costs to Note 24 contains details of the fair values of the derivative instruments used for obtain a contract are typically expensed as incurred as the contracts are hedging purposes.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as In most instances, promised services in a contract are not considered distinct or fairvalue hedges are recorded in profit or loss immediately, together with represent a series of services that are substantially the same with the same anychanges in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the pattern of transfer to the customer and, as such, are accounted for as a single hedged risk.
However, where there are contracts with services that are capable of being distinct, are distinct within the context of the contract, and The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are are accounted for as separate performance obligations, revenue is allocated to designated and qualify as cash flow or net investment hedges is recognised in each of the performance obligations based on relative standalone selling prices.
other comprehensive income and deferred in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Amounts Revenue is recognised when a performance obligation is satisfied, in deferred in equity are recycled in profit or loss in the periods when the accordance with the terms of the contractual arrangement.
Typically hedged item is recognised in profit or loss.
However, when the forecast performance obligations are satisfied over time as services are rendered.
transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or Revenue recognised over time is based on the proportion of the level of service a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are performed.
Either an input method or an output method, depending on the transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of particular arrangement, is used to measure progress for each performance the asset or liability.
For most fee arrangements, costs incurred are used as an objective input measure of performance.
The primary input of substantially all work Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is performed under these arrangements is labour.
There is normally a direct sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At relationship between costs incurred and the proportion of the contract that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in performed to date.
In other circumstances relevant output measures, such as equity is retained in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged the achievement of any project milestones stipulated in the contract, are used transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss to assess proportional performance.
recognised in equity is transferred to net profit or loss for the period.
For our retainer arrangements, we have a stand ready obligation to perform Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts services on an ongoing basis over the life of the contract.
The scope of these are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not arrangements are broad and generally are not reconcilable to another input or closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not output criteria.
In these instances, revenue is recognised using a time-based carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the method resulting in straight-line revenue recognition.
The amount of revenue recognised depends on whether we act as an agent or LIABILITIES IN RESPECT OF OPTION AGREEMENTS as a principal.
Certain arrangements with our clients are such that our Option agreements that allow the Groups equity partners to require the responsibility is to arrange for a third party to provide a specified good or Group to purchase a non-controlling interest are treated as derivatives over service to the client.
In these cases we are acting as an agent as we do not equity instruments and are recorded in the consolidated balance sheet initially control the relevant good or service before it is transferred to the client.
When at the present value of the redemption amount in accordance with IAS 32 we act as an agent, the revenue recorded is the net amount retained.
Costs Financial Instruments: Presentation and subsequently measured at fair value in incurred with external suppliers such as production costs and media suppliers accordance with IFRS9 Financial Instruments.
The movement in the fair value are excluded from revenue and recorded as work in progress until billed.
is recognised as income or expense within revaluation of financial instruments in the consolidated income statement.
The Group acts as principal when we control the specified good or service prior to transfer.
When the Group acts as a principal such as in-house production DERECOGNITION OF FINANCIAL LIABILITIES services, events, data investment management and branding, the revenue In accordance with IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, a financial liability of the recorded is the gross amount billed.
Billings related to out-of-pocket costs such Group is only released to the consolidated income statement when the as travel are also recognised at the gross amount billed with a corresponding underlying legal obligation is extinguished.
amount recorded as an expense.
124 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ACCOUNTING POLICIES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities Further details on revenue recognition are detailed by sector below: are recognised for all taxable temporary differences unless specifically excepted by IAS 12 Income Taxes.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the consolidated ADVERTISING AND MEDIA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited to other Revenue is typically derived from media placements and advertising services.
comprehensive income or directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is Revenue may consist of various arrangements involving commissions, fees, also dealt with in other comprehensive income or equity.
Deferred tax assets are incentive-based revenue or a combination of the three, as agreed upon with recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available each client.
Revenue for commissions on purchased media is typically against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised, which can recognised at the point in time the media is run.
require the use of accounting estimation and the exercise of judgement.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from The Group receives volume rebates from certain suppliers for transactions the initial recognition of goodwill or other assets and liabilities other than in a entered into on behalf of clients that, based on the terms of the relevant business combination in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor contracts and local law, are either remitted to clients or retained by the Group.
If amounts are passed on to clients they are recorded as liabilities until settled or, if retained by the Group, are recorded as revenue when earned.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient Variable incentive-based revenue typically comprises both quantitative and taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Incentive compensation is estimated using the most likely amount and is included in revenue up to the amount that is highly Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising probable not to result in a significant reversal of cumulative revenue on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, recognised.
The Group recognises incentive revenue as the related except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary performance obligation is satisfied.
difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse intheforeseeable future.
DATA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT Revenue for market research services is typically recognised over time based Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable on input measures.
For certain performance obligations, output measures such right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they as the percentage of interviews completed, percentage of reports delivered relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group to a client and the achievement of any project milestones stipulated in the intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
contract are used to measure progress.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the While most of the studies provided in connection with the Groups market period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based on enacted research contracts are undertaken in response to an individual clients or orsubstantively enacted legislation.
group of clients specifications, in certain instances a study may be developed as an off-the-shelf product offering sold to a broad client base.
For these RETIREMENT BENEFIT COSTS transactions, revenue is recognised when the product is delivered.
When the The Group accounts for retirement benefit costs in accordance with IAS 19 terms of the transaction provide for licensing the right to access a product on Employee Benefits.
a subscription basis, revenue is recognised over the subscription period, typically on a straight-line basis.
For defined contribution plans, contributions are charged to the consolidated income statement as payable in respect of the accounting period.
PUBLIC RELATIONS & PUBLIC AFFAIRS AND BRAND CONSULTING, HEALTH & WELLNESS AND SPECIALIST COMMUNICATIONS For defined benefit plans the amounts charged to operating profit are the Revenue for these services is typically derived from retainer fees and fees for current service costs, past service costs, administrative expenses and gains services to be performed subject to specific agreement.
Most revenue under and losses on settlements and curtailments.
They are included as part of staff these arrangements is earned over time, in accordance with the terms of the costs.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the consolidated contractual arrangement.
income statement when the related plan amendment occurs.
Net interest expense is calculated by applying the discount rate to the recognised overall TAXATION surplus or deficit in the plan.
Corporate taxes are payable on taxable profits at current rates.
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The Group is subject to corporate taxes in a number of different jurisdictions and judgement is required in determining the appropriate provision for transactions Where defined benefit plans are funded, the assets of the plan are held where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
In such circumstances, the separately from those of the Group, in separate independently managed Group recognises liabilities for anticipated taxes based on the best information funds.
Pension plan assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are available and where the anticipated liability is both probable and estimable, measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and liabilities are classified as current.
Any interest and penalties accrued are discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high-quality included in corporate income taxes both in the consolidated income statement corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the plan liabilities.
Where the final outcome of such matters differs from the actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each amount recorded, any differences may impact the income tax and deferred tax balance sheet date.
provisions in the period in which the final determination is made.
Recognition of a surplus in a defined benefit plan is limited based on the The tax laws that apply to the Groups subsidiaries may be amended by the economic gain the Company is expected to benefit from in the future by relevant tax authorities.
Such potential amendments are regularly monitored means of a refund or reduction in future contributions to the plan, in and adjustments are made to the Groups tax liabilities and deferred tax assets accordance with IAS 19. and liabilities where necessary.
PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit Provisions comprise liabilities where there is uncertainty about the timing of differs from net profit as reported in the consolidated income statement settlement, but where a reliable estimate can be made of the amount.
These because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in include provisions for vacant space, sub-let losses and other property-related other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Also included are other provisions, such as certain long-term The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been employee benefits and legal claims, where the likelihood of settlement is enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and 125 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES FINANCE LEASES The most significant areas of estimation uncertainty include: Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at the Goodwill: The discounted cash flow methodology employed by the Group inception of the lease at the lower of their fair value and the present value of when testing for goodwill impairment requires estimates regarding revenue the minimum lease payments.
Depreciation on leased assets is charged to the growth, operating margins, discount rates and working capital consolidated income statement on the same basis as owned assets.
Further details of the methodology, discount rates, long-term payments are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements and the growth rates and estimates used in relation to the goodwill impairment on interest is charged to the consolidated income statement as it is incurred.
VMLY&R in 2018 are set out in note 12.
Payments due to vendors earnout agreements and liabilities in respect OPERATING LEASES ofput options: Estimates are required regarding growth rates in deriving Operating lease rentals are charged to the consolidated income statement future financial performance and discount rates to be applied when ona straight-line basis over the lease term.
Any premium or discount on the measuring the liabilities for earnouts and put options.
Further details on acquisition of a lease is spread over the life of the lease on a straight-line basis.
growth rates and discount rates and the sensitivity to these estimates areset out in note 24.
TRANSLATION OF FOREIGN CURRENCIES Provision for post-employment benefits: Estimates are required in the Foreign currency transactions arising from normal trading activities are accounting for defined benefit pension plans, including establishing recorded at the rates in effect at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets discount rates, rates of increase in salaries and pensions in payment, and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the year-end are translated inflation and mortality assumptions.
These estimates are made by at the year-end exchange rate.
Foreign currency gains and losses are credited management based on the advice of qualified advisors.
Details of the or charged to the consolidated income statement as they arise.
assumptions used and the sensitivity of the benefit obligation to these assumptions are set out in note 22.
The income statements of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated intopounds sterling at average exchange rates and the year-end net assets The most significant areas of judgements include: ofthese companies are translated at year-end exchange rates.
Revenue recognition: Judgement is required regarding the timing of recognition, particularly in relation to media volume income with regards Exchange differences arising from retranslation of the opening net assets and towhether it is required to be passed back to the client and in assessing on foreign currency borrowings to the extent that they hedge the Groups progress on performance obligations where revenue is recognised over investment in such operations are reported in the consolidated statement time, particularly in the Groups Data Investment Management business.
Further details are set out in the accounting policy.
Taxation: Judgement is required in relation to the level of provisions Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign required and the amount of taxes that will be due, particularly given the entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated many countries in which the Group operates.
Where the final tax outcome is atthe closing rate.
different from the amounts recorded then such differences may expose the Group to additional tax liabilities or impact the carrying value of deferred HYPERINFLATION IN ARGENTINA tax assets, which would affect the future tax charge.
Further details are set During 2018, Argentina was designated as a hyperinflationary economy and out in note 7. the financial statements of the Groups subsidiaries in Argentina have been adjusted for the effects of inflation in accordance with IAS 29 Financial DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of IAS 29 requires that the income statement is adjusted for inflation in the period accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, and translated at the year-end foreign exchange rate and that non-monetary financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings assets and liabilities on the balance sheet are restated to reflect the change in included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and purchasing power caused by inflation from the date of initial recognition.
This the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development and resulted in an increase in goodwill of 105.8 million and an increase in other performance of the business and the position of the Company and the intangibles of 19.5 million.
The impact on other non-monetary assets and undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with liabilities and the impact on the Groups income statement in the year a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments including share company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply options to certain employees and accounts for these awards in accordance withthe Companies Jersey Law 1991. with IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
Details regarding the fair value of equity settled share-based transactions are set out in notes 21 and 25.
The fair value determined at the grant date is recognised in the consolidated income statement as an expense on a straight-line basis over the relevant vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the number of shares that Mark Read Paul Richardson will ultimately vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director conditions.
10 April 2019 CRITICAL JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES Management is required to make key decisions and judgements whilst acknowledging there is estimation uncertainty in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
These estimates and judgements are reviewed onan ongoing basis.
Where judgement has been applied or estimation uncertainty exists, the key factors taken into consideration are disclosed in the accounting policies and the appropriate note in these financial statements.
