MICHAEL PAGE INTERNATIONAL Chief Executives Review 2006 was another very strong year for Michael Page and I am delighted to report an excellent set of results, my first as Chief Executive of the Group.
These results reflect not only the efforts put in during the year, but also the decisions made in earlier periods which laid the foundations to achieve these record numbers.
It always has been, and will continue to be, our intention to take decisions and make investments for the longer-term benefit of our stakeholders.
These decisions and investments may impact the profits reported in an individual period, but, we believe, they will deliver greater returns over the longer-term.
Staff and office numbers We have made a number of new investments during 2006, opening in five countries, hiring new staff, opening and expanding offices and continuing the discipline roll-outs.
At the end of the year, the Group had 3,758 2005: 2,926 fee generating and support staff, operating from 133 2005: 118 offices in 23 2005: 18 countries.
Operating profits were 44.3m 2005: 31.9m, an increase of 38.6%.
The gross profits of the Finance and Accounting businesses of Michael Page Finance, Michael Page Financial Services and Accountancy Additions, which generated 54% of UK gross profit, were 14% higher than in 2005 with both permanent and temporary recruitment fees growing well.
Michael Page Finance, the largest of the three businesses, opened offices in Sheffield and, in January 2007, Leicester.
Michael Page Financial Services had a very strong year of growth and now accounts for around 10% of UK gross profits.
Accountancy Additions, which specialises in part-qualified and clerical accounting positions, continued to expand its office network from 32 to 35 locations with new offices in Peterborough, Sheffield and Cardiff.
We have a mediumterm goal of building the network towards 50 offices by 2010.
The combined gross profits of Michael Page Marketing, Michael Page Sales and Michael Page Retail, were 13% higher than in 2005 and combined represented 21% of the UK gross profit.
The Marketing and Sales businesses, which operate from 8 locations, produced strong growth from all industry sectors.
Despite the continuing tough conditions on the High Street, Retail, the smallest of the three businesses, still achieved year-on-year growth.
Michael Page Legal, Michael Page Technology, Michael Page Human Resources and Michael Page Secretarial achieved strong growth of 44% and combined represent 15% of UK gross profit.
Legal grew strongly both in London and the regions with new teams being added in Liverpool and Guildford.
Human Resources now operate from 7 locations having opened in Leeds.
Secretarial, which operates from a single office in London, had a very successful year.
Technology, the smallest of the four businesses, operating only in London, has achieved good growth and in January 2007 opened a second location in Weybridge.
1 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 The more recently created Michael Page Engineering & Manufacturing, Michael Page Procurement & Supply Chain and the newly launched Michael Page Property and Construction grew at over 40% and now represent 5% of UK gross profit.
The potential for all of these businesses is significant and we are investing heavily in them, adding headcount and opening in new locations.
We also had an outstanding year in Scotland growing gross profit by 62%, adding fee earners to the existing disciplines, as well as launching Legal and Human Resources.
Scotland now represents 4% of UK gross profit.
Continental Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA Turnover in EMEA for the year increased by 40.1% to 223.0m 2005: 159.2m and gross profit increased by 46.9% to 126.6m 2005: 86.1m.
As a result of the increased revenue and high operational gearing, the region produced an increase of 75.7% in operating profit at 34.2m 2005: 19.4m.
In France 38% of EMEA, our second-largest and most established business after the UK, gross profit increased by 22%.
As a result of the Borloo law in France we have restructured our businesses.
Page Personnel, which was purely a temporary placement business, can now make permanent placements, some of which in the past would have been made by Michael Page.
The businesses were restructured during the second half of 2006, with Page Personnel now making temporary and permanent placements from middle-management positions and below.
Michael Page still only does permanent placements, but now concentrates on middle-management positions and above.
We have established Michael Page Interim to service senior level temporary positions.
Elsewhere in the region, collectively our businesses achieved gross profit of 68%.
In Holland 19% of EMEA, Germany 12% of EMEA and Spain 11% of EMEA our businesses grew by over 60%.
We have also achieved strong growth in Belgium, Italy, Poland, Portugal, Sweden and Switzerland.
In each of these countries we added additional staff, expanded existing or opened new offices and continued the roll-out of disciplines.
In addition, we launched businesses in four new countries where we saw significant scope for longer-term growth.
We opened offices in Moscow, Johannesburg, Dubai and, at the end of October 2006, Dublin.
These offices were all opened with experienced senior Michael Page management and we have quickly added additional staff with all offices generating gross profits in 2006.
The growth in 2006 has been partly achieved by utilising spare capacity and partly by investment.
The better utilisation of capacity is reflected in the operating profits increasing by 75.7% from an increase in gross profit of 46.9%.
There is now little spare capacity remaining in the businesses and we will continue to invest sensibly to exploit the numerous growth opportunities that remain.
1 MICHAEL PAGE INTERNATIONAL Asia Pacific In the Asia Pacific region, turnover was 8.9% higher at 83.6m 2005: 76.7m, gross profit was 15.2% higher at 45.0m 2005: 39.0m and operating profit increased 21.0% to 17.1m 2005: 14.1m.
In Australia 58% of Asia Pacific gross profit grew by 5.2% and operating profit increased by 5.6%.
The weak performance in the fourth quarter of 2005 when the business was impacted by an IT implementation continued during the first half of 2006.
Following a review of the business a number of management and structural changes were implemented.
These changes were completed at the end of the third quarter.
While the full benefits of these changes are expected to become evident as we progress through 2007, we were encouraged by the 16.8% growth in fourth quarter gross profits.
In Hong Kong, Shanghai, Tokyo and Singapore, we achieved another year of substantial gross profit growth with all locations growing at or above 30%.
During the year, we have expanded the office in Shanghai and at the end of the year opened an office in Sha Tin which will allow us to penetrate more effectively the market in the New Territories and across the border in Southern China, particularly the Pearl River Delta.
The Americas Turnover for the region was 64.3% higher at 30.1m 2005: 18.3m, gross profit increased by 66.8% to 21.5m 2005: 12.9m and operating profit increased 81.4% to 1.9m 2005: 1.0m.
In North America, following our rapid expansion to seven offices, we consolidated our presence by significantly increasing the staff in existing locations and launching new disciplines.
Having previously focused only on Finance and Accounting, and Banking we started Sales, Marketing, Human Resources, Engineering, and Procurement & Supply Chain, initially in one office.
These disciplines will be rolled-out to the existing network of offices in 2007.
We have also invested further in our senior management in North America, with a number of experienced transfers, creating a regional structure to capitalise on the size of the opportunity.
This structure will enable us to expand further with a new office already opened in Hartford, Connecticut in January 2007 and others planned for later in the year.
This scale and pace of investment will of course have some impact on the operating margin we generate from the region in the short-term.
However, we believe structurally, in the medium-term, we can achieve margins similar to those we generate in the UK and EMEA.
We are extremely pleased with our continued development in Latin America.
In Brazil, we achieved another very successful year growing headcount and expanding the So Paulo and Rio fide Janeiro offices, as well as opening a third office in Campinas.
In the second half of the year, we opened in Mexico City, starting with Finance and Accounting, Banking, and plan to start another discipline during the first quarter of 2007.
Latin America provides another tremendous opportunity for the Group to expand and we now have some highly-talented, home-grown, experienced staff that can drive this growth.
20 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 Strategy Having worked for Michael Page for 20 years and been a significant contributor to the development of the Groups strategy, my appointment reinforces the intention to maintain that strategy.
I have, and will, continue to place great emphasis on the key components of the strategy and where appropriate accelerate the pace of implementation.
For instance, communication across the Group and between the regions has considerably improved with the establishment of an Executive Committee.
We will continue to expand organically, gradually diversifying and reducing the dependency upon any single geographic market or individual discipline.
Investment in 200 We have made significant investment in 2006, opening in five new countries and increasing headcount by 28% to 3,758.
We plan further expansion in 2007, with headcount expected to increase by 21% to around 4,550 by the end of the year.
Whilst this investment will be across all regions, the most significant in terms of senior management, office openings and headcount, will be in North America and Northern Europe where we see the greatest opportunities.
The investments we have made, and plan to make, will increase the 2007 pre-bonus cost base to approximately 260m including all share-based charges.
Outlook The outlook for Michael Page is highly encouraging.
We are currently experiencing favourable trading conditions in all the regions in which we operate.
During 2006, we invested heavily and this will continue in order to capitalise on the numerous opportunities for future medium and longer-term growth.
We have an exceptional pool of ambitious and talented people in the Group, in particular at the senior management level, with the expertise and skills required to launch new businesses successfully, and who are highly motivated to build on our success.
With the current near-term economic outlook looking relatively favourable, I am confident of reporting further progress during 2007.
Steve Ingham Chief Executive 28 February 2007 21
