Chief Executives report Kevin Lomax After a year of corporate change and business repositioning, Kevin Lomax, Chief Executive, discusses the issues addressed, the actions taken and the opportunities ahead.
bolt-on acquisitions where that provides Repositioning for growth enhanced functionality faster, while still cost effectively, and it is these areas that will Over the last year we have taken a number drive our business over the coming years.
of steps to build long-term value in the business.
We have continued to invest in product development and quality improvements, to make complementary A successful realignment in Banking acquisitions and to position our businesses to capture market growth effectively.
We For much of the last year I have also been have made good progress and customer Chief Executive of our Banking business.
response to our product offering has been Over the year we have reduced costs, positive, but we know we have more to refined our market focus and prioritised do to improve our performance overall.
Our core markets are the banking and In June 2005 we established a dedicated healthcare software markets and we have Treasury & Capital Markets TCM an enviably extensive customer base in business which has performed very both.
This year we have built on the strength successfully in its first year.
We brought of our successful, established products together previously discrete businesses as which have significant market share and a single business unit, with headquarters generate high levels of repeat revenues in New York.
This has given us a more to address new, higher growth market powerful market presence and enabled segments.
We are developing and enhancing our teams to become more efficient and our products for these higher growth more effective at sharing technical and segments, both organically and through commercial expertise.
Our customers have responded positively to the changes.
Page 12 Misys plc Annual Report 2006 We have taken a number of steps to build long-term value in the business Our product development programme is directed at higher growth areas In the wholesale and retail banking contracts led to an earnings shortfall in use systems for everything from consumer market, customer requirements are the first half of the year, which impacted accounts to commercial lending or trading.
We recognised that we had our margin.
This was clearly disappointing By developing our existing products and too many points of contact with the same and painful for us.
We have resolved these continuing to innovate for the future we customers, which was confusing for them issues now and those particular contracts can offer banks the integrated systems and inefficient for us.
Banks are also are progressing.
looking to reduce the number of their IT suppliers and the relationship is becoming Despite already having one of the largest A number of our established products much more of a partnership between customer bases in the industry, we had were the innovative, high-growth products the customer and larger vendors able to secured more than 30 new-name of yesterday.
They have been very provide a wide range of products.
customers across Banking by year-end.
successful, today theyre generating We also increased our Initial Licence Fee excellent returns from both recurring We responded by reorganising these revenue and order intake.
Total revenue licence fees and renewals and were able operations into one Core Banking business grew by 8%.
This was an encouraging to invest that cash in the next generation in the second half of the year, making it sales performance but we must improve of products.
This is an enormous easier for us to converge our products our bottom line too.
This simplified our customer proposition and The restructuring is now complete and we There are potential efficiencies for us too.
removed duplications at management have set out a very clear plan for moving We can develop common features and level.
We also refined our Risk Vision forward.
Employee engagement is crucial functions within our retail and wholesale offering, focusing it on serving existing to this and we take it very seriously: people banking products, so reducing development customers going forward.
Overall, the have been extremely committed and hard costs and improving time-to-market.
reorganisation will generate cost savings working throughout the changes.
Our Service Oriented Architecture SOA, which of around 15m: much of this saving will business and product strategy in Banking provides common architectural building be reinvested in product development.
is well defined we know what we need blocks within software, is a major to do.
Its all about operational excellence: development.
Our strategy is to converge Restructuring businesses inevitably getting quality products into the highour products around SOA, with common causes some disruption to employees growth markets on time and on budget solutions and platforms.
and, naturally, some had concerns about and being responsive to customer needs.
We worked hard to minimise The way we achieved good momentum the period of uncertainty for people.
In in TCM during its first 12 months shows creating Core Banking there were some that we can bring the business through Our competitive strengths job reductions and redundancies, but the transition quickly and Core Banking is most far-reaching changes came from now moving in the right direction too.
Conditions in the sector remain positive.
improving management processes, Some very large horizontal software speeding up our decision-making and companies have a presence in the banking creating a unified team.
software market, underlining its current Convergence in our markets attractiveness.
We recognise the power Banking software contracts have become and products of their brands, but decision makers in larger and more complex over recent years banking tell us they look for performance which has meant that, by their nature, they Banks used to operate in technological and sector expertise above a famous take longer to negotiate and to implement.
silos but theyre moving towards much name.
We have the domain knowledge Delays to a couple of particularly large more integrated processes and easier-toneeded to talk about banking business Page 13 Chief Executives report continued We have proven products, an impressive installed base and strong relationships with customers solutions first and software solutions As more customers adopt electronic This business had grown rapidly, driven by second and we believe thats what solutions the demand for connectivity an expanding customer base and achieved customers need.
Misys serves more than and for greater interoperability between a high penetration of that base.
But we 1,200 financial institutions so repeat devices and systems will increase.
We needed to find new opportunities for business will continue to be the bulk of are right at the heart of this opportunity revenue growth.
So in January 2006 we our revenue but we will also continue to with our web-based data sharing product acquired Payerpath, a very dynamic webtarget new name business.
We have an Misys Connect and our complete clinical based system, run on a subscription basis, exceptional installed customer base one products portfolio Misys Optimum, both that increases the efficiency of claims of the largest in the industry together of which will help us capture more of the processing and enables a higher fulfilment with excellent development expertise, market growth.
Its easy for physicians to use great talent and a strong mix of proven and too.
Were evolving from a commoditised next-generation products, all of which are service in a very mature market to a value very powerful competitive strengths.
added solution that also enables us to Enhancing our offering target new high growth markets.
In order to stay competitive we must invest Opportunities in a buoyant in the right products at the right time, healthcare market further improve customer service, keep a Product development tight rein on costs and build the value of Healthcare IT is a strong and growing our reputation within the market long term.
Misys is a software product and solutions market, especially in North America.
We have nearly 30 years We have a significant presence across what The product strategy in Healthcare is experience of building and delivering we call the major venues of care the the same as in Banking: were using the software around the world and we have physicians office, the hospital, the patients strong cash generation from established established world-class processes.
home and long-term care facilities.
We products to invest in new high growth have very strong customer relationships products.
Thats already having an effect.
Our two core divisions are in major, and a good product offering in each area In 2002 just 5% of our revenue was from vertical software markets and have core and we need to capitalise further on these.
markets growing at 10% or more, such as competencies in developing, acquiring, We are concentrating our investment in EHR: this year, including acquisitions, 32% integrating and selling software into their higher growth segments such as electronic of revenues were from high growth areas.
health records EHR and web-based claims processing to capture more of We expect that trend to continue and weve Our Healthcare and Banking product the markets buoyant growth.
focused R&D spend on our EHR products development programmes are very much in line with market opportunities.
Success focused on the higher growth market This is really just the beginning of the will be determined by our ability to capture segments, enabling us to deliver enhanced opportunity.
Penetration of clinical solutions market growth.
Competition is tough, but product architecture and functionality in the healthcare market remains relatively as in Banking we have proven products, in the areas most important to our low.
The first phase is for everyone to get an impressive installed base and strong customers.
We are investing where they an EHR: the next phase is about relationships with customers.
During the are investing, placing particular emphasis connecting all of the different venues of year we made a significant acquisition to on segments with the potential for strong care so that records and other information enhance our transactions processing and sustainable growth.
can be shared seamlessly across the business, which provides the software to healthcare system.
process payment claims by physicians.
Page 14 Misys plc Annual Report 2006 At Misys we need to create products that are right first time Our centres in Bangalore and Manila are hugely important critical to our success are prepared to say thats not right, we Offshoring and excellence need to fix it now.
We have introduced Lean Six Sigma LSS quality and We established our Manila development process improvement techniques to help centre in 1991 and opened our first us improve the quality and efficiency of development centre in Bangalore in 1998, our processes.
so we have solid experience in offshoring.
Offshoring has enabled us to reduce costs, We began doing this in Healthcare last but we look way beyond conventional year, training a number of employees in notions of lower cost development.
We the techniques, and have now completed see these as centres of excellence where a range of projects, with more underway.
our people are adding real value to our Weve seen huge benefits from this business.
People in Misys really identify new approach in terms of reduced costs, with their products and get deeply involved but more important are the significant with different aspects of their design and improvements achieved in terms of development.
In Bangalore we also have customer service and satisfaction, as experienced managers with direct recognised by a number of recent industry experience of banking in the United States, awards.
We intend to undertake LSS United Kingdom and other major centres.
projects in Banking later this year.
The centres in Bangalore and Manila are hugely important to Misys, not least because of the availability of very high Looking ahead quality talent and we are recruiting to expand our teams here.
Our new purposeMisys is in two of the largest and most built centre in Bangalore, which we dynamic vertical software markets.
We are expect to occupy later this financial year, well positioned in both and we have taken underlines our commitment to innovation a number of actions in the last year to and product quality as well as cost improve our performance.
It will provide facilities and strategy is right, the product strategy is support services for both Banking and right and we have excellent people.
The opportunities are very exciting and we are focused on delivering value and returning Misys to acceptable levels of overall growth.
Commitment to quality The software industry has a relatively poor record when it comes to quality.
At Misys we need to create products that are right first time.
That means building in excellent Kevin Lomax quality from the very beginning, with Chief Executive, Misys plc world-class processes and people who Page 15
