Chief Operating Officers Review MITIE has seen another year of double digit growth and strong financial performances.
Our Support Services and Property Services businesses have performed exceptionally well and we are pleased to report recovery within our Engineering business.
We have made a number of important acquisitions during the year, dominated by the acquisition of Initial Security Ltd, which provide scale and growth opportunities for our Security and Landscape operations.
We remain well placed to continue our strategy of profitable growth, investment and service excellence.
M MITIE SUPPORT SERVICES Major contract awards for Cleaning across the UK include those at Celtic Football Club and Queen Support Services encompasses a number of Margaret University College.
In the South, significant complementary services including Cleaning, contract awards include Motorola and Sutton Catering, Landsc cape, Pest Control, Security, Council.
In London we secured a new contract Managed Services, Business Services and with UBS.
Business re-tendered and retained in the year It has had an excellent year with major single and included our contracts at Yorkshire Water Services, bundled service contract awards for Engineering United Utilities, Kelloggs and Homebase.
Our Maintenance and Security, and with key contract at the Historic Royal Palaces was extended acquisitions in Security and Landscape.
to include both cleaning and waste management at The Tower of London.
A further major extension from a renewed contract was at Barclays Bank, 2006 2005 Growth where the scope of our work was extended from m m m % 607 to 1,211 branches.
Revenue 516.0 440.2 75.8 17.2 Outside the traditional Cleaning offering, MITIE Waste & Environmental provides specialist Segment environmental advice and services to over 700 sites.
operating profit 32.8 29.1 3.7 12.7 This is an increasingly important differentiator in the market and initiatives, such as the TREEHUGGER, have proved to be very popular with clients.
This MITIE CLEANING desktop recycling facility sold almost 25,000 units Cleaning Services: Cleaning provides services to offices, industrial last year.
buildings, transport, healthcare facilities and retail Our award winning The profile of MITIE Waste & Environmental has been premises.
Services include window cleaning, Cleaning business, raised by the external recognition it has received for computer cleaning, food hygiene, recycling and which employs over its services.
In November 2005, the business won four waste management.
20,000 people, awards, including one gold and two silver Green services the Palace Apple accolades for environmental best practice.
Cleaning has performed in line with expectations of Westminster, MITIE Waste & Environmental also won the prestigious and has had a good year, achieving organic the Scottish Parliament Sustainability Category at the Premises and Facilities growth of 7.9%.
Management Partnership Awards for its contract During the year Cleaning reviewed its customer with Hewlett-Packard.
Together with our customer base and, in response to customers changing we have been working on the development of a needs, has separated the management of its sustainable workplace, by improving the recycling national contracts from that of its site managed capacity of the Hp Invent plant in Scotland.
Two new customer orientated services MITIE also won two Kimberley-Clark Golden Service have been created Connect, which focuses Awards during the year.
Firstly, the Best Cleaned on larger site managed contracts, and Cleaning Office below 15,000 square feet Award, which was and National Accounts, which delivers single for our contract with Birmingham Midshires Building and multi-site contracts through the national Society, and secondly, the Best Cleaned Transport infrastructure of the business.
Our newly structured Facility, which was in recognition of our contract business has been recapitalised in line with the MITIE with Dover Harbour Board.
We anticipate continued progress for this business in 2006 07, with further strong growth expected in Retail and Transport Cleaning.
12 MITIE Group PLC we guard assets... supplying Gist with security services.
The current contract, originally mobilised by Initial Security Ltd, sees us providing a range of guarding services to 14 Gist sites throughout the UK, supporting them to ensure that their environment is both efficient and safe.
The range of services we offer across the sites include, access and egre ess control, asset protection, front of house duties and monitoring traffic movements, provided by allmost 100 employees and a dedicated specialist contract manager to oversee work on sites.
We add valu ue by integrating technology to improve the efficiency of the guarding activity, providing continuity y of service and by linking into the Gist business to aid the performance of their sites.
We also wr rite newsletters and hold quarterly and annual awards in partnership with our client and work closely y with them to resolve any security or safety concerns.
Over one million vehicles per annum go through MITIE controlled gatehouses at Gist.
we feed imaginations... with our catering at Hamleys Toy Store.
At the end of 2005, MITIE was awarded a five-year contract to provide Hamleys with catering services s, offering hospitality for visitors, bespoke catering for childrens parties, as well as catering fo or product launches and events in the store.
MITIEs vision to create something different for our cliient did not stop at originality and commitment to fresh food and nutrition.
As part of our partnersh hip and dedication to innovation, we invested in the refurbishment of the Hamleys caf bar and installled a new Kids Zone, designed to enable us to provide an educational experience for children who vis sit the store, inviting them to spend time with the Chef and get involved in cooking.
The Kids Zone n not only teaches but also entertains, with events such as Halloween Lunch or Brunch with Santa, k keeping over 500 children amused across the school holidays at the end of last year.
In December 2005 MITIE served over 9,700 customers and sold 1,338 of our home made muffins.
Chief Operating Officers Review continued M MITIE CATERING M MITIE LANDSCAPE Catering Services: Catering offers hospitality and executive dining, Landscape encompasses a traditional range of vending, consultancy services and employee services including grounds maintenance, sports Our NTL Incorporated caterin ng to a wide range of clients across the UK.
ground a and leisure facilities care, exterior landscape contract is operated design, installation and maintenance, including golf across twelve locations Catering has continued its growth in event catering c courses.
The business also provides arboriculture spanning England, and has seen an encouraging level of interest from and interior tropical plant services.
Wales, Scotland and prospective clients, particularly in niche commercial Northern Ireland.
catering contracts within visitor attractions and Landscape performed well during the year and retail venues.
In London our start-up business is developing well In February 2006, we acquired the grounds and has won a number of exciting new contracts.
maintenance business, Lyndhurst Services Ltd Landscape Services: These include the caf in Hamleys toy superstore on Lyndhurst.
Serving commercial property sites across We acquired grounds Regent Street, London, and the Jaeger caf, which the UK, Lyndhurst complements MITIEs existing maintenance business, is also located on Regent Street in their flagship landscaping and grounds maintenance business, Lyndhurst Services store.
The new Jaeger caf opens in Summer 2006. and has significantly increased its ability to provide Limited, in February The menu has been designed to reflect fair trade customers with a broader range of services.
produce, which is organic, fresh and seasonal.
acquisition has expanded the scale of this business These are important factors for Jaeger corporate and it is now bidding for larger, national contracts.
clients who will have the opportunity to hire the caf New work secured this year includes five-year for special events.
contracts with both the City of York Council and In London, Bayerische Hypo-und Vereinsbank AG will West Lindsey District Council, and an additional two also be employing Catering for their new Moorgate years for the national Lloyds TSB contract, which building, which operates a caf bar and provides sees our northern and southern businesses working hospitality for some 500 members of staff, while for together on Landscapes largest secured contract.
the Landflex contract the business will provide We have also renewed our contracts at BOC hospitality, vending and caf services across their headquarters in Surrey and the UK Government new estate, which so far comprises four buildings.
Current bidding activity is focused on the increasing Landscape is also working with its MITIE PFI demand for corporate catering within a clients colleagues on the Ealing Schools project and, in building, which typically has limited facilities but addition, has secured work to landscape other new requires high quality food service.
We have, schools with Costain, the international engineering however, also seen a rise in the number of tenders and construction group.
for significant multi-site national catering contracts, This business will benefit from the acquisition of an area previously restricted to the larger national Lyndhurst and we anticipate continued growth catering companies.
We believe this shift is largely attributable to the fact that Catering now has national operational reach.
An example of the type of national contract being sought is the NTL Incorporated catering contract, which was awarded to Catering in January 2006.
The contract spans twelve sites including Belfast, Glasgow, Teeside, Manchester, Nottingham, Luton, Hook and Swansea.
Market conditions remain challenging and competition is strong, but we are pleased to have developed a good pipeline of new and existing contracts.
Catering will continue to pursue organic growth in 2006 07 and will look to achieve a higher market share going forward.
MITIE Group PLC 15 Chief Operating Officers Review continued MITIE PEST CONTROL In March 2006, MITIE acquired Initial Security Ltd ISL, Pest Control Services: a leading UK manned guarding company whose Pest Control offers insect, bird and other pest services include contract guarding, aviation management services.
MITIE Pest Control security, key holding, patrol and alarm response provides services for services.
Its client base covers a wide range of The pest control market remains very competitive Twickenham Stadium sectors from government and commercial to with the largest two operators continuing to dominate.
in London and the industrial and retail.
Providing services at over 2,000 During the year Pest Control, which has contracts Millennium Stadium sites, more than 6,000 staff throughout the UK with Compass Group for its service facilities at in Cardiff.
transferred to MITIE from ISL.
The acquisition has Twickenham Stadium in London and the Millennium added specialist aviation and retail work to Stadium in Cardiff, has won a number of new Securitys portfolio of services and has further contracts, which include those with Balfour Beatty strengthened its regional operations.
The acquisition of ISL has transformed Security and Going forward the pest control market is likely to it is now the second largest manned guarding remain very fragmented, and we will therefore look business in the UK.
The integration plan is progressing to improve margins by expanding our skills base and well and we expect to realise significant synergy service offering.
While the acquisition is expected to be earnings enhancing in the year MITIE SECURITY ending 31 March 2007, the benefits of the cost Security Services: Security provides static guarding, electronic and savings will be absorbed by the integration costs in mobile guarding, gallery attendants, front of hous se the first full year of ownership.
The financial benefits We spent 82.8m on and warden services, key holding, consultancy and of integration are therefore expected to be realised security acquisitions in remote monitoring services for its clients.
in the financial year ending 31 March 2008.
2005 06 and are now the second largest On 20 March 2006 it became illegal, in England and This has been an excellent year for Security with manned guarding Wales, to work as or supply a contracted manned three acquisitions and strong organic growth in our business in the UK.
security officer without a Security Industry Authority existing business.
The organic growth rate was 17.8%.
This change to the industrys legislative In May 2005, we acquired Intruder International Ltd framework has seen our investment in training Intruder, a specialist provider of electronic security rewarded as Security has met all the SIA licensing solutions, and in June 2005 acquired Midlands deadlines, becoming one of the first companies to based The Watch Security Ltd The Watch.
The achieve Approved Contractor Status ACS.
purchase of The Watch, a manned guarding and This has been a very exciting year for electronic security business, completed our national Security, and our focus is now on integrating footprint in the sector.
The acquisition enabled our acquisition and consolidating our national Security to offer a more comprehensive service to presence.
We will look to capitalise on our clients, and consequently compete for larger investments and expect good growth in the future.
While our security business is still primarily focused on the manned guarding sector, the acquisition of Intruder and strategic alliances with security consultancy companies has meant that Security is better able to provide its customers with total security solutions.
An example of this is our expanded contract with the Department for Communities and Local Government, formerly the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, where the manned guarding provision is now being complemented by a high-tech electronic security system provided by Intruder.
16 MITIE Group PLC we maintain images... providing landscaping services for DTZ across the UK.
Three years, plus 28 industrial estates, retail parks and office complexes, and 45 employees, equalls one landscaping contract with property advisors DTZ Debenham Tie Leung.
Our acquisition of Lyndhur first Services Limited on 17 February 2006, a company providing external grounds maintenance services a across England, Scotland and Wales and employing over 240 people, also brought many contracts to com mmercial property sites.
We keep DTZs real estate looking good, providing landscape maintenance and external cleaning services like litter picking and sweeping, to varied sites across the UK as part of a three year contract.
We offer added value by assigning dedicated Client Account Managers to each Facilities Manager at DTZ as well as keeping our customer up to date with regular site reports, alllowing them to monitor the condition of their portfolio.
MITIE cuts over 90 million square metres of grass every year.
we put wheels in motion... with our cleaning services for Transport for London, London Bus Services Limited.
London Bus Services Limited has an immense cleaning requirement, with over 6,600 glass bus shelters and more than 18,800 bus stops throughout the capital.
Most of the work needs to be carried out dur ring the night to ensure our client can run their business as smoothly as possible for the public it services.
MITIE manages the contract via several dedicated managers and administrators, who are supp ported by night supervisors and mobile teams.
All employees involved are focused on delivering qualit ty services, which include cleaning all bus shelters on a fortnightly basis, all stops on a quarterlly basis and all shelter roofs twice a year.
To further enhance the standards maintained, specialised reaction teams are deployed to perform duties including the removal of graffiti from shelters and s stops, the posting of bus timetable information and publicity material.
We have also designed and imp plemented a sophisticated routing device to ensure the most productive working patterns are adopted b by employees.
MITIEs cleaning services enhance the 6.3 million bus journeys Londoners make every weekday.
we champion dreams... delivering facilities management services to the Department for Culture, Media and Sport.
Providing FM services to four buildings for the Department for Culture, Media and Sport DCMS in ce entral London means were in the business of backing dreams.
With over 50 full and part-time employee es delivering services, such as FM management, front of house, helpdesk and cleaning, MITIE is helpiing the government concentrate on making the Olympics a success, as well as supporting all the departments other activities.
Outsourcing these services to us and knowing that they are in trusted han nds, means that DCMS can focus on their core business.
They know that we can bring subject experts on nboard, like our Energy Manager, who has worked in close partnership with our client to develop an en nergy plan which will lead to significant cost savings over two years and energy savings in the regio on of 496 tonnes of carbon dioxide.
MITIE provides FM services to other governmental departments, including the Department for Communities and Local Government, formerly the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister.
we deliver results... at Morgan Stanley with our business services offering.
Weve been providing Morgan Stanley with mail room and archiving services since August 2004.
Our ach hievements to date include: the introduction of a customer services desk to provide a single point of contact for all services and an automatic call distribution system to manage the flow of incoming e enquiries: the streamlining of the internal mail sortation process: the introduction of a dedicated distribution service for Investment Banking reprographics work: and the installation of our auditablle electronic mail tracking system.
We have a 38 strong workforce that services six buildings in Cana ary Wharf, covering 6.00am to 11.00pm five days a week.
Our employees add value, not only by listenin ng to the client and ensuring the service provided meets with their needs, but by constantly endeavouring to introduce initiatives to enhance the services and further reduce costs.
We distribute and archive over 3.6 million documents for the bank each year.
Chief Operating Officers Review continued M MITIE MANAGED SERVICES M MITIE BUSINESS SERVICES Managed Services: Managed Services encompasses facilities Business Services provides mail room management, management, building and estate management, reception and switchboard facilities services, MITIE Managed integrated serviice delivery, PFI Private Finance reco ords management, reprographics, print Services won six new Initiative service delivery, procurement and supplier management and distribution management, PFI school projects in evaluations s, and consultancy to a wide range of to its clients.
2005 06 and the total customers across a number of sectors.
forward order book Business Services has seen a definitive shift in the associated with these Managed Services has had a very good year market towards bundled services and with its broad projects is valued making a considerable improvement in its service offering, the business has achieved some today at c. 280m.
profitability and winning new contracts which will major contract awards.
Business Services now impact the next financial year.
provides customers with a full spectrum of document management services ranging from Managed Services secured a three-year contract creative design to digital and lithographic printing with the Department for Culture, Media and Sport, Business Services: through to logistics and distribution services from its delivering facilities management, full maintenance document solutions and mail solutions centres.
Our Pricewaterhouse and fabric services to four of their buildings in Coopers contract is central London.
This contract has been further Our bundled Business Services offering with other the largest Business extended at the end of the year to cover the MITIE areas of expertise continues to be a significant Services contract win Big Lottery Fund buildings in Birmingham, Newcastle, advantage for Business Services.
It has recently to date and is worth in Glasgow and London.
It was also awarded a delivered success in a new Business Services excess of 50m.
contract with T-Mobile that covers ten major contract at the European Headquarters of The Walt T-Mobile buildings, 15 switch centres and 130 retail Disney Company, which is a bundled solution for the outlets across the UK.
provision of their mail, switchboard, reception, cleaning services and maintenance.
Managed Services has recently launched an Energy Awareness initiative with the National Offender Our mail services, reprographics and porterage Management Service NOMS at their offices in contract at the London Stock Exchange was also Staffordshire and Nottingham.
With the ultimate aim extended in the year for a further three years and being to establish best practice in all NOMS offices has now been bundled with services from Cleaning.
throughout the UK, the initiative has been designed Our reprographics contract at the international to make employees more aware of their environment, investment bank, ABN Amro, was expanded in the encouraging energy efficient behaviour both in the year and now includes the provision of mail services.
It is now one of the largest contracts for the business in the City of London.
With the growing number of customers seeking external strategic advice on energy use Law firm Osborne Clarke awarded Business Services in the business place, we have grown the a bundled services contract for their prestigious management team to accommodate the rise new London offices where the business provides in demand.
Business Services was also recently appointed by 3i to manage the The business has been awarded six new PFI school mail, reprographics and cleaning services at their projects where it provides full facilities management new headquarters in Victoria, London.
MITIE has not taken equity participation in these projects.
The contracts vary in length, but are The largest contract award for Business Services all between 25 to 30 years.
The total number of PFI during the year has been at  education facilities services contracts awarded to with the award of a five-year contract for document MITIE now equates to some 15% of the total market, management, distribution services, reprographic which positions the business as a market leader in its services, mail and record management which is specific sector.
Overall, the business has had a very profitable year Business Services has introduced a new suite of and is well placed for further growth.
These build on the success experienced with previous systems, which had been developed over the past six years and are amongst the most advanced in the marketplace.
The new offering delivers many of the tools to client desktops, via the internet or client intranets, and includes print submission, courier shipping, document tracking and stationery ordering.
Overall, Business Services has had a good twelve months in terms of business development.
The outlook remains very positive and we believe there are many exciting opportunities in the future.
MITIE Group PLC 21 Chief Operating Officers Review continued MITIE ENGINEERING MAINTENANCE MITIE PROPERTY SERVICES Engineering Engineering Maintenance provides heating, Property Services provides refurbishment Maintenance lighting, ventilation and air conditioning and interior fit-out work, office furniture, painting, maintenance, m mechanical and electrical systems, rep pair and maintenance, roofing, plastering, This business has given boiler maintenance, plumbing and water hygiene, partitioning, industrial flooring, and fire protection to a strong performance during the year and and estate mainten finance to a variety of clients c clients.
The recent Birmingham City Council contract experienced an throughout the UK.
is an excellent demonstration of the success the e exceptional level business is achieving in Social Housing, which Engineering Maintenance has delivered a strong of organic growth by its nature encompasses many of Property performance during the year, experiencing an at 38.8%.
exceptional level of organic growth at 38.8%.
New contracts include those at four United States Air Force bases in England, and at the Paddington 2006 2005 Growth Central and Sheldon Square project.
The latter Property Services: m m m % contract, which began in January 2006, comprises Revenue 163.5 129.1 34.4 26.6 We provide Repair and mechanical and engineering maintenance services Maintenance to some with some small property maintenance work in both Segment operating 27,000 properties as profit 8.9 7.6 1.3 17.1 commercial and residential accommodation.
part of our new The business also secured work, in December 2005, Birmingham City with the University of the Arts in London where it is Property Services has had a very good year with Council contract.
providing mechanical and engineering maintenance significant growth in turnover and profits.
Organic services and property maintenance work for the growth was up at 26.6%.
There has, however, been University property portfolio of 21 buildings.
some pressure on profitability, which is likely to continue this year as the work mix moves towards New contracts, which have been awarded, but not yet started, include those at the social housing.
Fort Shopping Centre in Birmingham and at Vertex, The particular success in the year is the recently a subsidiary of United Utilities where we provide awarded Birmingham City Council Social Housing services to buildings in London, the Midlands, contract, which is worth in excess of 90m over four the North of England and Scotland under a years, with an option to extend for an additional three-year contract.
The contract commenced on Re-tendered business includes a twelve-month 1 April 2006 and covers the repair and maintenance of housing in the southern area of the city.
This contract with the UK Government Foreign and Commonwealth Office, at their buildings in London covers 27,000 properties and involves over 80,000 repairs per annum.
Contracts with Microsoft, which is bundled with Cleaning, and the Alliance In addition, Property Services also mobilised a and Leicester were also re-secured during the contract with Milton Keynes Council to provide period, while the scope of the AIG contract, responsive and void property repairs to its entire which was originally for two buildings in London, portfolio of 12,000 homes.
The five-year contract has significantly increased to cover all their started on 1 April 2006 and is estimated to be worth regional offices.
in excess of 25m with an option for the Council to Engineering Maintenance continues to provide extend for an additional five years.
extensive bundling opportunities for the Group, Property Services is working with Yorkshire Coast acting as a springboard for our full range of services.
Homes, Southampton City Council, the Glasgow We were recently awarded a three-year contract Housing Association and Leeds City Council with the Bank of England, for their sports facilities, amongst many others and in total the business now which will be mobilised in conjunction with holds contracts with over 150 local authority and Cleaning.
Our maintenance contract with Dell housing associations throughout the UK.
Computers, has been expanded to include their Market conditions for this division remain City Park complex in Glasgow and now includes encouraging with social housing and the fit-out work for Cleaning.
sector in London being particularly buoyant.
Engineering Maintenance has had an exceptional The outlook for the business is very positive.
year and we remain confident of further success and progress for the business in 2006 07.
22 MITIE Group PLC we take the sting out... providing pest control for Homeserve.
MITIE provides Homeserve with a general pest control service for reactive call outs to residential properties across the UK.
We have not only reduced our clients costs, but added value by offering co onsistency of service across the UK, providing a 24 hour helpline for the end user and cutting down o on Homeserves administration.
Whats more, we have also ensured a complete control programme is in place, as opposed to a one-off visit for each pest problem.
MITIE has more than 60 technicians servic cing the contract across the UK, who are ably supported on the helpdesk by our Pest Control division s office staff in Cheltenham.
Employees were rewarded for the high level of service provided when Ho omeserve presented MITIE with an award at their annual Contractor of the Year 2005 event.
In 2005, MITIE responded to 2,673 call outs for ants and 1,869 for wasps.
we keep the blood flowing... providing engineering maintenance to the National Blood Service.
Following a review of its M&E maintenance activities, the National Blood Service NBS decided to pr rocure its support services through competitive tender, choosing to partner with MITIE.
From an initiial contract for the provision of M&E services to four regional NBS centres at Newcastle, Leeds, Sheffield and Manchester, MITIE has since extended the work to include a further 18 satellite buildings.. We deliver comprehensive Planned Preventative Maintenance and Emergency Reactive Support, as well a as general and essential services ranging from fire alarms, generators, heating and ventilation to water treatment, and fixed wire testing.
We work in close partnership with our client to ensure our employees are correctly inducted and fully understand the key processes and national operations requir red to support the National Blood Service.
Every year MITIE helps maintains the ideal environment for the NBS to collect, test, process, store and issue over 1.9 million blood donations from 1.6 million donors.
we enlighten minds... with our engineering services at Bristol University.
MITIE has been associated with Bristol University as the provider of Mechanical and Electrical insta allations since 1996, when it completed the installation of the heating equipment at the famous Wills Memorial Building.
The success of this project secured our position as the M&E Building Services contractor, assisting our clients consulting team to design and build the Universitys prestigious Synthetic Chemistry buildings: a landmark project under the national engineering contract, created to o promote partnering.
This not only featured as a test case in the UK Governments Egan Report, which h looked to make recommendations for reform to ensure increased industry efficiency, but also cemente ed our relationship with the University, with MITIE completing more than 15 contracts to date.
MITIE completed engineering work for more than 110 establishments in the education sector in 2005. we maintain standards... at Partick Housing Association with our responsive maintenance services.
MITIE signed a responsive maintenance partnering agreement with Partick Housing Association, representing one of the largest ever community investments of its kind in Scotland.
The partnership aims to o significantly improve the level of housing maintenance service received by the Associations 3,000 residents.
Under the four year MITIE Partick partnership, MITIE will provide responsive property m maintenance and refurbishment services to approximately 1,700 of the Associations owned houses, and more than 1,300 privately owned properties in Glasgow.
The work includes plumbing, electrical rewiriing, glazing, carpentry, heating, building works and improvement programmes, such as bathroom and kit tchen refurbishments within void properties.
Under the social housing partnering arrangement, standards of service have been set so that residents can be assured of a consistent high level of service.
As a result, residents and property owners will benefit from a co-ordinated approach to the improvem ment of their property, which in turn will help to increase the desirability and value of housing in n their area.
In 2005, MITIE worked with more than 150 social housing providers with a combined housing stock of over 800,000 properties.
Chief Operating Officers Review continued M MITIE ENGINEERING SERVICES During the year, the business has been involved in Engineering Services: a number of exciting projects including the Thomas Engineering Services covers the installation of Deacon City Academy in Peterborough.
This mechanical and electrical systems, information and MITIE Engineering prestigious new Academy was designed by Lord communication technology, air conditioning, utilities Services has Foster and Engineering Services was appointed to infrastructure and retail engineering, serving a a wide restructured operations work with Laing ORourke on the mechanical and range of clients from many different sectors.
and is focused on electrical design and installation package.
In London, the business was appointed as the sub-contractor for mechanical and electrical work 2006 2005 Growth on the new Victoria and Albert Museum garden.
m m m % This work has now been completed and the garden Revenue 256.1 230.4 25.7 11.2 was officially opened by HRH the Prince of Wales and will be used for corporate functions throughout Segment operating the summer.
profit 6.4 7.6 1.2 15.8 While this has been a challenging year, our restructured business has a good forward order Engineering Services has experienced a challenging book.
Margins in this business still remain under year, but margins improved in the second half of the pressure and improving them remains the focus year.
During the period we closed the Engineering going forward.
Services Cleanrooms and Scientific Projects businesses, and restructured operations in the Future prospects Midlands and Leeds.
The restructured business has During the period we have seen strong performances achieved organic growth of 11.2%.
from MITIE Support Services and MITIE Property Engineering Services, has a strong forward order Services.
MITIE Engineering Services has had a book largely consisting of repeat work from blue challenging year, but steps have been taken to chip clients.
The business has contracts with ensure it is better positioned for the future and we Rhondda Hospital, the University of Manchester and are starting to see the benefits of this.
IBM, amongst others, and has grown its existing The quality and strength of our individual businesses contracts with a number of clients including and people continues to drive growth in turnover Plymouth University and Land Securities Trillium.
and profits for the Group.
By focusing on our Social housing, technology, retail and utilities work customers, and their needs, we are confident that has been very encouraging and the business has we can grow our business and our market share a pipeline of repeat orders that extends into 2008. further.
We will continue our track record of success throughout this financial year by building on our strengths, concentrating on the integration of our recent acquisitions and growing our bundled service offering.
We have a strong customer focus that provides a solid basis for profitable growth in the future.
R Ruby McGregor-Smith Chief Operating Officer MITIE Group PLC 27
