Chief Executives Review It has been a year of great progress within MITIE.
We were particularly delighted to acquire the manned guarding business of Rentokil Initial towards the end of the year.
This acquisition will transform our security business and after integration with our existing security companies, it will have revenue in excess of 200m.
Organic growth by service Support Services has achieved strong organic 3.
Engineering Services has continued to We are continuing to look for acquisitions that Support Services 11.7% experience some difficulties in achieving an fit with our range of services.
When making acceptable margin within a highly competitive an acquisition we pay particular attention to Property Services 26.6% market and, as we indicated in our Interim Report, three issues: a certain amount of restructuring has taken place Engineering 11.2% a Cultural fit MITIE has a strong entrepreneurial which produced a better outcome for the business culture that has been built over the past 19 years.
in the second half of the year.
Property Services has We carefully evaluate whether the business had an excellent year developing our position in the culture of any acquisition is similar to ours.
This social housing market, and we announced at the is primarily related to the approach at an end of March their success in gaining a substantial operational level, and to an obsession with repair and maintenance contract with Birmingham customer service, which involves listening to City Council.
customers needs, providing excellent services, The performance of our individual operating having a determination to succeed and a desire companies during the year is covered in more to work closely with other MITIE businesses.
detail in the Chief Operating Officers Review.
b Opportunity for growth The markets in which Strategy an acquisition takes place must have growth potential.
The majority of our recent acquisitions MITIE has had a consistent strategy for a number of have been in the manned guarding market.
years and we are confident that it is appropriate for We believe that with the increasing awareness of the challenging environment we face.
The strategy security matters and the impact of the licensing covers all aspects of MITIE including the markets in of the security industry, there will be ongoing which we operate, our customers, the people and changes in this sector which will create resources that we need, and our impact in terms of opportunities for us.
Strategy c Quality of management The success of MITIE 1.
Organic growth has come from the strength and motivation of 1.
Organic growth We operate in markets that are growing and are its management teams.
This enables MITIE to achieve good abilities of the management when looking at 3.
Acquisitions levels of organic growth by taking market share potential acquisitions, to ensure they will fit with 4.
The MITIE model from competitors and benefiting from the increasing the rest of the Group and have the ability to run 5.
Invest in our people trend towards the outsourcing of non-core services.
and grow their business independently.
New markets We are able to increase market share because of 7.
The MITIE model the excellence of our services and the passion of our employees, who are committed to supporting This year we have started three companies in the our customers and helping them to achieve their Property Services, Business Services and Catering business goals.
It is our aim to grow all of our divisions.
Start-up companies tend to have very high businesses to a level where our position in the rates of growth, but their impact on the Groups market is in the top five by size.
growth rates will be progressively reduced.
We believe that the opportunities provided to the 2.
Bundled services managers of our start-up companies should also There is a distinct movement towards bundled be available to those in our more mature businesses services.
We define a bundle as when a customer where they have not had an equity stake.
It is our has chosen to take more than one MITIE service intention to extend the ethos of the MITIE model on the same site rather than a full facilities through our Second Generation Equity Plan.
This typically occurs when a recapitalised our Cleaning business with Shareholder customer wishes to maintain an active involvement approval in 2004 and we intend to seek Shareholder in the management of their facilities but is looking approval to recapitalise Property Services in 2006. to rationalise its supply chain.
Bundles can start from any of our MITIE businesses, particularly when we have an excellent relationship with a customer on site.
Recent Building Services Research and Information Association data shows that between 2002 and 2005 the proportion of contracts that are run as bundles has increased from 20.0% to 30.0%.
10 MITIE Group PLC Forward order book 5.
Invest in our people People To ensure that our customers receive quality service, We place great emphasis on the development 03 64.0% and that we have the right skills in the business of our people.
Without a motivated workforce to going forward, we regularly evaluate the abilities of satisfy customers, we do not have a business.
We 04 67.0% our employees and provide them with appropriate now employ over 39,000 people and are immensely 05 70.0% training and development.
We have also expanded proud of their achievements.
The management of our core skills competency, so that we are able to such a large and diverse, skilled and semi-skilled 06 72.0% offer additional services.
We prepare for growth and workforce is our core competency and we have change within MITIE by maintaining succession plans very robust processes in place to manage both Forward order book is the for all of our businesses.
the efficiency and development of our employees.
percentage of revenue We have a range of training and management secured for the following 6.
New markets development programmes in place across the financial year as at 31 March.
There are some customers that prefer to work with Group.
These vary from very specific training, such businesses who specialise in their sector, such as as the usage of chemicals for our pest control retail, transport and social housing.
We have structured operatives, to customer service training for our our businesses to ensure that we meet the needs of receptionists in Business Services, to senior Revenue by market sector those customers and have achieved good results to management strategy courses.
We will establish additional specialist the achievements of our employees with several 13 12 businesses where appropriate and anticipate that award schemes, which cover all our employees this strategy will produce strong profitable growth.
11 MITIE is aware that as the economy grows there will 7.
Corporate responsibility be skills shortages in some of the trades we need.
10 It is becoming increasingly important for a business We are therefore establishing a network of MITIE Skills 9 to be able to demonstrate that it behaves in a way Centres in secondary schools across the UK, where that is responsible in terms of how it treats its 8 we are supporting vocational skills training.
We 2 employees, interacts with customers and suppliers, 7 established four in 2005 and will be opening another relates to the community and charities, and manages 3 6 four in 2006.
We are also working closely with relationships with other stakeholders.
MITIE is a regional development agencies, such as the East 5 4 responsible business and is producing a separate London Business Alliance, to recruit apprentices into Corporate Responsibility Report for the first time this MITIE businesses.
Commercial year, which will be published with our Annual Report 2.
Finance and professional I would like to thank our employees personally for and Accounts.
This report will also be available on 3. Leisure and entertainment their hard work and dedication over the past year our website, www.
Manufacturing and their contribution towards this very good set 5.
Retail Forward order book of results.
Science and technology MITIE has benefited from the longer term nature Future prospects 7.
Utilities of many of our contracts.
Social housing MITIE is in excellent shape for future growth.
Services have an average term of three years and 9.
Local authority We have a very strong management team, a this is now lengthening, with several extending to substantial customer base in growing markets, 10.
Healthcare five years or more.
Property Services has an order 11.
Government a motivated and passionate workforce, and book that is increasing rapidly, as a consequence a business model that is sufficiently flexible to 12.
Education of its success in winning social housing partnering 13.
Defence react to market changes.
Our markets will contracts, and Engineering Services has a high level remain competitive, but the agility of our of its revenue secured for 2006.
The overall percentage management and their leadership will enable of budgeted Group revenue secured for 2007 is MITIE to continue growing.
There is an energy and spirit in MITIE that is Markets very rare and this makes me very positive about We have always maintained that MITIE benefits our prospects.
from having a broad mix of customers, and that this spread reduces our risk in terms of potential Ian R Stewart downturns in a sector.
We also believe that a good Chief Executive Officer balance between public and private sector work provides protection from any particular changes in government policy.
