10 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Review of our strategy by the Chief Executive Officer The profit improvement plan, which we embarked upon three years ago, has been successfully delivered, having achieved double digit underlying operating profit margins well ahead of schedule.
The Groups balance sheet is robust with lower levels of net debt leaving us well placed to invest in growing the business organically and through selective bolt-on acquisitions in our core businesses.
Defined as operating profit before special items, divided by revenue.
Defined as interest bearing loans and borrowings and bank overdrafts less cash and other cash equivalents.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc 11 Throughout 2006 we have made excellent Looking forward progress on our strategic objectives which Morgan Crucible celebrated its 150th is reflected in our good financial results.
anniversary in 2006 which, in todays fast-paced Underlying operating profit margins operating and ever changing world, is an achievement profit before special items, divided by revenue we are proud of.
As we look to the future, for the continuing Group were 10.9% compared we must continue to anticipate the increasingly to 9.1% in 2005.
Like-for-like revenues in sophisticated requirements of our customers continuing businesses were up 11.2% and and react to the growing intensity of the underlying operating profits were 33.0% higher competitive landscape, not least the than in 2005. low-cost manufacturing power of China, Highlights of 2006 India and other fast developing economies.
I am delighted to report that all our Divisions Our strategy is to focus on higher growth, higher have delivered improved financial results in 2006. value-added markets and to move away from commoditised, economically cyclical market Revenue of the Carbon Division was up segments.
We aim to be the number one 6.9% compared to 2005 at 213.6 million or two player in our chosen market segments.
2005: 199.9 million, and underlying operating profit for the Division was up 23.4% at 33.8 This strategy has driven organic growth across million 2005: 27.4 million.
our divisions that has been higher than the GDP growth in their markets.
Our top-line growth, for The Technical Ceramics Division had another the first time in recent years, has now overtaken strong year.
Its revenue increased by 12.2% cost cutting as the major driver for our profit to 162.5 million 2005: 144.8 million and growth.
This is the mark of a successful company.
underlying operating profit increased by Our pricing position, which was negative for 39.3% to 17.0 million 2005: 12.2 million.
many years, is now strongly positive again a The performance of the Insulating Ceramics testimony to the strength and quality of our Division has also been robust.
Revenues grew refocused product offering.
by 13.8% to 301.7 million 2005: 265.1 million Of course, cost control and the constant and underlying operating profit increased by drive for ongoing operational improvement 29.8% to 27.9 million 2005: 21.5 million.
throughout the Group remain essential.
The balance sheet for the Group is very strong As part of our successful profit improvement with only a modest 34.1 million of net debt plan we are demonstrating that cost discipline defined as interest bearing loans and borrowings is now an integral part of our culture.
and bank overdrafts less cash and other cash Investing in our people equivalents at the year end.
Furthermore, I am pleased to tell you that Morgan Crucible has Our employees are vital to the ongoing eliminated the deficit in its UK pension fund success of Morgan Crucible.
We are investing during 2006, thanks in no small part to the onein the development of our existing people off contribution of 40 million during the year.
As and will also be searching for high quality staff a result of this, combined with positive moves in to supplement our talent pool.
Over the past our scheme assets and liabilities, the UK pension three years our people have been faced funds had a surplus of 3.1 million on the IAS 19 with many challenges in the rebirth of Employee Benefits accounting basis at the end Morgan Crucible.
The management team of 2006 compared to a deficit of 66.2 million at and I have been delighted with their the end of the previous year.
commitment and enthusiasm to make Morgan Crucible a world class manufacturer Clearly, one of the major events in 2006, was the of advanced materials.
They have delivered on approach we received to buy the Company in many fronts, improving customer satisfaction, August.
Your Chairman has covered this in his enhancing our product portfolio and creating statement: however I would like to assure you value for you, our shareholders.
that our business operations were not distracted by the takeover approach.
I would like In my first Chief Executive Ofcers review I am to take this opportunity to thank our staff for therefore pleased to report that your Company the professionalism and commitment they is in robust financial health, and is well placed to showed during a period of uncertainty.
continue its positive momentum into the future.
There have also been changes in the Mark Robertshaw Morgan Crucible management team during Chief Executive officer 2006.
I would like to add my personal thanks to Warren Knowlton who retired as Chief Executive Officer in August.
Warren successfully turned Morgan Crucible around in the three and a half years that he was Chief Executive Officer and I have inherited a very healthy company as a result of his leadership.
