ALAN WHITE CHIEF EXECUTIVE Group sales from continuing activities 2005.
The sales growth was an amalgam The most notable increases within were up by 8.2% to 484.8m.
Operating of improvements in our product ranges, ladieswear were in our younger fashion, pro t from continuing activities was up catalogues, marketing and customer casuals and occasion wear ranges.
by 20.3% to 58.1m excluding last years service.
The success re ected the skill of the operating exceptional costs of 22.5m.
buying team in designing fashionable Product Groups clothes to suit the fuller gure whilst Home Shopping Our strategy is to focus on niche purchasing at competitive prices in Home shopping sales rose by 10.4% customers and products.
We have made order to deliver the value the customer to 459.6m, with underlying sales signi cant progress during the year in demands in the continuing fide ationary excluding House of Bath up by 7.1% to selecting merchandise which suits the retail clothing sector.
This underlying sales growth more modern outlook of the larger and or accelerated as the year progressed from older customer.
The biggest breakthrough The range of sizes we offer has continued a 4.9% increase in the first half to a 9.3% has been in ladieswear where after three to expand with more styles available increase in the second half.
This re ected years of static sales we have seen an up to size 34 and even size 38 in some the building of momentum as we increase of 9% to 245m.
Over half our sales are from size capitalised on a number of successful to the business as a whole as ladieswear 20 or above, con rming the strength of tests in 2004 and rolled them out fully in accounts for over half our total sales.
This also applies to our 4 N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2006 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW We have made good progress during the year ended 25th February 2006 driving our multi-channel home shopping strategy forward whilst continuing to rationalise the under performing businesses in the group.
The strength of these results is derived from improvements in almost all areas of the business, thereby giving us a strong platform for future growth.
How can we get the customers we want?
How can our customers get the service they deserve?
For the first time in several years weve grown our active customer le.
This is the result of reinvesting some of the savings made over the last 12 months in acquiring new and higher quality customers.
At the same time weve ne tuned our telemarketing operations to take advantage of detailed transactional data that enables us to make fully personalised outbound calls.
This investment in improved customer services is paying off: were currently enjoying record high scores in our customer satisfaction index thanks to our Customer Matters initiative and an ongoing process of cultural change.
At the same time our customers impressions of our catalogues and product offers are at an all time high.
Customer Satisfaction Survey SPRING AUTUMN SPRING AUTUMN SUMMER WINTER SUMMER WINTER 04 04 05 05 Time corsetry ranges which specialise in large demonstrated our understanding of The nature of our business requires a back and cup sizes, up to size 54J.
customers special footwear requirements high number of product options because by developing a range of boots which of our extensive range of size and ttings.
Over 90% of our customers are female are available in different calf widths.
This To ensure the customer, whatever their but we also have a thriving menswear adds further stock options to our already size, has the widest possible choice of business which saw sales increase by extensive range but re-emphasises our merchandise we increased our product 8% to 34m.
Our younger in-house expertise in ttings.
options by 8% over the previous year.
menswear brand Southbay saw strong We have sought to capitalise on this sales growth to complement the older Home and leisure sales represent 28% extensive range by incentivising established Premier Man brand.
of home shopping turnover and saw customers to purchase from a product Footwear, all of which is available in an 11% increase to 128m.
There was range they had not previously bought multiple width ttings, has maintained a full year contribution from House of from, and this has resulted in a its strong recent sales trends with a 16% Bath, and good performances from the meaningful increase in the number increase to 53m.
The introduction of extended Christmas ranges, bedding of multi-range shoppers.
younger styles has signi cantly increased and household textiles although other the footwear sales to our Fashion World categories declined in a generally In addition to generating more orders and Simply Be customers.
from customers we have been successful N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2006 5 % of customers satisfied Should we save or spend on infrastructure?
How do we provide for future growth?
If we want to stay ahead we need the infrastructure to do it.
Thats why were investing 17 million in refurbishing and building new warehouses on a 21-acre site in Had eld.
Its our second major warehouse facility after our Shaw facility and is specially designed to handle palletised product rather than collatable goods.
At the same time were expanding our telemarketing operation by up to 300 seats and installing predictive dialler technology that enables us to call dialler technology that enables us to call customers automatically and make sur customers automatically and make sure we e we capitalise on every contact, ther capitalise on every contact, thereby ensuring eby ensuring ther there is r e is real bene eal bene t for the customer in our t for the customer in our telemarketing of telemarketing offers.
in ful lling a higher percentage of those which for convenience we group into catalogue specialising in hard to nd orders.
Our stock service level has three age segments.
The fastest growing products for the house and garden, which improved, despite sales being above segment is for those customers aged we acquired in November 2004.
Although our original expectations, bene ting from 30 to 45 years old which has seen sales it took a little longer than originally a number of changes made in our supply increase by 15% to 117m.
Simply Be, anticipated House of Baths operations chain.
Similarly the extensive work done which offers fashion clothing, footwear have now been successfully integrated to improve the t of the garments was and accessories in sizes 14 to 34, into the groups call centres, warehouse rewarded with a 1% reduction in the rate continues to perform extremely well, and reporting systems, which is resulting of returns.
This reduction improved net and our other key brand, Fashion World, in both cost ef ciencies and cross-selling sales growth, increased stock turnover has also contributed to the growth.
The older and upmarket and reduced the cost of refurbishing sector of the home shopping market has returned items.
On average our unit The midlife category, for customers seen strong growth in recent years and, selling prices were 3% lower than the aged 45-65 years old, increased sales using House of Bath as a base, we will be previous year due to a combination by 9% to 319m with particularly strong looking to increase our penetration of this of the product mix and fide ation.
performances from Fifty Plus, Shapely segment in future years.
Figures, Shoe Tailor and Oxendales in Customer Groups Ireland.
This is our core segment, The sales to customers aged over 65 We have many different catalogue producing 69% of total sales.
It also grew by 8% to 24m with a doubling brands, each with a speci c target niche, includes House of Bath, an upmarket in the size of the Special Collection 6 N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2006 What will new technology mean for our business?
Printed catalogues are still crucially important in their own right but also as a way of driving business to our websites.
This year weve experienced a 70% increase in on-line sales, with around 16% of sales coming through the internet.
Increasingly, weve found that our older customers sometimes called silver surfers are perfectly comfortable ordering on-line.
We believe the best way forward is to combine the advantages of the web particularly its potential for reducing operating costs with other media.
Rather than talk about on-line trading we prefer to talk about using the best aspects of each channel to achieve our goals, although where relevant we do offer products exclusively on-line.
In addition, the internet is becoming more important for customer recruitment via search engines.
catalogue being the main catalyst for the competitive landscape, as many drive traf c cost effectively to our sites.
It is noticeable in all our more retailers are adopting a multiAdditionally, once we have a customers customer groups that the product channel strategy.
email address we send them regular which is selling best has a younger feel promotions to generate incremental to it than in previous years, supporting During the year our on-line sales grew demand.
During last year we ran over the contention that all age groups are by 70% to 74m.
The natural trend is 150 different email campaigns sending preferring a younger image than for customers to switch from ordering 33 million emails.
The cost of these previous generations.
by telephone to keying their orders emails is small compared to the cost directly into the internet as the of direct marketing by post and this Channels to Market technological barriers break down and allows us to target customers where We have had to progressively manage broadband connectivity becomes more it would not be pro table to do so by our channels to market to re ect the widely available.
More of our recruitment conventional means.
We do not foresee latest trends in customer behaviour.
budget is now being spent on promoting the time when we will cease to send The development of on-line shopping our brands and key product features customers catalogues as the look and is a fundamental change for the home through the internet search engines such feel of them is still extremely dif cult shopping sector, bringing with it many as Google.
We are typically high on the to replicate on a computer screen.
cost savings and promotional natural webpage listings but we also However promotional offers and letters opportunities, but also intensifying sponsor certain keywords which help can be replicated by email offers, N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2006 7 Will the internet replace the catalogues at N Brown?
requiring minimal lead time, and this is gross margin to a pro table level.
The other continuing trend has been the where the major cost opportunity lies.
In addition we have launched a number switch of sales from the smaller lea ets of stock clearance websites which are sent with the monthly statement mailings We now have some internet only proving very popular and improve the to more substantial brochures such as brands which have required a low level of yield on the disposal of fragmented end NewNow, Summer and Winter Value, investment to launch.
VivaLaDiva markets of range stocks.
Classic Detail and Selections, where an extensive range of boutique and high sales rose by 34% over last year and street footwear brands as well as our own The proportion of sales placed on-line is which now account for 27% of all home ranges, whilst the Craftingdirect website now 16%, up from 4% only three years shopping sales.
One of the core skills carries a wide range of craft kits and ago.
Going forward we can offer on-line in the group is our ability to analyse the ideas.
These sites rely on the suppliers customers a wider product range and five million customers on our database to despatch the goods to our customers promote to them more frequently.
In and determine who is most appropriate and there is more work to do to make the addition every on-line order bypasses the to be sent each catalogue or brochure supply chain effective and increase the call centre thereby reducing our overheads.
based on the their previous purchasing 8 N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2006 How often should we refresh our offers?
Our customers respond well to regular contact, making more purchases and spending larger amounts.
Consequently weve been sending out more mailings each season using a targeted approach based on a customers previous purchases.
Weve also introduced a broader variety of catalogue formats things like Fashion News and Simply Be mini to keep things fresh and give us more options for customer contact.
And to make sure all this effort doesnt go to waste, weve made sure we refresh our ranges as the season progresses based on emerging fashion trends.
By backing our winners and introducing new options we can keep the customers interest in the face of tough competition on the high street.
How can we keep our customers up-to-date with new product arrivals?
The content and format of In recent years sales growth has been has resulted in fewer customers being the mid-season mailings are continually wholly driven by higher sales per recruited but they are higher spenders refreshed to stimulate the customers established customer, as recruitment and more likely to purchase again in interest.
was becoming more expensive and our subsequent seasons.
overall database was slowly contracting.
Catalogues mailed up to five times a We have undertaken a rebalancing of Telemarketing remains a fertile activity year remain the core offer for customers.
the recruitment campaigns, reducing to deliver incremental sales.
We target Signi cant changes have been made to merchandise advertising in newspapers a series of campaigns utilising the improve the presentation of the catalogues and magazines but increasing the level of speci c sales and service data we hold which has yielded an improvement catalogue inserts in womens magazines on each customer which results in a in response rates.
Overall sales from and in weekend newspaper supplements, high response rate to our calls.
As the catalogues have increased by 9% over direct response TV advertising, direct proportion of orders through the internet last year, and they now account for 56% mail, on-line activity and catalogue increases we are utilising the resulting of total sales.
This rebalanced campaign spare capacity in the call centre to N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2006 9 Where do our designs come from?
How do ideas tur How do ideas tur How do ideas turn into n into n into manufactured merchandise?
Most of our products are own label rather than branded.
Thats because we have them speci cally designed to cater for the older or larger woman.
The process begins by identifying global fashion trends combined with buying trips to fashion capitals.
Our designers then combine this with trend and colour forecasting information.
The buyers then visit our suppliers in Europe and the Far East to get the best quality and price, a gruelling schedule that involves visiting fty cities in a six week period.
Weve also been working hard to speed up our supply chain, with more dual sourcing and more production sourced within the UK and EU.
At the same time weve consolidated our supplier base, leading to better deals and longer term relationships.
progressively enlarge the telemarketing space.
This enabled the in-sourcing of involves a major development project team.
This has necessitated the purchase House of Baths ful lment from a third at a total cost of 5m, 2m of which of a new automated dialler and we will party operator, and also allowed us to exit was incurred in the last financial year.
be switching some personnel from from some rented warehousing.
A further answering inbound calls to making two warehouse buildings will be erected Financial Income outbound calls.
on the site for a cost of 8m by the end About half of our customers pay for their of 2006.
This will enable further reduction purchases on deferred terms creating an Infrastructure in our third party warehouse requirements interest-bearing debtor portfolio of 303m We have initiated a number of major and improve our ef ciency.
which comprises 1.5m customers owing projects to cater for the next phase of an average of 200 each.
The level of our business growth.
During the year we Anticipating that our on-line sales will bad debts has remained the same as last purchased a 21 acre site in Glossop for continue their strong upward momentum year with the adverse effect of more sales 9m including the cost of converting the we need to improve the capacity and from the younger titles offset by improved existing buildings into usable warehouse functionality of our websites.
We implemented new Identify customer needs Business model Assemble Source catalogues, lea ets appropriate and websites products 10 N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2006 How is our business model changing?
Do we focus on trusted winners or untried innovations?
Our business model is evolving to match changing business conditions.
The process begins with identifying what our customers really want.
We then use this information to source appropriate products, before putting together catalogues, lea ets and websites that we vigorously promote to the same customers who began the process.
Its a virtuous circle designed to increase our relevance and success.
Naturally we continue to focus on our core unique selling propositions of larger size clothing, underwear and shoes: and were increasingly mindful of customers wanting more fashionable clothes regardless of their size or age happily were able to combine both.
This approach has paid off with positive TV exposure for Simply Be in Channel 4s Ten Years Younger series, being named Best Plus Size Brand in the Ariel Fashion Awards, and VivaLaDiva winning Best Womens Footwear Retailer in the Drapers Footwear Awards.
This year our Simply Be brand won the Best Plus Size Brand award at the first ever Ariel Fashion Awards, beating major competition in the form of New Look, Dorothy Perkins & Evans.
The Ariel Awards are voted for by public choice, which means it was our customers, rather than industry insiders, who crowned us the winner.
Its more proof that our approach of combining high fashion and larger sizes is a successful formula.
behavioural scoring systems on schedule on trial.
However the increasing level on last year has limited the increase in December 2005 which will improve the of regulation over the selling of financial in marketing costs whilst the expansion decision making on the credit limit to be products does make them more dif cult of the home delivery courier network provided to each customer.
We will be to market through remote channels.
has resulted in lower distribution costs carefully managing the trade-off between per parcel.
These savings have helped higher sales and bad debts arising from Operating Margin offset signi cant increases in some these changes.
The operating margin we have achieved of our overheads such as payroll on our home shopping activities has and pension costs, utilities and We also work with third party financial increased from 13.5% to 13.7%.
services providers to offer creditor margins are level with last year, with the insurance, loans, life and general bene t from the mix of product sales Other Businesses insurances, warranty cover on our which have favoured the higher margin House of Stirling, our door to door selling furniture and electrical sales, and our ladieswear offset by higher VAT charges.
business, has operated throughout the own brand credit card, which is currently The cost saving program that we focused second half with a revised business N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2006 11 Winner!
Ariel fashion awards Womens Footwear Retailer of the Year We operate a number of internet only brands.
VivaLaDiva was launched in 2004 and is targeted at women who love shoes.
The site offers a comprehensive range of boutique and high street footwear brands, together with our own ranges.
Its not only proved a winner with our customers but also with the industry by recently winning the Drapers Footwear Award for Best Womens Retailer.
model which has signi cantly reduced new financial year, through both modest utilised, but it does provide the capability operating losses before exceptional sales growth, bad debt reduction and to secure more ful lment contracts items for the year from 6.3m to 2.3m.
The worst performing debt was sold off to a third party collector and the sales Zendor has enjoyed signi cant growth Outlook force reduced by 140.
We also eliminated of 43% in its core ful lment revenues The results we have achieved in the last some low margin activities which had within an overall sales increase of 22.4% year have resulted from our strategy to traditionally boosted sales in December.
Zendors major clients all focus on a multi-channel approach to The result has been a 32.9% reduction in bene ted from the growing proportion home shopping concentrating on those sales to 16.1m but there has also been of retail sales being transacted on-line.
customers where we have a competitive a corresponding signi cant reduction in This has not translated into a growth in advantage due to their age and or bad debts, which coupled with overhead operating pro t for Zendor in the financial size and then ensuring we deliver savings has led to the reduced losses.
year because we have acquired more the products which meet their needs.
We need to make more progress in the warehouse capacity which was not fully The demographics of the UK population 12 N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2006 Are comfort and fashion mutually exclusive?
Why should larger size clothes be less stylish?
We know what our customers want clothes that look good and feel great to wear.
That means designing our products to re ect our customers varied gures, catering for attributes such as shorter lengths, larger bust sizes and wider tting shoes.
In fact the majority of our sales come from the holy trinity of larger size clothing, larger size underwear and wider tting footwear.
A prime example of this emphasis on ttings was our best selling womans boot which has an adjustable calf width, guaranteeing a good t for all our customers.
Our buyers have proved that fashion and comfort can be delivered in our ranges.
Should we focus on the young or the old?
Over the last year weve made a concerted effort to develop our younger brands like Fashion World and Simply Be with the result that their growth has outstripped the rest of the group.
Nevertheless the bulk of our revenue still comes from our midlife customers in the 45 to 65 age range.
However, increasingly it is attitude rather than age which determines what customers choose to wear.
The success of our more fashionable merchandise across a wide age spectrum suggests 60 really is the new 40. will provide an increased number of and reducing cost of broadband but we The comparatives will become tougher target customers as there will be 15% also plan to expand the range of products as the year progresses but the trading in more females over the ages of both 45 and services available, such that the the early part of the current financial year, and 65 in the next decade.
Our challenge widest choice will be available on line.
the growth in our active customer base is to provide these customers with and the strong financial position give exciting catalogues and websites which Current Trading us con dence that we can make further contain fashionable, yet comfortable The 7.1% increase in group sales and progress this year.
more importantly, the 8.8% growth in home shopping sales in the first 10 weeks There is a new postage charging regime of the year provides much encouragement which will be bene cial from September for the prospects for the current year.
We will look to exploit this change sales growth is arising from more active by selective increases in the number customers, both new and established, of pages in our mailings where we as well as an increase in the average believe we can generate incremental spending of each customer.
The proportion of sales through stage the price architecture is delivering the on-line channel will continue to grow an average selling price and a gross organically with the increased penetration margin which are level with last year.
N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2006 13
