CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW he world has changed.
Scottish Executive, Regional At National Express we Development Agencies, School Boards not only recognise that but and many more in order to be part of we are transforming the the debate that is creating solutions.
way we do business so We dont expect things to be handed to that we are at the leading us on a plate.
We understand the need, edge of delivering what as well as our responsibility, to be part customers want.
Our customers take of the answer.
the fact that we can deliver operational FUTURE CHANGE excellence as a given.
They want to enjoy the same quality of experience To transform what we offer customers when they travel as they do when they and stakeholders, well need to change buy anything else.
We need to build an RICHARD BOWKER we recognise that and we have a awareness of how a modern consumerCHIEF EXECUTIVE very straightforward vision Making facing business should behave into the Travel Simpler.
We are already National Express is a Group made developing a greater entrepreneurial up of complementary businesses with approach and a greater willingness to ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2006 a single common theme: a passion for push the boundaries.
And the best bit Success in new contract awards travel and transport.
An attention to is that our people, wherever they are in Greater numbers of customers detail means we have high rankings National Express, are eager to rise to travelling on our services in performance league tables.
The reality is that our League-topping operational innovative too.
We value our partnership success or failure will be determined by performance and customer relationships and we the performance of our people who Brand recognition in national have a brand in our Coach division interact with our customers every Superbrand survey which is trusted and liked.
Overall were minute of every day.
Continuing improvement in a business in great shape but we have employee satisfaction MAKING IT SIMPLE the potential to be better.
Delivering great customer service every PRIORITIES FOR 2007 CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE minute of every day, is easy to promise Make Travel Simpler for our Transport has always been about but much harder to do.
In the transport customers delivery and getting things right, every arena it isnt hard to see why.
Transport Put delighting the customer at time.
But in 2007 it is also about services are complex businesses with a the heart of all our decision making providing an experience that our great number of things outside of our Communicate new vision and customers actually want to repeat.
priorities, to inspire and empower Customers want choice and they want We believe that our customers our people value.
And where their choices are understand this.
What they dont Pursue new business opportunities limited such as when commuting, they understand is when other things that building on our core strengths want to feel valued and feel as if they are are in our control dont work as well getting good value.
At the very least, all as they should.
Making Travel Simpler our customers have options to consider means focusing on improving things when spending their money on leisure.
in every way, no matter how big or We have to make sure we give them small.
We will make timetables easier to good reason and repeated reasons to understand.
We will make understanding spend it with us.
ticket prices, indeed the different types of tickets available, simpler.
We will THE ENVIRONMENTAL DEBATE make the interchange between different We need to take a leadership role in modes and services simpler.
And we our sector because the environment in will make the whole experience of which transport is delivered is changing.
travelling simpler as well as more Congestion and climate change are big enjoyable.
To do all of that means factors that need to be considered.
treating our customers as we would At National Express, we believe in being want to be treated ourselves.
part of the solution especially as coach, bus and train are three of the most environmentally friendly ways to travel.
We will be launching a number of groundbreaking ideas in 2007 aimed at showing the environmental benefits of coach, bus and rail services over car and air and we will be practically incentivising customers to use transport modes that reduce carbon emissions.
We are working with key organisations such as the Department for Transport, Transport for London, Centro, the 3 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED This makes good business sense as In North America, the customers well as ensuring we deliver good for our school bus operations are customer service.
We will demonstrate school boards.
Our regular customer that this approach is commercially questionnaires have always showed sensible.
We want all our stakeholders high levels of satisfaction, confirmed by whoever they are to trust in our integrity.
a contract renewal rate of greater than This year, I will be sharing a vision of 95%.
Last year we held 150 in-depth where were heading, and the kind of interviews with all our customers in the organisation we want to become as we US and Canada, which identified some grow in the UK and overseas.
For example, create the tools, training and local managements responsiveness environment that inspire and enable to customers is strongly linked to people to take us where we want to go.
Armed with this Our brand is already widely insight, we are taking appropriate respected and we will build on that action to provide tools for our in the future.
We have some great management teams.
opportunities ahead of us, and I believe In our Trains division, our customer our stakeholders will benefit from our satisfaction programme focuses journey as we deliver improved products on one aspect at a time, until we get and attract more customers to our that aspect right.
As youll see on the following performance and punctuality, and pages, its a journey thats already begun.
In 2006 we worked to get the reat service comes from cleanliness and presentation of our the heart.
Like many trains to a consistently high standard.
companies, we strive to This year we are focusing on delight our customers.
customer communication especially In our business, that is to keep people better informed about not something we can service disruptions.
achieve with systems In Buses we have run a back to and processes alone.
Great customer basics programme focused on vehicle service is essentially personal.
It is cleaning and presentation.
This included delivered to people, by people who making cleaning more frequent, setting recognise their individual needs and higher standards of presentation, concerns and act on them, there and appointing supervisors to make sure we then.
We opened our third Customer meet our targets whilst also trialling Service Academy in 2006.
And this year material to make window glass etching PUTTING OUR we are putting even more emphasis on easier to remove.
training and empowering our people, CUSTOMERS In Coaches we have gone a stage particularly those on the front line, to further by engaging with customers AT THE HEART enable them to make a difference.
directly piloting a mobile phone based Some of our services are the best service that enables them to report OF WHAT WE DO in the business Midland Mainline won faults on the move by text message.
the 2006 National Rail Award for For example, when one customer Passenger Operator of the Year and reported that a toilet wasnt working, Gatwick Express continues to top the we were able to text back to say that National Passenger Survey tables for our teams were standing by at the next customer satisfaction.
We are achieve that kind of performance right extending this service across the whole across the Group.
So we have been network in 2007. listening to customers more In 2006 we also looked at the systematically, using increasingly response times in our customer detailed research to identify and fix the contact centres.
We piloted a number things that dissatisfy them, and make of improvements, and in 2007 we are improvements across the board.
putting in further significant investment.
We are enthusiastic adopters of technology to give customers more information and more control over their travel.
SATISFACTION IS THE FIRST STEP NOW HOW DO WE DELIGHT THEM?
4 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 In our Coach division we are installing Or the unexpected.
On the last working touch-screen kiosks that help day before Christmas, our Midland customers plan their journeys, print Mainline teams decided to make things personalised timetables and buy their a bit special for their customers.
These have proved extremely were magicians doing tricks up and popular with both customers and the down the aisles on trains, and games of Customer Experience Advisers who pass the parcel.
One station had a jazz answer queries at coach stations: now band, another handed out sweets, and they can hand customers an instant Derby had a cathedral choir.
timetable for any journey, however But it made a lot of peoples day.
The first nine machines at our busiest coach stations sold 1.7m of e have to look tickets in their first year.
In response to beyond the status WHENS YOUR BUS DUE?
customers demand we are now quo.
We need to IN BIRMINGHAM, YOU CAN NOW FIND THE introducing a new design that accepts be leaders in LATEST INFORMATION AT cash as well as payment cards.
performance, THE BUS STOP, YOUR PC OR YOUR MOBILE In Travel West Midlands we are quality and fresh using Automatic Vehicle Location AVL ideas.
To lead the way in public technology to improve bus services.
transport, we are learning to think and So far, over 400 buses about a act differently.
We called our new quarter of the fleet are fitted with a leadership development strategy DNA satellite tracking system, which enables because it reflects the individuality of our our control centre to ensure buses businesses and our leaders.
It also arrive at the correct intervals.
The recognises the unique leadership skills system also sends timetables or that we share across the National estimated wait times to bus stops Express Group and that were equipped with information displays.
developing to continuously improve and And now passengers need not even grow the business.
go to the bus stop to see when their Unlike many businesses, we see bus is due.
By texting their stops all our managers as leaders, from the unique code number, they can receive front line to the board room because timetable information to their mobile.
we believe that leaders at every level in The system, which will be available the business have a role to play in for all 12,000 of our West Midlands delighting our customers.
DNA isnt just stops by mid-2007, is being delivered about attending training programmes.
by a partnership between us, the Its about creating ways of working that WMPTACentro transport authority, deliver continued success for the and local councils.
business whilst enabling people to We have invested some 2m in our achieve their potential.
West Midlands AVL and text messaging In consultation across the business, technology.
But delighting the customer we asked: what are the leadership skills need not always mean huge that we need to become one of the expenditure.
It comes from thoughtful worlds leading transport businesses?
little touches like the conspicuously The response: leaders who inspire uniformed roving support staff that Alsa people, think customer, look ahead, employ in a number of major Spanish generate value, collaborate for success, coach stations to provide help and drive improvement, and who get it advice at peak travel times.
DNA is focused on developing these skills by taking an integrated approach to how we recruit, develop, support and motivate both existing and new leaders.
TAKING THE INITIATIVE 5 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Some of the best service innovations invest some 100m in making our come from seeing things from the whole network fully accessible in time customers point of view.
At Gatwick for the 2012 Olympics.
Express, we have applied the same As part of our drive to make our principle to customer service training.
buses cleaner and more presentable, Our Leading Lights training programme we formed a partnership with Matthew helps our people to tailor their service Boulton College in Birmingham to to the customer theyre dealing with.
It launch customised training courses for is a process of discovery, rather than our cleaners.
The purpose-built classroom And in North America we worked has a replica platform, ticket window closely with the countrys leading bus and train interior.
Working with an manufacturer, Thomas Built Bus, to interactive CDROM and live actors share ideas and experience during WE COULDNT FIND AN IDEAL EXISTING SOLUTION on a variety of journey scenarios, the development of its brand new FOR WHEELCHAIR participants debate the needs of model a radical rethink of the TRAVELLERS.
SO WE individual customers and play out traditional yellow school bus.
As the DEVELOPED AN AWARD WINNING ONE OURSELVES different responses to improve each companys largest direct customer, customers journey.
we have a common goal of providing To get the knowledge and skills the safest student transportation in we need, it often makes sense to work North America.
For example, we A basic concern all travellers share teamed-up with NCP, the leading car is personal safety.
We took a lead on parking provider, to see how we can this in 1999, when we launched the enhance station car parks.
As a result, Safer Travel programme on our West we are the first train business to offer Midlands bus services.
This has grown customers the opportunity to pay for into an award winning package of their parking or extend it by text initiatives to reduce crime and anti-social message, from wherever they happen behaviour.
We have rolled this out to be.
across the country in partnership with In Spain we worked in partnership the British Transport Police and local with VDO Siemens to develop Ociobus, police forces, councils, transport an automated video information and authorities and schools.
entertainment system that needs Intelligence about criminal activity minimal intervention from the driver.
on bus services from the public is As Ociobus equipped vehicles pass increasingly valuable to us, and new through depots, or coach stations, they developments in 2006 included the automatically use Wi-Fi to pick up launch of the Safer Travel SMS Textline, tailored programmes including route which enables passengers to report information, films, news broadcasts and details of incidents or intelligence by information about destination towns.
Safer Travel has attracted Ociobus will be installed in 300 Alsa nationwide interest from other transport coaches this year.
In 2006 we When we wanted a better way to extended it to our Surrey Bus operation, get wheelchair users on and off and we are currently introducing it into coaches, we worked in partnership with our Trains division.
E coachmaker Plaxton to develop a new easy access vehicle.
At the 2006 UK Coach Rally it scooped two awards including best access for disabled people.
The large door and shallow entrance steps are particularly welcoming to elderly customers and people with impaired mobility.
And the floor lift gives wheelchair users real freedom to travel independently by coach.
Last year we introduced 44 easy access coaches, and we plan to 6 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 e have a major sharing our customer research data UNDERSTANDING impact in the with other stakeholders to help build OUR CONTRIBUTION political, social, stronger partnerships with them.
economic, safety, Our partnership with Coventry City and environmental Council and the WMPTA-Centro arenas.
So there transport authority has resulted in are a great many improved bus services branded as stakeholders that we need to know, PrimeLines.
These aim to attract more understand and work with.
They include bus customers by offering comfortable, customers, rail and bus passenger quick, reliable and safe travel.
The 42m groups, local, regional and state transport project, backed by government funding, bodies, non government organisations, has been developing selected routes employees, suppliers, shareholders and with new buses, shelters, information Trades Unions, organisations like BAA systems and CCTV security for buses and, of course, our own people.
Partnership is key to its We are getting to know them success: for example, while we have better, and are putting in place better invested in new quality buses, the processes to improve the way we council has introduced bus lanes communicate with individuals and and bus-priority traffic lights to allow organisations.
Last year all our faster journeys.
businesses formally identified the Another factor that correlates stakeholders they need to work with, closely with customer satisfaction is and planned how to build more employee satisfaction.
We now run positive, active relationships with them annual employee surveys across all our to achieve our business goals.
businesses, share the findings with our The next step is to carry out people and set action plans to deal with detailed research, to understand better the points raised.
We then follow-up how they see us and how they want with focus groups to monitor progress to relate to us.
We need a realistic and and to get direct feedback on what this up to date vision of the stakeholder research is telling us about our people landscape so that we can identify and their satisfaction at work.
gaps, set priorities and move more A clear lesson has emerged from quickly as we have done, for example, this work: people who are well trained in engaging with the Olympic Delivery and motivated deliver not only higher Authority on plans for Stratford, the customer satisfaction but consequently primary location for the London we see greater passenger growth.
getting these issues right delivers value PARTNERSHIP IS When we get to know stakeholders for other stakeholders too including KEY: WITH COVENTRY better, new possibilities emerge.
This is one reason for the COUNCIL WEVE MADE BUSES A FAST, We discover needs that we ought to DNA programme described on page 5.
And we find new It is also why our managers have opportunities to work in partnership to employee satisfaction targets which achieve things we could never manage are measured through performance on our own.
These are then fed into Over the past couple of years we reward and recognition arrangements.
have intensified our customer research, using mystery shoppers to monitor customer service and probing customer attitudes more deeply.
One thing we have learned is that customer satisfaction is significantly higher in areas like Dundee, where we have the closest partnership with local councils and transport authorities.
This is no coincidence: good partnership results in joint initiatives such as the Birmingham passenger information system described on page 5.
So we are now 7 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006
