Chief Executives Review INTRODUCTION NEXT has delivered solid growth in sales and profits in a challenging year.
NEXT Brand sales increased by 9.1% against last year, while group profit before tax increased by 5.8% to 449m, at the top end of market expectations.
As a result of share buybacks the pre-tax earnings per share increased by more than profits and were 9.2% ahead of last year.
An increase in the tax rate to 30.2% brought post-tax earnings per share growth back to 6.0%.
We have succeeded in mitigating the effects of a tough consumer environment by profitably growing our selling space, improving gross margins, controlling costs and managing stock levels.
NEXT Directory delivered strong growth in both sales and profits.
3 Chief Executives Review NEXT RETAIL Sales in NEXT Retail grew by 7.7%, with like-for-like sales in the 224 stores that were not planned to be affected by new openings down -2.9%.
Despite negative like-for-like sales the operating profit was up 6.3% on last year.
The analysis below explains how the operating margin has been defended and how the major costs varied as a percentage of sales.
Margin analysis Increase in gross margin 1.0% Higher markdowns -0.4% Improvement in branch payroll 0.1% Increase in occupancy costs -0.8% Increase in central overheads -0.1% Operating margin reduction -0.2% Gross margin the difference between the cost of stock and the initial selling price increased by 1% through improved sourcing and better control of airfreight, but without any compromise in either quality or value.
In fact we also managed to reduce average selling prices by around 5%.
Markdowns rose as a result of increased Sale activity in our clearance operation and slightly lower cash recovery rates in the end of season Summer Sale.
Labour efficiency gains were made in the stores through improved stock processing methods and reduced levels of premium pay.
Occupancy costs rose as the effects of underlying increases in rates, energy costs and rents were exacerbated by negative like-for-like sales.
Central overheads increased slightly, mainly as a result of the step change in warehouse fixed costs arising from the opening of two new warehouses and additional distribution costs.
New space In the year we increased our net selling space by 980,000 square feet to 4,300,000 square feet.
Despite difficult trading conditions we are forecasting that the sales performance of our portfolio of new stores will be in line with their appraised target, giving payback of the net capital invested in 18 months.
4 Chief Executives Review Manchester store In the Autumn we opened our largest store, trading from 82,000 square feet in the centre of Manchester.
Sales to date are comfortably ahead of target and we expect to achieve payback of the net capital invested in 17 months.
New shop fit concept In May of this year we will be trialling a new shop fit concept.
By August this will be in six new stores and two existing stores that are being converted to the new format.
If the trial is successful we will then roll out elements of it into key stores.
NEXT DIRECTORY NEXT Directory had a good year with sales up 13.7% and profits up 18.5%.
Sales continue to benefit from increased use of the Internet, whilst improved gross margins and tight control of costs moved profit ahead faster than sales.
The margin analysis below explains how the major costs varied as a percentage of sales.
Margin analysis Increase in gross margin 1.1% Higher markdowns -1.4% Service charge bad debt -0.1% Improvement in central overheads 1.0% Operating margin increase 0.6% The improvement in gross margin was offset by the significant increase in markdown, which resulted from a planned reduction in the quantity of stock transferred from Directory to Retail for the end of season Sales.
Therefore the quantity of stock in the Directory Sales was significantly higher than last year.
Increased bad debt provisions were offset by increased service charge income.
Significant economies of scale were made over central overheads with Directory catalogue production, marketing and call centre costs all declining as a percentage of sales.
Customer base The number of active customers grew by 11% to 2.1 million as at January 2006.
PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Fashion is moving faster and we have reorganised our buying cycle to deliver new product more often.
New ranges will now be introduced into stores every six weeks.
The effects of the new buying process will begin to be seen in April this year.
Going forward we need to be more focused in controlling the number of different styles in our ranges.
We need fewer styles with more colour-ways of the better selling lines, which have been understocked from the start of this season.
We expect to make further progress through the course of the year.
5 Chief Executives Review BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT This year we will be conducting a number of trials to extend and add to the NEXT brand.
These products will, if successful, add to our business in the years ahead and provide new avenues of growth as our core product areas approach maturity.
In particular we will aim to leverage our two million Directory home shopping customer base.
To this end we are trialling an electrical brochure NEXTelectric with 300,000 customers and if this is successful we can rapidly roll it out to the rest of the customer base in the Autumn.
NEXT Clearance has 30 stores and a turnover of 78m.
We aim to develop this business through the introduction of a sub-brand which will consist of product bought specifically for these stores.
NEXT FRANCHISE Our overseas franchise operation continues to grow, with sales increasing by 17% and profit by 30% to 7.9m.
At the year end there were 96 franchise stores compared with 80 the previous year.
The Middle East continues to be our largest region with 41 stores.
Our partner in Japan has 25 stores.
During the year franchise stores were opened in Gibraltar, Hungary and Turkey.
We anticipate that at least 20 new franchise stores will be opened during the coming year, including several in Russia.
NEXT SOURCING NSL NSL has operations in mainland China, Hong Kong, Romania, Sri Lanka, Turkey, the UK and other locations which are engaged in the design, sourcing, buying, merchandising and quality control of NEXT products.
In Sri Lanka NSL also owns garment manufacturing facilities which employ 2,000 people.
NSL is a profit centre and competes with other agents and factories.
It charges commission on the product it sources and bears its own operating costs.
The reported turnover is only the small amount of business it does with third parties: it excludes intercompany sales.
Profits amounted to 32.9m compared with 32.8m last year.
VENTURA After a slow start to the year, Ventura had an excellent second half.
Business volumes remained high through to the end of the year and, as a result, profits of 13.6m were better than our expectations and slightly ahead of last years 13.4m.
Several existing contracts were renewed during the year and three significant new customers have been added to the client list.
Ventura employs in excess of 7,000 people and its UK call centres are operating close to full capacity.
Its call centre in Pune, India opened during the year and handles business on behalf of NEXT Directory and two other clients.
OTHER ACTIVITIES The Other Activities charge was 3.7m.
Other Activities include profits from our Property Management Division, Choice an associated company which operates fourteen discount stores and Cotton Traders an associated company which sells its own brand products.
Central Costs were 6.0m plus a further 5.9m in respect of additional defined benefit pension scheme funding.
The charge for the Groups pension schemes increased to 22m from 19m last year.
During the year the Group made cash contributions of 30m into the schemes, which included 17m in respect of the past service deficit.
6 Chief Executives Review SHARE OPTIONS The 8.1m charge for the year compares with a restated 3.9m for the previous year.
The increase is due to the phasing in of option grants as prescribed by the new accounting standard.
We estimate that the charge will increase by approximately 1m in each of the next three years.
Over 10,000 of our employees hold options over 10.6 million shares in NEXT.
Our employee share ownership trust ESOT purchases shares in the market and issues them to employees when options are exercised.
At the year end it held 8.2 million shares.
We are continuing with our policy of issuing options to our employees and management of the resulting exposure by purchasing and holding shares in the ESOT.
We believe this is the best way to minimise the true cost of share options and avoids the dilution of shareholders interests that would otherwise occur from the issue of new shares.
SHARE BUYBACKS During the year we purchased a further 15 million shares for cancellation at an average price of 1449p and a cash cost of 218m.
This was 5.7% of the shares in issue at the beginning of the year.
We intend to continue with our strategy of buying back shares as and when it is in the interests of shareholders generally.
These buybacks were not made at the expense of investment in the NEXT Brand: we also spent a record amount on capital expenditure.
The primary use of capital will continue to be the development of the core businesses.
BALANCE SHEET AND CASH FLOW Cash flow remains strong, after capital expenditure of 179m and before share buybacks we generated a cash inflow of 106m.
The net cash outflow after share buybacks was 112m.
Borrowings at the year end were 360m and are financed through a 300m 5.25% 10 year bond, which was issued in June 2003, and medium term bank facilities.
Capital expenditure included 124m on stores and 37m on warehousing.
We expect this years expenditure will be in the region of 125m.
Year end stock levels at 324m were 7% up on last year and were consistent with our requirements.
Debtors of 514m included the 385m account balances of our Directory customers, which continued to rise faster than Directory sales as more of these customers used their account to make purchases in NEXT Retail stores.
DIVIDEND The Directors recommend a final dividend of 30p against 28p last year, bringing the total for the year to 44p compared with 41p last year, an increase of 7.3%.
The dividend is covered 2.9 times by earnings per share of 127.4p.
CURRENT TRADING The combined sales of NEXT Retail and NEXT Directory for the seven week period from 29 January to 18 March 2006 were up 5.6% compared to the same period last year.
NEXT Retail sales were up 3.9% in the period.
Net sales growth from new space after deducting deflection was 12.8%.
Like-for-like sales in the 246 stores that were unaffected by new openings were down -8.9%.
NEXT Directory sales were up 10.2% in the period.
These figures for the seven week period need to be treated with some caution.
Last year included Mothers Day and some pre-Easter spending, whereas this years do not.
We estimate that NEXT Retail has been adversely affected by 1.5% or 2% due to these factors.
We estimate that NEXT Directory has been affected by a similar amount as a result of the later distribution of our Summer brochure.
7 Chief Executives Review OUTLOOK We believe the competitive and economic environment will remain very challenging in the year ahead.
Whilst we think we have the opportunity to make improvements to some of our ranges, we are still budgeting on the basis of negative like-for-like retail sales for the year.
We will focus on the following activities: Improving our core product offer, in particular simplifying some of our ranges to deliver better stock availability and clearer instore merchandising Growing top line sales through the addition of profitable new space in NEXT Retail Adding more customers and product ranges to NEXT Directory Defending the bottom line through the continued management of costs and improving gross margin Developing new product areas NEXT remains highly cash flow generative and we will continue with our policy of buying back shares when it is earnings enhancing and in the interests of shareholders generally.
