Bob Baty Chief Executive O V ER VIEW South West Water Limited SOUTH WEST WATER CONTINUED TO DELIVER EXCELLENT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE, FIRST CLASS LEVELS OF PRODUCT AND ONGOING IMPROVEMENTS IN CUSTOMER SERVICE, WHILST OUTPERFORMING CHALLENGING REGULATORY TARGETS.
SOUTH WEST WATER LIMITED continues to outperform the demanding operational and capital efficiency targets imposed by Ofwat.
It is on track to continue to do so The companys revenue increased by 41.5 million to 348.5 million.
for the remainder of the current regulatory period K4, 2005-2010.
The main factors for this increase were Ofwat approved tariff increases Since the first Periodic Review in 1995, base cost efficiency savings and 7,400 new customer connections, offset by customers switching totalling 54.2 million have been achieved.
from an unmeasured to a measured charging basis.
Despite the regulatory pressure to reduce operational expenditure, South West Waters operating profit rose 15.8% to 141.5 million provision of first class levels of water and sewage treatment and before exceptional costs of 14.5 million from the one-off customer ongoing improvements in customer service have remained key payment 2004 05 exceptional restructuring costs 3.4 million.
Independent market research carried out amongst Operating costs, including depreciation, increased by 22.2 million to South West Waters customers confirms high levels of satisfaction with 207.0 million.
Additional costs from new capital schemes of 7.7 the overall service provided by the company, although levels of charges million, inflation of 8.4 million including energy and chemicals, remain an issue for some groups of customers.
Plentiful supplies of and other cost increases of 10.1 million including increases in high quality drinking water are an absolute priority for customers and, depreciation and increases in direct charging of a proportion of as a direct consequence of careful planning and capital expenditure, leakage expenditure to operating cost, were offset by 4.0 million the regions water storage, treatment and distribution infrastructure of efficiency savings.
has been progressively and significantly enhanced over the years.
South West Water is pursuing a long term restructuring and There have been no water restrictions in the region since 1996 and the continuous improvement programme to reduce overhead and companys leakage detection and reduction programme continues to operating costs.
This is designed to ensure that the company deliver results in line with mandatory targets set by Ofwat.
During the winter period, three key reservoirs were replenished by pumping water from downstream river flows to supplement the natural raw water inflow.
The pumping infrastructure was installed several years ago to provide enhanced drought protection.
This has contributed to reservoir levels being marginally higher than at the same time last year, despite lower levels of rainfall.
Capital expenditure increased by 42.0% to 191.0 million.
109.4 million was invested in water supply improvements, including water mains renovation and water treatment works enhancement.
Over 695 kilometres of water mains were laid, replaced or refurbished during the year and the companys Putting the Sparkle Back into Your Water water mains renovation programme has seen record levels of expenditure and refurbished water mains being achieved.
Continued high levels of investment in the water mains renovation programme will be a key element during the remainder of the K4 period.
4 Improvements in water supply have been matched with improvements Improvements within Ofwats Overall Performance Assessment OPA to water quality.
During 2005, the company achieved its highest ever have been sustained as capital expenditure, previously constrained drinking water compliance level of 99.96% with the quality standards whilst the Clean Sweep programme was delivered, is now being monitored by the Drinking Water Inspectorate DWI.
directed to address other areas.
Improvements in waste water treatment works compliance within the OPA continue, but these Waste water investment expenditure totalled 81.6 million.
have been marginally offset by the increased number of sewer The companys massive Clean Sweep coastal sewage treatment flooding incidents caused by factors other than hydraulic overload, improvement programme is now virtually complete apart from a such as blockages.
small number of minor schemes which are being delayed because of planning and other related issues.
Clean Sweep has transformed the This will be my final contribution to the Pennon Group Annual Report coastal environment of the South West and 89% of the regions bathing as I will be retiring from my role as Chief Executive of South West Water waters now meet the stringent EU guideline standards and 99% at the end of July this year.
I am immensely proud of what South West conform with EU mandatory standards.
These quality achievements are Water has achieved since privatisation in 1989 and I feel very amongst the very best in the UK and a testament to all those involved privileged to have been at the helm during a period of tremendous in the delivery of one of the largest environmental improvement challenge and change.
I consider myself fortunate to have led such a programmes of its kind in the whole of Europe.
good team and I would like to take this opportunity to thank them and all those associated with the company who have enabled me to look Inland waste water treatment works are also being updated and back with pride on the progress made.
modernised as part of a rolling programme to ensure compliance with demanding environmental standards.
The successful delivery of both coastal and river water quality improvement programmes has been a pivotal factor in the regions attainment of higher levels of environmental enhancement in support of economic prosperity.
5 Colin Drummond Chief Executive O V ER VIEW Viridor Waste Limited VIRIDOR WASTE CONTINUES TO DELIVER STRONG GROWTH.
VIRIDOR WASTE LIMITED In September 2005, Viridor Waste entered into a joint venture Lakeside Energy from Waste Limited with Grundon Waste Management Limited to develop and operate a large energy from Viridor Waste continued to make excellent progress with its focused waste EfW facility at Grundons site in Colnbrook, near Heathrow.
strategy of: This strategically located facility is consented and is now under capitalising on its strong position in landfill waste disposal construction.
It is due to come on stream in 2008, with a capacity of 400,000 tonnes kt waste per annum and power generation of exploiting opportunities in landfill gas power generation in line 32MW.
It is ideally located to assist councils in meeting their landfill with the Governments target of increasing the proportion of diversion targets whilst at the same time generating significant electricity generated from renewable sources electricity output.
This 160 million project is being financed 86% by non-recourse bank debt with the balance of finance split equally pursuing profitable opportunities arising from the Governments between Viridor Waste and Grundon.
developing waste strategy including Private Finance Initiative PFI Public Private Partnership PPP and integrated waste Landfill inputs excluding cover were 7% higher in 2005 06 management contracts.
compared with the previous year, at 4.3 million tonnes, of which Brett Waste Management accounted for 0.4 million tonnes.
In the Financial performance in 2005 06 was again strong.
Revenue first half of 2005 06, Viridor Waste benefited from a large one-off at 298.9 million increased by 20.4% over the previous year.
disposal contract at its Masons landfill site whilst, as reported last Operating profit before amortisation of intangibles at 35.9 year, in the first quarter of 2004 05, benefiting from additional million increased by 19.7% over the previous year driven by good volumes in advance of the change in hazardous waste regulations.
performance from the underlying landfill, power generation and Excluding the effect of the Brett Waste Management acquisition and contracts businesses combined with the positive effect of the Brett the above non-recurring items, landfill volumes were unchanged.
In the five years since Average revenues per tonne increased by 9.0% reflecting a more 2000 01, operating profit before amortisation of intangibles has favourable mix of business.
Taking account of the Brett Waste grown by 22.3% per annum of which around 11% has been organic Management acquisition and planning gain offset by usage during with the remainder being from acquisitions.
Profit before tax at the year, Viridor Wastes consented landfill void increased from 21.9 million was 9.0% up on the previous year.
This consistent 80 million cubic metres last year to 87 million cubic metres at strong financial performance reflects the success of Viridor Wastes 31 March 2006. focused strategy.
In June 2005, Viridor Waste acquired Brett Waste Management Limited for 44.4 million.
Brett Waste Management comprised operational landfills in Kent and Essex with 11 million cubic metres of consented void, 6 megawatts MW of landfill power generation capacity and associated transfer station, recycling, composting and transport operations.
The acquisition fits well with Viridor Wastes stated strategy and complements the companys existing facilities in the adjacent counties of East Sussex, Surrey and Suffolk.
Brett Waste Management has now been successfully integrated and was earnings enhancing at profit before tax PBT level after integration costs and amortisation of intangibles in its first nine months, a year ahead of expectations.
6 Viridor Wastes landfill gas power generation output increased from to achieve their diversion targets creates attractive opportunities 327 Gigawatt Hours GWH to 367GWH due to organic growth and for PFI PPP contracts, such as Viridor Wastes with West Sussex and the Brett Waste Management acquisition.
Reflecting the general Somerset, and for facilities such as the Lakeside EfW plant.
As the UK increase in underlying energy prices and the renewable premium increasingly relies on imports of energy and seeks to increase its in the UK, Viridor Wastes average revenues per megawatt hour output of renewables, Viridor Wastes gas business is also an increased by 10% to 59.
As at 31 March 2006 Viridor Wastes increasingly valuable asset.
landfill gas power generation capacity was 61MW compared with 52MW at the previous year end.
After the end of the financial year, Viridor Waste announced the acquisition of Wyvern Waste Services Limited from Somerset County Viridor Waste continues to explore suitable PFI PPP opportunities Council for 25 million as part of a 25 year PPP contract with the as part of its overall strategy.
In May 2006, Greater Manchester County.
The acquisition comprised 5 million cubic metres of Waste Disposal Authority announced that the Viridor Waste consented landfill void, 7MW of power generation capacity and Management Limited John Laing Plc joint venture was one of two associated recycling and treatment operations.
It is expected to be parties shortlisted to submit Best and Final Offers for its waste earnings enhancing before intangibles amortisation in its first full management services contract.
This acquisition and associated contract ties in well with the three clearly defined areas of Viridor Wastes strategy outlined on The Governments target of diverting municipal waste from landfill the facing page.
up to 2020 may be expected over time to lead to a decline in the landfill market.
However, with only around six years consented capacity in the UK as a whole Environment Agency estimate, Viridor Wastes 87 million cubic metres is likely to become an increasingly valuable resource.
Meanwhile, the need for councils 7
