11406 Dec 2006 Persimmon Front 12 3 07 17:14 Page 06 Business Review Chief Executives Review of 2006 Performance n my first year as Group Chief Executive, I am delighted There have also been a number of new consultations regarding to report that the Persimmon Group has made significant the planning system and the general direction is to be welcomed.
Iprogress: we achieved another set of record results our The Government recognises that changes to the system are 11th successive year of profit increase, and we have successfully required if we are to build the 200,000 plus homes that need to completed a further step change in the scale and scope of be built per annum.
The Barker II Review and PPS3 will help in Persimmon with the acquisition of Westbury.
As a leading housebuilder with a large strategic land holding we are in a strong position to deliver much needed homes It has been a demanding year during which the market has for the country and this is a great opportunity for our business.
Persimmon's position as a truly national housebuilder with strong branding has once again DIVISIONAL STRUCTURE proved very successful.
A buoyant start to 2006 was followed by In order to establish a strong platform for future sustainable a slight slow down in April.
An atypical resurgence during the growth we have restructured the business into three new divisions.
traditionally quieter summer months still needed the selective This ensures that Persimmon, Charles Church, and now use of incentives, especially for first time buyers, and the market Westbury Partnerships are fully integrated into each division.
remained competitive towards the end of the year.
With our As is Persimmons hallmark, these divisions will retain their successful targeted marketing strategies and utilisation of part regional flexibility to maximise the market opportunities within exchange we retained good reservation levels, and turned our part their areas.
This new focus will provide further scope for long exchange stock quickly, indicating that the second hand market term growth to the business.
The highly experienced management was still robust for sensibly priced houses.
teams in each division have already shown from their excellent Over the year we saw the average selling price for the Group performance this year the benefits of this restructuring.
In line with our prediction at the beginning of the year, there was an NORTH DIVISION actual 3% price increase to the value of our homes in real terms.
This division has completed 4,069 2005: 3,608 units, an increase The remaining 1% was as a result of a change to our house type on last year of 13%, due mainly to organic growth.
Selling prices mix across the three brands: Persimmon, Charles Church and have decreased slightly to 166,584 2005: 167,049 due to the Westbury Partnerships.
impact of the increase in volumes delivered by our successful We have seen a dramatic rise in our home completions to 16,701 Partnerships business in Scotland.
Excluding Partnerships this 2005: 12,636 for the year, a combination of organic growth and increase is more muted than we have seen in previous years, from the acquired Westbury business.
Following the integration of encouraging a more sustainable market.
Westbury, completions in the second half of the year increased to The strongest region was Scotland with good growth 8,475 2005: 6,682 building on our first half completions and particularly in the Partnerships business which completed further underlining our solid performance in 2006.
We were delighted to achieve recognition This year the Government has brought forward a number of by the Princes Trust for our regeneration scheme Anchor Mills, initiatives for consultation that affect the industry.
The most Paisley, demonstrating the Groups skill in developing complex significant of these is the ambitious announcement that all new refurbishment projects.
The North East has achieved excellent homes will be built to zero carbon performance standards by 2016. results this year after a more challenging market in 2005.
It has This environmental issue is important to us all.
We will play our completed 970 homes at an affordable average selling price of part by working with the Government to achieve this demanding only 161,444. target.
We welcome the phasing of this requirement which will allow time to move to a carbon zero home.
With Space4 we are already well placed to meet the first of the new standards that are set to be achieved by 2010.
06 Persimmon Plc 11406 Dec 2006 Persimmon Front 12 3 07 17:14 Page 07 Business Review Mike Farley, Group Chief Executive 07 Persimmon Plc 11406 Dec 2006 Persimmon Front 12 3 07 17:14 Page 08 Bespok Bespoke Building e Building W We e tailor each home to our customer tailor each home to our customers s needs, needs, pa paying close attention to detail.
ying close attention to detail.
11406 Dec 2006 Persimmon Front 12 3 07 17:15 Page 09 11406 Dec 2006 Persimmon Front 12 3 07 17:15 Page 10 Business Review 10 Persimmon Plc 11406 Dec 2006 Persimmon Front 12 3 07 17:15 Page 11 Business Review CENTRAL DIVISION This year we have taken first completions from Charles Church Scotland and Charles Church Wales, both companies benefiting This is the largest of the 3 divisions.
Completions here increased from our existing strong presence in these regions.
Charles substantially to 6,156 2005: 4,815 and whilst the business has Church Wales has also benefited from the integration of continued to grow organically it has also benefited from the Westbury premium sites.
Although price growth within the division as a whole was more modest at 5%, there has been a wide The acquisition of Westbury has provided Charles Church a variation in the level of increase.
step change in volume which will lead to greater overhead efficiency and profitability in the future.
In the Birmingham region two of our significant brownfield regeneration sites at Cape Hill, Birmingham and Banner Brook, WESTBURY PARTNERSHIPS Coventry commenced with their first legal completions this year and have sold very well.
These substantial schemes will In 2007 08 the Government will be providing an additional benefit the business in these areas for a number of years.
49,000 affordable homes with the prospect of further new homes Whilst the market in Birmingham remains competitive, lower in the years to follow, resulting in a significantly expanding sector.
average selling prices of our homes in this area at 162,553 We have created a specialist business based in Gloucester which is mean we can maintain affordability.
committed to the delivery of affordable housing in England.
This is a business which Westbury had been developing for a number of In the North West there was little real price growth, however years which we have refocused.
The team is working on a number we saw substantial growth in volume.
The integration of Senator of projects in the south that will provide affordable homes in the Homes into our Lancashire operation has gone very well whilst future.
It should be noted that there is a longer lead in period providing a large number of sites in an area where it has been before these schemes commence.
This is due to the number of difficult to obtain planning consents.
stakeholder interests that need to be accommodated for each scheme.
Westbury Partnerships completed 197 homes at an average SOUTH DIVISION selling price of 91,036, making a positive contribution to Group The South division has increased completions substantially as a profits in its first year of trading.
result of the Westbury acquisition to 3,578 2005: 2,927.
It has I was particularly pleased that the Persimmon Group was one performed very well and there is a consistent demand across the of the first developers to receive a direct housing grant of whole division.
We have seen sustained price growth of 4% 16.5 million from the Housing Corporation, the Governments noticeably in the West Country and on into Wales where the body responsible for the delivery of affordable homes.
This will market remains strong.
accelerate the rate at which affordable homes are delivered by the In Wales we received a highly acclaimed regional winner award Group for local communities.
In the current climate Westbury from the NHBC.
Our site manager was voted one of the top Partnerships is set to grow significantly.
8 managers in the house building industry, demonstrating our continued commitment to quality.
In addition the Group SPACE4 achieved 5 Seal of Excellence Awards from the NHBC for This is our state of the art manufacturing plant based in our developments across the whole of the UK.
Castle Bromwich, Birmingham producing Modern Method of Construction housing.
We have carried out a full business review CHARLES CHURCH since the acquisition of Westbury, both in the factory and on site.
Within Charles Church we have invested significantly and now In the factory we have changed a number of suppliers to have 10 operating companies.
We have increased completions by benefit from the enhanced Group buying power.
The decision was made developed a new range of affordable homes that are factory to extend the range of homes offered and bring it into the mid efficient, environmentally friendly and meet all Government range market by reducing the average size of the Charles Church requirements regarding affordable housing standards.
This has reduced the average selling price to 253,236 resulted in positive feedback from housing associations regarding 2005: 283,260, but without compromising our quality.
the future use of these houses.
11 Persimmon Plc 11406 Dec 2006 Persimmon Front 12 3 07 17:15 Page 12 Business Review On site we have carried out a number of technical changes The Westbury sites have been transferred throughout the entire which will simplify the process and lead to greater efficiency.
Group with particular benefit being derived by the Charles In the future Westbury Partnerships will begin to build this new Church operation.
Where necessary we have cleared stock and housing range on sites controlled by Persimmon.
put in tighter management controls over work in progress, resulting in a substantial reduction in gearing.
We have carried This year has been a transitional year and these changes when out a full review and reduced build costs by improving combined with the environmental benefits of the system will procurement and sub contractor costs.
In a number of cases our lead to increased volumes and profitability in 2007. technical teams identified cost effective solutions which have benefited our margins.
LAND BANK As a result of these efforts we are able to maximise the synergy Our land bank has benefited significantly from the Westbury benefits for the Group which are c. 32 million for 2006.
We are acquisition, standing at 80,085 plots 2005: 63,336 plots confident of increasing these benefits in future years as the savings owned and under control, an increase of 26%.
There has been are rolled out on Westbury sites and we make further procurement an expected increase to our plot cost ratio to selling price due savings due to the size of the enlarged business.
A number of these plots have been allocated to Charles Church which generally has a higher ratio.
These plots We are confident that Westbury Partnerships, when combined with will sustain Charles Church into the future.
In the second half Space4, will provide much needed affordable housing that can be of the year we were particularly successful in the land market and delivered in an energy efficient and environmentally friendly our land bank now stands at 4.8 years.
We continue to advocate manner.
holding a long land bank while the planning environment remains difficult.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Our strategic land bank now stands at c. 23,200 acres and we We seek to integrate our policies and procedures into our normal have benefited from a number of exciting and value enhancing business activities in a constructive and responsible way to ensure opportunities deriving from the Westbury portfolio.
We have been that when building new homes we take into account our impact successful in delivering c. 25% of our new plots through strategic on the environment, how we look after our customers and how land, and in addition we believe there will be a major benefit to we treat our employees.
Our positive and robust approach to the business by the delivery of 30,000 strategic plots in the next Corporate Responsibility will improve our reputation and lead three years.
Investment in this land will exceed 1 billion and will to increased customer satisfaction, employee loyalty and facilitate deliver organic growth in terms of volumes and margins for the improvements in efficiency and our business performance.
business in the medium and long term.
Our track record, balance During 2006 we have continued our good work of previous sheet, and reputation, enables us to invest in new long term years.
Building energy efficient housing has a significant role opportunities that will sustain the business for many years.
to play in tackling climate change and we have again last year increased the average energy efficiency of our new homes.
WESTBURY INTEGRATION We have also continued our Modern Methods of Construction As referred to in the Chairmans Statement we have now project at Irlam, Manchester and we were rewarded by winning successfully completed the Westbury integration.
The new the Best Innovation in the Use of Materials and Products for staff have integrated well, enhancing our business, and we are our Techno House at the 2006 House Building Innovation Awards.
pleased they have embraced our culture.
12 Persimmon Plc 11406 Dec 2006 Persimmon Front 12 3 07 17:15 Page 13 Business Review Last year we set ourselves a target to reduce the amount of SUMMARY waste generated for each new home we built.
We have reduced This year has seen the successful integration of the Westbury this waste by 17% to nine tonnes per home built and over two business and we are very pleased to be able to report record thirds of this is recycled.
We have continued to invest heavily in our Health and Safety Key corporate achievements this year have been the reduction management and training.
I am pleased to report that we have of our net borrowings to 661.3 million taking gearing to seen a reduction in major injuries of 15% during the year, 33% at the year end and the increase of our synergy savings to despite a 25% increase in the number of sites from which we 32 million, both ahead of expectations.
Our total land bank is operate.
We are again setting all our operating businesses at an all time high at 94,655 plots including land proceeding to performance targets for Health and Safety to increase our contract.
In addition to this we continue to achieve success with performance in this vital area of our business.
additional consented plots from our strategic land portfolio.
Combining this with growth opportunities from our Persimmon We continue to improve our quality control processes and core housing, Charles Church brand, Westbury Partnerships and invest heavily in training our staff to improve customer service.
Space4, we have an excellent platform on which to grow the All our staff are dedicated to ensuring higher levels of customer business in the future.
We have a good forward sales position and satisfaction.
During 2006 our surveys found that in excess of a strong balance sheet that will enable us to take advantage of 86% of our customers would recommend a friend to purchase a any opportunities that will enhance the business.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all our staff for CURRENT TRADING OUTLOOK their commitment to the successful divisional restructuring and The beginning of the year has started well despite the unexpected the integration of Westbury.
With their support I am confident the business is in great shape and in an excellent position to rise in interest rates, and to date we have achieved a good level of reservations and have not experienced any loss of purchaser continue its growth in the future.
confidence as a result of this rate increase.
This is further Mike Farley Group Chief Executive supported by the fact that our cancellation rate for the first 23 February 2007 seven weeks of 2007 is only 15% 2006: 19% an improvement on the previous year.
At this time we have c. 7,000 forward sales with a total value of 1.3 billion, an increase over the same time last year.
We have 120 new sites opening in the next few months.
Some will replace existing sites that are closing but will lead to an overall increase of 50 in the number of outlets when compared to 2006.
The market remains competitive but we have seen some opportunity for modest price growth on new outlets.
13 Persimmon Plc 11406 Dec 2006 Persimmon Front 12 3 07 17:15 Page 14 Far and Far and W Wide ide W We e ar are meticulously planning, e meticulously planning, b building and selling homes uilding and selling homes in all par in all parts of the countr ts of the country y..
The Anchorage, Port Solent, Hampshire 11406 Dec 2006 Persimmon Front 12 3 07 17:15 Page 15 Pimlico Apartments, Pimlico, London Wester Inch, Bathgate, Scotland Wensleydale Gardens, Leyburn, North Yorkshire 11406 Dec 2006 Persimmon Front 12 3 07 17:15 Page 16 Business Review Wellington Place, Elvetham Heath, Fleet, Hampshire 16 Persimmon Plc
