We provide vital services to the oil & gas industry, helping international and national oil companies develop, maintain and manage their resources.
We are present at almost every stage in the life cycle of an asset: co-investing in projects, building facilities, operating sites and providing global training programmes.
There are numerous dimensions pro-active and productive to the work of Petrofac.
In recent years our level we are an Engineering & work on the Cendor project, Construction company, using undertaking Browneld the latest technologies to build modications in the North facilities and enable the ow of Sea, and the construction of energy: from wellhead to nished, a new gas plant in Oman are rened product.
On another level, compelling examples of the we are an operating and way we work.
management team, running hydrocarbon production and These synergies are more processing assets.
There is a than purely operational.
third side to our service, our Our teams also share an Resources division, which enterprising outlook, a fresh targets and invests in way of thinking and a set opportunities and projects of values: a belief in safety, alongside our customers.
being ethical, responsive, cost-conscious and Increasingly these business innovative.
Behind this is the areas work together to add value relentless pursuit of results.
and offer our customers a total, Throughout this report we cost-effective solution.
Through have highlighted examples of these operational synergies, this passion in action.
For us, we are able to tackle complex it is not just about saying, it is projects and deliver a more about doing.
North Sea platforms, Kazakhstan oil & gas elds, Omani deserts, the Caspian Sea, Russian Arctic and oceans of the Asia Pacic.
The work of Petrofac touches almost every corner of the globe, employing a workforce of approaching 8,000 skilled people.
As the demand for energy provide a service that matches grows, our service expands.
the challenges ahead and Every second of every day, does so in the most efficient our people are at work in ofces way possible.
Once we have and sites all over the world.
developed a solution, we We are a truly multi-cultural deliver on our promises.
company with key operating centres in London, Woking, Over the past 25 years, Aberdeen, Sharjah and Mumbai.
Petrofac has developed a This global spread enables us to strong base of customers and deliver a highly responsive and business partners.
In the cost-efficient service to our North Sea, we currently hold customers the worlds leading a number of Duty Holder integrated, independent and agreements, taking full national oil companies.
responsibility for the safe and efficient running of platforms.
Our success stems from a We are engaged in a five-year commitment to partnership.
contract in Kuwait, to deliver Whether it is a new build project, full maintenance services to the ongoing maintenance of an the North and West of the asset, a training programme for country.
We are also a leading a multi-national workforce or a provider of technical and new investment and nancing safety training solutions plan, it all starts with supporting many of the understanding.
From these worlds major oil companies.
foundations we are able to
