10 Premier Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 CHIEF EXECUTIVES SUMMARY ROBERT SCHOFIELD Premier Foods continues to follow its CHIEF EXECUTIVE strategy of using its scale to drive the business, managing its brands proactively, concentrating on integration and driving out synergies.
11 Premier Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Description of the business Premier will be the UKs Operational review No.
1 food producer following its acquisition of RHM plc, 2006 2005 which will complete in March 2007.
Following m m completion the Group will manufacture a range of Sales market leading branded and own-label products Grocery 844.8 683.4 across many food categories including Bread, Cakes, Fresh Produce 114.6 106.3 Preserves, Convenience Foods, Ambient Desserts, Total Sales 959.4 789.7 Meat-free foods, Cooking Sauces, Stocks, Gravies, Flour, Chilled Ready Meals, Meat Pies, Frozen Pies and Desserts.
It will employ approximately 19,700 people.
2006 has been a year of transformation for Premier.
The acquisition of Campbells in August enhanced our Currently the Group operates in two primary segments, brand portfolio and branded business.
Batchelors Grocery and Fresh Produce.
Within Grocery, the Group and Oxo have been included within our Drive brand is organised around its Convenience Foods, Pickles, categories, Homepride has been placed within Core Sauces & Meat-free and Spreads, Desserts & Beverages brands and Fray Bentos with Classic brands.
Our Fresh Produce business this, in December 2006, we announced an agreed comprises potato and fresh produce packing and offer for RHM plc.
These acquisitions will transform marketing operations supplying the retail, foodservice, Premier into the UKs leading food supplier, offering food manufacturing and potato growing markets.
us unparalleled opportunities for developing our brands and manufacturing efficiency.
Strategy The Groups strategy remains as it always has been: to use its scale to drive the business in three key We are delighted by the progress of our Drive brands, areas: organic consumer-focused branded growth: which have continued to perform well, with sales up growth through customer relationships: and cost 12.4% on 2005.
Excluding the Campbells brands, which savings and business simplification, to manage the were acquired during 2006, our like-for-like branded retailer brand products proactively.
Premier believes sales grew by 5.5% and sales overall, including retailer that retailer brand business is an important branded products, grew by 2.5%.
complement to its branded offering, significantly leveraging its efficient cost base.
We continue to invest in our brands, both in extension and innovation: we launched a range of Branston table The acquisition of Campbells in August 2006 increased sauces in the first quarter of 2006 and saw total our branded business to 66% of total grocery sales, on Branston sales increase by 16%.
We have extended our a pro forma basis, with the inclusion of Batchelors and worldwide licence to use the Loyd Grossman name on Oxo in our Drive brands.
sauces, oils and dressings, accompaniments, toppings and marinades to 2026 and sales of Loyd Grossman The expected acquisition of RHM in March will add products rose 25% on last year.
The number of further category leading brands to our portfolio, households buying Quorn has increased by another bringing with it Hovis, the leading bread brand, 440,000 so that 1 in every 5 households now buys Mr Kipling, the leading cake brand, Bisto, the leading Quorn on a regular basis leading to a 13% increase gravy brand and Sharwoods, the leading brand in the in its sales.
In addition, new varieties of Hartleys jelly Asian Foods category.
Approximately 50% of RHMs and Ambrosia custard led to increases in sales of sales were of branded products, leading to a pro Hartleys and Ambrosia of 7% and 6% respectively.
forma branded sales mix of the enlarged group of approximately 57%.
On the downside in 2006, we, like other businesses, have seen significant levels of inflation across a range of our input costs, particularly energy-related costs and raw material ingredients.
We have been successful in recouping some of these costs, however the cost 12 Premier Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chief Executives Summary continued environment remains difficult.
In addition, the We have: extended period of warm weather through the Autumn provided an in-depth explanation of trading and impacted sales in a number of our more weatherfinancial performance, along with background dependent categories.
information for both new and existing investors in our business review on pages 13 to 25: The trading environment for food retailers and food developed a cohesive and efficient approach to manufacturers remains very competitive.
Our strategy is achieve the Groups corporate governance objectives, to try to work closely with our customers by focusing on as outlined on pages 39 to 49: exciting product innovations and promotions, which also explained improvements in our approach to risk drives consumer loyalty and demand for our brands.
management on pages 44 to 45, following the risk review process operated in Group businesses Acquisitions and disposals We are pleased by the during the year: progress we have made on integrating the Campbells incorporated our principles of good corporate business into Premier, which is proceeding according to responsibility within the objectives of the risk plan.
We have announced the closure of the Cambourne review group to ensure we meet the operational head office and the integration of administrative and information reporting challenges facing the functions into our Long Sutton site.
Accordingly, we Group and other public companies, outlined on expect to complete the integration of the business pages 45 to 49: control elements of Campbells into Premier by the reviewed the composition of the Board and our end of the first quarter of 2007. responsibilities to shareholders, explained on pages 39 to 43 and The manufacturing review to optimise efficiency across explained our underlying remuneration principles our manufacturing network concluded that we should and senior management incentive plans in our consolidate the production of our dry savoury products directors remuneration report on pages 50 to 60. into our Worksop factory and our canned production into our Long Sutton and Wisbech factories.
This will result Outlook Overall trading performance for the year in the closure of our Ashford and Kings Lynn factories, to the date of this report has been in line with our which we anticipate to complete by the middle of 2008. expectations.
The trading environment remains highly Whilst closing factories is never a decision we take competitive and energy-related inflationary pressure lightly, we need to ensure that Premier remains remain an issue.
The integration of Campbells continues competitive and the closures will enable us to invest to proceed smoothly and we are now into the detailed behind growing our brands and our business.
The planning phase for the integration of RHM.
proximity of Kings Lynn to our other canning factories will enable us to offer continued employment to a Environmental issues are now predominant amongst significant number of the Kings Lynn employees.
customers and consumers and, with greenhouse gas emissions of particular concern, the Group has initiated The acquisition of RHM will enable Premier to build a review of its energy strategy to identify ways in which on the complementary strategies of Premier and we can reduce the carbon footprint of our businesses RHM from a position of significantly enhanced scale over the forthcoming years.
We are confident that we and efficiency.
We believe that it will enable us to take will be able to continue to develop the business in line advantage of top-line growth opportunities through with our strategy, focusing on driving our branded strong innovation and brand investment, while also sales growth whilst maintaining a tight control on our delivering substantial cost savings to enhance cost base and addressing environmental concerns.
Enhancing reporting to shareholders The Group provides information to shareholders in a manner ROBERT SCHOFIELD that makes it transparent and accessible.
