Chief executives report At the Loulo complex, a herculean effort by our capital projects Randgold Resources progress is team got the final phase of the plant up and running in the systematic and strategy-directed face of some very considerable challenges inherited from the but it is also fast.
The year under construction contractor.
In spite of the inevitable delay in the review clearly reflected this process commissioning of the hard-rock circuit, and the cumbersome of building rapidly on solid interim measures we had to take, we gradually caught up with foundations.
our original production targets in the course of the year, maintaining plant throughput above design capacity in the latter half.
Output for the year was a highly creditable 241 575 ounces at cash operating costs of US$294 per ounce.
With the open pit operation running well, we were able to shift our focus to the development of the two high grade LOULO LIFE OF MINE FORECAST: OUNCES RECOVERED BY SOURCE underground mines at Loulo.
The construction of the boxcut for Yalea made good progress and the sinking of the decline 500 Other sources shafts got under way on 22 December with the first blast into Targets bedrock.
In the meantime, doubling the Yalea underground 400 reserve, produced by continued deep drilling, has resulted in 300 significant upgrades of the mines design and its production parameters.
Essentially, the proposed production rate has 200 Underground reserves been stepped up from 50 000 tonnes per month to 80 000 100 tonnes on the back of an increase in the reserve base Open pit reserves from 1.87 million ounces to 3.63 million ounces.
0 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Yaleas sister operation Gara the former Loulo 0 saw a similar 2007-2020 improvement, with underground gold reserves more than doubling to 1.65 million ounces.
Accordingly we have also increased the proposed production rate there, from 50 000 RANDGOLD RESOURCES: tonnes per month to 100 000 tonnes.
In redesigning Gara, ATTRIBUTABLE PRODUCTION we opted for a conveyor belt system to transport ore and 600 waste, similar to the one that will be used at Yalea.
This will 500 support the higher production rate more effectively than the 400 conventional truck transport system.
300 Estimated As shown in the accompanying graph, the two underground 200 Actual mines will have a very substantial impact on Loulos Life of 100 Mine production profile.
We envisage a steady 250 000 0 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 ounces per year until 2009, when Yalea will start contributing.
We expect production to average above 350 000 ounces per 2004-2011 year from 2009 to 2015 and exceed 400 000 in 2011 2112.
08 Randgold Resources Annual Report 2006 Ounces 000 Ounces 000 Given our commitment to organic growth based on discovery and development, exploration remains Randgold Resources engine room.
Mark Bristow Chief executive The challenge will be to maintain production at or above the MANAGING FOR THE LONG TERM We manage our business for the long term, which means that 350 000 ounce per year level.
To achieve this, we have been we constantly have to search beyond our existing borders for exploring around the two main orebodies, where we have fresh, profitable growth opportunities, and never allow ourselves added significant reserves over the past two years.
We are the luxury of settling down into a comfort zone.
Exciting and now also looking for new orebodies in the area.
Five clear demanding as the Yalea and Gara developments are, we are target areas have been defined, with Baboto and Faraba already looking past them at further prospects.
We can do already producing encouraging results.
this because, as our record shows, our management teams are more than capable of running one operation while building COST CONTROL A KEY PRIORITY another and advancing a third.
Our joint venture Morila operation produced 516 667 ounces We are therefore setting our sights on the Tongon project in for the year at cash operating costs of US$215 per ounce and Cte dIvoire, which could well have the makings of our third total cash costs of US$258 per ounce.
Production was down major mine.
Tongon has been in our portfolio since 1997 but on the previous year, mainly as a result of the move to lower we backed off from it when the civil unrest started in Cte grade areas of the pit.
It was also affected by fleet availability dIvoire.
With a resource base of more than 3 million ounces, limitations and throughput slippages in the second and third however, it remained a key asset in our portfolio.
While the quarters, but these problems were addressed and by the year political situation has not stabilised yet, we were sufficiently end the plant was operating at its full expanded capacity.
The encouraged by the progress that had been made to re-establish drive to find more reserves within the lease area continued but a team at Tongon last year.
Senior officials from the government has so far not produced a significant discovery.
There has, ministries as well as the opposition have since visited the site however, been a slight improvement in reserves, which stood and we have been impressed by their support for the project and the level of cooperation they have provided.
An 8 hole at 2.15 million ounces after depletion of 562 000 ounces at 1 992 metre diamond drilling exercise was undertaken and its the end of 2006, against 2.37 million ounces at the end of results used to plan a detailed drilling programme which is now 2005. under way.
This programme, along with the engineering, infrastructure, impact assessment and capital estimate studies, At both Loulo and Morila, cost control will continue to be a will be combined in a final bankable feasibility study which major priority for management in the year ahead.
Industry wide should be ready at the end of 2008, when a development cost pressures are still mounting as a result of the weak dollar decision will be made.
In spite of its problems, Cte dIvoire and the higher prices of diesel, steel and other inputs.
Our compares well to other African countries that have recently mines are in remote locations and have to produce their own become the targets for gold mine development, not least because of its excellent infrastructure and great geological power from diesel fired generators.
In addition, they run large prospectivity.
Consequently, diesel now makes up some 25% of our total production costs.
In general, our CONTINUED EXPLORATION SUCCESS costs were well controlled in 2006.
Total cash costs for the Given our commitment to organic growth based on discovery group were US$296 per ounce, up on the previous year due and development, exploration remains Randgold Resources to grade decreases at both operations, but well below the driver.
The highlights of the past year have been the continued industry average of US$350 per ounce.
It should be noted, success in identifying and adding new resources and reserves incidentally, that ours are true gold production costs, untainted at Loulo, and the emergence of the Kiaka target in Burkina by by-product credit accounting.
Faso as a significant mineralised gold system.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2006 09 The Burkina Faso team has also completed a first pass is reinforced.
During my roadshows last year I canvassed our major shareholders on this point and, to a fund, they were evaluation of our other permits in that country, identifying four supportive of our approach.
anomalies with strike lengths in excess of three kilometres.
The commitment to organic growth is not a blinkered one, In the Cte dIvoire, we are not confining ourselves to Tongon however, and we continue to watch the market closely for but are pursuing opportunities in our own name as well as in corporate growth opportunities that are capable of adding real cooperation with the state mining company with a view to value instead of amounting to just another consolidation.
acquiring as much prospective ground as possible before the anticipated normalisation of the political situation.
THE NEXT BIG THING The year ahead will see Randgold Resources building again, In Senegal, we are evaluating three drill targets and a RAB with the focus areas being the Loulo underground mines and drilling programme has started on 12 advanced targets to the Tongon feasibility study.
Production from our operations select candidates for inclusion in a new diamond drilling is expected to be in line with the past years output, with Morila campaign planned for later this year.
The Ghana team has scheduled to produce 500 000 ounces and Loulo set to completed a thorough evaluation of the portfolio we have exceed 250 000.
If the gold price performs according to accumulated in that country.
This has enabled us to discard market expectations, Randgold Resources should therefore unpromising holdings to concentrate on a well defined structure again produce robust profits for 2007. showing significant large scale anomalism.
Following our decision to scrap the Kiabakari project, our team in Tanzania The second graph on page 8 of this report shows our production has embarked on a new generative phase, coupled with a profile for the past three years and the forecast for the next review of some of the junior projects.
The impact of Loulo is obvious and its planned growth should more than make up for the tapering off of Morila.
Should Tongon get the go-ahead, the picture improves even We ended the year with a total of 128 promising targets on 2 further.
almost 20 000km in six countries in West and East Africa.
In line with our policy of constantly seeking to widen our horizons, Randgold Resources efforts have earned it some exceptional we have recently put together a dedicated African hunting laurels but we have no intention of resting on them.
Our aim team, whose brief is to find and evaluate opportunities in is to hunt down that real profitable growth opportunity, either prospective countries where we do not already have a presence.
There are no guarantees in this business, but given our performance record and the proven capability CONTINUING ASSESSMENT OF CORPORATE of our team, I am positive about our prospects of achieving OPPORTUNITIES this objective.
As the gold price continues to rise and the new gold supply remains static, the market pressure on producers to buy growth A GREAT TEAM EFFORT at almost any cost is increasing.
On that note, I would like to take this opportunity of placing on record my admiration for the great work that our managements We regularly review our corporate strategy and investment and people have done and continue to do.
It is their dauntless criteria against this trend but nothing that we have seen so far spirit that has enabled us to conquer the challenges and seize has persuaded us that the Randgold Resources way of building the opportunities.
I would also like to thank our chairman, value on a solid base of organic growth can easily be bettered.
Philippe Litard, and the other members of the board for the Indeed, every time we test it, our resolve to stick to our strategy support, direction and perspective they provide.
