RECKITT 01-22:RECKITT 01-22 7 3 07 02:07 Page 2 Chief Executives Review 2006 was another good year for Reckitt During the past year we have passed the baton Reinforce our brands with an exceptional Benckiser.
in a number of senior executive positions but rate of product innovation.
Offering the business has continued to prosper without consumers ever-better solutions stimulates them Let me briefly explain why: major disruption.
Erhard Schoewel, after 27 years to purchase, helping to grow both the category Financial results for the year were ahead of with the Company, latterly as Executive Vice and our market share.
Net revenues grew by 7% on a likePresident EVP Europe, retired in June.
His revenues come from products launched in the for-like basis and by 18% overall, while contribution to Reckitt Benckiser was immense, past three years.
adjusted earnings per share rose by 19%.
not least in demonstrating how our cultural Back our brands with consistently high Net cash flow rose by 26%, while we values deliver superior business performance.
Our media spend rate, reduced the net borrowings following the We thank him and wish him a long and happy at around 12% of net revenues, is consistently BHI acquisition to 660m.
His position has been taken by the industrys highest.
And in the past year we increased by 17% and we returned 300m Elio Leoni-Sceti, whose role as EVP Category have put even greater investment behind direct to shareholders through share buy back.
Development has been assumed by Rakesh interaction with consumers through in-store Kapoor.
We wish them both well in their new We launched even better products and demonstrations, sampling programmes and challenges.
Tony Gallagher also retired during the invested at record levels in our Power Brands point-of-sale communication.
year after eight years of achievement for which to excite consumers and stimulate growth.
we thank him, and we welcome Gareth Hill Roll out our major brands into new Examples of successful new products include who has joined the Company as Senior Vice geographies.
Few of our major brands are yet Vanish Oxi Action Crystal White, Cillit Bang President SVP Information Services.
A large present in all our territories, and we continue to Stain & Drain, Finish 5in1 and Quantum and number of changes in management down the roll them out as market opportunities develop.
line followed, but I am happy to report minimal Finally, leverage our financial strength We established a strong platform in consumer disruption and strong continuity.
to enhance long-term growth by making healthcare.
The acquisition of BHI in February, Strong management, bound together in add-on acquisitions that strengthen and its subsequent integration into Reckitt a common culture, properly targeted by our core business.
Benckiser has been executed ahead of plan, a compelling strategy and appropriately delivering more savings than originally 2.
Convert growth into even more attractive incentivised makes a powerful force for expected.
We will now turn our attention profit and cash flow through continuing business performance.
That is why we continue to driving growth from this platform.
margin expansion and cash conversion.
to place so much credence on our remuneration We therefore ended the year a stronger business system, which pays for performance.
For the most We expand margins through intensive work than we began it.
senior management, 80% or more of total on cost containment and mix management.
remuneration is performance-related from We find exciting rewards in the most People ask me why Reckitt Benckiser continues our annual bonus and long-term incentive unglamorous places: using less packaging, to deliver.
I think it is down to several factors.
programmes, rewarding the achievement of standardising product formulas, renegotiating First, and perhaps most important, is a highly superior in-year results, and the building of supply contracts, simplifying processes.
We capable management team and broader long-term shareholder value.
At the same time, also drive margins by focusing on active mix workforce bound together with a strong, senior management commits its own capital management by driving higher margin products unifying and enabling culture.
Second is our to the business through our stringent share and categories.
Margin expansion fuels the very clear strategy for the business, a roadmap ownership policy, making us behave like partbusiness, funding marketing investment and that is understood and followed by all in the proprietors of the business, sharing the risks driving profit growth.
Finally our strong portfolio of leading and rewards of shareholders.
brands in above average growth categories with Finally, we focus on converting all of this into attractive margins underpins our strategy.
A clear strategy cash through intensive work on net working I make no apology for repeating our strategy capital and relentless attention to cash.
Strong management team sharing for delivering profitable growth.
It has served It is no accident that we have the lowest net a compelling culture the Company and its shareholders well for six working capital and the highest cash conversion At the heart of any successful company is consecutive years now, and we intend to do rates in our industry peer group.
a set of strong, commonly-held beliefs and plenty more of the same.
We believe that the ways of working.
At Reckitt Benckiser, we A strong brand portfolio simplicity and clarity of our strategy helps us work together with passion and commitment We have the benefit of executing this strategy with the execution as our strategy is so well to excite consumers.
We truly live our business, with a portfolio of strong brands in attractive understood throughout the Company.
it is fun and therefore rewarding and it is an categories, but this too is not an accident.
obsession that goes beyond just being a job.
Our vision is to keep delivering better products Our portfolio strategy has always been to focus Our culture breeds pride in achievement, a truly to consumers that improve their lives at crucial on those categories that can give us growth personal commitment to delivery, pleasure in comoments.
Our strategy is equally simple: in at attractive economics and where we can own operating in teams and the excitement of taking essence, to drive sales growth through focus the leading brands globally.
That is why we business risks in the search for better solutions.
and constant innovation while optimising focus on categories such as Fabric Treatment, Not for us a culture of consensus, rather we costs to expand margins and profits.
where Vanish is the world No.
1, disinfecting enjoy constructive conflict if it leads to better cleaning, where Lysol and Dettol combined lead We deliver this through a clear and simple decision making.
the world, Automatic Dishwashing, where strategy: Finish, Calgonit and Electrasol combined have It is a culture that works for us.
Deliver above industry average growth over 40% of the world market, or Air Care, we work very hard in recruiting and developing in net revenues.
where Air Wick is now a strong No.
our management talent to fit with our culture, Having secured these leading positions, we are ensuring that our succession planning is as Focus investment and innovation on the determined to continue to drive their growth seamless as possible.
right brands in the right categories.
with more innovations and more marketing That means categories with strong growth and selling investment.
potential where we can invest behind our worldleading brands.
Most of our effort goes behind the 18 flagship Power Brands that now represent almost 60% of our net revenues.
2 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 RECKITT 01-22:RECKITT 01-22 7 3 07 02:07 Page 3 Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare a new It is not an accident that these opportunities platform for growth chime closely with our overall strategy for the These considerations explain why we are Company we see consumer healthcare as building a strong platform for future growth another category in which our strategy and our in consumer healthcare, the over-the-counter core competencies of innovation, marketing drug market.
Combining our existing strength investment and sales excellence can deliver in selected markets with the newly acquired interesting growth.
BHI brands, gives us many opportunities The future to grow in future.
I believe that Reckitt Benckiser has an exciting First, we now have a strong brand portfolio in future.
Our people, our strategy and our brands interesting categories of consumer healthcare.
can continue to deliver profitable growth to the Combining Nurofen No.
2 analgesic in Europe, benefit of employees and shareholders.
1 medicated sore throat globally, We are increasingly building a business we Clearasil No.
2 anti-acne treatment worldwide are proud to be part of.
Our products and our with Gaviscon No.
1 upper Gastro-Intestinal business are a force for good in the world.
That in Europe and Lemsip No.
1 UK cold flu gives includes our powerful and developing track us an interesting platform.
record on sustainability through initiatives such Healthcare is a good growth category with as our Trees for Change programme on carbon particularly attractive margins.
Although the reduction, or the reduce energy and water intrinsic growth rate is not much higher than programme on automatic dishwashing.
for household cleaning, it is sustainable over Sustainability is not just important to managing the long-term, driven by an ageing population, risk, it is good for business, good for consumers, increasing self-medication for minor illnesses good for employees and ultimately good for and gradual market liberalisation as society as a whole.
That is why we are so governments shift the burden of healthcare committed to it.
I hope you will find time to the individual.
The real attraction of the to read about our commitment in greater category is the margin, which comes from detail in our separate Sustainability Report.
the higher levels of brand loyalty.
Extra growth Fundamental to our success, however, are the in this category, therefore, will enhance the almost 22,000 people who work so passionately overall Company margin.
for Reckitt Benckiser each and every day.
In 2006 our emphasis was primarily on The results of the past year and my confidence integrating BHI and establishing our platform in the future are based on their efforts and across Europe and selected other markets.
I thank them for it and for the heart and soul We now have largely in place the necessary they bring to work each day so that we really regulatory infrastructure, the medical do live it.
professional detailing capability, and both the specialist pharmacy and general mass market selling capability to ensure that we can market Bart Becht and sell our brands.
BHI is fully integrated into Chief Executive Reckitt Benckiser, indeed it is no longer possible to identify a separate BHI entity.
At the same time we are on track to deliver the cost and net working capital synergies that we identified, as we will exceed the original cost-saving estimate with a new target of 80m.
From 2007 onwards, the opportunity is to build our business in several ways: Building our brands through higher marketing investment and better sales execution.
We are already testing higher marketing investment models in the business.
Rolling out our existing brands to new geographies we do not by any means have all our brands in all our countries, but we will be testing roll-outs in a few new countries.
Introducing new brand extensions or new claims that deliver a meaningful improvement to consumers.
This takes longer to achieve, given the regulatory regimes, but we expect to start introducing these from 2008 onwards.
Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 3
