02 Chairman and Chief Executives report Chairman and Chief Executives report We have sharpened our In 2006 we made important progress.
We continued strategic focus to best to expand our authoritative content delivered capitalise on the growing through market leading brands: we invested digital opportunities in our markets behind a wide range of innovative new digital products: we achieved further significant efficiency gains across the business: and we saw a strong performance from recent acquisitions which are accelerating our progress The 2006 financial results were encouraging, with good revenue growth and improved underlying margins.
We have also delivered strong cash generation and higher returns on invested capital.
Additionally, we have sharpened our strategic focus to best capitalise on the growing digital opportunities in our markets.
We believe we can derive the best returns on our brand franchises and digital investments by focusing on the Science, Medical, Legal and Business markets.
We have accordingly announced the planned sale of our Harcourt Education division.
It is our intention to return the net proceeds from the sale to our shareholders.
Business strategy Looking forward, our strategy is focused on four priorities: delivering authoritative content through leading brands, driving online solutions, improving cost efficiency and selective portfolio development.
03 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2006 Delivering authoritative content through leading brands.
We deliver authoritative, and to a great extent proprietary, content of the highest quality through market leading brands.
In our publications and services our professional customers find the essential data, analysis and commentary to support their decisions.
Editorial investment and selective acquisitions are generating new sources of content to widen the product offering to our customers, and to expand into new segments and geographic regions.
As online information sources increase, our trusted leadership brands continue to play an ever more vital role.
Over the last five years online revenues have built to over Our strategy is focused on 2.0bn a2.9bn, or 37% of our total revenues.
Authoritative information, technology enabled and increasingly integrated into customer workflows, is making our four priorities: delivering customers more effective professionally and making Reed Elsevier a more valued authoritative content through partner.
As our customers and core markets rapidly migrate online, our leading brands, driving online opportunities to leverage our leadership brands and authoritative proprietary solutions, improving cost content increase.
Digital technology enables us to move up the value chain with our customers by providing a range of innovative solution orientated products that efficiency and selective become embedded in their workflow.
This will play a major part in Reed Elseviers portfolio development strategy going forward.
Digital growth and an increasingly synergistic portfolio provide opportunities to further leverage scale and commonalities across the business, sharing skill sets, resources and collective experience.
Substantial cost savings have been made over the last five years, and there are further opportunities across the supply chain and in technology and infrastructure to continue this progress.
Improving cost efficiency remains a fundamental feature of Reed Elsevier.
In addition to significant internal investment, we will continue to allocate capital and resources in a very disciplined way to pursue selective acquisition opportunities that accelerate our strategy and overall business progress.
We will continue to focus on strong brands and proprietary content, customer workflow solutions, leading technologies and expansion into attractive adjacent markets, most notably in legal solutions, risk management, health and e-business.
Financial strategy We expect progress in the development of our digital business to deliver good revenue growth and, with the improvements in cost efficiency and organisational effectiveness, this will flow through at a higher rate to operating profitability.
With an increasing and substantial portion of the revenues being delivered by subscription based products and the trend to longer term contracts, we will be a more consistent business.
We aim to distribute 70-80% of free cash flow through dividends and share buybacks.
The balance will be invested in the business, mainly through acquisitions, so maintaining capital efficiency aligned to our strategy.
Our capital will be invested where we can grow our business while making sustainable returns in excess of our risk adjusted cost of capital.
We aim to maintain our credit rating in order to take advantage of opportunities within our markets and access the cheapest sources of borrowing.
Our business and financial strategy is directed at delivering consistent adjusted earnings per share growth of a minimum of 10% annually at constant currencies.
Our incentive programmes are designed in support of these strategies and in creating shareholder value.
Financial performance The 2006 financial results were, as noted earlier, encouraging.
Revenues were up Our business and financial 6%, adjusted operating profits up 9% and adjusted earnings per share up 11% at constant currencies.
strategy is directed at delivering consistent adjusted The quality of the operating profits is underpinned by the strong cash flow, with earnings per share growth 95% of adjusted operating profits converting into cash.
Increasing profitability and of a minimum of 10% annually capital discipline drove the return on capital employed in the business at constant currencies 0.4 percentage points higher to 9.8% post tax.
04 Chairman and Chief Executives report At reported exchange rates, reflecting the impact of the weaker US dollar particularly on our rolling currency hedging programme, adjusted earnings per share were up 7% for Reed Elsevier PLC to 33.6p and up 9% for Reed Elsevier NV toa0.76.
Reported earnings per share were up 38% to 25.6p and up 37% to a0.59 for Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV respectively, reflecting the improvement in underlying operating performance together with a lower reported tax charge.
The Boards are recommending an increase in the equalised final dividends for Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV of 10% and 14% respectively, to give total dividends for the year up 10% and 13% the differential growth rates reflect movements in the sterling euro exchange rate.
6% Dividends paid in the year, together with share buybacks under the annual Total revenues were up 6% at share repurchase programme, have distributed 588 million a864 million constant currencies to shareholders, representing 72% of the free cash flow of 817 million a1,201 million.
Board changes Cees van Lede retires at the Annual General Meeting after four years of service 11% and we thank him for his substantial contribution in that time.
Lisa Hook was Adjusted earnings per share for Reed Elsevier elected as a non-executive director last April, bringing a wide experience of the PLC and Reed Elsevier NV were up 11% at media and technology sectors to our board discussions.
We have nominated constant currencies Robert Polet as a non-executive director.
Robert is chief executive officer of Gucci Group, before which he held senior positions at Unilever.
He brings with him strong marketing skills and a record of entrepreneurial leadership.
Outlook Going into 2007, market conditions are generally favourable.
Elsevier, LexisNexis and Reed Business are expected to make further good progress in the development of Reed Elseviers digital business as well as show good revenue momentum and margin improvement.
Our financial goal is for a minimum of 10% adjusted earnings per share growth at constant currencies.
The adjusted earnings per share for 2007 will however be impacted by dilution on the sale of the seasonal Harcourt Education business.
The longer term prospects for Reed Elsevier are promising.
Our strategy is clear, the business well focused and we are leveraging our resources to good effect.
The digital horizon is expanding and Reed Elsevier is well placed.
Our business is dependent on the energy and enterprise of our 37,000 people operating across the globe.
They do an outstanding job, caring greatly about what they do and the customers they serve.
We could not ask for greater commitment and professionalism, and we want to take this opportunity to thank them all.
Our strategy is clear, the business well focused and we are leveraging our Jan Hommen Sir Crispin Davis resources to good effect Chairman Chief Executive Officer
