Regus Report & Accounts 2006 04 Chief Executives review Mark Dixon Expanding our network Our growth in 2006 has been exceptional.
During the last financial year we opened 218 centres inclusive of 91 centres in the UK which added a further 37,522 workstations to our capacity.
Our expansion programme will continue in 2007 with openings planned across all four regions.
In addition we will continue to add complementary businesses, which meet our strict investment criteria.
Several of these acquisitions have allowed us to move into new markets such as airport locations and corporate outsourcing and develop a wider customer base Government and support agencies as well as facilitating a broader service for our existing clients.
innovative products and services One of our core skills is our ability to anticipate the changing demands of our customers.
We therefore focus our research on developing new products and services which meet the future needs of our customers.
this has been another outstanding 12 months Some examples of recent developments include: for the Group with record results for the third year in succession.
We have delivered strong, disciplined growth and improved Network Access our membership programme, which provides performance in all of our key business metrics members with immediate, unlimited access to our global network of including revenues, profit and earnings per business centres.
Our performance in 2006 demonstrates the benefits of our longer term approach to Managed Office Solutions a fully outsourced office solution for larger the development of the business.
We continue clients where we manage the day to day running of the office.
to improve financial performance through Regus Express a retail business centre which caters for the needs of growing our network of business centres the mobile worker.
Currently located at airport locations within the USA, and developing new products and services our intention is to implement this concept in other airports and travel hubs to meet the evolving needs of our clients.
in major cities across the world.
Strategy and objectives Our strategy and objectives are simple to use investment in systems and technology our skills and resources to generate profitable The growth of the business in 2006 has emphasised the need for Regus growth and cash.
to have best in class systems to support its unique market position.
These systems will not only be used for the benefit of our internal needs but as a We achieve these objectives through the following platform to bring a broader range of services to our client.
activities: A flexible, secure and scaleable IT infrastructure is critical to our clients needs.
Bandwidth on demand, guaranteed quality of service, increased security and higher service level performance are some of the benefits that we are now able to offer to our clients.
The scale of our operations are being brought to bear in the sourcing and management of our IT services, bringing benefits to our customers while providing further differentiation from our competitors.
As an example of this, we are partnering with some of the leading names in IT and telecoms to enable us to develop next generation Converged Network Solutions CNS.
The centralised nature of CNS provides Regus with economies of scale, lower cost of ownership, speed to market and a wider range of services that enable greater revenue opportunities and provides our customers with better control of their cost bases.
Additionally, Regus operates the worlds largest video-conferencing network in terms of geographical reach.
The need for our customers to maximise their productivity and the increasing environmental concerns around business travel have driven continued growth of this valuable service.
Consequently we intend to make further investments in this area to maximise its growing importance to our clients.
Regus Report & Accounts 2006 05 Operational excellence Our commitment to operational excellence is one of our key differentiators.
future industry trends Our business centre staff adopt globally defined standards of business We believe we are well placed to take advantage processes and procedures.
A rolling programme of quality audits are of the favourable trends in our industry and these conducted at least annually in each centre and a scoring system helps will contribute to the continued development of ensure that centre teams focus on achieving the highest standard of Group.
These include: operational excellence across our network.
In this way we can ensure clients experience a high quality and consistent level of service irrespective Fragmented market of location.
Regus has the only global serviced office network, with no other players having more than 75 centres.
In addition to developing systems, our back office teams support our client Our geographic footprint spans 790 centres across facing staff with the efficient administration of the business.
Our finance, 64 countries and we will continue to seek opportunities to grow our network and acquire complementary human resource, billing and procurement teams operate on a regional basis businesses, enabling us to move into new markets allowing us to realise consistency of delivery and scale efficiencies.
and develop a wider customer base.
Developing our brand Growth in home and mobile working Our brands and business concept are recognised and respected globally.
A The development of a mobile workforce has gathered pace and employers and employees are increasingly consistent high quality product delivery is available in all of the worlds most adopting flexible working practices.
Our meeting room, in demand cities providing business executives the Regus experience on a video-conferencing and virtual office products offer global basis.
solutions to these workers and through our Regus Express outlets, we are bringing these solutions even In 2006, we invested in TV and radio advertising in the UK and USA closer to our client base.
specifically targeted at building awareness of the Regus brand.
Our Continued adoption of outsourcing development of Regus Express and Network Access Card has allowed Companies large and small are realising the benefits us to further promote our brand.
of outsourcing their office management in order to concentrate on their core business.
Regus helps In addition to our flagship Regus brand we also operate under our HQ customers to minimise the complexity of property brand primarily in the USA.
We continue to monitor options and opportunities management through providing clients with a single for developing our products under various trademarks as part of the Regus property and service provider.
Outsourcing can help Group network.
our customers reduce their cost base and provide them with flexibility to respond to their changing business needs.
Developing our team members The skills, enthusiasm and commitment of our people are key to Regus success.
We recognise the need to recruit high quality individuals and to develop the potential of our staff in order to provide a positive customer experience to our clients.
Our internal training programmes include regular operational updates, online training modules and classroom based training at our Global School of Excellence in Dallas, USA.
During 2006 we trained 238 General and Operational Managers in Dallas, various locations across the UK and Mexico City.
In addition 254 team members completed a three week induction course.
Our staff have taken over 10,000 online training modules equivalent to nearly 3,000 hours of training.
the future The Group maintained strong growth in 2006, driven by all three parts of our strategy.
Our core business centre operations delivered a solid performance, mobile and home working continues to grow at rates in excess of 20% and our corporate outsourcing business is poised for significant growth in the medium to long term.
Looking ahead, we will focus on driving margin improvement in our mature business and continue to invest in new markets and products to drive the long term growth of the business.
As such I am confident that the Group will continue to deliver attractive rates of growth and cash generation in the year ahead.
Mark Dixon Chief Executive Officer 19 March 2007
