MAKING PROGRESS Doug Flynn left, Chief Executive, and Brian McGowan right, Chairman As a board, we believe we are generally on track with where we set out to be at this stage, although some things have done better than we had anticipated whilst others have been slower.
Rentokil Initial plc [A Letter from the Chairman & CEO] Improving Profitability What we achieved in 2006 Another key part of our strategy in 2006 was to improve the Fixing Operational Problems profitability of every business in the group.
As well as dealing We have continued to work on fixing the deep-seated operational with operational challenges such as the ones described above, problems in a number of specific businesses and progress was made this centres on productivity and process improvements.
Through in many of them during the year.
this we can improve the quality and reduce the cost of what we do.
One example of this is UK Washroom, perhaps the most complex A great deal of progress can and is being made simply by performance improvement programme we are undertaking.
The first challenging the way businesses are organised and processes are stage involved separating the washroom business from the linen and carried out.
While technology investment has lagged and will help workwear activities, which were then closed.
The second stage was in the future, more can be done in the short to medium-term by integration of the former Rentokil and BET washroom operations working smarter.
The benefits of the groups work in this area will be run separately since BET was acquired ten years ago to build a new realised over the next several years: it is not a question of quick wins.
washroom business different from either of those it is replacing.
There are clear opportunities to improve quality and customer Thirty branches have been closed and we now operate from 25 responsiveness and reduce costs through the processes we employ.
locations with plans to reduce to 20.
You can read more These opportunities are available in almost every area of what we about this on page 12. do.
They include new IT systems and the setting up of centralised UK Pest Control is another example of how we are tackling services to increase administrative efficiency.
In the UK, for example, operational problems.
Despite its leading market position, this a service centre is being created in Dudley.
In some businesses, such business had suffered for some time from an erosion of customer as UK Pest Control, we have taken out layers of management.
In contracts as a result of inadequate service performance and others, we are rationalising processing plants, for example in Textiles a one dimensional approach to winning new customers.
At the groups head office, certain functions management team is addressing these issues by using service have been resized and headcount reduced by transferring knowledge and customer focus, combined with efficient delivery, responsibility for activities such as R&D and health & safety to the to retain and win customers.
Page 17 gives more details on this divisions to ensure these functions are aligned to business goals.
and the benefits we expect to gain.
Significant restructuring has also been carried out in the French textiles business.
The new structure centralises the management of Reshaping the Business Portfolio processing plants while retaining profit and loss responsibility at Our role as a board is to optimise the shape of the group as well as to branch level.
Sales management has been bolstered in an endeavour oversee operational performance.
We do not believe we can simply to improve sales productivity.
The centralised management of fix the businesses before we start to reshape the company.
Clearly processing should lead to a better approach to plant investment both are necessary and need to be addressed in parallel to ensure and capacity utilisation.
opportunities to create value are not overlooked.
For example, had The three businesses in these examples together account for over we waited until challenges in other divisions were resolved we would 15% of total revenue from continuing operations and their success have missed out on the value-creating acquisition of Target Express.
is therefore critical to the overall success of the company.
In each In 2006 we acquired over 70 operations for a consideration of case, a significant amount of organisational change is taking place 429 million.
At the same time we exited a number of businesses, affecting a large number of people in many different locations.
generating disposal income of over 144 million.
To avoid the risk that the change programmes will not be executed All these transactions were based on our commitment to enhance as well or as quickly as anticipated, there are detailed plans in place shareholder value by building on strong market positions or exiting which are monitored closely to ensure we can correct any deviations businesses which are worth more to others.
In considering an in an effective and timely manner.
03 Rentokil Initial plc [A Letter from the Chairman & CEO] acquisition we look at a number of important criteria: does it meet 10% in both City Link and Target Express in 2006, they easily financial hurdles?
can our management run the enlarged business?
outstripped market growth of around 4%.
do we have a clear post-acquisition plan?
is the acquisition capable Asia Pacific is also undergoing an acquisition-led transformation.
of building a market leading position and of good growth?
Ensuring Its markets are growing at an average of 5-6% a year, although there is that post-acquisition plans are tightly controlled is essential to some variation between the more established markets of Australasia ensuring that acquisitions are integrated so that they meet the goals and new markets of North Asia.
In 2006, 25 acquisitions were set out in the approved investment case.
This is particularly true for completed in the region for a total of 47 million.
Asia Pacific is larger deals which could pose a significant integration risk like rapidly becoming a powerhouse for growth within the group and we Ehrlich and Target Express.
The board therefore regularly reviews the expect this to continue for the foreseeable future.
The board is major integration plans and progress against them.
confident that the local management team which has been built in Acquisitions have focused on areas which have superior growth Asia Pacific in the past year has the skills and experience to manage rates in terms of both our markets and our own businesses, this growth.
particularly Pest Control, Parcel Delivery and Asia Pacific.
In the first half of 2006 we sold Manned Guarding in a series of The acquisition of JC Ehrlich was highlighted in last years annual transactions for a total of 150 million.
In November, we announced report.
Ehrlich and the existing US Rentokil pest control businesses that we were undertaking a strategic review of the Electronic Security have now been fully integrated and are performing well in the worlds division in Europe and the USA.
As a result of that announcement, largest pest control market.
Ehrlichs revenues grew by 9% in 2006, strong interest in purchasing this business has come from trade and ahead of market growth of some 6%.
A formal sale process commenced in January At the end of 2005 we began a process to transform City Link into 2007 and we expect resolution by the end of June 2007. an integrated parcel delivery business and moved a considerable way along this path in 2006.
By the end of the year, we owned over 80% of Building and Developing Our Team and Culture the City Link network having bought nine franchises during 2006.
The culture and the commitment of management and staff are Target Express, acquired in November for 213 million, will be extremely important to the success of the group.
These are not integrated with City Link to create a leading overnight parcel delivery easily measured and it is difficult for shareholders to appreciate business with the number two position in the UK.
They are highly the degree of improvement.
However, without progress in these complementary with similar business models and a shared passion areas our overall success is impossible.
for operational excellence and customer service.
There are Our ability to recruit and assimilate a large number of new substantial synergies between City Link and both the acquired managers into a complex, fast moving environment and then franchises and Target Express.
It will take all of 2007 and 2008 to retain them is of utmost importance to achieving our strategic realise those synergies in full.
With revenue growth rates approaching and operational goals.
Great emphasis is therefore placed on both ACQUIRING THE LEAD Healthcare, which consolidated our The acquisition pipeline looks healthy for IN ASIA PACIFIC position as Australias leading washroom 2007 with further deals likely across the We completed 71 acquisitions in 2006 services company.
Indeed, we have already made and the division with the highest progress with the acquisition of Campbell number of deals was Asia Pacific.
Brothers, which gives us an entry into residential pest control in Australia and Here, we completed 25 acquisitions 47m Ding Sharn, through which we are now spread across nine countries: from 2006 ACQUISITION SPEND the number one pest control company washroom services and pest control in in Taiwan.
Australia to dust mats in China, from Other acquisitions provided entry into tropical plants in New Zealand to markets new to the group, including a electronic security in Singapore.
number of deals made in China, our first steps into Vietnam and an entry into the Some of the acquisitions enhanced existing electronic security market in Singapore.
strong market positions such as Pink 04
