The Restaurant Group plc Operating and financial review 06 Annual Report 2006 Chief Executive Officers review of operations 2006 was a very satisfactory year for The Restaurant Group with earnings increasing by 27% on the previous year.
Our strategy is designed to deliver sustainable and growing cash flows combined with consistently high returns on investment and these results reflect that.
Andrew Page Chief Executive Officer Focused on our core business This information has been extracted from the statutory accounts of the group which were approved on 4 April 2007.
This information in itself does not constitute statutory accounts within the meaning of section 240 Companies Act 1985.
The Restaurant Group plc 07 Annual Report 2006 Introduction This virtuous circle enables the Group to continue its growth in The Restaurant Group TRG performed strongly throughout a predominantly organic and valueaccretive way.
The quality 2006 with the benefits from the strategic repositioning undertaken of our cashflow is a distinctive feature of TRGs model, with during the previous year evident in all of our key performance our businesses occupying leading positions within our chosen metrics.
All of our businesses performed well, delivering a 19% market segments.
Since the beginning of 2006 our focus has increase in adjusted profit before tax.
We have also made further been on markets away from the high streets, concentrating on good progress in terms of margin growth with a 140 basis point edge of town, out of town, rural, semi-rural and concessions increase in our operating profit margin.
We believe that these segments have distinct barriers from, inter alia, increased trading levels, driving further economies to entry, offer the opportunity for significant further growth and through scale, enhanced operating practices and other Group enable us to generate high returns.
Going forward we intend to initiatives to improve efficiency.
continue our development along these lines.
Our core objective continues to be growth in shareholder value All of the key performance metrics improved during 2006: and the strategy we have deployed to achieve this is to build a business capable of delivering long-term, sustainable and growing A 5% increase in like-for-like sales the bulk of which was as cashflows.
Cash generation is a key area of focus for the team a result of more customers using our restaurants as opposed at TRG and I am delighted that we have, again, converted our to price or spend increases combined with our new openings profits into cash at a very healthy rate and that both earnings resulted in turnover increasing by 10%: and operating cashflow per share have grown strongly.
Adjusted EBITDA increasing by 11% and adjusted operating Our model for generating value is straightforward and robust.
profit increasing by 23%: and It has five key components, as follows: Margins improved at both divisional and group levels with our Group operating profit margin rising by 140 basis points 1.
Strong underlying like-for-like profit growth from our existing estate through focusing on our customers and to 12.5% a very satisfactory result particularly against as a result of initiatives to secure further operational the background of a 90 basis point operating profit margin improvements and efficiencies: improvement in the previous year.
Incremental profit improvements through economies of scale: Again, the increase in profit was the product of three principal components like-for-like profit increases from 3.
Clear and sustainable conversion of those growing profits the existing estate, profitable contribution from new into cash: openings and further cost savings from purchasing initiatives and operational improvements and efficiencies.
A new unit rollout programme funded from those internally combination represents a healthy background to our generated cashflows: and continuing profitable development.
Consistently high returns from those new openings, significantly ahead of our cost of capital, to generate further growth in profits and cashflow.
Results are stated excluding non-trading items and excluding the results of Deep Pan Pizza in the prior year comparatives.
Further information is provided in note 2 of the financial statements.
27m 2.5m customers served childrens meals served in 2006 in Frankie & Bennys We continue to see more customers 1 0% using our restaurants, both in new sites and existing units increase in revenue This information has been extracted from the statutory accounts of the group which were approved on 4 April 2007.
The Restaurant Group plc Operating and financial review 08 Annual Report 2006 Chief Executive Officers review of operations continued Leisure Total turnover: 236.3m Profit: 50.7m Operating margin: 21.5% Frankie & Bennys 139 units Frankie & Bennys had an excellent year with both EBITDA and profit growing by more than 20%.
The brand delivered strong growth in like-for-like sales and yet again produced further growth in both EBITDA and operating profit margins.
This brand forms a key part of TRGs future plans for growth and it is encouraging that we were able to open 25 new units during 2006.
Of these, 11 were conversions of former Deep Pan Pizza sites, nine of which are branded as Little Frankies, a derivative concept of Frankie & Bennys designed to operate on a smaller footprint than a standard Frankie & Bennys restaurant.
The performance of the new openings has been very good and it is particularly encouraging to see that the returns from the new Frankie & Bennys are consistently high both in absolute terms and also, very importantly, in comparison with the returns derived from earlier years openings.
This gives us much confidence for the future as we look to continue our rollout at a rate of 15-20 new Frankie & Bennys restaurants per annum.
Our pipeline of new sites is strong with good visibility on rollout to the end of the decade.
Frankie & Bennys Trafford Centre by night.
Chiquito Castleford An extensive back bar!
Leading positions within our chosen market segments This information has been extracted from the statutory accounts of the group which were approved on 4 April 2007.
The Restaurant Group plc 09 Annual Report 2006 Chiquito Garfunkels 45 units 29 units 2006 was another good year for Chiquito with the highest Garfunkels produced a very solid performance during 2006 with like-for-like sales and operating profit growth within the Group.
It enjoyed strong like-for-like sales EBITDA increased by 38% and operating profit was up 44%.
growth and delivered significant improvements in margins with Margins also improved significantly with the EBITDA margin up the operating profit margin increasing by 140 basis points.
90 basis points and operating profit margin up 120 basis points.
Against a background of significant profit growth and margin During the second half of 2006 we commenced a refreshment enhancement in 2005 this is a terrific performance and one that and refurbishment programme within Garfunkels.
The first site the Chiquito team are keen to build on in 2007.
During the year to undergo these changes was our restaurant at Northumberland we opened 11 new restaurants and we are expecting to open Avenue followed by the unit at Irving Street.
The results have 5-10 new restaurants in the current year, a rate which we expect been extremely pleasing with strong growth in sales and a to maintain for the next few years.
Returns from the new openings widening of the customer base.
We are currently planning to are good and this gives us confidence as we grow this brand.
refresh and refurbish approximately 10 sites during 2007 and We are particularly encouraged by the performance of our we anticipate that this will deliver a significant level of incremental restaurants co-located with Frankie & Bennys and we will cashflow at each site to generate very satisfactory levels of continue to pursue dual roll-out opportunities.
In December 2006 a former Deep Pan Pizza site on Oxford Street was converted into a Garfunkels and we are pleased with its performance since opening.
Blubeckers 22 units 2006 was the first full year of operating Blubeckers within TRG and we are encouraged with the results.
Blubeckers delivered strong growth in like-for-like sales and delivered a very good level of EBITDA and operating profit.
During 2006 Blubeckers became fully integrated into TRG and since June we have begun to roll out new Blubeckers restaurants.
We added five new units during 2006, one of which was a conversion of a Garfunkels restaurant in Cambridge.
We are encouraged by the performance of these new sites where typically the build-up in trade takes longer approximately two to three years than it does for our other brands.
We expect to earn good returns from these new openings and this has encouraged us to step up the openings programme in 2007 to 5-10 new restaurants.
Blubeckers is well placed to benefit from the trends towards increased eating out and its widespread appeal across most socio-economic and age groups makes it particularly attractive to much of the UK population.
Garfunkels Northumberland Avenue Blubeckers, Odiham The first of the new look.
A stunning venue loved by all.
25% growth in revenue in our Leisure division This information has been extracted from the statutory accounts of the group which were approved on 4 April 2007.
The Restaurant Group plc Operating and financial review 10 Annual Report 2006 Chief Executive Officers review of operations continued Concessions 49 units Total turnover: 72.5m Profit: 11.1m Operating margin: 15.3% Our Concessions business faced some very challenging operating conditions for parts of 2006.
The increasing focus on airport security initiated by the Department of Transport during the first quarter followed by further disruption during the summer meant that our Concessions team at the major UK airports faced some demanding conditions.
Our team responded superbly to produce a very satisfactory set of results.
Solid like-for-like sales growth together with a contribution from the six new openings delivered a 21% increase in turnover, and EBITDA and operating profit growth of 23% and 24% respectively.
It is particularly pleasing to report that both EBITDA and operating profit margins grew, by 20 and 40 basis points respectively.
Our six new openings included three sites at Birmingham airport and a new unit at Victoria Station.
We are pleased with the performance of these new sites and we anticipate opening between two and five new concessions units in 2007.
We recently announced that we have won concessions for four new units at the new Terminal 5 at Heathrow: building work will commence during 2007 and the units are scheduled to open in March 2008.
We are delighted to have secured these sites and to be able to participate in this landmark UK airport project.
Garfunkels Norwich The Dining Terrace.
Est Bar Deli Heathrow Terminal 4.
Strong finances, great team, focused strategy This information has been extracted from the statutory accounts of the group which were approved on 4 April 2007.
The Restaurant Group plc 11 Annual Report 2006 Non-core brands and associate We believe that interest rates and employment levels are two During the year losses from non-core activities increased from key drivers of consumer spend which can potentially impact 0.9m to 2.0m.
This largely reflects the workout from the old our marketplace.
We have seen interest rates rise three times Deep Pan Pizza estate.
We anticipate a significant reduction in in the past nine months and whilst we are encouraged by the these losses going forward.
resilience of our business in the face of such rises, we remain vigilant to the potential impact of significant further increases in Losses from our investment in Living Ventures amounted to the cost of borrowing.
In terms of the outlook for employment 0.9m and the returns from this investment have fallen below we are encouraged by the high levels of employment and believe our expectations at the time the investment was made in March that the increases seen in recent years have provided some 2005.
However, we are encouraged that the actions initiated underpinning for consumerfacing businesses such as ourselves.
by their management during 2006 are now starting to yield some benefits and we are looking for further improvement Cost inflation in our sector has been an issue for the past twelve during 2007.
Nevertheless, in the light of the recent poor to eighteen months and TRG has clearly demonstrated its ability performance of this investment we have carried out an to cope with this.
On balance, we believe that the macroassessment of its balance sheet carrying value and concluded economic backdrop remains broadly favourable for our sector.
that it is appropriate to make an impairment provision for the amount of 9.5m.
Further details are contained in the Group Against a backdrop of positive demand-side dynamics, a key Finance Directors review.
concern for some time has been supply-side risk.
In this regard we believe that we have positioned TRG in market segments Corporate which afford some protection from supply-side risk whilst During 2006 we completed the transfer of all of our operations benefiting significantly from the positive demand trends in our and administrative functions into one site in Borough, London.
This has resulted in a more resilient business with This exercise ran very smoothly and was carried out in a highly the potential to deliver higher-quality, long-term, sustainable and professional manner by our people.
The positive impact of growing cash flows.
bringing everyone together as one team is already very evident and I am confident that we will continue to derive further benefits Future prospects in the future.
2006 was another good year for the Group but our attention is now focused on 2007 and beyond.
We have a superb Market dynamics and economic backdrop portfolio of brands, good visibility on rollout of new restaurants, The prospects for the UK eating out market look favourable occupy leading market positions in our chosen segments and on both short and medium term bases.
Socio-economic factors have a fantastic team of people.
The year has started well with such as an ageing population, more females in work and levels like-for-like sales for the first nine weeks 5% ahead of last year of disposable income significantly higher than for previous and we are confident of continuing our progress in 2007. generations augur well for our industry.
Lifestyle changes are also positive with an increasing level of consumer spending on leisure activities.
Projections for future growth in eating out Andrew Page spend indicate a continuation of recent trends for a rate of Chief Executive Officer growth ahead of GDP growth.
4 April 2007 7, 500 5 individuals contributing years of like-for-like to the success of the revenue growth Group, every day 26% increase in the proposed full year dividend This information has been extracted from the statutory accounts of the group which were approved on 4 April 2007.
