12 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Overview to different recipes.
During the year RHM is one of the largest food the food industry has become even Chief manufacturers in the United Kingdom, more competitive, with the UKs largest with over 50 manufacturing and supermarkets increasing their share of the distribution sites throughout the country overall market.
RHMs top five customers Executives and more than 16,000 employees.
account for over 52 per cent of the Groups total sales.
Over 50 per cent of RHMs turnover is generated from the sale of some of the Operating performance Review UKs best known and most enduring Total Group brands, which include Hovis, Bisto, 52 weeks 52 weeks Mr Kipling and Sharwoods.
RHM also ended ended manufactures own label products for 29 April 30 April 2006 2005 Change many of the large UK supermarket chains and for other customers, with whom Turnover 1,559m 1,528m 2.1% RHM has formed strategic partnerships.
Underlying The Groups operations form four operating business segments: Bread Bakeries, profit 173.5m 158.2m 9.7% Culinary Brands, Cakes and Underlying Customer Partnerships.
operating profit Competitive environment margin 11.1% 10.4% 70bps The UK food industry is highly competitive.
In a number of RHMs key sectors market Turnover for the year increased by share is concentrated among a small 2.1 per cent to 1,559m, following an number of well-established companies improved performance in the second half that operate on both a national and of the year.
This reflected both a higher international basis with single or multiple volume of sales and the impact of price branded product lines.
RHMs brands increases successfully introduced to counter also face competition from the own label 11m of energy cost increases incurred products of supermarket chains, some of during the year, most of which occurred which are manufactured by RHM itself in the second half.
We are confident that by maintaining our focus on profitable top line growth and cost saving opportunities we will create significant shareholder value.
13 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chief Executives Review Branded turnover increased by 24m or Consistent with our long-term strategy of 3.1 per cent to 788m, largely as a result building investment behind our brands, of higher Hovis, Bisto and Granary sales advertising and marketing expenditure and new product launches across all increased by 2.6m in Bread Bakeries business areas, which more than offset and Culinary Brands.
In Cakes, 3m was a decline in Mr Kipling sales.
Excluding tactically reallocated in the second half branded Cakes turnover, which declined of the year from advertising to in-store by 7.7 per cent 13.7m, branded and other promotional activity.
This was turnover rose by 6.4 per cent Non-branded considered the most effective way of turnover increased by 7m or 1.0 per cent encouraging consumers to trial our to 764m, principally as a result of refreshed Mr Kipling range, following higher third-party flour and chilled ready significant product quality and packaging meal sales.
We intend to increase above the line investment in Cakes during Underlying operating profit increased by the new financial year.
Cost reduction promotional expenditure increased initiatives delivered in aggregate 53m of significantly as a consequence of the benefits.
These savings, together with the challenging market environment that benefit of higher total turnover, more than prevailed all year.
offset the impact of the decline in Cakes trading and were key to the delivery of an improvement in underlying operating profit margin, which rose from 10.4 per cent to 11.1 per cent.
14 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chief Executives Review Turnover increased by 4.1 per cent to RHMs Bread Bakeries division is the 786m.
Higher bread turnover was largest vertically integrated baker Bread principally due to increased sales of Hovis, and flour miller in the UK.
It is the reflecting both volume gains and price increases.
The success of Hovis has been home of Hovis, celebrating its Bakeries driven by the effective targeting of the 120th anniversary, as well as other premium branded market as well as famous brands including Granary, increased consumer demand for healthier Mothers Pride, Nimble and Ormo.
Hovis market share has risen from 29.1 per cent to 31.6 per cent during 1 We supply around one third of the year, a gain of 250 basis points.
Initiatives such as Healthiest Ever Hovis, the UKs daily bread, delivering the new Granary range, Hovis Best of in excess of two million fresh 52 weeks 52 weeks Both and Hovis Invisible Crust have been ended ended loaves and rolls to over 9,000 significant in helping to position Hovis 29 April 30 April 2006 2005 Change supermarkets and small as a premium brand with strong health credentials in the minds of consumers.
independent stores nationwide Turnover 786m 755m 4.1% Volume has also been increased through every day.
We also produce over Underlying customer wins and we have increased operating 850 other varieties of product, Hovis production capacity with the profit 81.4m 64.4m 26.4% acquisition of an additional bakery including crumpets, fruit buns, Underlying in Leicester.
croissants, rolls, scones, muffins operating Third-party flour turnover increased from and scotch pancakes.
During the period the margin 10.4% 8.5% 190bps impact of the closure of three older mills Our mills produce over a million was more than offset by increased sales tonnes of flour every year, with from our Wellingborough mill, purchased over half being used in our own in July 2005.
This acquisition, together bread bakeries and other RHM with the mill closures, has significantly improved the effectiveness of the Groups businesses.
We produce over 220 milling asset base.
different types of flour for external Underlying divisional operating profit customers in both bulk and bagged increased by 26.4 per cent to 81.4m, with form, marketed in part under the underlying operating profit margin rising Hovis, Granary, Elephant Atta and by 190 basis points from 8.5 per cent to 10.4 per cent mainly due to better pricing, Fassal brands.
favourable overrider settlements and successful procurement, logistics, restructuring and pension cost savings.
These gains have been offset in part by anticipated higher distribution costs associated with serving new convenience store customers and the impact of higher energy costs.
1 Source: IRI Multiples & Co-Ops: 52 weeks ended 22 April 2006.
15 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chief Executives Review Pre-packed bread Key markets Definition Growth Sectors Pre-packed bread, including white, The Half and Half, Seeded and Brown sectors brown, wholemeal, seeded, dieting and have all grown rapidly over the past three half and half breads.
years, reflecting increased consumer interest in health and premium breads.
Half and Half RHM Brands: a category created relatively recently with Hovis, Granary, Mothers Pride, Nimble the launch of Hovis Best of Both white bread and Ormo.
with the wheatgerm content of wholemeal has been a particular success story, growing Market by 55 per cent in this year alone.
These gains Of the markets in which RHM operates, this have more than offset the long-term decline is the largest, with a value of 1,106m in the in White bread sales, with Dieting being the current year.
The category grew in value by only other sector to decline in value this year.
7.6 per cent in the year to 29 April 2006, 1 having grown 5.5 per cent in the prior year.
Innovation The category is highly branded, with a few Hovis has again led the bread category in large players accounting for the majority innovation with Healthiest Ever Hovis, the of purchases.
Hovis is the markets leading addition of whole wheat across the entire 2 brand, with a market share of 31.6 per cent range and the award-winning Hovis Invisible at year end, having reinforced its position Crust, the worlds first bread to be baked with significant share gains this year.
Consumption Drivers Whilst convenience is the biggest driver of pre-packed bread consumption, other factors are influential when consumers are choosing specific products.
Health concerns have grown in importance in recent years, particularly amongst families the largest consumers of pre-packed bread.
Enjoyment is also a significant driver in the category, with consumers looking for new, tastier alternatives to plain white bread.
2 Source: IRI Multiples & Co-Ops: 4 weeks ended 22 April 2006.
16 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chief Executives Review Branded growth was driven by increased RHMs Culinary Brands division advertising and promotional investment.
contains some of the UKs best Culinary New advertising campaigns were launched loved and most recognisable for the divisions two biggest brands and were well received.
Night grocery brands, including Bisto Brands advertising theme encouraged families to gravy, Sharwoods Asian sauces, spend one night a week eating together Robertsons jam, Golden Shred with proper food and proper gravy, marmalade and Frank Coopers whilst the Sharwoods Go East advertising celebrated the vibrancy and preserves, Atora suet, McDougalls excitement of the Sharwoods range of and Cadburys baking products, Asian foods.
Many new products were Paxo stuffing mixes, Saxa and launched: Sharwoods noodle boxes and 52 weeks 52 weeks squeezable variants of the brands mango Cerebos salt and Rombouts coffee.
ended ended chutney met with considerable success 29 April 30 April 2006 2005 Change In addition to manufacturing whilst Bisto launched chilled, ready-made gravy and new variants of chilled and branded products for sale in retail Turnover 271m 266m 1.8% frozen yorkshire puddings, under licence.
outlets, the Culinary Brands division Underlying Bisto achieved its highest ever share of the operating supplies bulk and part-prepared gravy market in April 2006, 67.8 per cent, 1 profit 69.4m 64.9m 6.9% up 600 basis points on the same period items, for example flour-based Underlying last year.
operating Price increases were achieved across the profit RHM is the clear leader in each of Bisto, Sharwoods, Paxo, Rombouts, margin 25.6% 24.4% 120bps Robertsons and Atora ranges, which the grocery markets in which it helped offset increases in energy costs.
91 per cent of Culinary Performance was also aided by the delivery Brands sales are of branded of further procurement and other cost products, with the remainder saving initiatives, including the outsourcing being private label goods.
of the majority of the divisions central warehousing and transport requirements Culinary Brands turnover increased by and a number of projects that have 5m, or 1.8 per cent to 271m, reflecting resulted in improved production efficiency.
higher branded sales, particularly of Bisto, In addition, during the second half of the in the seasonally more important second year, administration of the four business half of the year.
Branded turnover units that made up the division Centura accounted for 91 per cent of divisional Foods, RHM Foodservice, McDougalls sales, up from 89 per cent last year.
Foods and RGB Coffee was brought together in a single location.
Underlying operating profit increased by 6.9 per cent to 69.4m, reflecting the branded sales increase, and successful cost-saving initiatives, offset in part by the impact of higher advertising and promotional spend throughout the year and the decline in own label sales.
Underlying operating profit margin increased by 120 basis points to 25.6 per cent.
1 Source: IRI All Outlets 4 weeks ended 22 April 2006.
17 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chief Executives Review Asian Meal Solutions Gravy Key markets Definition Definition Asian Meal Solutions includes ingredients Gravies includes powders, granules, and accompaniments for Asian meals to be ready-to-pour ambient and fresh chilled.
consumed in the home, incorporating sauces, flat breads, noodles, chutneys and cooking RHM Brand: powders.
Gravy is a mature, highly branded market with a few large players accounting for the Market majority of purchases.
Volume in the gravy 1 Asian Meal Solutions was worth 280m market has remained relatively steady but the 1 this year, an increase of 3.0 per cent on total market value for the year to April 2006 1 1 the previous year.
This is a highly branded 107m showed an increase of 5.7 per cent category with a large number of branded on the previous year.
Value growth has players, making it very competitive.
been fuelled by the increasing popularity Sharwoods is the number one brand with of premium products and chilled variants.
1 a market share of 28.6 per cent and a Bisto is the number one brand in the presence in every major product sector.
Consumption Drivers Consumption Drivers Enjoyment is the leading driver of Convenience remains the key driver of consumption in the category, with a consumption in the category and has grown significant proportion of consumers saying in importance.
Gravy is now being perceived they use the category when they are as more practical by all consumer groups, looking for a change or something special.
Enjoyment is Convenience is also very important, with also an important driver and is particularly speed and ease of preparation to the fore.
evident in the purchase of newly launched Health concerns are a rapidly growing and premium products.
While health concerns driver but still account for a relatively small are the least significant of the three drivers, percentage of consumption occasions.
they are the fastest growing.
Growth Sectors Growth Sectors The biggest contributors to market growth The key growth sector from last year to this have been in accompaniments: specific year has been the sale of sachets.
These are products showing growth being within smaller packs of granules and their increased noodles, breads, pappadums and chutneys.
popularity is linked to the demographic shift Speciality oils and ingredients have also towards smaller households.
The chilled, shown significant growth as consumers liquid gravy sector is also in growth with knowledge of Asian cuisine has developed.
convenience and perceived freshness both important drivers.
These products are Innovation particularly popular with younger consumers New flavours, with high quality exotic and are introducing new consumers to ingredients, have continued to stimulate the category.
enjoyment and interest in the category.
To serve an increasing consumer focus on Innovation health, the Sharwoods Balanced Living range Sales from new products represent less than was launched in 2005 and continues to 1 per cent of total sales in the gravy market, grow.
Meanwhile, with consumer insight with key brands concentrating on extending demonstrating the need for ever more their presence in complementary categories.
convenient product formats, this year saw the launch of Sharwoods Noodle Boxes, Stir Fry Noodles and new squeezable Chutney.
1 Source: IRI All Outlets 52 weeks ended 22 April 2006.
18 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chief Executives Review We were heartened by reasonable RHM is the largest manufacturer Christmas and Easter trading periods as of cakes for the UK and Irish Cakes well as by a slow down in the rate of markets.
Our branded cakes are Mr Kipling year-on-year net sales decline, from 14.1 per cent in the first half of the predominantly sold under the year to 8.0 per cent in the second, as the Mr Kipling, Cadburys, Lyons and steps taken to improve our consumer Gateaux brands.
offering began to deliver the anticipated level of benefit.
Encouragingly, Mr Kipling Cakes turnover declined by 8.7 per cent net sales in the last two months of the to 241m.
financial year were at a similar level to Avana Bakeries, RHMs whole cakes those achieved in the same months of business, which represents approximately the previous year.
We anticipate that 20 per cent of Cakes turnover, performed 52 weeks 52 weeks Mr Kipling sales in the current year will at ended ended well throughout the year due to a least match last years level.
There remains 29 April 30 April combination of successful innovation, 2006 2005 Change however much to be done to realise the increased consumer demand and improved full potential of the Mr Kipling brand.
3m of marketing spend was tactically Underlying As previously reported, trading at Manor reallocated from advertising to in-store operating Bakeries, RHMs manufacturer of small and other promotional activity on a shortprofit 13.7m 18.9m -27.5% cakes and slices, was disappointing in term basis, this being a more effective Underlying the first half of the year, with sales of way of encouraging consumers to trial operating Mr Kipling cakes and slices falling below the improved Mr Kipling range.
Actions taken to improve Bakeries promotional spend increased margin 5.7% 7.2% -150bps profitability in Manor Bakeries resulted during 2006 by 5m, of which 4.2m was in an improved year-on-year financial incurred during the first half of the year.
performance in the second half of the year.
Our new promotional strategy, which The closure of the Eastleigh bakery and incentivises consumers to purchase multiple transfer of production to our Carlton site rather than single packs, was successfully was completed on time in December, with implemented in the second half, with a 2.9m of consequent cost savings being year-on-year increase in promotional achieved in the remainder of the year.
All Mr Kipling cakes are now free from Cakes operating profit for the full year artificial colours and flavours, many recipes reduced from 18.9m to 13.7m, with have been upgraded and new packaging the impact of the lower level of turnover, has been introduced across the range.
adverse volume mix and increased The Mr Kipling Delightful range of lower investment in promotional activity fat, lower calorie cakes was introduced as offsetting the benefit of a total of planned in January and has received a 18m of restructuring and rationalisation, positive consumer response.
A new procurement and other cost savings.
Mr Kipling promotional strategy has been Cakes operating profit in the second implemented and a nationwide tasting half of the year increased from 11.0m campaign successfully completed.
19 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chief Executives Review Ambient Cake Key markets Definition Growth Sectors Ambient Cake includes wrapped and Event cakes most significantly for Christmas unwrapped cakes that are kept at ambient and Easter contributed much of the growth temperatures.
The market can be broadly in the market, through both premium and segmented into large cakes, event cakes standard offerings.
Innovation RHM Brands: The Mr Kipling Delightful range of lower Mr Kipling, Cadburys Cakes, Lyons and calorie cakes was launched in the current Gateaux.
year and has exceeded expectations, rapidly growing to become a significant player in the Market market.
Improvements have been made to The total Ambient Cake market was worth recipes across the Easter Mince Pies range.
1 916m this year, a decline of 0.2 per cent on the previous year.
Retailers own labels have a very strong presence in the market, showing a steady increase in share over the past three years.
RHM manufactures and markets the categorys two largest brands: Mr Kipling number one and Cadburys Cakes.
Consumption Drivers Enjoyment is by far the biggest driver of cake consumption with consumers turning to cake when they want a treat.
20 20 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chief Executives Review Customer Partnerships turnover from The Customer Partnerships business continuing operations increased by maintains strategic partnerships Customer 8.0 per cent to 262m.
Our chilled with large customers requiring and frozen businesses achieved strong sales growth through a combination a bespoke service, including Partnerships of innovation and contract gains.
Marks & Spencer and Pizza Hut.
Ledbury Preserves, Charnwood Foods It also operates specialist distribution and RHM Ireland also made satisfactory businesses that supply a selected progress in line with our expectations.
range of RHM and third party Customer Partnerships benefited not only from the higher level of activity but products into the Irish markets, also from procurement and other cost as well as supplying industrial saving initiatives across all businesses.
52 weeks 52 weeks preserves and frozen products ended ended Consequently underlying operating profit 29 April 30 April to UK supermarket chains.
increased by 24.6 per cent to 29.4m.
2006 2005 Change Turnover 262m 243m 8.0% Underlying operating profit 29.4m 23.6m 24.6% Underlying operating profit margin 11.2% 9.7% 150bps 21 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chief Executives Review Outlook Assiduously pursuing opportunities We have made a satisfactory start to our to reduce our cost base remains a new financial year in the traditionally fundamental part of our strategy.
quiet trading months of May and June.
Cost reduction initiatives are anticipated Although we are still at an early stage to deliver a total of 30m of benefits of our branded Cakes recovery plan, we to the Group in the coming year, with are encouraged by the initial consumer 14m being derived from rationalisation response to the actions we have taken.
A proportion We are increasing investment behind of these savings will inevitably be our brands.
We have a wide range of used to offset inflationary and other new products under development across pressures, given the extremely competitive all business areas, with Hovis, Bisto, environment in which we are currently Sharwoods and Cadburys Cake products operating.
Group energy costs are all due to appear in store in the first half expected to rise by a further 11m during of the financial year.
Advertising and the year: as in 2006, we will seek broadly marketing spend is anticipated to increase to offset this cost inflation through by more than 5m this year as we support price increases.
both our existing portfolio and our We are confident that by maintaining our new launches.
focus on profitable top line growth and cost saving opportunities we will create significant shareholder value.
Ian McMahon Chief Executive Officer 28 June 2006
