846725 pp002 pp005 27 2 07 2:55 pm Page 3 Interview with the chief executive How would you describe the past year?
We are always alert to merger and acquisition Underlying earnings in 2006 were a record opportunities, but growth is often about US$7.3 billion.
Not only were prices for metals choosing between buying and building.
When and minerals higher, but we were able to make you build a new project you should know the most of the situation with increased what youre getting if you execute the project production at many of our operations well, but when you buy you may find not all maximising delivery into strong markets.
With the assets are jewels.
The key is to make our strong balance sheet we are in a position value creating decisions not just increase to invest heavily in growth and to return capital volume.
We are willing to make the big bets, to shareholders.
Through our business as we have in iron ore and copper, but the key improvement programme, Improving factor in the execution of our strategy is performance together IPT, we are seeing a discipline: discipline in analysis and discipline significant change in the way business units in execution.
cooperate and share best practice.
IPT resulted in substantial additional cash flow in How are you responding to cost 2006 and should deliver very large value pressures?
Health, safety We work very hard to manage costs related to and environment indicators generally showed operational inputs, supplies, wages, energy steady improvement, but unfortunately the and higher material costs through the excellent year was marred by three fatalities at Rio Tinto work of our global procurement team and our managed operations.
However, the prices of many key inputs, including labour, Why are markets this good?
have risen sharply in recent times.
Of course Economic growth and development around our exploration and project evaluation costs the world, particularly in China and India, mean feeding our development pipeline are in the an increased need for minerals.
The mining nature of investments in the future.
industry is struggling to keep pace with demand.
There is normally a quicker supply Can you say a little more on the response when demand rises.
However, Improving performance together because of previous under investment in initiative?
exploration, the next generation of large world We need to permanently change the way we class deposits is only now being identified and run our individual operations, replicating best evaluated.
These deposits are often in remote performance across everything we do locations, present new technical challenges project analysis, project development, mine and will take some years to come into planning, mining, processing and marketing.
The delivery times for major items We are a global Group and we need to work of equipment have also significantly increased.
across functions and international borders to While we believe a new higher base level of solve problems together instead of businesses prices has developed for most commodities, going it alone.
By creating a standard this is mirrored by higher operating and operating model with common systems, development costs.
standards and metrics we will ensure that we capture the best ways of operating and Rio Tintos volume growth has typically reproducing these across the Group.
The been six to seven per cent a year substantial additional cash flow we achieved in where to now?
2006 is the start to adding considerable value We concentrate on what we do best, which is to the Group over time.
mining the first stage of the supply chain.
Rio Tinto operates or shares in some of the You spent about US$4 billion in new largest deposits in the world.
That is partly why capital in 2006.
How are the major we are enjoying financial success at a time of projects going?
strong prices, although all our product groups Overall, our new projects are coming along well.
generate strong cash flow at all points of the Our iron ore expansion projects in Western cycle.
Large long life deposits also give us the Australia remain our biggest current capital opportunity to increase production in line with investment.
The challenge of operating and demand, a great advantage in the current expanding ten mines, three ports and more environment.
Ours is a simple strategy and it than 1,600km of rail line in the Pilbara at a time works.
While most of our existing assets are in of buoyant market conditions should not be OECD countries, we are responding to new underestimated.
With total expenditure of opportunities in the developing world Peru, US$3 billion, by the end of 2007 our port and Guinea and Indonesia to name a few and in rail infrastructure will be capable of handling up countries that are only now opening up to to 195 million tonnes of iron ore annually.
The mining investment, like Madagascar, Russia recently announced expansion of Cape and Mongolia.
Lambert port, at a cost of US$860 million, will Rio Tinto 2006 Annual report and financial statements 3 INTERVIEW WITH THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE 2006 846725 pp002 pp005 26 2 07 1:13 pm Page 4 Interview with the chief executive continued further expand capacity to 220 million tonnes.
entry into a potentially outstanding resource.
Any reflections on your handover to The Yandicoogina mine will expand to La Granja has been given the go ahead for a Tom Albanese?
52 million tonnes a year in the same period and US$95 million pre-feasibility study.
I am fortunate to have worked for Rio Tinto the Hope Downs project will start production in We are encouraged by the exploration for almost 37 years.
It has given me a diverse 2008 with output of 22 million tonnes, rising to potential on ERA leases in Australia and the and interesting career during which I have 30 million tonnes in stage two.
From expansion possibilities at Rssing Uranium in met and worked with many different people negotiation of the agreement on Hope Downs Namibia.
These, together with the potential of who form this great team that is Rio Tinto.
to first deliveries will be only three years.
Kintyre in Western Australia and Sweetwater in In Tom Albanese we have a very able, Our ilmenite project in Madagascar is on Wyoming, US, mean we are well placed to experienced and committed individual to schedule, and construction of basic extend uranium reserves and resources in the continue Rio Tintos success.
I would like to infrastructure by local contractors is under near future.
take this opportunity of wishing him well, and way.
The port contract has been awarded, In addition we have an extensive global to thank all my colleagues around the world for enabling us to finalise a definitive cost estimate exploration programme, spending a total of the strong support they have given me in the of US$850 million for the total project including US$345 million in 2006, and we continue to many roles over my career.
the building of additional processing capacity evaluate numerous development in Canada.
First production is scheduled for opportunities, often with others.
2008, when we believe there will be growing demand for the high quality ilmenite that Much is being made of a skills Madagascar will produce for 40 years.
Development continues at the Argyle Technical skills in mining, metallurgy and Diamond mine in Western Australia, Diavik in geological sciences are in short supply and Canada and Cortez in Nevada, as does the there is strong competition for recent Leigh Clifford Chief executive extension of the life of the Rssing Uranium graduates, experienced engineers and mine in Namibia.
Earlier this year we artisans as well as supervisors.
However, announced the development of the Clermont I believe we are better placed than most.
thermal coal mine in Queensland, and we Global graduate recruitment is a high priority completed significant investment to expand and we are doing well in attracting good capacity at the Weipa bauxite mine in quality people.
We are seen as an organisation Queensland.
that can provide exciting international experience, good training and lots of What about new opportunities?
We are also being more creative in We have acquired interests in three promising retaining the skills and experience of staff in copper projects: La Granja in Peru, the Pebble the later stages of their career.
All that said, I project in Alaska and Oyu Tolgoi Turquoise think the mining industry as a whole needs to Hill in Mongolia which, together with sell itself as an attractive employer more Resolution Copper in the US, give us an effectively.
We need to consider changes to interest in four world class undeveloped career structures to retain staff by offering copper mineral deposits.
The investment in greater flexibility and to identify adventurous Mongolia represents a phased, risk managed people at the recruitment stage.
4 Rio Tinto 2006 Annual report and financial statements INTERVIEW WITH THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE 2006
