Chief Executives review 7% 14% Sir John Rose 26.1bn 7,353m Order book Underlying sales rm and announced The Group continued to make good progress in 2006, increasing sales to 7,156 million 2005 6,603 million, with underlying sales growth of 14 per cent, and increasing underlying profit before tax by 19 per cent to 705 million 2005 593 million.
Importantly, our ability to access growing markets on a global basis enabled us to continue to grow our order book, which ended the year at 26.1 billion 2005 24.4 billion.
We continue to invest in technologies, products, people and capabilities with the objective of broadening and strengthening our product portfolio, improving our efficiency and enhancing the environmental performance of our products.
In 2006 total investment in research and development amounted to 747 million 2005 663 million.
After increasing investment in manufacturing capability and research and development, there was a strong cash inflow of 491 million resulting in an improvement of 410 million in our average cash balance, with a cash balance of 826 million at the end of the year 2005 335 million.
Basic earnings per ordinary share rose to 57.32p 2005 20.11p with underlying earnings per ordinary share increasing by 22 per cent to 29.81p 2005 24.48p.
We propose to increase the final payment to shareholders to 5.92p making a total payment for the year of 9.59p per share, an increase of ten per cent on 2005.
Our overall performance in 2006 was strong in an undoubtedly challenging year.
The underlying financial results were achieved after accommodating a further seven cent deterioration in the dollar achieved rate relative to 2005.
We expect to absorb similar further deterioration in the exchange rate we achieve in 2007.
We manage our exposure to the US dollar by long-term hedging.
Today we have the benefit of a hedge book of approximately US$10 billion, which means that we have clear visibility of the exchange rate we can achieve over the next three years.
Whilst it is impossible to offset sustained dollar weakness through hedging, the cover we have taken reduces the volatility that exchange rate fluctuations cause and creates the opportunity for us to take other mitigating actions, such as cost reduction and thedollarisationof our cost base.
Our market sectors present global growth opportunities.
We continued to make progress in 2006.
18 Read more on our strategy Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 12 Business review Raw material price inflation has been a significant factor One of the most frequent questions we are asked for all manufacturing industry.
It is helpful that, as a high by financial analysts is whether we will seek to use our value-added business, the cost of raw materials forms growing cash balances to buy businesses.
We can, of a relatively small proportion of our total costs.
We have course, grow organically, as we have been demonstrating maintained our focus on productivity and efficiency for a number of years.
However, we do not rule out measures and, where appropriate, we hedge our acquisitions and, indeed, todays performance benefits exposure in the financial commodities markets.
from a number of successful past acquisitions.
We intend, The nature of the business also enables us to enter into however, to remain a highly focused power systems long-term procurement contracts, which help protect business and any potential acquisition must deliver us from future fluctuations in raw material prices and relevant technology, products or routes to market.
give us visibility of our cost base.
Todays business is the result of the implementation We are continuing to invest globally in new facilities of a consistent strategy over many years and we believe and to improve the performance of our international that, as a focused power systems business, we can supply chain.
These changes, which are occurring at the create most value for shareholders by continuing to same time as a significant increase in load, have been pursue this strategy.
managed well in tough conditions.
We operate in a competitive and challenging Priorities environment and, in doing so, we benefit from a We addressed four priority areas in 2006. consistent strategy, a strong order book, long programme life cycles and the revenue generated by the provision Investment in technology and products of value-added services to the users of our products.
We have a structured approach to technology Consequently we have good visibility of our future acquisition, looking ahead over five, ten and 20-year workload and market opportunity.
The results in time horizons.
We can see significant opportunities 2006 demonstrate the resilience of the Group and for the introduction of new products in each of our its business model.
markets and our strategy is to ensure that we have We are continuing our discussions with the relevant innovative technologieson the shelffor future parties about our UK pension funds.
Our proposals generations of product.
Each product investment include a cash injection of 500 million.
Our overall is subject to a rigorous examination of the risks and intent is to make a significant step towards reducing rewards to ensure that only business cases that create deficits and limiting the impact on the business of shareholder value are pursued.
volatility in interest rates and share prices.
We expect to make progress in 2007.
Operational and unit cost reduction We continued to make progress with the modernisation of our factories, introduction of more efficient working A strong balance sheet practices, simplification of the supply chain and The Group ended 2006 with a net cash balance of improvement of business processes.
In 2007, a substantial portion of this remain a priority in 2007, when we will also be balance is earmarked to address the pension fund deficit.
introducing measures to reduce overhead costs.
We believe that a strong balance sheet is essential for a long-term business such as ours.
We compete against Continued development of aftermarket services large competitors across programmes where returns are Underlying aftermarket services revenues grew by measured over decades, where we enter into long-term 13 per cent in 2006 and represented 53 per cent of service commitments and where significant investments Group sales.
This is a consequence of the successful to gain market access are the norm.
It was pleasing to introduction of new products, the growing installed base see that both the major credit rating agencies reflected of engines in service and the investment we have made their positive view of our progress by promoting in innovative aftermarket service capabilities.
We have our rating into the Acategory in 2006.
During 2007, continued to be successful in the introduction of we will be reviewing our financial strategy in light of comprehensive through-life service arrangements in the Groups continuing cash generation, investment each of our business sectors.
These align our interests needs, progress on resolving the pension deficit and with those of our customers and enable us to add underlying performance.
value through the application of our skills and assets.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 13 Chief Executives review continued Responding to the challenge of climate change Working towards a more sustainable future We believe strongly that Rolls-Royce has a positive role As a technology based company, we believe we can to play in the way that we participate in the debate help society identify new solutions to environmental about climate change, including helping to shape the concerns.
We are committed to developing low carbon responses to current concerns about the environment.
technologies, including alternative energy sources.
This is not a new subject for Rolls-Royce.
We have For example, we are investing in a major programme an established track record of reducing the emissions to develop solid oxide fuel cells, a technology which of our products and our manufacturing facilities.
will reduce carbon dioxide emissions and offer other We published our first environmental report, environmental benefits such as low noise and improved Powering a better world, for 1998 and over many air quality.
years, our research programmes have been directed We are also engaging inblue skiesresearch, at improving both the energy efficiency of our products including the feasibility of using synthetic kerosene and their environmental impact.
That experience to power aircraft of the future.
will stand us in good stead as we respond to the Reducing the environmental impact of our operations new opportunities presented by climate change.
Our manufacturing facilities already operate to worldRolls-Royce offers a centre of excellence in terms of class levels of environmental performance as recognised the engineering and technical skills which we can apply by a number of external bodies.
Over a number of years to these new challenges, and we can contribute to a we have delivered significant reductions in greenhouse proper understanding of the science and facts on which gas emissions, waste, the use of solvents and water.
the current debate on climate change should be based.
There has also been a significant increase in recycling.
That is why we see Rolls-Royce as representing part of We will continue to seek opportunities to minimise the solution to climate change.
Over the period 1998-2005, We do, of course, accept that our gas turbines our revenues increased by 47 per cent but, in absolute and diesels have an environmental impact through terms, the energy used in our facilities reduced by carbon dioxide, other emissions and noise.
However, 15 per cent and greenhouse gas emissions by 30 per they also enable fast and reliable trade and travel, cent.
A programme of continuous improvement is in help safeguard world security, generate efficient place to maintain this performance.
electricity and contribute to the quality of life enjoyed In 2006, we were again placed first in our business by millions of people all over the world.
Our challenge is sector in the Business in the Environment index of to preserve these critical benefits on a sustainable basis.
corporate environmental management, retaining our Improving the environmental performance of our products Premier Leaguestatus.
We invest over 100 million every year on research and technology, two thirds of which is directed at improving A global business the environmental performance of our products.
Our market sectors each present global opportunities, In addition, we spend around 350 million a year on with our business split evenly between the Americas, the development and introduction of new products Asia and Europe.
which embody these technologies and therefore have In 2006, we expanded our international presence significantly enhanced environmental performance.
with new partners in Japan, Korea, Germany and Canada, In the aviation sector Rolls-Royce is playing a leading covering a range of activities to improve the performance role in the achievement of the long-term environmental of our gas turbine engines.
Our fuel cell business launched goals set by the Advisory Council for Aeronautics a subsidiary in the US and announced a partnership with Research in Europe ACARE.
Under the ACARE Ohio-based, American Electric Power AEP.
programme, fuel burn and carbon dioxide emissions Collaboration agreements were extended in are targeted to be reduced by 50 per cent by 2020, Europe, for helicopter engine manufacture: in China, noise by 50 per cent and nitrous oxide by 80 per cent, for the training and development of senior aviation all from a 2000 baseline.
executives: and in India, for engine component design and manufacture.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 14 Business review We continued to develop and globalise our Our marine business is experiencing strong growth manufacturing facilities, including our factory as a result of the high level of demand in the offshore modernisation programme in the UK, the transfer of oil and gas sector and our success as a systems supplier.
V2500 engine assembly to Germany and a new outdoor Our order book, at over 2 billion, is at a record level jet engine testing facility in the US.
We have begun and we are developing, with our customers, a series of the process of considering options for potential new innovative support initiatives.
facilities in various locations, to cater for the anticipated In the energy sector, we see opportunities to growth in each of our businesses.
Our oil & gas business Of our 38,000 employees, 22,700 are in the UK performed strongly in 2006.
In power generation, with the balance primarily in the US, Asia, Germany, where we are building a relatively new business, Scandinavia and Brazil.
Our sales and order book are we achieved an encouraging order intake which bodes evenly spread across Europe, Asia and the Americas.
The cost of developing our fuel cell Research and development is conducted in facilities technology will continue to affect the bottom line for the in the UK, Germany, Italy, Singapore, Japan, the US and energy business, leading again to modest losses in 2007.
Scandanavia, including important relationships with For 2007, we are confident that the measures we 27 universities where we have University Technology are taking to improve productivity, coupled with the Centres.
Our international presence means we have underlying growth of the Group and the robust business facilities in over 50 countries.
model, will enable us to continue to grow underlying Reflecting the global nature of our business, we revenues and profits and generate a positive cash flow.
established a new International Advisory Board IAB Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank in 2006.
This board will provide the Group with an all our employees for their hard work and commitment.
invaluable high level source of advice about international, Sir John Rose economic, political and business trends.
Details of the Chief Executive February 7, 2007 IAB can be found on page 42.
There have been a number of changes recently in the international management team.
Dr Saul Lanyado is retiring after helping build our marine business into a global leader.
He is succeeded by John Paterson who also has a strong international background, and was previously running our global repair and overhaul R&O business.
The R&O business now forms part of the Groups overall services activity, led by Miles Cowdry, President Services.
Future prospects Each of our businesses offers significant opportunities for organic growth.
Over the next 20 years, we estimate the global accessible market to be worth some two trillion US dollars, of which about half will relate to the provision of aftermarket services.
The civil aerospace business is developing as we predicted and we expect the installed base of jet engines in service to continue to grow, providing the basis for sustained growth in our aftermarket services revenues.
We are developing our market positions, such as those on the Boeing 787 and Airbus A350 XWB, which will ensure long-term growth for the business.
The defence aerospace business has proved resilient as a result of our broad portfolio of engine programmes.
We are continuing to strengthen our presence in defence markets through new programmes such as the Joint Strike Fighter and the Airbus A400M transport aircraft, whilst also extending the range of aftermarket services which we offer.
Consequently we expect steady growth from our defence business.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 15
