Chief Executives review Graham Mackay Chief Executive The groups second strategic priority is to create strong, relevant brand portfolios Maintaining momentum within each market.
Our business is about creating brands that consumers love.
Each brand, whether Our strategy businesses with exposure to both its in the economy, the mainstream or the The key to our global success lies in the developing and developed markets.
premium segment, needs to be carefully disciplined execution of four strategic We recognised the opportunities in developed to enhance its personality, mark priorities the creation of a balanced and the developing world ahead of the industry it out from the competition and preserve the attractive global spread of businesses: the and are now better established than most local characteristics that consumers value.
development of strong, relevant brand of our competitors in these high-growth As we nurture our brands in this way, were portfolios in each local market: improving markets.
The past year has seen further also assembling them into portfolios the performance of local businesses: and progress with the buy-out of our joint appropriate to each market.
The aim is to leveraging our global scale.
venture partners in India and Central create a mix of brands that capitalises on Our business portfolio is positioned to America, continuing expansion in China, the consumption trends within each market, take advantage of two major trends in the our entry into Vietnam and the merger with both now and in the future.
The first is that beer is Bavaria in South America.
On the other Much of our success results from our growing as a percentage of the total alcohol side of the scale, the Miller and Peroni ability to adjust our portfolios to meet local market as consumers in developing transactions of 2002 and 2003 represent needs.
In some cases weve taken a small countries move to beer from indigenous acquisitions in developed markets which local brand and developed it into a national forms of alcohol and as population growth have stable, cash-generating characteristics.
brand examples being Tyskie in Poland in these markets outstrips the rest of the In developing our groups businesses in and Snow in China.
The second is that consumers this way, weve led the trend towards global Miller Lite, weve taken a major mainstream everywhere are trading up from home consolidation.
Now the worlds second brand and given it a new lease of life.
brews to commercial products in the case largest brewer, we believe we have the Sometimes, too, weve pruned the portfolio of developing markets: from economy to scale to operate effectively and efficiently in order to concentrate resources behind mainstream and from mainstream to premium and we can keep growing organically.
We fewer, stronger brands which is one in both developing and developed markets.
therefore do not need to make large scale reason Snow has been so successful.
Each of these trends presents acquisitions.
However, global consolidation Weve also learned the value of opportunities for creating value.
Our first will continue and well continue to look at innovation, be it new products, new strategic priority is therefore to create a acquisition opportunities, and weigh each packaging or new ideas at the point of sale.
balanced and attractive global spread of one on its merits.
Recent new products include Lech alcohol 6 free, Lech Lite and new variants of the With improvements in progress at the merchandising at the point of sale.
The Redds brand, all launched in Poland.
local level, the fourth strategic priority is coming year will see the start of considerable Romania has a new, strong beer in the to capitalise on our global scale to make investment in these areas.
In Africa weve rolled out our the whole greater than the sum of the parts The results from Honduras and El innovative Eagle brand an affordable, clear, and extract maximum value from our Salvador, included for the first time in the sorghum beer in Zambia and Zimbabwe worldwide portfolio.
Latin America region, were affected by and introduced Eagle Extra in Uganda.
This is largely a matter of applying hurricanes and severe flooding.
Nevertheless, Assembling and managing local well-proven techniques and tools to new lager volumes continued to increase in portfolios is a demanding task, especially businesses as they join the portfolio.
It also Honduras, and both markets saw growth in as every situation is different.
Covering all means identifying best practice wherever soft drinks.
the bases with relevant brands requires a it exists within the group and spreading The business in South Africa saw detailed understanding of each market and it more widely.
Much of our group-wide ongoing momentum in consumer spending its social and demographic trends not expertise is now being applied in our South with lager and soft drink sales continuing to to mention different skills for premium American businesses, for example.
While the growth in volumes moderated and economy brands.
Weve made good countries are following Europe in developing in the second half, earnings continued to progress in many markets, but we know full-brand portfolios and better point-of-sale benefit as consumers traded up to the there is still more to be done.
techniques while Peroni in Italy is benefiting premium segment.
To meet the demands The process also requires sophisticated from market planning methods refined in of changing consumption patterns, we marketing skills.
Although our marketing North America.
have introduced new sales and distribution compares well with that of our competitors, Much of our global success is systems and enhanced the flexibility of were working hard to sharpen our skills attributable to the skills and capabilities of our production facilities.
in this area not least by staying alert to our leadership teams in all parts of the The licensing of more shebeens is digital media developments and the business.
Its clear, however, that tomorrows bringing these previously unofficial outlets opportunities they offer.
global leaders will need a spectrum of skills into the retail mainstream.
This means they Our third strategic priority is covering not just our own business and can operate more professionally and we can continually to raise the performance of industry but wider issues such as how deliver to them direct which in turn raises our local operations.
we meet our responsibilities to society.
the performance of the business.
During the Good operational performance has To ensure appropriate capabilities for the year we trained over 6,000 newly licensed always been one of our strengths.
We future, weve launched our first global taverners in business skills.
believe we can run a beer business better leadership programme for high-potential In North America, Miller has made than our competitors and extract maximum managers across the group.
The flagship Miller Lite efficiency and value from our assets.
Were A look at our operations over the last brand has continued to grow while the helped by a culture that emphasises local 12 months offers more detail of the strategy company maintained firmer year-on-year accountability and encourages managers that Ive just described in action.
pricing than its domestic competitors to to keep raising their game.
One result in protect its brand equity.
recent years has been a steady Review of operations Millers initial success has prompted a improvement in margins across the group.
Starting with Latin America, since joining price-cutting response from the market Recognising that operational skills can SABMiller just after the half-year, the leader, and this action by the market leader be replicated, were working hard to keep businesses in Colombia, Peru, Ecuador and has limited the industrys ability to pass on ahead of our competitors.
Were rigorously Panama have all performed well.
Everything rising costs such as energy and aluminium.
applying the basic operational disciplines weve seen so far confirms our belief that Despite these tough conditions, the and ratcheting up our productivity by these markets offer exciting prospects momentum remains strong and the analysing efficiencies across the industry for growth.
business is benefiting from its three years and benchmarking our performance.
The Although the Bavaria businesses are of investment.
aim is to keep improving the performance well managed and profitable, we plan to Miller Genuine Draft was relaunched of our better breweries while moving the create further value by applying SABMillers in the final quarter of the year, with a weaker performers towards the world operating practices and management skills.
new positioning at the upper end of average.
Were also looking for constant The best opportunities lie in brand portfolio the mainstream market.
In the premium improvements in our distribution and pointdevelopment, creating good relationships sector, Pilsner Urquell continued to of-sale techniques.
with distributors and retailers, and improving grow albeit from a small base and The global beer industry is changing fast as consumer preferences evolve, new markets develop, consolidation continues and competition becomes more intense.
We have, however, built a business that is well prepared for the challenges and which has demonstrated its strengths in the year just ended.
7 Chief Executives review Premium brands are the fastest growing segment in the global beer market.
Our international sales of Peroni Nastro Azzurro increased 45% in the year to 31 March 2006.
Peroni Nastro Azzurro was well received in and improving our quality and productivity.
Millers emphasis, now, is on During the year we announced a new constantly improving its marketing, sales arrangement with a local distribution and distribution and on building a portfolio partner to build a brewery in Vietnam.
of brands capable of commanding The Vietnamese beer market is one of premium prices.
the fastest growing in the world and the Europe had another excellent year with move strengthens our presence in the best performances from Poland, Russia developing markets.
The Polish and Russian The worldwide trend towards premium businesses increased their volumes well brands makes this segment the fastest ahead of their markets and Russia and growing in the global beer market.
Within Romania are both expanding their capacity.
the segment, its the international brands The Czech business improved its that are growing most rapidly at nearly productivity, increased its share and four times the rate of the beer market introduced new packaging.
To compete in this segment, brands in Italy began to grow for the first we have a portfolio of international brands, time in many years and we strengthened each with its own distinct personality and our position in Slovakia with the acquisition attributes.
While volumes are still small, of the Topvar brewery.
The largest brand, Our businesses in Africa continued to Miller Genuine Draft, has been particularly grow, helped by broader distribution and successful in Russia while Pilsner Urquell a clearer segmentation of our brands.
is growing in Europe and the USA.
Peroni Volumes in Botswana were affected by Nastro Azzurro was recently repackaged the devaluation of the currency, but results and relaunched with a major global campaign were good in Tanzania, Uganda and and is growing particularly strongly in the UK.
We see plenty of opportunity Compared to mainstream and to keep improving efficiency in these economy brands, the premium segment relatively underdeveloped countries and the requires greater nurturing and a specialised outlook for Africa as a whole is encouraging.
approach to marketing, sales and Now in its twelfth year, our associate in distribution.
These capabilities are now China is well established as the countrys being refined across the group notably second biggest brewer and sales are through a new programme to establish growing strongly.
The business kept up its common techniques and disciplines for momentum with a particularly impressive rolling out international premium brands in performance by the Snow brand.
The programme was piloted improvements in marketing and distribution, during the year in Poland and the lessons Snow is now the countrys top-selling beer.
learned are now being applied around The year saw good progress in integrating the world.
recent acquisitions with several minor The good performance of the last acquisitions completed during the year.
12 months confirms we have the right The first phase of the greenfield brewery in strategic priorities and we are implementing Dongguan has now been completed and in our strategy successfully.
We continue to May 2006 we announced that a second build on our many strengths and look brewery in Heilongjiang province would be forward to further successes in the constructed in Harbin.
India is included in our results for the first time following the purchase of our partners interest in the company in May 2005.
Volumes grew satisfactorily, though the business is still restricted in its volumes and pricing by the lack of regulatory reform.
Graham Mackay The focus now is on expanding capacity Chief Executive 8
