n 2006, the strength of Scottish & Newcastles 2.
IMPROVING OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY Chief Executives unrivalled portfolio of lager, ale, cider and other AND DRIVING DOWN COST Inon-beer brands delivered real value in mature We have continued to optimise our production Statement markets and dynamic growth in developing markets.
For example, in France, Across the Group we achieved branded sales we completed the sale of our Champigneulles Brewery growth of 8.9%.
In the UK, our four lead brands to Frankfurter Brauhaus, with a smooth transfer of achieved share growth in their respective segments personnel, allowing us to concentrate our production Building driven by continued investment in A&P and in this market into a single efficient factory at Obernai innovation.
Our top three brands in France together near Strasbourg, which now brews all our brands.
a broad with strong performances from Sagres in Portugal The move effectively removed us from the low-margin and Newcastle Brown Ale in the US are delivering own-label beer market.
In Belgium, we have centred growth in International.
In Asia, India and China are all mainstream beer production on our Alken Brewery, portfolio fast becoming key elements of future growth and and have announced the closure of our Jumet site.
BBH continues to deliver outstanding results.
Our industry leading joint venture with of brands Our return on invested capital ROIC for the distribution specialists Kuehne and Nagel, KNDL, is year increased from 6.9% to 7.5% which comfortably well established in the UK, with record service levels exceeds our weighted average cost of capital of 7.0%.
over the 2006 Christmas trading period.
The focus now We now have a positive economic profit.
turns to developing new business for the joint venture.
We are announcing a new phase of cost savings Progress has already been made with the recent that will deliver 50m across our wholly owned announcement that Anheuser-Busch Europe Ltd has businesses over the next three years.
This will be appointed KNDL as its new distribution service provider achieved by maximising efficiencies across production in the UK.
and distribution facilities, and through streamlining We are taking further measures to mitigate our back office activities.
the impact of rising energy costs while acting in an Our strong results have been achieved by innovative and environmentally responsible manner.
continuing to follow our four point strategy Working with the UK Carbon Trust we have been investing in our brands and innovation: identifying the opportunities for energy savings and improving operational efficiency and driving carbon management.
As a result, we have in place a down cost: rigorous energy efficiency programme to reduce both building organisational capability: and our energy costs and CO emissions.
A number of 2 investing for growth in existing and new markets.
initiatives are reducing both costs and impacts such These results show we are delivering on as our ground-breaking plans for biomass plants in the that strategy.
UK which could reduce gas demand by 40% and truck journeys by 4,000 per annum.
INVESTING IN OUR BRANDS focus on the environment as a management priority AND INNOVATION going forward.
We continue to develop our key brands across In addition, our focus on operational best practice international markets.
Our brand investment and rationalisation of support functions is also aimed programme has driven organic branded volume at providing our sales and marketing teams with high growth of 5.8% and sales growth of 8.9% year quality and efficient service.
In support of this we are on year.
announcing a new phase of cost savings across our Our continuing focus on marketing, with strong wholly owned businesses which will deliver 50m over investment in A&P, has resulted in solid volume the next three years.
This will be achieved by firstly growth in our core brands including 9.1% for maximising efficiencies across production and Fosters, 9.9% for Baltika and 12.9% for Strongbow.
distribution facilities, and secondly through streamlining Acquiring the Fosters trademark in Europe and our back office activities.
Geographically, the savings the CIS has allowed us to accelerate the momentum will be split broadly 50 50 between UK and International of the brand across the Group, starting with the divisions, but the savings in 2007 will be UK weighted.
launch of the first brand extension Fosters Twist Around 10m of these savings will come through in in the UK last July.
2007, with the remainder split equally between 2008 Innovation continues to be at the heart of our and 2009.
We estimate the related restructuring cost success as we lead the industry in both new product at c75m.
development NPD and technical innovation.
In 2006 NPD was 16% of branded net sales, compared with 3.
BUILDING ORGANISATIONAL CAPABILITY 10% in 2005 and 4% in 2004.
We continue to attract and develop the best team We have launched three cider innovations in the in the drinks industry.
Key to driving operational past 18 months Bulmers Original, Strongbow Sirrus efficiencies across markets is the integration of and Jacques.
Together, these brands have added brewing and distribution arrangements under the 140bps market share in cider, driving half of the leadership of Stephen Glancey, Group Operations value growth of branded cider.
We have appointed The competitive advantage driven in the a new Senior Management team in France, including UK by the Super-Chilled technology is now being a new Managing Director, as well as a new Managing developed in other markets across our brand portfolio Director in Finland.
Both Managing Directors have been in particular Kronenbourg Red & White in France recruited from blue chip FMCG companies, strengthening and Maes in Belgium delivering strong throughput our international brand management experience.
increases in the outlets involved.
Beer with food, and low and no-alcohol beer are having a significant impact.
Building on the success of Sagres Bohemia in Portugal, we are now applying the same concept of associating the brand with food to Grimbergen.
Our brand and innovation investment plan will continue.
We now have a pipeline of NPD in both beer and cider as we remain focused on leading our main markets in both new product and in technological innovation.
04 Report of the Directors Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006 4.
INVESTING FOR GROWTH IN EXISTING In addition, we completed the sale of Chief Executives AND NEW MARKETS Champigneulles Brewery in Nancy, with minimal Our overriding focus is to create economic profit disruption to the business: as a result, all of our Statement in the long-term, through realising and redeploying brands are now brewed under one roof.
At least continued cash into higher growth opportunities and markets.
15m of the resulting 20m annual cost savings We continue to realise value from under-utilised and from Champigneulles will be realised this year non core assets in mature markets, either through sale with the remainder coming through in 2008. or by forming specialist partnerships.
This principle has been applied through recent disposals of trade loans ASIA and the creation of KNDL.
Whilst some of these In South East Asia, our businesses are fast becoming transactions have been margin dilutive in isolation, a key element of future growth.
In India, our joint they have facilitated significant investment for growth venture with United Breweries is showing strong in both existing and new markets, for example, our margin growth as we benefit from combining our significant level of investment in innovation in the UK, operational and marketing expertise with our partners our investment in United Breweries, and most recently, local knowledge.
Our scale of operations with our intention to invest in Vietnam.
25 breweries in all key states has given us market leadership in eight out of the ten main states.
MARKET SUMMARIES In China, our joint venture with Chongqing Brewery UK gives us over 80% share of a market with more than For the third year running, S&N has increased its 30 million consumers, a strong regional platform for market share in the UK beer market, extending its future growth.
leadership in one of the most competitive markets in We can also announce that we have signed an Europe, driven by its commanding portfolio.
The main agreement with the state-owned Vinataba group in beer brands, Fosters, Kronenbourg 1664 and John Smiths Vietnam and received a licence from the government.
all gained share without sacrificing unit prices.
This is an exciting new prospect, allowing us a lowS&N has seen strong volume growth in cider, cost entry into Vietnams fast growing beer market, where we are clear market leader.
Whilst we have and continues our strategy of working with strong lost some volume share at the low value end of the local partners where S&N is seen as partner of choice.
portfolio following our complete withdrawal from extra-fill, we have seen strong growth at the premium BBH end, driving positive mix for us, as well as the sector.
Baltika, with its unrivalled portfolio across all sectors The smoking ban will have a negative impact on of the dynamic Russian market, has evolved into one UK market volumes.
Our current projection is that the of Russias leading consumer brands.
Baltika is now UK on-trade market will decline by around 5% during reaping the rewards of its successful merger with the course of 2007, of which 2.5% is the six month Pikra, Vena and Yarpivo, one of the largest and most impact of the smoking ban, only partly offset by complex of its type ever seen in the Commonwealth increases in off-trade volumes.
The implied net impact of Independent States CIS.
on profit of the smoking ban is around 10m for 2007.
Across the Russian Federation, Baltikas brands This development will reinforce the importance lead each market segment.
Beyond the Russian of ongoing investment in NPD and the application Federation, BBH continues to benefit from its first of lessons learned from Ireland and Scotland.
Given mover advantage in emerging markets.
In Kazakhstan our track record, we believe we are well positioned to where BBH doubled its capacity last year, volume support the trade as they work to manage this change.
BBH also moved into Uzbekistan, where its new brewery in Tashkent is almost complete, INTERNATIONAL and has announced a new partnership in Belarus.
Across the International division, our key brands are delivering growth in Portugal, Sagres continues to gain share with growth of 5.8% and in the US, Newcastle Brown Ale has once again had a great year.
In France, our primary focus on branded beer has driven a combined share gain for our three core brands Kronenbourg 1664, Red and White R&W, and Tony Froggatt Our continuing 1 Grimbergen up 110bps in the off-trade and 50bps Chief Executive focus on marketing, in the on-trade.
This strong performance has been achieved through refocused A&P spend and with strong innovation, for example with the roll-out of Superinvestment in A&P, Chilled for R&W and the introduction of 1664 Blanc.
has resulted in solid We believe this, together with new initiatives, will continue to drive brand growth going forward.
volume growth in Following the introduction of the Loi Dutreil, our core brands.
the beer category, and R&W in particular, has seen an increase in display space.
We regard this as a very encouraging development.
We are currently undertaking the latest round of negotiations with retailers and have already secured contracts that represent over 80% of our off-trade volume.
We believe that the overall positive trends of 2006 will continue in 2007.
In the on-trade we have made real progress on the turnaround plan.
We are substantially restructuring our 600-plus on-trade sales force and have established a new national contact centre which will be fully operational by early summer 2007.
However, the resultant disruption to our wholesale business has led to a sales decline of 7.9% at a cost of 10m.
This disappointing result is masking the extent of the French turnaround in branded beer.
A recovery plan is now in place for the wholesale business over the next 18 months.
1 AC Nielsen data covering hyperand supermarkets.
Report of the Directors Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006 05
