Chief Executives Review Read more at www.
com CONTINUING OPERATIONS adjusted operating profit 805m up 39% : adjusted profit before tax 675m up 47% : adjusted earnings per share 27.9p up 46%.
805m TOTAL GROUP ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE 44.1p up 22% : reported earnings per share 83.8p 2004 05: 10.6p loss per share.
This is an excellent set of results for ScottishPower.
CASH GENERATED from continuing All our businesses have delivered very good growth operations increased by 183m to 864m.
through improved operational performance and attractive returns on our investment programme.
864m PHILIP BOWMAN COTTISHPOWER has performed strongly throughout the business strategy of focusing on profitable customer growth, the year with adjusted operating profit up by 39% Energy Retail slowed its rate of customer growth during a year to 805 million : adjusted profit before tax up by of high and rising wholesale prices, growing its customer base 47% to 675 million and adjusted earnings per by 136,000 to 5.25 million at March 2006.
Energy Retail drove S share up 46% to 27.9 pence for our continuing further improvements in efficiencies and customer service operations.
Cash generated from continuing operations through initiatives such as its award-winning 6 Sigma increased by 183 million to 864 million.
All of our businesses programme, resulting in improvements in billing accuracy, first contributed to this strong performance.
Energy Networks has call resolution and direct debit penetration amongst our retail invested 282 million to expand and improve its infrastructure domestic customers.
In addition to the continued development assets, and has delivered an 11% improvement in network of its wind business, PPM Energy demonstrated the strength of performance.
Energy Retail & Wholesale reaped the benets of its owned and contracted gas storage businesses, which delivered recent investments in generation plant capacity and exibility, strong profit growth on the back of volatile North American and of its commodity procurement strategy, to deliver strong gas prices, and further expanded its energy management and profit growth in the face of sharply rising commodity costs.
origination activities into profitable new markets.
Energy Wholesale also made substantial progress in its wind Capital investment during the year of 1 billion was driven development programme, with the construction of phase one of by our windfarm development programme in the UK and US Black Law windfarm completed and planning approval granted and renewal and reinforcement of our generation and network for Europes largest on-shore windfarm at Whitelee.
Reecting assets in the UK.
Returns from our investment programme are Items marked represent adjusted results, further details of which, together with the reported results, are given in the Business Review section on page 9.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2005 06 3 Chief Executives review 1.7billion 1.5billion 1.6billion ENERGY NETWORKS INVESTMENT ENERGY RETAIL & WHOLESALE PPM ENERGY INVESTMENT to 2010 will amount to some 1.7 billion INVESTMENT of some 1.5 billion to 2010 to 2010 will amount to 1.6 billion well ahead of our cost of capital and are evident in the strong network performance and facilitate the connection of operating profit performance of each of our businesses.
Refurbishment of our network assets and overhaul of our generation plant accounted for half of our UK capital In Energy Retail & Wholesale we will focus on improving investment during the year.
In the US, PPM Energy successfully customer service and operating margins, and will seek further completed its 574 MW windfarm construction programme, more growth in our customer base only where it is profitable to do than tripling its owned capacity and rmly establishing it as one so.
Growth and margins will be supported by our exible and of North Americas leading renewables businesses.
In the UK, diverse generation portfolio, successful forward commodity Energy Wholesale added 130 MW of new wind generation, procurement strategy, and our policy of setting retail tariffs bringing its operational capacity to 288 MW, making it the to reect underlying energy costs and use of system charges.
leading on-shore wind developer in the UK.
With final planning Investment of some 1.5 billion to 2010 will include further approval granted for Europes largest on-shore windfarm at plant performance upgrades, additional windfarm Whitelee, ScottishPower now has a further 490 MW under development to meet our renewable targets, and the construction or in receipt of planning approvals.
In April 2006, we installation of FGD equipment and life extension initiatives received the Queens Award for Enterprise for our collaborative at the 2,304 MW Longannet power station, securing its and responsible approach to windfarm development.
contribution to the UKs energy supply needs.
PaciCorp was sold to MidAmerican in March well ahead of the original schedule.
The sale will enable us to return In PPM Energy we will continue to build leading positions 2.25 billion of cash to shareholders, substantially repair the in wind generation and independent gas storage, and expand deficit in our pension schemes and begin a new phase in our energy management and origination businesses.
Investment totalling some 1.6 billion to 2010 will include ScottishPower has a strong set of businesses: each well new windfarm and gas storage projects.
We have approved positioned in its market and well placed for future growth and plans to build 857 MW of new windpower in the 2006 and investment.
As a result, we have increased our investment 2007 calendar years to add to our existing portfolio of 1,405 programme by 1.3 billion to 4.8 billion for the period to 2010, MW.
In May, we completed our first wind portfolio nancing with the increased investment targeted at further reinforcement structure through which we will realise the value of the wind and renewables infrastructure in Energy Networks, Longannet tax benets.
The strength of our renewable project pipeline Flue Gas Desulphurisation FGD and life extension, and and our confidence in prospective returns, has allowed us to additional windfarm developments in PPM Energy.
We will increase our 2010 target by over 50% to at least 3,500 MW continue to deliver value for our shareholders by driving developed or controlled by PPM Energy.
continued improvement in operational performance, investing for organic growth, and increasing the focus on cash generation.
We continue to engage with the UK Government on the policy issues raised by the Energy Review.
The UK needs a diverse In Energy Networks we plan to deliver returns at, or in excess generation portfolio and expanded infrastructure to deliver of, the level of allowed cost of capital on our expanding greater security of supply at competitive cost while helping to regulated asset base, through continued improvement in our meet national carbon reduction targets.
The development of a asset and operational management.
Securing a fair outcome clear and consistent framework for energy policy is essential to from the Transmission Price Control Review, with sufficient attract future investment.
We have emphasised, in particular, the and timely funding for the required increase in capital need for consistency in the implementation of the Renewables investment, will be a key priority for the coming year.
Obligation RO and the EU Emissions Trading Scheme Investment to 2010 will amount to some 1.7 billion, and ETS.
Our experience as the leading on-shore developer of includes expenditure to improve security of supply and windpower in the UK bears out our view that the RO is a 4 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2005 06 Cruachan Power Station successful mechanism for securing investment in windpower and Our approach to Corporate Responsibility continued to other renewable technologies.
It should be retained in its current evolve during the year, inuenced by a reassessment of our form.
We have pressed for action to address the planning and business as we approached the sale of PaciCorp and a review network constraints that continue to be obstacles to renewables of stakeholder expectations.
Our next report will be substantially development.
Our investment in FGD at Longannet is a changed in format and will measure our impact on society and significant step towards securing the UKs future energy supply environment against 12 performance criteria.
It will be available needs.
We are seeking clarity in the implementation of Phase II for viewing, or download, on our corporate website of the EU ETS, consistent with the DTIs December 2005 by early autumn 2006. benchmarking proposals, and the early development of arrangements for Phase III and beyond.
ONCLUSION Evolving energy policy in an Health and safety of our employees continues to be a high environment of rising and volatile energy prices priority and our efforts to promote a higher level of safety culture creates challenges and opportunities for and awareness have been reected in an increased level of ScottishPower.
As a leading player in power performance in this area and a reduced number of accidents.
C generation, energy retail and network infrastructure During the year there were 29 Lost Time Accidents and no in the UK and in high-value, fast-growing segments of the fatalities - an improvement of 22% year-on-year in the number of US market, we are well positioned.
We have strong businesses, Lost Time Accidents.
Through leadership our objective is to instil with attractive investment plans, and the ability and agility safety as an integral part of the ScottishPower culture and to respond to challenges and new opportunities.
With our minimise harm to employees, contractors and members of the clearly dened strategy for investment and growth we are public from our equipment and working practices.
In support of focused on implementing plans that provide attractive returns, this we have increased health and safety training for managers delivering further operational efficiencies and building a culture and team leaders across the group to generate the necessary of operational excellence across the organisation.
We have also developed our risk assessment confident that ScottishPower will deliver growth and value methods and continue to play an active role in safety awareness for shareholders.
initiatives at locations across our franchise areas.
