Direction Group Chief Executives review Strategic overview Other businesses When I took over as Group Chief Executive in US Laboratories is no longer regarded as being February 2005 I said I would concentrate on a core business for the future.
US Laboratories operational improvements for all our businesses, is a strong, market leading company engaged in but particularly Severn Trent Water and Biffa as environmental testing.
The long term prospects for they account for some 96% of group profit.
market growth are good, although the last 2 years have been challenging.
We are confident that the Since then my new team and I have undertaken rm actions already in hand will lead to a recovery the most detailed examination of all aspects of in margins, and as we see these results being our activities to understand the business drivers achieved we will consider the appropriate actions so we can be certain of the foundations of our to realise shareholder value.
The group announced on 12 May that Biffa Belgium Focus on water has been sold to Veolia for 45 million.
Completion Colin Matthews Severn Trent Water is one of the countrys largest of this sale is expected by the end of June and is Group Chief Executive water and sewerage companies.
The company subject to Belgian competition clearance.
has great experience and strengths, along with important plans for improvement.
By concentrating Certain other smaller activities have either our efforts on raising standards across the entire already been closed to new business Haswell, business, customers will receive the benets of sold Aseriti or are being prepared for sale reliable, high quality and cost effective services Severn Trent Property.
for clean water and sewerage.
Being closely associated with water, UK Laboratories In addition these strategic changes, particularly and Water Purication and Operating Services will the demerger of Biffa, will support a more efficient remain part of the group.
Together these business balance sheet allowing a return of capital to account for some 3% of group profit.
We intend to increase group debt to 60% of regulated capital value as soon as Severn Trent post demerger practicable after the demerger.
The amount, After the demerger Severn Trent will be a focused mechanism and timing of any returns will be water group, generating more than 95% of group communicated in due course and will depend on profits, compared with less than 80% today.
future decisions around the debt structure of the demerged Biffa, pension fund contributions and It will be the second largest listed UK player in the final costs of the demerger.
water industry whose investment prole will generate expectations of growth and attractive returns.
Moreover, these improvements should lead to strong financial returns.
We believe the group will be able Severn Trent management will be able to focus on to deliver enhanced growth in dividends, and our the regulated water and sewerage business.
new policy will therefore be to increase dividends by 3% above RPI ination through the remainder There will still be other businesses in the group which of the current AMP4 period, that is until 2010. do have synergies with our core water operations.
Biffa We shall keep Severn Trent Laboratories UK.
There The most significant transaction required to achieve are few competitors capable of supplying Severn this group transformation is the demerger of Biffa, Trent Water with the necessary high quality testing which was separately announced on 4 April 2006. service so it is felt appropriate to retain the business.
Biffa is itself a leading business in an attractive market, and we believe that greater shareholder Our Water Purication and Operating Services value will be realised by the creation of a separately business, which includes a UK contract for managing listed company, focusing all its attention on Ministry of Defence sites, is profitable, growing and developing the waste management business.
improving, and has significant synergy with the water business and, as it is relatively small, it will In 2005 06, organic growth within Biffa has been not distract management from a focus on water.
re-ignited and we believe the prospects for the business are strong.
We have recently announced The creation of a new strategy will allow us to Bob Davies as the new chairman for Biffa and we increase our gearing to a more nancially efficient expect the demerger to be completed by the end of level while still remaining prudent with an eye on October 2006.
We will provide further details in regulatory developments into the next AMP period due course.
6 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Direction Health and safety Biffa has a sustainable strong position within the I deeply regret to report two fatalities: a Biffa waste industry.
We shall use our scale in Collection contractor was hit by a Biffa vehicle and a Biffa to deliver improving service and efficiencies.
We employee was struck by a car.
Biffa management can develop recycling opportunities as the market has implemented the most rigorous investigation evolves while carefully managing our pricing and across all its operations as a result, with an capacity in Landll.
independent audit, and has made significant changes to reduce the possibility of such Having spent more time in Biffa than when I first incidents happening again.
reported last year, I am convinced that there is a great opportunity to bring about the same process Overall the Severn Trent group reported a 27.5% improvement revolution that worked through reduction in the RIDDOR reportable incident rate factory environments over recent decades and is per 1,000 employees.
Not only is safety important in its own right but it Laboratories is also important as a broad indication of quality Severn Trent Laboratories provides environmental across the group.
We will continue to concentrate testing services in the US and the UK.
In the US, heavily on improving our safety performance.
market conditions were challenging in 2005 06.
Federal funding for environmental projects Water and Sewerage continued to be impacted by the diversion of funds In 2005 06 Severn Trent Water began the first year to military activities in Iraq and to hurricane relief.
of the AMP4 contract, which covers the period 2005-10.
Ofwat has set us exacting efficiency In the UK, market conditions were more favourable, targets for this period, and during the year we with legislation like the Landll Directive creating began to implement the organisational changes new business opportunities.
Water Purication and Operating Services Progress was good.
We reduced employee numbers: The business produced good results in 2005 06, removed management layers in order to improve increasing turnover and profits.
We maintained our information ow: reviewed and consolidated ofce strategy of concentrating on higher margin business accommodation in order to control overheads: and and growth markets.
began a programme to streamline our procurement process.
Environment I am pleased that the groups climate change We aimed to meet the Ofwat determination overall, programme has continued to develop over the getting our costs down to the Ofwat prole in two last 12 months.
We have continued to expand years.
Excluding energy costs we have done rather renewable energy generation within both Severn better than that.
However, the current outlook for Trent Water and Biffa and in July 2005, working energy has more than offset that advantage.
We will with the Carbon Trust, we published a Carbon be striving to get back in line with the Ofwat prole.
Management Report which investigated the long term challenges and opportunities that Capital expenditure is more positive.
Capex and climate change presents for the UK water infrastructure renewals amounted to 434 million.
Adjusting for changes agreed with Ofwat, and timing differences, we have generated Outlook approximately 6% efficiency over and above the Performance at Severn Trent Water has been determination.
We plan to maintain similar outgood in the first year of AMP4, with operating performance over the rest of AMP4.
costs reduced to within 4 million of the Ofwat determination.
The outlook for the coming year is Waste Management for continuing progress in meeting and improving Biffa worked in 2005 06 on a major review of how on the AMP4 contract for operating costs across the UK waste market is developing and Biffas most areas of performance, with an additional position within it, as part of the demerger preparation.
5 million to 10 million of savings identied.
We have a competitive advantage in the industrial However, the industry faces a significant challenge and commercial collection market, a good position with rising energy prices.
At present, the outlook in landll, and excellent special waste capabilities for energy prices in 2006 07 mean that increased through our treatment centres.
Biffa has the costs in this area are expected to impact Severn potential to develop recycling revenues signicantly.
Trent Water by around 25 million.
In relation to capital expenditure, we aim to maintain around Biffa enjoys a leading position in a dynamic market 6% efficiency out performance over the remaining place.
I suggested a target of 8% for renewed AMP4 period.
organic growth six months ago, I am pleased that the result, 11%, comfortably beats that.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 7
