6746 UK Report Section 2006. qxd 16 5 07 15:14 Page 4 Chief Executive Ofcers Our execution plan review is well on track.
Together, these strengths enabled us to XR for adult ADHD, and SPD503 a nonachieve record revenues in 2006.
These lings demonstrate outstanding results of our product portfolio, our ongoing commitment to provide patients including new product launches, and additional and physicians with the broadest range of forthcoming royalty streams from Asia and the ADHD treatment choices.
As stated above, rest of the world, will allow us to signicantly we also reached agreements to settle all bolster our already strong net cash ow.
This pending litigations with both Barr and Impax strong financial prole provides opportunities concerning their attempts to challenge the for expansion initiatives that might include validity of ADDERALL XRs patents and then the acquisition of additional products and or launch generic versions.
These settlements companies that align with our growth strategy.
provide enhanced certainty over the future of our ADHD franchise.
Many accomplishments Our accomplishments during the year were On February 20, 2007 we announced considerable.
We proved what teamwork, that we have agreed to acquire New River focus and dedication can do by achieving Pharmaceuticals, our collaborative partner record sales for ADDERALL XR and through for VYVANSE, for $2.6 billion in cash.
Since our settlement agreements with both Impax then, we received a marketing approval from Laboratories, Inc. and Barr Laboratories, Inc. the FDA for the launch of VYVANSE, the next we will continue to maintain our exclusivity generation pediatric ADHD product in the for ADDERALL XR.
We also are planning US market.
We anticipate that this launch the launch of VYVANSE, our distinctive, next will occur during Q2 2007. generation ADHD product.
We believe it has Matthew Emmens the potential to surpass ADDERALL XR and This is an important and complementary Chief Executive officer become the market-leading branded ADHD acquisition that gives us full control of medicine.
We ne-tuned our organizational VYVANSE, a novel drug.
It will enable us to Shire began the year 2006 by setting structure so that we might more fully capitalize drive the launch and future development of its sights high, and then delivered on its on our strengths and resources in our core VYVANSE and gain the full economic benets promises to physicians, patients, investors areas of ADHD, Gastro-Intestinal, Renal and of the drug.
Based on VYVANSEs prole and and communities.
In doing so, we reinforced HGT.
In-licensing efforts have resulted in some final labeling, we believe that this drug has the our reputation as a beacon among specialty exciting new compounds to further advance potential to be the next generation stimulant biopharmaceutical companies a company our pipeline.
product to ADDERALL XR providing patients, that knows what it takes both to shape and parents and physicians with real benets that realize a vision.
Looking at each key franchise during 2006: differentiate this compound from other ADHD products.
This acquisition continues our Shires strengths include a portfolio of solidly ADHD leadership position in the growing US ADHD performing products, one of the richest Our leading ADHD franchise continued to market, improves our operating margins, pipelines in the specialty biopharmaceutical grow, capturing over 28% of the US market, signicantly enhances our earnings growth industry, and a global presence in high potential buoyed by record sales of ADDERALL XR.
from late 2009 and delivers on our overall niche markets.
These are supported by a We also positioned ourselves to build on global growth strategy.
unique business model that sets us apart our strengths.
DAYTRANA, the first and only from the competition, a disciplined and transdermal medication approved to treat Additionally, on February 20, 2007 we focused growth strategy, an achievementthe symptoms of ADHD, was approved by announced a combined debt and equity oriented culture, and a high quality team the FDA, and successfully launched in the nancing that will enable us to acquire of employees willing to meet extraordinary marketplace.
FDA submissions were made for New River and helps us retain the financial goals and get the job done.
SPD465, a long-acting version of ADDERALL exibility to make further acquisitions that will continue to drive Shires growth.
4 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc 6746 UK Report Section 2006. qxd 16 5 07 15:14 Page 5 Gastro-Intestinal Shire HGT Well positioned for a bright future During 2006, Shire made significant progress Our HGT business unit, established following During 2007 we will continue to build and in preparing for the launches in both the US the acquisition of US Biotech company TKT in further balance our product pipeline and grow and Europe of its promising treatment for 2005, is already adding significant value to our global reach by establishing a presence ulcerative colitis, LIALDA MEZAVANT known Shire.
Within just a year of the acquisition, we in new geographic regions of the world.
as LIALDA in the US and MEZAVANT in were able to launch ELAPRASE, our first HGT We also plan to grow ELAPRASE around the Europe, utilizing MMX MULTI MATRIX product while signicantly increasing sales world, maximize FOSRENOL sales in more SYSTEM MMX drug delivery technology.
These than 30 countries in which it is now approved LIALDA MEZAVANT with MMX provides successes underscore our ability to leverage and launch DYNEPO for chronic renal failure impressive efcacy and demonstrated the world-class expertise and talent within patients suffering from anemia.
We will statistically significant remission rates versus companies that we acquire in selected continue our success story in the ADHD placebo, while the current US market leader therapeutic areas to achieve exceptional market with the rollout of VYVANSE and did not show statistically significant remission results.
Importantly, our acquisition strategy is the growth of DAYTRANA.
In addition, rates versus placebo in the same study.
aimed not just at replenishing our pipeline, but LIALDA has launched and MEZAVANT will LIALDA MEZAVANT will be the first in this also at acquiring valuable expertise and talent.
be launched for patients who suffer from class to offer once-daily dosage.
At the same time, we will agencies for 15 European countries provided ELAPRASE, the first human enzyme continue our business development efforts approval for core labelling information for the replacement therapy for the treatment of that may include additional in-licensing, product.
Associated national approvals are Hunter syndrome, received FDA approval partnering and acquisition opportunities.
following in early 2007, enabling a phased in 2006 and had a highly successful launch launch in Europe.
In January 2007 the FDA in the US.
We also obtained a positive opinion, Thanks to a focused growth strategy and the approved the product, clearing the way for followed by approval in January 2007 from outstanding efforts and contributions of our launch in the US in Q1 2007.
European regulators, clearing the way for a employees around the world, Shire remains launch in Europe.
a standout in an enviable competitive position Renal and a recent quote in the Financial Times saw FOSRENOL, our global product that helps Sales of REPLAGAL, an enzyme replacement Shire as a shining example of the Specialty patients with end stage renal disease, therapy for the treatment of Fabry disease Pharma model.
We have a strong pipeline of continued to be rolled-out in markets around rose substantially in Europe principally due products that will drive strong growth for the the world and has now been approved in to improved patient diagnosis.
Our vision of becoming the 33 countries.
In 2006, it was recommended number of other exciting projects in the worlds leading biopharmaceutical company for approval through the European Mutual pipeline, including enzyme replacement continues to be realized.
Recognition Procedure in 11 countries and therapies for Gaucher disease GA-GCB, we proceeded with the roll-out in those currently in Phase 3 of development, and countries with major markets, such as France three additional Lysosomal Storage and Germany, which launched during Q4 candidates, including Sanlippo Syndrome 2006, followed by the UK, Italy and Spain in and Metachromatic Leukodystrophy.
In addition, we expect FOSRENOL to be launched in Canada during the second A highly focused organization Matthew Emmens quarter of 2007.
In the US, we established a During 2006, Shire announced plans to dedicated sales team to market this product re-organize the business into two distinct and agreed on a co-promote alliance with business units: Specialty Pharmaceuticals and Abbott Laboratories, Inc. Abbott.
We HGT, which will come into effect fully in 2007. launched DYNEPO in Q1 2007 and are The Executive Committee was superseded preparing to launch DYNEPO in the UK by a new Management Committee to steer the and other countries in Europe starting in implementation of Shires strategy, chaired by the first half of 2007.
DYNEPO is the first myself and composed of Angus Russell, Chief  agent produced Financial officer, and the two presidents of in a human cell line by the activation of the Shires businesses, Dr David Pendergast, human erythropoietin gene.
DYNEPO is President of Shire HGT, and Michael Cola, indicated for the treatment of anemia in President of Specialty Pharmaceuticals.
patients with chronic renal failure.
This structure will provide both focus and strategic exibility.
Annual report and accounts for the 5 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc
