Our year: A review from our Chairman and our Chief Executive John Buchanan Chairman and Financial overview We increased reported revenues by Sir Christopher ODonnell Chief Executive 9% to $2,779 million, with underlying growth at 8%.
Trading pro t for the year was up 10% to $571 million.
Trading margin Overall, market conditions across our businesses are was higher at 20.5%, interest and other finance income was favourable, with strong demand for our innovative products.
Adjusted We have established a justi ed reputation for developing attributable pro t of $425 million is before fair value loss on and delivering products capable of providing clinical and hedge of the sale proceeds of the joint venture, amortisation economic bene ts for patients, healthcare providers of acquisition intangibles of $14 million, the gain on the and payors.
disposal of the joint venture, bid related costs and taxation thereon.
The tax charge of $156 million includes $6 million Early in the year we created two separate business units of taxation bene t on bid related costs.
from our orthopaedics business: Orthopaedic Reconstruction and Orthopaedic Trauma and Clinical Therapies.
This has Prior period pro ts, earnings and balance sheets have improved focus on markets and customers.
Endoscopy been restated as detailed in Note 1 of the Summary enjoyed another strong year of revenue growth.
Wound Management completed a year of transition successfully with a new management team in place and Earnings per share Adjusted earnings per share EPSA improving underlying revenue growth, excluding the effect was 45.2 $2.26 per ADS.
This was 7% higher than last of the withdrawal of DERMAGRAFT and related tissue year, despite having been negatively impacted by the dilution engineering products, particularly in the US.
arising on disposal of our joint venture, BSN Medical, by the loss of net interest income deriving from the dollar sterling We completed the disposal of our BSN Medical joint interest rate differences and by losses, integration costs venture with Beiersdorf AG in February.
In May the Group and interest expenses arising from the acquisition of OBI.
exited the tissue engineering operations of the Advanced The total impact on EPSA growth of these one-off items was Wound Management business.
Our Orthopaedic Trauma and 7% for the year.
Reported basic earnings per share were Clinical Therapies business agreed a licence for DUROLANE 79.2 $3.96 per ADS.
Joint Fluid Therapy in June and our Endoscopy business completed the purchase and integration of OsteoBiologics, Cash ow Cash generated from operations in 2006 of Inc. OBI acquired in July.
We were disappointed that our $506 million is after paying out $33 million of macrotextured discussions with Biomet during Quarter 4, 2006 did not lead claim settlements, $4 million of bid related costs, $21 million to a transaction, as we believe this would have enhanced of restructuring and rationalisation costs and $26 million of shareholder value for Smith & Nephew.
In 2005 cash generated from operations of $372 million was after paying $47 million In March 2007, the Group announced that it had agreed for macrotextured claims, $7 million of restructuring and the purchase of Plus Orthopedics Holding AG Plus, rationalisation costs and $86 million of special pension a private Swiss orthopaedic company, for a total of contributions.
$889 million in cash, including assumed debt.
Plus has a complementary reconstruction product range and strengths Dividend The second interim dividend has been declared in the European and Asian markets.
Completion of the in the amount of 6.71 per share, a 10% increase in line with agreement is conditional on receipt of competition clearances our current dividend policy, and will be paid on 11 May 2007 which are expected to take two to three months.
to shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business on 20 April 2007.
On this occasion the dividend In the second half of the year, we undertook an assessment will be paid as a sterling equivalent of 3.41 pence per share of our medium-term capital needs both within the business to all shareholders.
Together with the first interim dividend and for acquisitions.
We concluded that shareholder value of 4.10 20.5 per ADS this makes a total declared dividend and financial ef ciency would be enhanced by returning of 10.81 per share 54.05 per ADS for the year 2006. capital to shareholders.
In February 2007 we commenced a Shareholders may participate in the Companys dividend share buyback programme of up to $1.5 billion to be carried reinvestment plan.
out over the next two years.
The scale of the programme will be dependent on the financial requirements of the business, particularly anticipated nancing requirements for acquisitions.
At 20 March 2007, we had purchased 2,910,000 shares at a cost of $35 million.
2 2006 Summary Financial Statement John Buchanan Chairman Joined the Board of Smith & Nephew as non-executive Deputy Chairman in 2005 and succeeded Dudley Eustace as Chairman following the AGM in April 2006.
He brings a wealth of experience to the role including many years as Group Chief Financial Of cer of BP p. l. c. W e have had a big year.
With the appointment of two executive directors and changes in leadership to all four businesses, it is pleasing to see how well the new team is working together to deliver competitive results.
3 2006 Summary Financial Statement Sir Christopher ODonnell Chief Executive After nearly 10 years at Smith & Nephew leading the Groups medical division, Chris ODonnell was appointed Chief Executive in 1997.
He then guided the Group through major restructuring and has subsequently led the company through a period of successful growth.
Earnings Improvement Programme At the time of our Dollar reporting In 2006 the Companys share capital third quarter results we indicated our intention to increase was redenominated from sterling to US dollars and we our focus on margin enhancement through a rigorous now report trading results and state of affairs in US dollars.
and systematic review to identify areas for improvement.
Dividends are declared in US dollars and the Groups shares This Earnings Improvement Programme is now in the are listed on the London Stock Exchange, priced in sterling, advanced planning stage and we expect to make a further and on the NYSE as American Depositary Shares ADS, announcement with our Quarter 1 2007 results.
4 2006 Summary Financial Statement Operating overview In the business reviews that follow Endoscopy Revenues grew by 9%.
In the US revenues the revenue growth percentages are in underlying terms grew by 7% while outside the US they were up 11%.
New they exclude the effects of currency translation and the products accounted for 28% of revenues as a number of effects of acquisitions.
Underlying revenue growth provides new launches were well received in the marketplace.
a consistent year-on-year measurement of business performance.
Revenue, trading and operating pro t by Repair revenues were strong with 19% growth.
This was business segment is set out in Note 2 of the Summary driven by the success of our shoulder, hip and knee repair Financial Statement.
Both launched during the year, CALAXO Osteoconductive Interference Screw and the BIORAPTOR Orthopaedic Reconstruction Orthopaedic Reconstruction Suture Anchor for the hip made good contributions to revenues grew by 10% in the year.
Our ow of new product revenue.
The integration of OBI, acquired in July 2006, introductions contributed to revenues growing at 9% in was completed successfully.
Growth outside the US was 12%.
New products generated 16% of revenues.
The resection business increased revenues by 3% in the year, with a new power handpiece and an enhanced range of Knee revenue growth increased by 12%.
The new JOURNEY arthroscopic shaver blades and burrs driving growth.
Digital Bi-Cruciate Stabilised Knee System introduced earlier in Operating Room and visualisation revenues increased by 5%.
2006 had a particularly strong performance towards yearend while our LEGION Revision Knee System continued to Advanced Wound Management The new management make good progress.
team appointed during 2006 successfully increased both the revenue growth rate and margins.
Good progress has been Hip revenue grew by 10% overall.
The introduction of the made in the US and we expect continued growth from this BHR system in the US is running ahead of plan and sales major market.
After a challenging 18 months our performance are exceeding our expectations.
Orthopaedic Trauma and Clinical Therapies Trauma and Revenue grew by 1% on last year.
In the US revenue Clinical Therapies revenues grew by 13% in the year.
Growth decreased by 3% due to the loss of DERMAGRAFT and its inside the US was 13% primarily due to the growth of Clinical related tissue engineering revenues.
Excluding the effect of Therapies and outside the US was 15%.
New products the withdrawal of tissue engineering products, US revenue generated 26% of revenues.
Outside the US revenue grew 2% due to healthcare funding constraints in the UK and Germany.
In Trauma, xation product revenues grew by 9%.
We had excellent revenues from our new products: the TRIGEN The Board would like to thank all Smith & Nephew employees INTERTAN nail for femoral fractures and our upper extremity for their contribution to the growth of our company in 2006 PERI-LOC Periarticular Locked Plating System.
and for their commitment to our continued success.
Clinical Therapies revenues grew by 23% with strong Outlook Global market conditions are favourable, with growth from the improved EXOGEN 4000 low frequency underlying demographic trends driving strong demand ultrasound bone-healing device, which we launched in the for our products.
We will continue to capitalise on this second quarter: and from our SUPARTZ Joint Fluid Therapy by focusing on innovative products that create value for product.
The integration of DUROLANE Single Injection Joint healthcare providers and delivering bene ts to patients.
Fluid Therapy into the Smith & Nephew selling and marketing We will also continue to seek good quality acquisitions that network outside the US has been successful following our can add value to our businesses and for shareholders.
worldwide licensing agreement in June with Q-MED AB in Sweden.
We will continue to work towards pre-market New products launched in 2006, together with further approval of the product in the US.
launches planned for 2007, give us a strong platform to outperform market growth in 2007 and beyond.
We are We decided that customers of our minimal intervention spinal now placing very strong emphasis on margin enhancement products, including IDET IntraDiscal ElectroThermal Therapy and we anticipate our Earnings Improvement Programme and discography, are better served by the sales channels will have a substantial effect on our business performance and increased resources available in our clinical therapies in 2008 and 2009. business and the responsibility for this product group was transferred from our Endoscopy business in January 2007.
For further details For further details about Orthopaedic For further details 5 about Orthopaedic Trauma and Clinical For further details about Advanced 2006 Summary Reconstruction Therapies about Endoscopy Wound Management Financial Statement see page 6 see page 8 see page 10 see page 12 Staying one step ahead Our BIRMINGHAM HIP Resurfacing system BHR is a unique alternative to total hip replacement for young and active patients, and the only system approved by the US FDA.
While competitors concentrate on launching in the US, our product development team Product testing laboratory, Warwick, is developing a second England Tim Band, Director of Product Development, discusses the latest test generation BHR system with research of the BHR products with Director of Manufacturing Roger Ashton the potential to rede ne right and Test Engineer Dr Azad Hussain centre.
The dedicated team standards in hip products.
top picture responsible for developing the BHR product line includes experts in everything from advanced materials to customer marketing.
