4 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Chief Executives statement For the second year running, Smiths has achieved double Sales digit growth rates, with sales increasing 17% and headline operating profit up 25%.
In each of the last two years operating profit rose faster than sales.
The headline operating margin on sales improved by a full percentage point to 14.8%.
It is important that this growth was achieved right across Smiths.
In 2006 each division grew sales by 10% or more, and, taking the last two years together, each grew sales by 20% or more.
Our growth is equally divided between acquisitive and 3,523m organic growth, and it is gratifying that organic growth is accelerating from 8% in 2005 to 9% in 2006.
Keith Butler-Wheelhouse Recognising continued deterioration in the automotive Headline Chief Executive component market, particularly in the US, an impairment pre-tax profit review of the preference share investment in TI Automotive has been undertaken.
As a result, Smiths has decided to write down the carrying value of the investment in the TI Automotive preference shares from 325m to nil value in the accounts.
There is no cash impact from this decision.
22% I am pleased that this year we have converted some 81% of headline operating profit into cash despite making significant 492m investment in the business.
One vital aspect of my job is visiting Smiths facilities around the world.
What unifies all our 250 plus locations, whether Statutory new or long established, is the quality of the people who work pre-tax profit there.
I would like to thank each and every Smiths person for their dedication and achievements over the past year.
Driving for Full Potential Last year I outlined Smiths six fundamental strengths.
Our strengths help us shape the Company, defining our markets, creating opportunities and growing from our core businesses.
They are the basis of our Full Potential 132m programme, introduced three years ago to grow sales and enhance profitability.
Full Potential is not an abstract concept at Smiths.
People in every part of our business are taking action to achieve the best possible long-term performance for shareholders, with targets based on first-class execution of our plans against realistic expectations for their markets.
Here, in the context of our six strengths, I will provide a snapshot of some past and present examples of actions we have taken to deliver continuing high levels of growth.
Operating in sectors of high growth: Smiths applies technology in the key growth markets in which we compete.
Our investment in creating a ports and borders business for 5 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Chief Executives statement continued Smiths Full Potential Actions based on Smiths six strengths Metrics programme 1.
Top and bottom-line growth The actions necessary to develop the business A set of actions towards its Full Potential are planned, and our 2.
Cash generation Generation of above average freeundertaken by Smiths people then vigorously pursue those actions.
cash-flow contributes to additional people to achieve the 1.
Operate in sectors of high growth growth by enhancing reinvestment best possible long-term Creating positions in sectors with above average long-term opportunities.
growth: Seeking faster growth than the overall markets in performance.
Aim to generate at least 75% of which we compete.
Reach deep into global markets Targets based on a 3.
Return on capital Scale and infrastructure to operate globally: manufacturing, Pursue investment opportunities realistic expectation of customer support, sales and technology development to generate after-tax returns of market performance increasingly located to achieve growth objectives.
Develop technology to help customers succeed Exact threshold depends on Investing in R&D to access the technologies needed to secure degree of risk in the project.
Deliver constant improvement returns comfortably exceeding Continuous productivity improvement sustains our cost of capital.
Improve the business mix after-tax returns of 12% by the Evaluate what a business is worth to Smiths essentially 3rd full year of ownership.
the value of the future profit and consequent cash-flows expected from successful Full Potential actions and seek 4.
Shareholder value to sell businesses where others can create more future value A combination of above-average than Smiths.
Acquire businesses that are worth more under free cash-flow plus business Smiths ownership.
Concentrating investment in product growth enables double-digit total areas and markets expected to generate superior returns shareholder returns to be targeted.
Do business the right way The Smiths Code of Corporate Responsibility and Business Ethics sets out a clear framework for all employees.
Smiths Detection is already fuelling growth, as is our drive by establishing new offices to develop the relationships to expand our position as a Tier 1 supplier in aerospace, we need around the world.
Looking forward, new global particularly in the civil market.
Looking forward, we are infrastructure creates new opportunities to build profitable seeking to broaden our product offering in other high-growth positions in high-growth sectors worldwide.
In Bangalore, markets such as petrochemicals and telecommunications.
India, a new centre of excellence opened by John Crane offers better access and support for the significant Indian 2.
Reaching deep into global markets: As global leaders we and Asian markets.
Similarly, our new Smiths Detection apply technology across the world to serve our customers facility in St Petersburg, Russia will serve the fast-growing better and to build brand loyalty.
The success of many of our Russian security market.
And to co-ordinate and support our businesses is rooted in their matching the geographic footprint increasing China activities, we have opened a corporate office of their customers.
Smiths Medical continues to develop its in Shanghai.
global distribution network, both by acquiring distributors and 6 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Chief Executives statement continued 3.
Developing technology to help our customers succeed: 6.
Doing business the right way: Our customers rely on Our customers are continually seeking competitive advantage.
Smiths people to be rigorous and ethical in everything we All our divisions have a long tradition of using technical do.
Our Code of Corporate Responsibility and Business leadership to develop and apply the products and services Ethics sets out a clear framework to help our people make that our customers need to achieve this.
Smiths Medical the right decisions whatever the circumstances.
To explain has helped customers meet increasing safety requirements: more clearly what this means, this year, for the first time, Smiths Aerospace is developing a core computing system to we are producing a Corporate responsibility report, available improve aircraft efficiency and flexibility: and Smiths Detection on our website, www.
Environment, health and applies increasing levels of sophistication to help counter safety performance is included in this report.
After a year of threats to security.
R&D is often an important measure of how very significant progress in 2005, EHS has advanced more successful we have been in winning contracts, giving us an modestly this year.
Going forward, we are re-energising our opportunity to improve long-term market share and returns.
efforts to ensure continuous improvement across the board.
Delivering constant improvement: World-class performance 2006: a year of growth and transition requires constant improvement.
A good example is our Applying the six elements of the Smiths Full Potential relentless drive to improve manufacturing efficiency, which programme helped ensure 2006 was a year of growth.
There requires constant attention to detail.
We have changed the have also been some important transitions: we have made scale and location of manufacturing to deliver the best value changes to the executive team and are seeing a revolution in while maintaining or enhancing quality.
Over the last year with Smiths Medical.
sales growing by 17% and headcount increasing by only 4%, The diagram below shows important changes to the key productivity improved sharply sales per employee increasing management of Smiths.
Alan Thomson retired as Group by 6%.
Expansion of existing manufacturing capacity in both Finance Director in September, and I would like to thank China and Mexico is evidence of a continuing programme to locate our manufacturing where we can deliver the best possible quality and economics.
Improving our business mix: We routinely look at our business mix to ensure we build and maintain definitive Keith Butler-Wheelhouse positions in high-growth sectors worldwide.
We do this through acquisitions and organic growth, and also the disposal of businesses no longer appropriate for Smiths ownership.
Over the past five years we have acquired businesses valued David Lillycrop John Langston Director and General Counsel Finance Director at 1,157m and disposed of businesses valued at 935m.
Smiths Medical is now 50% bigger than in 2004, with much Group Managing Directors of this growth coming from the Medex acquisition.
The past David Flowerday John Ferrie year has seen a number of relatively small but important Strategy Aerospace bolt-on acquisitions.
Additionally, we are investing internally Chris Fox Stephen Phipson to develop existing capability in growth markets, for example in Communications Detection the Smiths Aerospace components business.
With production Robin Taunt Srini Seshadri capacity in both China and Poland growing substantially, we Corporate Development Medical also invested US$44m in a new turbine engine components Arnold Wagner Paul Cox facility in North Carolina, US, to create further opportunities Human Resources Specialty Engineering for this fast-growing business.
7 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Chief Executives statement continued him for the enjoyable, as well as enduring, partnership we had Smiths Detections equipment that delivers increased over the past ten years.
Alan has agreed to continue to assist security in a variety of arenas: Smiths Aerospaces strong Smiths on special projects.
record in helping advance aviation safety: and Smiths Medicals specialist devices which help medical practitioners John Langston took over from Alan as Group Finance Director, make people healthier and save lives.
Smiths also makes a while Paul Cox succeeded John as Group Managing Director, contribution in improving productivity, not least in delivering Smiths Specialty Engineering.
Johns operational knowledge energy efficiently, thanks to John Crane, or providing reliable he also previously ran Smiths Detection and financial telecommunications, through Smiths Interconnect.
Our acumen will be very beneficial to the team.
Paul joined Smiths products are integral to the productivity of many aspects in January 2005 as President, Smiths Interconnect from of everyday life.
Andrew Corporation in Chicago, Illinois, where he had led both its Satellite Communications and Antenna Products divisions.
Our future growth is underpinned by a number of key factors.
Smiths Aerospace is moving from a period of high investment On 1 March 2006 we welcomed Srini Seshadri as Group to one where the rewards of that investment will be reaped.
Managing Director of Smiths Medical.
Srini joined us from Smiths Detection offers a portfolio of technologies that GE Healthcare Technologies where he was Chief Marketing address a world of increasing insecurity.
Smiths Medical has undergone a major change in scale as I have discussed above, we have a business that is in shape over the past two years.
This, together with the change in to benefit from the relentless rise in global healthcare spend.
leadership, is catalysing a transformation within this business And in Smiths Specialty Engineering we are well positioned in three ways: bringing together manufacturing: simplifying to exploit strong markets.
business processes: and focusing our product brands.
Thanks to our people, our technology and our access to Moving manufacturing to fewer, larger units has been under customers in some of the most exciting markets, Smiths way for some time, but the pace of change has picked up in brings technology to life.
We are already working hard to the past year.
This has led to some hard decisions, including communicate this positive message, and that effort is being ceasing manufacturing at some major locations.
Such redoubled through a new focus on our branding, which will decisions are never easy, but I know that these are very flow through all our communications channels.
Smiths has necessary for the future prospects of the business.
a great story and we are determined to ensure people hear Across the business we are bringing together our internal about us.
processes, simplifying and standardising how we do things.
We are already seeing benefits from this and expect to see more in the next financial year.
Smiths Medical has created a small family of strong product Keith Butler-Wheelhouse brands that command excellent customer recognition and Chief Executive loyalty.
In sum we have created a business that leverages the benefits of being Smiths Medical while maintaining the trusted relationships that our customers have with our product brands.
The Smiths Story Smiths is a world leader in the practical application of advanced technologies.
Throughout Smiths, we deliver products and services that make the world safer, healthier and more productive.
This is obvious when considering
