rui fide sousa Chairman left ed story President and Chief Executive CHAIRMANS AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT dear shareholder, the past 12 months have been a watershed year for soCo.
our hugely successful vietnam project has evolved from pure exploration to development, appraisal and exploration: the potential of our yemen project has been increasingly realised through Basement development drilling and increased facilities capacity and our West africa portfolio has been expanded to increase the potential to repeat these successes.
SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 2 3 The Company has successfully fide-risked expenditure on operational activities rose after tax profit its chances of long term success whilst to $114.3 million in 2006 from $76.2 maintaining significant upside that offers plenty million in 2005.
With net proceeds from the from Continuing of opportunity for exponential future growth.
issue of convertible bonds equalling $243.0 operations hit a million and cash generated by operations of We have again been very successful with $53.0 million, the cash balance rose by reCord high of the drill bit with our exploration and appraisal $136.8 million to $187.8 million at year drilling success in Vietnam exceeding 70%.
$29.1 million in This coupled with the successful infill injector 2006 exCeeding drilling in Yemen has led to an increase in 2006 operations reView 2P reserves net to our working interest of Vietnam that of the 32.4 million barrels and 9.4 million barrels The year got off to an impressive start when in Vietnam and Yemen, respectively.
Before the second well drilled in the same fault block previous year factoring in the reserve reduction associated as the initial 2005 discovery well on the Te that totalled with farming out half of our Marine XI interest Giac Trang TGT structure, the TGT-2X, tested in the Republic of Congo Brazzaville, 2P at a total combined flow rate of approximately $20.3 million reserves increased to 172.5 million barrels in 17,500 barrels of oil equivalent per day 2006.
Following the farm-out, 2P reserves at BOEPD from the Miocene Lower Bach Ho the end of 2006 equalled 160.6 million barrels.
The good news continued when the rig moved FinanciaL and operating to a location on the fourth fault block on the resuLts TGT structure and the TGT-3X tested at a After tax profit from continuing operations combined maximum rate of 9,908 BOEPD.
hit a record high of $29.1 million in 2006 exceeding that of the previous year that Buoyed by so much early success on the totalled $20.3 million.
Largely as a result TGT structure, the rig moved approximately of the ongoing facilities expansion and infill 30 kilometres south of the TGT-3X discovery drilling programme at the Kharir field in to spud the initial well on the L prospect, Yemen, production net to the Companys the Te Giac Vang TGV 1X well.
The TGV working interest increased, rising to 6,766 structure was a priority not only because barrels of oil per day BOPD in 2006 from of an apparent large shallow structure with 5,684 BOPD the prior year.
good Miocene potential, but also because success here would hold the rights for the The Group had its highest ever capital apparently even larger high potential expenditures during the year with an extensive Basement Oligocene structure.
Enthusiasm exploration appraisal drilling programme in was tempered by realism as the TGV-1X Vietnam, significant facilities expansion and intersected poorly developed reservoir sands development drilling in Yemen and its initial in the primary targeted Clastic sequence at 3D seismic acquisition in Congo Brazzaville.
The well did have good In order to bridge the period prior to oil shows in several Oligocene sands when translating its successes into operating cash the well was deepened.
However, after flow, the Company guaranteed a convertible analysis of the logs, it appeared that these bonds issue of $250 million in May.
CHAIRMANS AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED Following the TGV well, the rig was moved to drill the sidetrack to the Ca Ngu Vang CNV 4X well on Block 9-2 that was temporarily suspended late in 2005 after encountering unexpected high pressures in the Oligocene sequence above the Basement.
We were back on track when the sidetrack of the appraisal well, CNV-4XST, tested at 7,050 BOEPD from Basement.
This result provided final confirmation that CNV was ready to move into development.
All regulatory approvals were received and the pilot development plan was approved in December 2006.
From that point forward, Petrovietnam has funded its full share of costs on Block 9-2.
With a new rig, activity once again focused on Block 16-1.
The third 2006 appraisal well on the TGT structure, the TGT-4X, was drilled on the H3 fault block between the initial discovery well, TGT-1X, and the TGT-3X.
The primary target, a lower Miocene trap, was breached due to late movement on a fault located south of the TGT-4X well.
The Oligocene D interval, a new reservoir on the TGT structure, flowed at a rate slightly over 600 BOPD on a short test.
The rig then moved to drill the first exploration well on the Te Giac Xang TGX structure on Prospect K, approximately 15 kilometres west of the TGT structure.
Although the TGX- 1X encountered reservoir sands, it was abandoned after initial analysis indicated that it was not drilled within structural closure.
To close out the 2006 drilling campaign, the rig moved back to drill the fifth well on the TGT structure as a final prelude to seeking a declaration of commerciality on the field.
The TGT-5X had a total combined maximum flow rate of approximately 16,430 BOEPD from the LBH 5.2 and Oligocene C intervals.
SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 4 Thus, sandwiched between clear success with west aFrica drilling suCCess the TGT appraisal programme, there were The Group added to its West Africa portfolio inconclusive results when looking for when its 85% owned subsidiary acquired during the year repeatability on the Clastics fairway elsewhere an 85% working interest in the 800 square has led to an on Block 16-1.
The 3D seismic acquired kilometre Nganzi Block, onshore the during the year is expected to be a critical tool Democratic Republic of Congo Kinshasa.
inCrease in 2p in leading to drilling success in 2007 outside As operator, the Group carried out a the proven TGT structure.
reconnaissance aeromagnetic and gravity reserves net to survey over the onshore extension of the our Working yemen coastal basin in order to delineate prospective During 2006, the East Shabwa Block 10 areas for hydrocarbon generation and interest of 32.4 consortium continued its programme to migration delineating several leads, further appraise the Kharir field and increase interpreted as large horst blocks.
million Barrels production capacity from the Block.
Drilling and 9.4 million results and the addition of a self-contained In September, the Groups 85% owned production facility enabled the fields to exceed subsidiary signed an agreement to farm-out Barrels in all previous production records averaging a 37.5% interest in the Marine XI Block, more than 40,000 BOPD.
offshore the Republic of Congo Brazzaville, vietnam and whilst retaining a 37.5% working interest.
yemen, A number of successful development wells Further details can be found in the Review were drilled in the Kharir field KHA during of Operations.
As operator, the Group began respeCtively 2006.
These include the KHA-1-12 well in evaluation of the Marine XI Block when it the western part of the structure, the KHA-1- acquired an approximate 1,200 square 14 well in the southern flank of the structure, kilometre 3D seismic programme in the fourth the KHA-1-07.
G1 sidetrack, which was drilled quarter of 2006. as a water injection well but completed as a producer based on drilling results and the thaiLand KHA-1-16 drilled on the last 3D line on the In April, the Groups Thai subsidiary signed eastern extension of the field.
These wells are a Participation Agreement that could all connected to the production facilities and accelerate the development of the project were tested at rates between 5,500 and in the Bualuang field in the Gulf of Thailand 8,400 BOPD.
Significantly, the highest rate and provide meaningful production as early was from the eastern extension well.
This as the first half of 2008. portends further extension of the field in that direction.
The assignment of interest, predicated on meeting certain work requirements and subject The consortium also had a very active to the appropriate regulatory approval by the exploration programme in the northern part Government of Thailand, enables the Farmee of the Block that yielded one discovery, but to earn up to a 60% working interest, whilst overall proved inconclusive as to the allowing the Group to focus resources on additional potential in that area.
higher profile projects in Vietnam and Yemen.
Further details of the Participation Agreement can be found in the Financial Review.
CHAIRMANS AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED corporate recommendation to appoint Rui fide Sousa conVertiBLe Bonds to succeed Patrick.
Primarily to fund the impending development of its Vietnam projects, in May of 2006, the outLook Company was the guarantor of an offering of As active as we were in 2006, we will be even $250 million in guaranteed bonds convertible busier on the operations front in 2007.
The into preference shares of the issuing development programme on Block 9-2 in subsidiary Bonds, which are exchangeable Vietnam will be in full swing leading up to for fully paid ordinary shares of SOCO.
The expected first oil in 2008.
With only the rest size of the offering was increased from $200 of this year before licence expiry to explore million due to strong institutional demand, but Block 16-1 in Vietnam, barring an extension, was still six times oversubscribed upon issue.
we expect to drill up to eight exploration wells.
The Bonds will pay a coupon of 4.50% per We have prioritised an exploration well on a annum and will initially be convertible into an TGT look-a-like structure, Prospect S, aggregate of approximately 6.238 million identified from the 2006 3D seismic ordinary shares.
The initial conversion price programme.
This is expected to be followed is 21.847 per ordinary share, a premium by a high potential Oligocene Basement target of 42%.
The Bonds will be repaid at 100% in the deep E prospect that essentially of their principal amount on 16 May 2013 underlies the shallower L prospect.
A unless previously converted or redeemed declaration of commerciality on the TGT field further details of the convertible bond issue is imminent.
can be found in the Financial Review.
We should see the initial results from the increase in Vietnam interests water flooding that began last year in the In June, the Group seized the opportunity Kharir field in Yemen.
The combination of to increase its interest in the promising the water flood, additional infill drilling and Clastics play in the Cuu Long Basin of Vietnam expanded production capacity should allow by acquiring OPECO Vietnam Ltd. which holds considerable growth in oil sales in Yemen, a direct 2% interest in Block 16-1.
The albeit after an early 2007 cutback due to purchase price was $22 million further additional facilities installation.
details of the acquisition can be found in the Financial Review.
While evaluation of our West Africa portfolio is in its infancy, indeed, even the portfolio Board changes itself is evolving, 2007 will be a busy year In December, the Companys Non-Executive in terms of pre-drilling activity.
We are Chairman, Patrick Maugein, died after a long processing and will soon be interpreting the illness.
Patrick was a friend, a tireless worker 3D seismic acquired last year on Marine XI on behalf of SOCO and a champion of the offshore Republic of Congo Brazzaville.
The Company benefited significantly conceivable that we could be ready to drill in through its relationship with Patrick and he the latter part of the year, but more likely in will be missed.
We expect to be acquiring 2D seismic meeting, the Board voted unanimously to on the Democratic Republic of Congo accept the Nominations Committee Kinshasa Nganzi Block.
SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 6 We know that not every well drilled in 2007 will be a success.
We understand that even on the highly prospective Vietnam Block 16-1 Clastics play, the chances of drilling success are only in the 25% range.
However, we have positive indications for further good news from the Vietnam exploration programme.
There certainly will be an abundance of news.
We trust that you share our enthusiasm for what is in store.
Rui fide Sousa Ed Story Chairman President and Chief Executive
