Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 Chief Executives Statement 8 POWERFUL RESULTS Ian Marchant Chief Executive During 2005 06 Scottish and Southern SSEs core objective is the delivery of k SSE decisions to delay price rises Energy continued its focus on delivering sustainable long-term real dividend growth.
have saved a typical gas and electricity a strong operational performance and on Our means of achieving this is unchanged customer around 100 since the start securing value from its investment in new and unchanging: maintaining and investing of 2004, compared with what they assets.
This has enabled the company to in energy networks: adding to our generation would have paid had SSE increased deliver another set of very sound financial portfolio: growing our energy supply prices at the same time as the UKs results and add to its well-established track business: and developing further our largest energy supplier.
Prices will record of sustained real growth in the presence in contracting, connections, gas be held at their current levels until dividend.
In summary: storage and telecoms.
This approach at least the start of 2007. continued to serve us well during 2005 06 k The full-year dividend will increase by k SSE has started the investment of and we will maintain it during 2006 07 and 9.4% to 46.5p per share, including the around 225m in the installation of flue beyond.
With our major investment recommended final dividend of 32.7p gas desulphurisation FGD equipment programme, focused on the UKs key per share.
at its coal-fired generation plant.
priorities of reliable and lower carbon energy supplies, we have excellent opportunities k Adjusted profit before tax grew by k Work has commenced on the 140m to enhance and create value.
project to construct what will for sustained real growth in the dividend be Scotlands first large-scale k Adjusted earnings per share therefore remain excellent.
conventional hydro electric scheme increased by 16.1%, from 62.8p for 50 years, at Glendoe near to 72.9p.
k There are exceptional items totalling k SSE delivered 140MW of new wind 127.4m, comprising distributions farm capacity during 2005 06, and from the administration of TXU has acquired two new developments, businesses and profit from the sale comprising 98MW, subject to planning of Thermal Transfer.
consent and network capacity k The integration of the Scotland and being secured.
This Annual Report statement describes adjusted profit before tax before exceptional items, net finance income the Southern gas networks is on k SSE has entered into a partnership from pension assets IAS 19, the impact of IAS 32 and schedule, following their acquisition IAS 39 and after the removal of taxation on profits from with Mitsui Babcock, Siemens UK by Scotia Gas Networks, in which SSE jointly-controlled entities and associates.
and UK Coal to undertake the front has a 50% stake, in June 2005. end engineering design of a 500MW It also describes adjusted earnings and earnings per k SSEs energy supply business has cleaner coal plant at its Ferrybridge share before exceptional items, net finance income from pension assets IAS 19, the impact of IAS 32 and IAS 39 grown to over 6.7 million customers Power Station.
at the end of March 2006 a net gain k The development of SSEs energy of 600,000 during the year and In addition it describes adjusted operating profit before services business has reached an of 2.2 million since 2002. exceptional items, net finance income from pension important milestone with the launch assets IAS 19, the impact of IAS 32 and IAS 39, and after on 1 June 2006 of a new gas boiler the removal of taxation and interest on profits from installation and maintenance service.
jointly controlled entities and associates.
