An Interview with the Chief Executive Officer Garry Watts Q How do you believe SSL will achieve its new target of annual double-digit operating profit growth for the next three years to March 2009?
GW SSL has made significant progress over the past two years growing sales and increasing profits.
By continuing to drive sales growth through consumer insight-led innovation and cutting-edge advertising whilst maintaining a tight control of overhead costs, I believe that we can achieve our new target.
Q What key performance indicators do you use to measure your business?
SSL will become and remain GW Successful, Socially responsible We have established brand contribution as a measure of our success in growing the value of our brands and Lively.
brand contribution is defined as sales less cost of sales, market development expenditure and variable selling costs.
In addition we aim to control our overhead costs such that the impact of inflation-related increases is offset by cost control measures, thereby keeping the overall level of overheads flat in absolute terms.
Q You have said that Durex has in excess of 30 per cent share of the global branded condom market.
How do you expect to achieve further growth?
GW We are positioning Durex as a brand which not only helps people have safe sex, but also helps them to have better sex.
By continuing to innovate, as we have done with Pleasuremax and Tingle condoms which aim to enhance sex with novel sensations, by exploiting growing economies such as Eastern Europe, by expanding distribution channels and by using effective advertising, we expect to continue to attract consumers to the brand.
In addition to our range of condoms, the Durex Play range of personal lubricants and devices has delivered sales of just over 12 million, exceeding my expectations and we will continue with developments in this area.
Q How can Scholl footcare be further developed?
GW The future of Scholl footcare lies with innovation.
New products must come from understanding what consumers want.
We spend a lot of time talking to our consumers and developing key consumer insights which become the focus of our new product development.
Our new products are based on the latest available technology and have strong efficacy levels which are supported by in-depth clinical trials.
We make sure that we communicate clearly the benefits and efficacy levels of our products to pharmacists such that Scholl becomes the recommended product above other competing brands.
Our new Scholl footcare hero products are key to the brands future growth, pulling consumers away from niche competitor brands.
These are: Cracked Heel Repair Cream which is clinically proven to repair dry, cracked skin within seven days: Foot Cream Mousse is a scientific breakthrough in foot skincare giving intensive moisturisation which is easily absorbed and is not greasy: and Freeze Verruca and Wart Remover, the latest in our range of hero products, already launched in France and Italy, became the UK number one brand in just one month.
SSL International plc Annual Report and Accounts An Interview with the Chief Executive Officer 2006 Q You have seen some encouraging signs for the recovery of Scholl footwear in the second half of the year.
How do you expect to capitalise on this?
GW We are very pleased that we have made progress in stabilising our Scholl footwear business.
Our spring summer footwear is the core of our range and our focus for 2006 has been to ensure that we present an attractive and stylish range for the season.
Going forward, our focus for footwear is to remain true to the strong Scholl brand heritage, to extend distribution outside our traditional pharmacy sector to high street retail stores, and to offer a range of well-designed shoes which help your feet without compromising on style.
We will develop our range of shoes around three core propositions: the classic Pescura wooden exercise sandal which helps tone foot and leg muscles: Gelactiv incorporating a supportive gel insole, which helps cushion every step: and the bio-mechanically designed Adapta which cradles the foot arch and absorbs the stresses and impact of walking.
Q What is your attitude towards returning profits to shareholders?
GW After we completed the disposal programme in 2004, the Board took the opportunity to rebase the dividend reflecting the reduced profitability of the Group, with the promise that once dividend cover of 2.5 times was achieved, we would look to increase dividend payments.
In fact, earlier than indicated with dividend cover of 2 times, we have now increased our final dividend by 5 per cent to 4.4 pence.
Q How do you expect to exploit growing economies such as India and China?
GW The Indian and Chinese markets represent a huge opportunity for SSL.
Through working with our local business partners we are well positioned and well-established in both markets.
Over the last year we have increased our investment in both India and China.
In India, we already had three condom manufacturing facilities and have recently opened a Scholl footcare sourcing and packing operation there.
In May this year we announced that we are to increase our investment in our China joint venture to take full control of the manufacturing, sales and distribution activities.
This is an excellent expansion opportunity in a market which is enjoying strong economic development.
Garry Watts, Chief Executive 22 May 2006 8 9 SSL International plc Annual Report and Accounts An Interview with the Chief Executive Officer 2006
