Chief Executives review This has been another excellent year for the Group and we have again improving customer satisfaction.
Building on these achievements, we will achieved our objective of driving growth in our business, both organically submit a powerful, value-for money bid that we believe will put us in a and through targeted acquisitions.
Our strong performance and success has strong position to win the new franchise.
resulted in independent recognition with Stagecoach companies named The two Virgin Rail Group VRG franchises, West Coast and CrossCountry, Britains best bus operator and best rail passenger operator.
have delivered improved punctuality and customer satisfaction over the last Stagecoach has further enhanced its reputation for innovation in both the year.
Virgin CrossCountry is carrying a record 20m passengers a year, bus and rail passenger transport markets through the development of new following the replacement of the entire train fleet and improved services products and new ideas to attract more customers to our services.
On West Coast, passenger volumes have increased by nearly 40% in the last eight years and there are plans to run an The Group has been able to largely offset the significant cost pressures, unprecedented 20-minute frequency on the key London-Manchester particularly in relation to fuel, being experienced by all bus operators, corridor by 2008. through its focus on continued revenue growth and close management of controllable costs.
The Group anticipates that these costs pressures will The renegotiation of the West Coast franchise is a central priority for the continue into the financial year to 30 April 2007 and it will remain proactive Group and we have been encouraged by the commitment shown by both in seeking to offset the impact of these costs.
VRGs management and the Department for Transport DfT to agreeing revised commercial terms for the period through to 2012.
We look forward During the year, we made two key acquisitions in our UK Bus business, to these terms being finalised over the next few months, resulting in a which have expanded our reach in new areas of the country and brought sustainable agreement in the long-term interests of passengers, taxpayers new opportunities to grow the market for bus travel.
The integration of and shareholders.
Glenvale Transport in Merseyside and the Traction Group operations in Yorkshire, Lincolnshire and Tayside is progressing well.
Like the West Coast franchise, Virgin CrossCountry continues to operate on the basis of annual budgets set by the DfT.
Stagecoach intends to bid jointly Our continued investment in new, accessible vehicles and industry-leading with Virgin for the new CrossCountry franchise when the tender process marketing campaigns has resulted in further organic passenger growth in starts later this year.
The new CrossCountry franchise is scheduled to start in our UK Bus division.
Our telemarketing unit, which has been highly November 2007. successful in attracting thousands of new bus users in the UK, has been expanded this year and we believe this approach can deliver further Stagecoach is also excited by the opportunities to grow its rail portfolio and impressive results.
we will consider bids for the East Midlands and West Midlands operations when the Government announces its specification for these new franchises.
Our market-leading budget inter-city travel service, megabus.
com, has again grown revenue this year, and we are excited by the prospects for our joint In North America, we have driven up revenue in our United States and venture with ComfortDelGro to provide inter-city coach services in Scotland.
Canada bus operations by concentrating on operational delivery, marketing of our core services, small bolt-on acquisitions and winning and retaining Stagecoach continues to develop productive partnerships with local contract business.
Despite fuel and insurance cost pressures, we have authorities and this approach has produced passenger volume growth at maintained our market position and we have achieved particularly our regional UK bus companies.
We were the most successful of the major impressive growth in our sightseeing operations where we have made UK bus operators in our bids for Government-funded Kickstart schemes improved use of online bookings via the Internet.
The tremendous commitment of our employees and managers has been Since the end of the financial year, we have agreed the sale of our London central to the growth of our business over the past year.
Stagecoach has been able to buck the national trend and despite significant cost pressures, the Group has the potential to achieve achieve organic growth in its bus operations both inside and outside even more in the year ahead.
London although we believe there will be more moderate levels of growth in London in the future.
Against that background, our UK Bus division will focus on less regulated bus operations outside London where we can drive growth through innovation, investment and strong marketing.
Our UK Rail division continues to perform strongly, combining good profitability with excellent operational performance and improved customer satisfaction.
The current South West Trains and Island Line franchises run until February 2007.
Stagecoach is one of four remaining bidders for the new South Western franchise, which will combine the operations of South West Trains and Island Line from February 2007.
We have transformed the South West Brian Souter Trains franchise, investing in new trains, driving up punctuality and Chief Executive Stagecoach Group plc | page 3
