Name: Anouska Perera Position: In-House Solicitor Birthplace: Caerphilly, South Wales Chief Executive Officers Review Report & Accounts 006 continued Why I work for SThree: Opportunities that inspire motivated individuals.
We are confident The other group brands accounted benign and candidates have the this brand is now well-positioned for a combined total of 8.9m gross confidence to put themselves to start to add new disciplines profit, a growth of 30.
% on the on the job market, then demand to its established branch network previous year - a highly creditable levels in the specialist staffing market and is at an exciting new phase in performance given the over 95% will remain supportive of continued its development.
growth rate in 005 provided a strong performance.
Huxley achieved a total gross profit Again it is worth commenting that We also take great confidence in of 35.6m, a 4.
9% improvement most of this growth was still derived that 006 once again proved the on the previous year.
This is a from UK ICT which is generally robustness and scalability of the remarkable achievement given that regarded as amongst the most SThree business model as we roll it the 005 growth figure was itself competitive of all the specialist out across an increasingly wide range 48%.
Huxleys outstanding growth is staffing markets.
We see this as of new geographies and new sectors.
a reflection not only of its strong ICT further evidence that even our The fact that we achieved the growth franchise but also the fact that it has most mature markets are capable we did with only limited parts of the most developed programme of of generating healthy growth if the the business meaningfully engaged sector diversification with established strategy applied to them is well outside of our core ICT franchise businesses in banking and finance formulated and properly executed.
suggests that we have as yet only and engineering.
During the year seen a small part of the potential that Huxley took steps to roll out these this strategy has to offer.
Outlook disciplines into newer territories, 006 was another very good year most notably with the opening of the Into 007 and beyond we expect for SThree.
We built not only on the New York office.
In this sense, Huxley to see a significant increase in the strong performances of recent years has acted as a pathfinder for a route number of brands actively adding but also on the solid platform we have that we expect the other brands to to their portfolios.
During 006 developed over our twenty years in increasingly follow.
proactive steps were taken to expedite the specialist staffing market.
Clearly this process whilst at the same time our maiden year as a public company Progressives total gross profit of ensuring that the more established was particularly significant and it was 4.8m was 5.5% ahead of last year, markets remain appropriately critical that our performance during a result that reflected a particularly resourced.
Trading in the first two the year reflected the confidence strong performance from its nonmonths of the current financial year placed in us by our investors.
During the year was consistent with our expectation headway was made in adding new that the market in which we operate We feel that in our relatively short sector disciplines with this brand will be broadly similar to that of 006. history as a listed business we making encouraging progress in On this assumption we go into our have taken major strides forward in the pharmaceuticals sector, a large second full year as a public company establishing our credibility as a key international market we feel is comfortable that our robust 006 player in our sector.
particularly well-suited to our model.
performance sets the standard by which we will be judged in 007.
Without question we enjoyed positive Pathway, the fourth largest brand market conditions in which the delivered a total gross profit of candidate supply demand balance 9.5m, an improvement of 35.7% on was once again in our favour.
Historically, this However, it is worth observing that brand has focused exclusively on the overall economic backdrop the UK ICT market.
However, in Q4 was not exceptionally vibrant.
This it established teams to address the demonstrates that we do not need a banking and finance marketplaces particularly strong economic tailwind in the UK, and we expect to see the to post very impressive growth results of this initiative start to flow levels.
Our view remains that as long through during 007. as economic conditions are at least SThree plc 5 0 Name: James Del-Gatto Position: Manager of Group Media Services Birthplace: London, Chief Financial Officers Review England Report & Accounts 006 Why I work for SThree: Ever more international and diverse growth.
Income Statement Revenue 2006 2005 Contractor placements 3 7.5m 67. m. 6% Permanent placements 65.8m 48.0m 37.0% Total 393.3m 315.1m 24.8% Gross profit Fee Income for the year Exceptional items are detailed in Profit before taxation and before increased by 9.7% to 35.5m 005: note 3 to the accounts.
At the IPO, exceptional items amounted to 04.5m representing an overall the Group allocated a number of 40.3m 005: 8.0m, an increase gross profit margin of 34.5% 005: share awards and options to certain of 44.0%.
The percentage increase employees who had contributed and after exceptional items was 8. m in gross profit is greater than the to the Groups prior success.
0m, an increase of 50.7% increase in revenue due to a higher disclosed in last years Annual Report, proportion of permanent business some such awards occurred at Taxation on profits before exceptional which is 00% gross margin in 006 IPO with a further tranche of share items was.
3m 005: 8.7m, 48.6% vs. 46.0% coupled with a awards and options crystallising representing a pre-exceptional small increase in the gross margin on during 006.
The resultant charge effective tax rate of 30.5% 005: contract placements to.
3% from to the income statement amounted 3.
Gross profit from contractor to.
m 005: 5.9m inclusive Finance Act 003, the Company placements was 69.7m 005: of related social charges.
Since obtains a corporation tax deduction 56.5m and represented 5.
4% the Group satisfied these awards relating to the various share awards 005: 54.0% of Group gross profit.
principally through shares held in and options exercised.
The amount the SThree Employee Benefit Trusts, of the tax deduction is calculated by The Groups strategy and profit-based there is a corresponding credit of reference to the share price at the bonuses result in a cost structure that 9.5m 005:.
0m to reserves, time of exercise.
As a consequence, is significantly operationally geared being the value of the shares awarded the cash benefit to the Group of the as evidenced by the 39.3% increase before related social charges.
For tax deductions is greater than the in operating profits before exceptional 007 and beyond it is anticipated that tax credit on the exceptional items items from a 9.7% increase in gross there will be no exceptional items reported in the income statement.
The conversion ratio operating relating to IPO-related share awards.
This difference under IFRS is dealt profit before exeptional items divided with through equity.
The total by gross profit again increased The net finance charge of 0.9m Schedule 3 tax benefit amounted to strongly from 8.
to bank loan interest paid 005: loan 005: 4.8m appears in exceptional stock interest, offset by interest items in the income statement and Administrative expenses before income on periodic cash deposits the remaining 4.4m 005: 3. m is exceptional items increased by 6.0% and gains on financial instruments.
to 94.5m 005: 75.0m, principally During 006, the Group entered into due to increased numbers of staff.
new principal banking relationships Basic earnings per share were 9.5p and is now financed through a flexible 005: 9.3p and basic earnings per Headcount of the Group totalled, 073 credit line arrangement provided by share before exceptional items were at 30 November 005 and increased the new incumbent.. 4p 005: 38. p. The weighted by 38.0% to, 48 by 30 November average number of shares for the year 006.
Average headcount for the year was, 88 005:, 037.
SThree plc 5 Chief Financial Officers Review Directors Report Report & Accounts 006 continued Year ended 30 November 006 In order to aid comparability of Net trade debtors increased by 9.
% The main functional currencies of The Directors present their Annual Biographies are shown earlier in this Post balance sheet events earnings per share EPS numbers, to 69.3m at 30 November 006 the Group are Sterling and the Euro.
Report on the activities of the Annual Report, with details of Board There have been no significant The Group does not have material the Group has included an alternative 005: 53.6m representing debtor Group, together with the financial Committee membership being set out events since the balance sheet date.
transactional currency exposures nor presentation for 005 on the face days of 54 005: 46 days.
Total trade statements and auditors report for in the Corporate Governance Report.
is there a material exposure to foreignof the income statement.
Since the and other payables reduced from the year-ended 30 November 006.
All Directors served throughout the denominated monetary assets and Results and dividends flotation and the related share capital 46. m to 39.0m.
Of this reduction, financial year, except where shown, liabilities.
However, the Group does conversion occurred late in 005, the 0.3m related to income tax and and there were no resignations Principal activities and The Groups profit on ordinary undertake forward rate agreements weighted average number of shares social charges on share awards made during the year.
business review activities before taxation was 40.3m for both interest and foreign currency used in the standard EPS calculations at IPO shortly before the 005 yearpre-exceptional items and 8. m risks.
These do not meet the definition The Group is one of the UKs leading for 005 is far below the actual end which had been collected from In accordance with the Articles of post-exceptional items for the year of hedging relationship under IFRS, but staffing businesses, predominantly in number of Ordinary Shares in issue at employees but were not liable to be Association, Sunil Wickremeratne ended 30 November 006 005: are used to mitigate future exposures.
the information and communications the year-end itself.
paid to the tax authorities until and The Baroness Noakes will retire 8.0m and.
The Group is exposed to foreign technology ICT sector but early 006. at the Annual General Meeting and, The Directors recommend a final currency translation differences in with growing operations in the At 30 November 005, there were being eligible, Sunil Wickremeratne dividend of 4.8 pence per share accounting for its overseas operations banking and finance, accountancy, 38.0m shares in issue, of which offers himself for re-election.
The Cash Flow in respect of the year ended 30 although policy at present is not to engineering, human resources 3.7m were held within the Employee Baroness Noakes does not plan to November 006 005: nil pence per At the start of the year the Group had hedge this exposure.
Benefit Trusts and therefore not seek re-election.
Alicja Lesniak and share, to be paid on 4 June 007, to net debt of 9.6m.
During the year The Groups main subsidiary included within the basic EPS Tony Ward, who were both appointed those ordinary shareholders on the the Group generated net cash from undertakings are listed in note calculation.
Using the 005 year-end during the year, hereby retire and, register at 4 May 007.
This follows operating activities of 5.0m 005: to the financial statements.
The number of shares the basic earnings being eligible, offer themselves the interim dividend of.
4 pence per 5.0m being 40. m of operating Group currently operates from 3 per share would have been 6.4p, and for election.
Further information is share declared earlier in the year and cashflow before changes in working offices in the United Kingdom and before exceptional items 5.4p.
The contained in the Notice of Meeting.
At flotation, capital and provisions 005: 7. m, has overseas operations run from Directors believe that these figures all zero coupon preference shares an increase in working capital offices in the Netherlands, Belgium, give a more useful representation of Other than employment contracts, were converted into ordinary shares, requirements of 4.9m 005: France, Germany, Ireland and the the comparative Group earnings per none of the Directors of the Company hence no preference dividend has.
8m and a decrease in provisions USA.
Further expansion into new share performance for 005. had a material interest in any of 0. m 005: 0.5m increase.
At been declared in the current year geographic areas is planned contract with the Company or its 30 November 006 the Group had net 005: 4.4m.
The Directors declared an interim subsidiary undertakings.
The Board of the Directors service contracts Directors and their interests A review of the Groups activities and proposes to pay a final dividend of and the Directors interests in the Treasury Management and details of its business and strategy 4.8p per share, bringing the total shares and options of the Company The following are the current Currency Risk are included in the Chairmans dividend for the year to 7. p per share.
are disclosed in the Directors Directors of the Company: Statement, Group Overview, Chief The final dividend will be paid on 4 Remuneration Report.
It is the Directors intention to finance Sir Anthony Cleaver, Chairman Executive Officers Review and Chief June 007 to those shareholders on the activities and development of Financial Officers Review.
Russell Clements, Chief Executive Supplier payment policy the Group principally from retained Officer earnings.
The continued growth of the It is the Groups policy to comply with The Chairmans Statement, Group Balance Sheet Group and the cash-consuming nature Michael Nelson, Chief Financial terms of payment negotiated with Overview, Chief Executive Officers of a growing contract business mean Officer The Group had net assets of 64. m suppliers.
Where payment terms are and Chief Financial Officers Reviews that operating cashflow will continue at 30 November 006 005: 9.3m.
Sunil Wickremeratne, Chief not negotiated, the Group endeavours and Directors and Corporate Social to be largely re-invested.
8m 005: Operating Officer to adhere to the suppliers standard Responsibility Reports, provide 9.6m, the reduction in debt of terms.
SThree plc acts as a holding information relating to the Groups The Baroness Noakes, Senior Cash surpluses are invested in short- 6.7m being achieved through company for the Group and does business, a description of principal Independent Non-Executive term deposits with any working capital increased trading.
not trade and consequently cannot risks and uncertainties faced, Director requirements being provided from disclose an average creditors including analysis using financial Group resources or by local overdraft Brian McBride, Independent Capital expenditure amounted payment period.
Trade creditors of and other KPIs where necessary, as facilities.
7m and the Group at 30 November 006 and well as details of environmental and Alicja Lesniak, Independent predominantly related to upgrades 005 were equivalent to 9 days employee matters, and an indication Non-Executive Director of IT hardware and fit-out of new purchases.
of the likely future developments in appointed 3 May 006 offices across the Group.
In addition, the Groups business.
These, taken expenditure of 3.0m on new ERP Tony Ward, Independent Nontogether, provide a balanced and and candidate client management Executive Director appointed understandable assessment of the systems has been capitalised within Companys position and prospects, 4 August 006 intangible assets.
in accordance with the revised business review requirements of the Companies Act.
SThree plc SThree plc 5 3 5 4 Directors Report continued Directors Report continued Year ended 30 November 006 Year ended 30 November 006 development and promotion where it The Directors confirm that they Substantial shareholdings Auditors benefits the employee and the Group.
have complied with the above As at March 007, the Company had been notified, in accordance with sections 98 to 0 of the Companies Act 985, of As required by Sections 8&9 of the requirements in preparing the the following interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company: Companies Audit, Investigations and The Group has a culture that financial statements.
Community Enterprise Act 004, encourages share participation at all Name of holder Number of shares Percentage shareholding which introduced key changes to the levels.
Two Employee Benefit Trusts The Directors are responsible for Companies Act 985 Section 34ZA, EBTs, which were funded by gifts keeping proper accounting records each Director in office, at the date of Aegon UK plc Group of companies 9,654, 09 6.99% from some of the current and former which disclose with reasonable this Report, hereby confirms that: Directors, hold assets comprising Legal & General Group plc 4,858,690 3.5 % accuracy at any time the financial shares in the Company.
The shares position of the Company and Group Simon Peter Arber 9,83, 866 7.
% so far as the Director is aware, in the EBTs are held for awards and and to enable them to ensure that there is no relevant audit William Frederick Bottriell 3,08, 0 6 9.48% grants under share option and share the financial statements comply with information of which the Russell Clements 4,738, 5 3.43% award schemes introduced prior the Companies Act 985.
They are Companys auditors are unaware: to flotation, in which a number of also responsible for safeguarding the Sunil Wickremeratne 0,786,075 7.8 % and employees currently participate.
assets of the Company and Group and During the year, shareholders also he she has taken all steps that hence for taking reasonable steps for currently has a Directors and c Employees Share capital approved the introduction of a Long he she ought to have taken as a the prevention and detection of fraud Officers Insurance policy in place, The Group has continued its policy of Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
The authorised and issued share Director in order to make him and other irregularities.
informing all employees of matters of capital of the Company, together herself aware of any relevant audit concern to them as employees, both It is currently estimated that, in total, The financial statements are with details of the movements in information and to establish that Corporate governance in their immediate work situation nearly 40% of the Companys share the Companys auditors are aware published on the Companys the Companys issued share capital and in the wider context of the capital is held by Directors, Founders, There is a separate Corporate of such information.
com and the during the year, are shown in Note 0 Groups well being.
It encourages the Employee Benefit Trusts, senior Governance Report.
Directors are responsible for the to the financial statements.
participation and involvement in management and other employees.
 LLP have maintenance and integrity of all matters which affect their interests indicated their willingness to continue Financial instruments statutory and audited information on Authority to make purchases as employees.
Communication d The Community in office.
Information published of own shares Information in respect of financial with employees is effected through will be put to the forthcoming Annual The Group is committed to providing on the internet is accessible in instruments is set out in Note 7 to the Groups management briefings General Meeting proposing their The Company is, until the date of the support to the community and society many countries with different the financial statements.
structure, Board Committees, formal re-appointment as auditors for the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, through a number of charitable legal requirements.
Legislation in and informal meetings and through ensuing year.
During the period the Group the United Kingdom governing the Corporate responsibility the Groups information systems.
authorised to buy back a proportion made charitable donations of 3, 373 preparation and dissemination of the Informal communication is facilitated of its own ordinary shares.
The Group made no financial statements may differ from The Board recognises its Statement of Directors by emails to all Group companies.
no such purchases have been made donations for political purposes either legislation in other jurisdictions.
environmental, health and safety Responsibilities for the under this authority, however, in the UK or overseas during the year.
and employment responsibilities The Group is also committed to financial statements the Directors will seek to renew By order of the Board and devotes appropriate resources achieving equal opportunities and to Additionally, the Group has a the authority for up to 0% of the towards monitoring compliance with Company law requires the Directors complying with anti-discrimination Charities Committee and has actively Companys issued share capital at the and improving existing standards.
to prepare financial statements for legislation.
In addition, employees are encouraged its employees to raise Annual General Meeting.
The Chief Executive Officer has each financial year which give a true encouraged to train and develop their funds over many years for NCH responsibility for these areas at and fair view of the state of affairs careers.
It is established Group policy formerly known as The National Directors indemnities Board level, ensuring that the Groups of the Company and the Group and to offer employees and job applicants Childrens Home and has also policies are upheld and providing the of the profit or loss of the Group Steve Hornbuckle, FCIS the opportunity to benefit from fair The Companies Audit, Investigations participated in events sponsored by necessary resources.
In preparing those Company Secretary employment, without regard to and Community Enterprise Act the NSPCC.
These are two of the UKs financial statements, the Directors 3 March 007 their sex, sexual orientation, marital 004, which came into force in 005, leading childrens charities.
a Environmental are required to: status, race, religion or belief, age or changes the provisions of section The Group remains committed to Registered Office: disability.
Further information is contained 3 0 of the Companies Act 985, and select suitable accounting policies operating in an environmentally 4 -44 Great Windmill Street, London, in the Groups Corporate Social gives companies the power to extend and then apply them consistently: responsible manner.
W D 7NB The Group gives full and fair Responsibility Report.
indemnities to Directors against make judgements and estimates consideration to the employment liability to third parties excluding that are reasonable and prudent: b Health and safety of disabled persons for suitable criminal and regulatory penalties Annual General Meeting state whether applicable The Group is committed to jobs.
In the event of members and also to pay Directors legal costs accounting standards have been providing for the health, safety and The Annual General Meeting of of staff becoming disabled every in advance, provided that these are followed, subject to any material welfare of all its employees.
Every the Company will be held on 7 effort is made to ensure that their reimbursed to the Company should departures disclosed and explained effort is made to ensure that the April 007, at Home House, 0 employment within the Group the individual Director be convicted in the financial statements: and requirements of the Health and Portman Square, London W H continues either in the job or in a or, in an action brought by the Safety at Work Act 974 and all other 6LW.
A separate formal Notice of prepare the financial statements suitable alternative.
It is the Groups Company, where judgement is given relevant regulations and codes of Meeting details all business to be on the going concern basis unless policy to support disabled employees against the Director.
The Company practice are complied with.
it is inappropriate to presume in all aspects of their training, that the Group will continue in business.
