CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Overview THE SPLENDA SUCRALOSE BUSINESS Tate & Lyle performed well in the 2006 financial year and achieved good profit AGAIN PERFORMED STRONGLY AND growth despite a challenging environment.
WE SIGNIFICANTLY INCREASED THE The SPLENDA Sucralose business again performed strongly, benefiting during the CONTRIBUTION FROM OUR CORE VALUE year from the first stage of expansion to the McIntosh, Alabama facility.
We significantly ADDED INGREDIENT PRODUCTS increased the contribution from our core value added ingredient products and it was also pleasing to note the margin gains we achieved on commodity products in the 2006 calendar years sweetener pricing round in the US.
A number of factors have partially offset these positive performances.
Firstly, higher global energy prices added 30 million to our energy costs and also increased ingredient and transport costs.
Secondly, profits were depressed by lower margins for sugar and related products in the EU and higher export licence costs at Sugars, Europe.
These arose as a consequence of oversupply as the market begins to adapt to the changes resulting from reform of the EU sugar regime.
All our expansion projects, which will promote longer term value added growth across the business, are progressing satisfactorily.
The capital projects to double the McIntosh, Alabama sucralose production capacity acquired under the realignment of the SPLENDA Sucralose activities have been completed and commissioning is under way.
The new Singapore sucralose facility and our new joint venture plant with TM DuPont to produce Bio-PDO from renewable resources should both begin to come on stream in our financial year ending 31 March 2007.
The project to increase value added capacity in our Sagamore facility in the US is also scheduled to be completed in that year, and the Loudon expansion is due for completion in the year to 31 March 2008.
In line with our value added growth strategy, we completed two bolt-on acquisitions during the year.
The acquisition of the Italian based Cesalpinia Foods was completed in December 2005 and that of US speciality food ingredients company Continental Custom Ingredients Inc. was completed in January 2006 for a combined consideration of 72 million.
Both businesses have been customers of Tate & Lyle for a number of 08 08 T Tate & ate & L Lyle Annual Report 2006 yle Annual Report 2006 years and together we will be more reflects the acceleration of the Groups Given uncertainty over how the EU sugar responsive in developing distinctive and growth strategy and our continuing regime will impact the Group over the innovative solutions for the food industry.
commitment to delivering excellence next few years, and the number of capital The acquisitions made profits in line with in customer service.
projects that are coming to fruition, we our expectations in the final months of the have decided to replace this target with Under the new European sugar regime financial year.
These acquisitions represent a new one-year target for profit before proposals our Greek corn processing plant a further step in broadening our product mix, interest, exceptional items and part of Food & Industrial Ingredients, technology and customer base in rapidly amortisation from total value added Europe is not viable.
We therefore propose expanding areas such as blends and products to increase by 30% in the to close the plant, which has an isoglucose fortification and may be supplemented by 2007 financial year.
quota of 13,000 tonnes, by September the acquisition of further bolt-on businesses.
The net debt to EBITDA earnings before 2008.
We have entered an information exceptional items and before interest, In April 2006, just after the year-end, and consultation phase with employees.
tax, depreciation and total amortisation we completed the acquisition of the assets Proceeds from the surrender of quota will multiple has increased from 1.2 times and intellectual property of Hycail BV and mitigate the cash closure costs.
Our maximum target for its Finnish subsidiary Hycail Finland OY.
As part of our commitment to vigorously net debt to EBITDA is 2.5 times.
Hycail develops polylactic acid polymers defend and enforce our sucralose patents, Interest cover was 9.9 times.
This and resins, a biodegradable plastic made we announced on 23 May 2006 that we remains robust, underpinning our from renewable resources.
This modest had filed suit in the US District Federal Court investments in future growth and our 2 million initial investment strengthens for Central Illinois against a Chinese progressive dividend policy.
Our minimum Tate & Lyles knowledge and resources manufacturing group based in Hebei target remains 5.0 times.
in the field of industrial ingredients from province as well as six importers of All businesses have a target on both renewable resources.
The proceedings economic and environmental grounds This investment supplements our internal allege infringement of patented sucralose to reduce energy consumption on a per research and development capability, manufacturing technology in respect of unit basis by 3% per year.
It is pleasing which we consider a key differentiator sucralose manufactured in China.
to report that in the 2005 calendar year for Tate & Lyle.
We continue to invest the Group beat this target, achieving Group profit before tax, exceptional items substantially in this area, increasing a reduction of 3.6%.
At prevailing energy and amortisation of 295 million was a headcount by 45 and cost by 5% in the prices, we would expect energy costs 16% improvement on the prior year 2005 year to 31 March 2006.
To improve oversight to increase by 45 million in the year 254 million.
Group profit before tax after and give an external perspective, we have ending 31 March 2007 and the total exceptional items and amortisation was established a Research Advisory Group, energy bill for the year after taking into 42 million 2005 205 million.
chaired by Dr Barry Zoumas, one of our account increased production to exceed non-executive directors.
The Committee Net debt has risen from 471 million 250 million.
We have in place contracts comprises external experts and senior at 31 March 2005 to 858 million at and hedges that cover around two-thirds Tate & Lyle people.
It will review our research 31 March 2006. of our estimated energy usage for the and development portfolio and provide 2007 financial year.
insight into how leading edge technologies Group Targets could apply to future developments.
Despite the growth in profits outlined above Segmental Reporting this has, in many ways, been a year of This is the first full year under our new basis We have also established Tate & Lyle transition as we invest for growth.
This analysis Ventures, our fund to invest in new products is presented along product lines, rather than and technologies that are closely aligned We have increased the contribution of the geographic analysis previously reported, with our strategy.
It will complement our total value added products to Group and we believe that this will give a more existing research and development and profit before interest, exceptional items meaningful analysis of our activities.
partnering activities and will be formally and amortisation from 132 million to launched once the necessary regulatory 161 million.
The changes to the EU Performance of Main Businesses approvals have been obtained.
sugar regime will, however, reduce the Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas contribution from the commodity, quota We are consolidating the global marketing produced a very strong performance, constrained and consumer branded of Tate & Lyles current range of value added with all of its major operations showing segments over the next few years.
and functional food ingredients into one net gains despite higher energy and other This makes our current target of a team, our new Global Food Ingredients manufacturing costs.
Sales were up 9% contribution from total value added Group.
This team will take Tate & Lyle at 1,127 million and profit before interest, of 60% of Group profit before interest, into new ingredient areas and growth exceptional items and amortisation of exceptional items and amortisation opportunities.
This change to the structure 125 million was up 30%.
achievable for the wrong reasons.
and leadership of Tate & Lyles businesses Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2006 09 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Food and industrial products improved All our expansion projects which will promote due to higher volumes and increased gross margins, increasing the contribution from longer term value added growth across the core value added products.
Sweetener business are progressing satisfactorily volumes were higher.
Overall sweetener gross margins improved following the 2006 calendar year sweetener pricing round.
Net corn costs were lower.
Ethanol benefited reduce isoglucose volumes.
However, one Sugars, Americas & Asia sales were up from increased margins due to higher of the provisions of the reform is the granting 15% to 273 million and profit before gasoline prices and benign corn costs.
of an additional isoglucose quota of almost interest, exceptional items and amortisation The recovery of the citric acid product line 20%, effective from October 2006.
This will was up 35% to 27 million.
Our sugar continued with increased profitability, partially offset the lower volume resulting operation in Canada has performed as although this was constrained by higher from the withdrawal.
expected despite the effect of increased input costs.
Tate & Lyle Custom Ingredients imports and higher energy prices.
The the former Continental Custom Ingredients SPLENDA Sucralose has continued to results benefited from a mark-to-market gain Inc. business acquired in January 2006 enjoy buoyant demand across all major on raw sugar inventory of 7 million due to made a modest profit in the final months food, beverage and pharmaceutical the higher prevailing world sugar price.
Our of the financial year, in line with our categories and performed strongly with sugar business in Vietnam achieved slightly expectations.
Profit before higher profits as higher selling prices more interest, exceptional items and amortisation than offset lower production due to a All major capital expansion projects are of 68 million was 48% higher despite drought.
Results at Occidente in Mexico on schedule.
Construction continues to higher manufacturing costs mainly due to were satisfactory, although lower than the TM progress satisfactorily at the Bio-PDO increased energy and ingredient costs and previous year due to a change in sales mix plant in Loudon, Tennessee, and also at expansion related operational constraints, with higher export and lower domestic sales.
Loudon and Sagamore where expansion of and start-up costs of 5 million 2005 the value added food ingredient and ethanol transitional costs 3 million.
At Sugars, Europe sales were up 23% TM facilities is taking place.
The Bio-PDO at 1,459 million but profit before interest, facility is expected to commence The first McIntosh, Alabama plant expansion exceptional items and amortisation of commissioning during the middle of the has now been commissioned.
The second 62 million was down 14%.
phase of the expansion is also mechanically in our EU sugar refining business has complete and will be fully commissioned by been substantially reduced, impacted by At Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe the middle of the 2006 calendar year.
These oversupply in the EU market coupled with sales were down 6% at 719 million with two expansions will result in a doubling of the expected higher cost of export licences higher volumes offset by lower prices the McIntosh capacity compared to the and higher energy costs.
Both London and reflecting the calendar 2005 pricing round.
capacity of the plant when we acquired it Lisbon refineries reported lower results than Profit before interest, exceptional items and in April 2004.
With this increased production the prior period.
The impact on the Group amortisation was up 5% at 46 million.
capacity we will have additional product has been partially mitigated by a strong Selling prices for isoglucose have been available to build the customer base and performance from sugar trading, achieving squeezed due to an oversupply of sugar in SPLENDA Sucralose brand.
an increase in profit before interest, the market and impending changes to the In 2004, when we decided to more than exceptional items and amortisation of EU sugar regime.
Favourable raw material triple the SPLENDA Sucralose capacity 13 million in what has been a volatile sugar costs, and improved selling prices for value we acquired under the business realignment market.
This was also the main cause of the added and most other products in the 2006 with McNeil Nutritionals, we took into increase in sales of the division.
Sugar calendar year pricing round, partially account our customers views of potential trading has enjoyed two years of well above mitigated the impact of higher energy costs demand.
With the first expansion to the average profits.
We believe that it is likely to and lower isoglucose prices.
Tate & Lyle McIntosh facility completed and the second achieve a lower contribution in the 2007 Cesalpinia the former Cesalpinia Foods expansion due to come on stream, we are financial year.
The Eastern Sugar joint business acquired in December 2005, building up production and accelerating our venture business continues to improve, performed in line with our expectations and work with customers on innovation and although the quota reduction outlined above made a small profit in the last quarter of the reformulation.
Construction of the new will also impact this business in the 2007 financial year.
Singapore facility is on schedule to be financial year.
In response to oversupply in the market, completed by January 2007, and has been the EU has withdrawn 2.5 million tonnes designed with the potential for capacity to of quota from the sugar year ending in be expanded if necessary.
Whilst we support this ongoing discussions with our customers action as an appropriate measure to correct about their future plans, we remain confident the balance of supply and demand, it will of our ability to meet market growth in the foreseeable future.
10 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2006 European Sugar Regime new regime, they will set the rules for the Looking forward, management will The EU Commission published a press day-to-day running of the EU sugar market.
be focused on three principal areas.
release on 24 November 2005 outlining the As previously stated, we anticipate that Firstly, to progress expansion projects, under final proposals for the reform of the EU sugar the impact of the reform on the results way in the US and Asia, which will facilitate industry.
Tate & Lyle fully understands the of the Group will be at least offset by our continued value added growth across both need for reform of the EU sugar regime.
successful strategy to grow the total value the food and industrial activities of the We welcome the proposals, and in particular added component of our business, business.
These projects will involve the action by the Commission to address a consistent objective since 1999. substantial commissioning time and cost the imbalance of the impact on the cane in the 2007 financial year.
They are central refining sector contained in earlier proposals Safety to our value added strategy and are through the granting of transitional aid, and Tate & Lyle has no higher priority than safety, progressing satisfactorily.
the extended period of stability until the end which we believe is fundamental to running of September 2015, contained therein.
Secondly, we will continue to build the a successful business.
Every year we Tate & Lyle published its estimates of the SPLENDA Sucralose customer base strengthen our commitment to ensure safe impact on the Group on 25 November 2005. and brand.
SPLENDA Sucralose is a key and healthy conditions for our employees, These estimates excluded other factors component in many of our new solution contractors and visitors.
For the third which impact operating results such as the sets, developed for the food and beverage consecutive year, safety performance across effect of market forces during the transition industry.
We will also maintain our vigilance Tate & Lyle has improved in all categories, period to the new sugar regime and higher in defending the brand and our intellectual reflecting our commitment to providing energy prices.
Since then our European property.
a safe workplace for all our employees.
businesses have been affected by And thirdly, we are examining fundamental oversupply of sugar within the EU with a Community Involvement options to mitigate the impact of the EU consequent effect on sugar pricing premia.
Tate & Lyle aims to play a positive role in all sugar regime reform on the Group.
This has reduced the profitability of those the communities in which we operate.
Over businesses in the year to 31 March 2006 We continue to view Tate & Lyles future the years we have developed a Group-wide and is expected to depress margins for with confidence.
community involvement policy that forms sugar and related products further in the one of the core components underpinning year to 31 March 2007. our ethical behaviour.
Our programme As mentioned above, the EU has announced involves building long-term relationships with the withdrawal of 2.5 million tonnes of quota local partners to deliver a shared objective: for the sugar year ending in September establishing strong, safe and healthy 2007.
This should have a beneficial impact communities by investing time and on pricing for sugar and related products but resources into projects that directly Iain Ferguson CBE the extent cannot be evaluated at this time.
Chief Executive Future quota withdrawals or cuts by the Our community partnerships are very well 24 May 2006 Commission cannot be discounted.
The supported by employees, many of whom need for these will depend on supply and take part in programmes.
Tate & Lyles demand which will be influenced by a community involvement benefits our number of factors, in particular the amount employees by enhancing their own local of quota surrendered by manufacturers.
community, offering significant personal As advised in our announcements of development opportunities and making 25 November 2005 and 29 March 2006, Tate & Lyle a company for which they are one consequence of the EU sugar regime proud to work.
The community involvement reform has been a review of the carrying policy is reviewed annually by the Board.
value of our European assets affected by the reform.
This is the principal element of Conclusion the total exceptional impairment charge of Tate & Lyle performed well in the 2006 272 million, the details of which are set out financial year.
We have seen continued in the Operating and Financial Review.
We success in our strategy of growing the total propose to close our Greek corn processing value added component of our business.
plant, which is part of Food & Industrial This performance has been achieved despite Ingredients, Europe, by September 2008. a challenging environment and we could not The final detailed legislation resulting from have produced such a satisfactory outcome reform of the EU sugar regime may be without considerable effort and commitment concluded only just before the start of the from our people around the world.
I would new regime on 1 July 2006.
Although these like to take this opportunity to thank them implementing regulations are not expected for their dedication and contribution.
to materially alter the key elements of the Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2006 11
