Business review: Chief Executives report on performance TNS has over 700 dedicated Technology sector specialists in both IT and Telecoms, based in 64 countries across the group TNS Automotive tracks the promotional activity of 30 brands and 300 models each year In 2006, TNS recorded very good growth in the emerging grow faster than the market due to emphasis on our Areas markets and across our syndicated services, with steady of Expertise and a well-established regionally co-ordinated growth in our European custom business but a disappointing approach to both operations and client service, all of which performance in US custom.
The group reported underlying should continue to provide us with sustainable competitive revenue growth of 2.5 per cent and an adjusted operating advantage.
Excluding US custom, underlying The group's three syndicated services performed well in 2006. revenue growth for the group would have been around 5 per Growth is being driven by our strong market positions and cent, in line with most forecasts of industry growth, with an the value that these services provide for our clients.
Our improvement in adjusted operating margin of around 50 basis investment in new services is designed to leverage technology points.
Appropriate steps to turn the US business round were and provide greater analysis to extend these positions.
In TNS taken during the year and we are confident that it is on track Media Intelligence we launched new digital Creative Services for progressive recovery in 2007.
The 15 per cent increase that integrate advertising creative and expenditure information.
in total dividend reflects the board's confidence that we will TNS Worldpanel has introduced the use of SMS to monitor deliver against our strategy in the US and the rest of the group.
snacking habits in the UK, a hot topic for Consumer clients.
In internet, TV and radio audience measurement iTRAM, Delivering against our strategy across the group we have successfully commercialised our digital audience Performance in our European custom business in 2006 measurement offering and we now collect, process and varied by market, with stronger underlying growth in France, analyse return-path data for cable and satellite broadcasters Southern and Eastern Europe, offset by Germany and the in the UK, US and Asia Pacific.
Much of our strategic focus in terms of global accounts, sector specialisation, cost efficiency Turn around of US custom business on track and innovation is aimed at improving growth in the more As reported in September, we have made significant changes mature markets.
During the year, the group completed an to improve the performance of our custom research business operational review across the custom research business in in the US.
At that time, I identified three key areas for Europe, to drive this implementation faster.
Also, we have improvement management and organisation, business recently appointed Judith Passingham, formerly Managing processes, and increasing our focus on the value-added areas Director of Worldpanel, as the new head of our European of the market.
In May, we appointed Kimberly Till as new custom business.
President and under her leadership, we have made good Once again, our performance in the emerging markets of Asia progress in each of these areas.
We have recruited several Pacific, Latin America and Middle East and Africa ALM has new high-calibre people to the management team, improved been exceptional.
The market dynamics in this region remain our operational processes and realigned our client servicing.
strong, especially in China and India.
However, TNS is able to In the second half of 2006, we have achieved good traction 24 TNS annual report 2006 Business review To date, TNS has interviewed 2.7 million respondents using TRI M TNS Finance is present in around the world and has a database of more than % 8,000 studies 90 of the global finance research market TNS is the leading polling company in 25 countries worldwide with clients in the US, with wins in the Technology and deliver more effectively against our strategy.
This progress Financial Services sectors with clients such as Sun continued in the second half of the year and into 2007.
I am pleased to report that we met We measure progress in terms of our four core principles and our revised forecast for the US custom business in 2006 and our achievements in 2006 and ongoing goals are detailed entered 2007 with an order book ahead of last year.
earlier in the Business review.
Market developments Outlook As I explore in more detail in my market overview earlier in the The changes that we have made in 2006 place us in a strong report, the market in which TNS operates is undergoing position for the future, with the organisation clearly aligned dynamic change.
While the industry continues to grow at with our strategy.
We have taken significant strides in turning healthy levels, the make up of that growth is changing in terms round our US custom business and expect 2007 to be a of the nature of research, and by region and sector.
In terms of year of rebuilding as we continue working to make that the nature of research, clients are increasingly looking to business successful again.
Across the rest of the group, spend more of their marketing budgets on insights and we will continue to execute aggressively against our strategy.
analysis, less on just data.
By region, we are witnessing the The group saw an improvement in revenue growth in the increasing importance of the emerging markets as our clients' fourth quarter of 2006 and, while early in the year, levels of need for a global view of their markets grows.
By sector, there new business activity going into 2007 are good.
is stronger growth from industries such as Technology and The group anticipates that the growth in syndicated services Financial Services, as those companies become more Worldpanel, Media Intelligence and iTRAM will continue to advanced in their marketing requirements.
In custom research, the US custom business is expected to recover progressively through the year.
Revenue Significant changes within TNS growth in Europe is expected to be steady, with another In response to these trends, at the start of 2006, I introduced strong performance expected from the ALM Asia Pacific, a new, single strategic goal for TNS to be recognised as Latin America, Middle East and Africa region.
Overall, the the global leader in delivering value-added information and group expects to achieve improvement in both underlying insights that help our clients make more effective business revenue growth and operating margin in 2007. decisions.
This goal is supported by four core principles: client orientation: service excellence and cost efficiency: expertise Our commitment to shareholders is evidenced by our and innovation: and people development.
increased dividend, share repurchase programme and determined focus on execution of the group's strategy.
At the time of our interim results in September 2006, I reported on some of the significant organisational and operational changes that have been made to allow us to David Lowden, Chief Executive Business review TNS annual report 2006 25
