Topps Tiles Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 THINK CLEARLY CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Our aim is simple to deliver sustainable Tile Clearing House TCH growth and returns to shareholders and TCH has its own store format and brand which is targeted at central to that aim are our customers.
tradesmen and jobbing builders and the lower end of the tile market.
We strive to enhance our customers In this financial period we opened a net 9 new TCH outlets and buying experience by constantly refitted 1.
We now have a total of 46 stores in the UK.
improving stores and ranges and offering the best in customer service.
HOLLAND During the year we delivered another In October 2006 we acquired the remaining 50% of our Dutch solid performance in difficult trading conditions and we continue to operation.
The Company currently trades from 15 stores in Holland extend our market share.
and we intend to increase the new store opening programme to a minimum of 5 new stores each financial year.
The acquisition of the STORE DEVELOPMENT AND EXPANSION remaining 50% of this business gives us the flexibility to step up the In April 2006 we opened our 250th store in Ashford, Kent a expansion programme.
We have a minimum store target of 60 stores landmark event in Topps history and another step in our UK in Holland.
Whilst we have a stated minimum store target of 350 stores UK wide, we now believe there is scope for over MARKETING, ADVERTISING AND SPONSORSHIP 400 stores.
Our marketing strategy comprises high profile national campaigns underpinned by regional activity.
Against a target of a net 24 new stores in the period we have actually achieved a net total of 27 new store openings.
This has in part been We continue to use national television advertising, both digital and due to the appointment in our property department in Grove Park of terrestrial along with print and radio advertising on a regional basis an in-house property lawyer which has expedited our property and this year we continued advertising on UK style channels and transactions.
This also means that in the new financial period we are sponsored improve dont move on ITV.
able to step up our store opening programme with a target in 2007 of Additionally we have just launched a national TV campaign, for the a net total of 30 new UK outlets.
This is to expand our reach and consolidate our national Topps Tiles brand as we now have over 225 Topps stores and 46 TCH stores In the period under review we have refitted 2 stores and closed or nationwide.
We ended the period with a total of 225 stores Like most of our customers, we love our football.
It's a major part of trading, a net increase of 18 stores.
our community relations programme and we now sponsor over 260 The consumer trend towards natural products continues and we have local football teams through our youth football initiative.
extended the range in a number of stores.
07 Topps Tiles Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 PERFORMANCE IS ABOUT PEOPLE AND THAT IS WHY WE ARE COMMITTED TO MOTIVATING, DEVELOPING AND REWARDING OUR PEOPLE.
1,053 Number of employees completing in-house training schemes 2005: 842.
08 Topps Tiles Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT continued STAFF DEVELOPMENT AND CUSTOMER SERVICE Additionally, household numbers continue to grow faster than the UK We believe that a considerable contribution to our business success population, which is anticipated to rise by 12% over the next 25 years is due to the quality of our customer service delivered by our highly source: ONS.
This is in contrast to the increasing number of trained and friendly staff.
households, which is expected to grow by almost 23% in the next 20 years, from 20.9m in 2003 to 25.7m in 2026 source: Government Our recruitment programme is targeted at ambitious individuals of forecasts.
all ages and our rigorous training programme focuses on product We therefore believe Topps is well placed to capitalise on the knowledge and customer service.
A development in our training continued growth in the tile market and to increase market share.
programme this year has been the introduction of a Group intranet enabling staff to be trained on-site, in-store.
The system is selfCURRENT TRADING administered and more efficient and effective than our previous We have embarked on a high profile, mainstream terrestrial systems.
television advertising programme which began on 23 October 2006.
Whilst it is early days we are encouraged by the response so far.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY We are committed to behaving as a responsible corporate citizen and In the first 7 weeks of the new financial period Group overall revenue we have continued to make progress in the area of social increased by 10.3% and like-for-like revenue increased by 3.3%.
More detail is set out later in this report.
includes a strong performance from our Dutch business, now contributing 100% to Group numbers.
THE MARKET Overall revenue in the UK increased 9.5% and like-for-like revenue We are the leading tile retailer in the UK with a market share of circa increased by 2.7% for the first 7 weeks of the new financial period.
21% and continued to grow market share over the last financial year in a market that has showed continual growth.
Our business in Holland is performing well and is trading strongly.
Overall revenue has increased by 38.1% and like-for-like revenue has Despite the challenging market conditions, the UK tile market is increased by 25.8% over the past 7 weeks.
forecast to grow by volume by over 15% between 2007 and 2011 source: MBD, reflecting the overall expansion of the DIY retail Of the planned 30 new UK stores in the new financial period we have sector.
already opened 5 new stores in St. Neots, Brixton, Exmouth, Merton and Merry Hill.
The UK still has one of the lowest useages per head of ceramic tiles in Europe, at a level around one third of that of other Northern In Holland we have opened one new store in Eindhoven.
European countries source: MBD and has significant potential for We are confident in our business model which despite a difficult growth.
Factors expected to drive growth include the growing trend to market has remained resilient and this gives us confidence for the tile rooms beyond the more traditional kitchen and bathroom future.
applications e. g. conservatories, a preference for second bathrooms and a widening product offering.
Nicholas Ounstead Chief Executive Officer 09 Topps Tiles Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 ALL OUR STORES RECEIVE AT LEAST 2 DELIVERIES A WEEK TO ENSURE THAT STOCK LEVELS ARE MAINTAINED AT EVERY STORE.
146 17,000 Stock days Number of product lines carried by Topps stores.
ft. is the average size of our 2005: 98.7 of customers surveyed expressed mini-warehouse style stores.
levels of satisfaction as good to excellent.
