70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:41 Page 24 CHIEF OPERA TING OFFICERS REVIEW For the year ended 31 December 2006 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS progress with the integration of Wickes during the year but a 5% increase in I am pleased to report good into our Group.
This integration of seven space as a further three stores were performance across our six trading areas of support function is now converted from Standard to Extra stores.
brands as we took advantage of a substantially complete and is already We remain flexible in our store formats gradual strengthening in both trade and delivering improved service levels according to both the size and nature of retail markets as the year progressed.
Whilst initially cautious in the earlier part of the year about investment in Wickes network expansion and increasing our Wickes achieved a creditable result each TP branded operational capabilities, as customer against a difficult background of weak confidence returned in the second half markets in the first half of the year and business of the year we increased our continued high inflation in property development spend across the estate costs.
These factors were mitigated by demonstrated and increased our pipeline of store robust control of our variable overheads openings and therefore improved our and improvement in our gross margin as good profit growth prospects for network expansion.
a result of improved buying terms.
We have continued to make excellent The appointment of Jeremy Bird as with consistent Wickes new Managing Director, Garry Watts, Driver, represents a significant internal delivery CCF, East London promotion after his 14 years experience in Wickes and a successful period developing aspects of our trade business.
Travis Perkins We have successfully introduced a We added a net 26 stores during the number of new products.
New products year to the Travis Perkins branch now account for 15% of our sales each network and traded from 559 stores at year.
The increased number of products the year end.
Around 70% of this Trevor Digby, introduced as a result of range reviews expansion was from brownfield sites, Tool Hire Manager, Travis Perkins, since early 2005 continues to help reflecting the relatively attractive returns Norwich maintain our like-for-like sales growth compared to acquisitions.
Although we at above market rates.
temporarily slowed our rate of Our initiatives to optimise the use expansion in 2006 the quality of these of space within our stores including new branches was higher, resulting in the twinning of selective showrooms overall returns beating projections.
The continues to be successful in achieving Travis Perkins brand operates through above sector average sales per four geographically based businesses square foot.
and represents about 60% of group Sue Dimmock, Stock Our new transactional website has profits.
We are delighted that each Administrator, Wickes, Halesowen been trading for six months and is business demonstrated good profit showing a rate of growth and profit well growth with consistent delivery of beyond our expectations.
improved performance across our estate.
At 31 December, we traded from 179 We have achieved increased likestores, an increase in three locations for-like sales growth ahead of the 24 70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:41 Page 25 CHIEF OPERA TING OFFICERS REVIEW Glen Ringer, Driver, Louis Durnell, Management Jason Rumbell, Assistant Manager, Travis Perkins, Wreningham Trainee, Travis Perkins, Bath Travis Perkins, London City market and stabilised our strong gross All remaining branches not yet margin percentage following our 2005 converted were refitted to the City pricing initiatives.
Plumbing format from their predecessor We undertook major branch brand.
A combination of strong top line refurbishments at a number of growth and an absolute decrease in branches including Hemel Hempstead, costs led to a strong recovery in profits.
Ramsgate, Glasgow Muirend, Sunbury We added one new branch and GEOGRAPHICAL SALES and Brackmills in 2006 and have 24 consolidated two small units during MERCHANTING projects planned for 2007 with an 2006.
However, we plan to step up our incremental capital spend relative to rate of expansion in 2007, reflecting our 2006 of around 30m.
We also added a confidence that the business is very net four toolhire outlets taking our total much back on track.
Following the appointment of Richard Dey as toolhire CCF director we have made excellent Our dry-lining ceilings and insulation progress expanding our network and in specialist had another excellent year 31.6% centralising our buying and servicing reflecting the strength of our major activities.
This has resulted in good contractor relationships.
like sales and further improvement in 27.1% margins has resulted in profits in the Keyline fourth year after acquisition being in 24.7% Our heavyside merchant added three excess of three times the pre-acquisition branches to its network, finishing the level.
After adding two branches in 2006 % of total 2006 annual sales year with 76 branches.
Following a to end the year at 25 outlets, a further detailed profiling of its market, an five were added in early 2007 following increased focus on both depth and the acquisition of Passmores, who are GEOGRAPHICAL SALES breadth of specialist stock range and based in London.
RETAIL concentration on major civil engineering customers, sales Benchmarx performance has been increasingly Our specialist kitchen and joinery successful.
Robust control of Keylines business for the trade made a good cost base and continued support of key start headed up by Rob Gladwin, suppliers has resulted in another year of previously Wickes Retail Director.
first branch opened at Croydon in July, and overall six branches were added in 26.7% City Plumbing 2006.
Benchmarx serves a market with 20.8% For City Plumbing, 2006 was a year of attractive returns and growth recovery and consolidation with all 177 characteristics.
We plan to have 20 12.5% branches now branded City Plumbing.
branches open by the end of 2007 and 40.0% We improved the consistency of our we are committed to creating a pricing and stock range and launched a business with a significant market major sales drive with large contractors.
% of total 2006 annual sales 25 70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:41 Page 26 CHIEF OPERA TING OFFICERS REVIEW Insulation being loaded at CCF, East London Raymond Langan, Karen McLaren, Administration Sales Assistant, City Plumbing Supervisor, Travis Perkins, Bath CONTINUOUS in this area and worked with several IMPROVEMENT affordable housing clients to develop The clear aim of each of our brands is innovative and cost effective to be the best operator within its sector, alternatives to traditional inhouse we only select both in terms of financial performance materials stores facilities.
The Group and overall customer service.
To achieve currently operates nine dedicated stores products from this objective each of our brands has for specific RSLs and has additionally invested in extensive research with their provided alternative supply solutions suppliers that customers to develop a Brand Bullseye.
from within existing branches at 13 This Bullseye or target, clearly states locations throughout the UK.
operate good what our customers want from each For 2007 the Group has increased its business.
A series of best practice investment in the Affordable Housing corporate social projects have been established, each Team to further respond to the designed to deliver the level of increased demand and opportunities responsibility performance defined in the Bullseye.
that exist within this growing market.
We have also established clear measures Further innovative solutions which policies of our performance today to benchmark combine our core competencies of against future improvements and procurement, logistics and customer expectations.
administration are being developed for Each best practice project is designed the provision of materials to large-scale to either increase our organic sales, Decent Homes projects.
SCOPE FOR NETWORK EXPANSION enhance our margins, drive productivity, Travis Perkins Keyline reduce our overheads or give our SUPPLIERS 200 60 people better tools to do their jobs.
We place great emphasis in Each initiative is sponsored by a senior developing long term partnerships executive who is responsible for the with our suppliers.
Most of our projects delivery.
As a result this firmly suppliers hold market leading 566 76 places the customer, and our ability to positions and the scale to both serve the customer, as our highest develop and bring to market new CPS CCF 180 20 priority.
products and to either currently or We have had a dedicated Affordable potentially supply all of our brands.
Housing Team for the last three years We have continued to review our focusing on the growing requirement supply base, following the successful 178 30 from local authorities and other initiatives in 2005, which extracted the registered social landlords RSLs to find quick win synergies.
These mainly Wickes Benchmarx more efficient and cost effective methods involved initiatives where, amongst 160 150 of procuring materials for repair & our six brands, there was overlap maintenance, planned maintenance and between product and supplier.
In 2006 capital works programmes further we focused on major product accelerated by the governments Decent categories where there was a potential 181 7 Homes initiative.
change of range and or supplier in Current branches Potential branches We have achieved significant growth one or more brands.
26 70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:41 Page 27 CHIEF OPERA TING OFFICERS REVIEW Craig Smith, Partitioning Team Leader, CCF, East London Debbie Carter, Showroom Sales Assistant and Jenny Neilands, Senior Sales Assistant, Derek Rapley, Driver, Keyline, Hull Sharon Allen, Sales Representative, Travis Perkins, Norwich Benchmarx, Croydon 27 70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:41 Page 28 CHIEF OPERA TING OFFICERS REVIEW Our supplier base continues to a number of additional measures aimed become more concentrated with the top at further strengthening the engagement 25 suppliers representing 42% of our cost of our people.
In 2007 we will continue to leverage our strong buying position as Recognition market leader in heavyside and timber During 2006 we introduced a range of products and drive further efficiencies schemes supported by a 1m plus through our small but rapidly expanding investment The Building Britain global procurement function.
These are designed to The trade and retail quality recognise those colleagues who are assurance functions have recently critical to our success through: been centralised.
Quality Assurance Loyalty additional holidays and has an important role in projecting gifts designed to reward and and protecting the values of each of recognise long serving colleagues.
our brands not least because we sell Getting It Right instant cash awards 181 ex-trainees a significant proportion of our own for colleagues who are observed label products retail 91%, trade 13%.
living our values and who, in doing are now in Our policy is to only select products so, help to deliver fantastic service to from suppliers that operate good our customers.
management corporate social responsibility policies Special Achievement Awards for in line with Travis Perkins Group those people in our business who positions Statement of Expectations: have robust consistently go the extra mile.
We are Management Systems in compliance encouraging colleagues to nominate with the Travis Perkins Supplier one another.
Assessment programme: and produce In addition to the above awards we have products that are safe and of the a wide ranging suite of awards across highest quality.
the Group ranging from management trainee of the year and branch store of SUPPLY CHAIN the year to mystery shopper and Bright Given the significance and potential in Sparks suggestion schemes.
our supply chain in 2006 we launched We continue to improve of levels of an internally resourced strategic review staff retention, up from 76% in 2005 to develop an overall long term to 78% in 2006.
This success has architecture of our supply chain, in resulted from excellent induction particular the network of central programmes and a high level of warehousing and logistics to support management attention.
ACCIDENT FREQUENCY RATE the Groups growth.
13.95 13.42 Robin Proctor, our Group Supply Sharing our success 10.95 Chain Director, joined us in the latter As well as competitive salaries and part of 2006.
His is a newly created role incentive schemes, we offer a wide embracing primary distribution via our range of benefits and ways for our trade plumbing & heating warehouse, people to make more of their money, three Wickes central warehouses, and a share in the increasing value of our 2004 2005 2006 customer home delivery centre.
In company, take care of their future and Merchant lost time accidents per million man hours addition he is responsible for primary look after their health.
logistics including our global sourcing 4,291 people participate in our Save and stock replenishment systems.
Colleagues investing the maximum 250 per month ACCIDENT SEVERITY RATE EMPLOYEES from 2001 in our five year SAYE scheme 0.22 0.22 We know that more than most other enjoyed a profit of 33,700 in 2006. businesses, our success depends on our In 2006 we introduced a new Buy As people.
We enjoy many long term You Earn Scheme, giving colleagues 0.21 relationships with customers who in turn another opportunity to share further in value highly the long term relationships our future success.
2004 2005 2006 they have developed with the people All colleagues have the Merchant number of days lost per thousand man hours who work for us.
In 2006 we introduced opportunity to join our money 28 70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:41 Page 29 CHIEF OPERA TING OFFICERS REVIEW purchase pension scheme with life cover automatically provided.
During 2006 we used our buying power to negotiate a number of discounted benefits on behalf of our employees.
These cover discounts on numerous services and products from private medical and dental cover to holidays and car purchases.
Development In addition to the development programmes that are in place to support individuals from induction, progressing Craig Donnelly, through each step of the career ladder, safety systems and procedures during Management Trainee, Travis Perkins, Bath we have continued to invest further in 2006, a similar approach is planned for the initiatives that we believe are all specialist brands within the making a major difference - the Master merchant business during 2007.
The Programme in Wickes, supported by a revised health & safety policy will be new customer service programme and embedded in the business via an the management trainee scheme in intensive training programme.
Travis Perkins, where we plan to recruit With our continued focus on a further 106 trainees in 2007. maintaining health and safety Kitchen Showroom, As well as successfully developing 181 standards, it was pleasing to record a Wickes, Halesowen ex-trainees into current management 15% reduction in the number of lost positions, including nine directors, the time accidents and a 5% reduction in scheme ranks highly against comparator working days lost against our 2005 groups, with a significantly lower merchant performance.
There were no workplace fatalities in 2006, but there was, however, one HEALTH AND SAFETY prosecution relating to an incident This continues to be a Group priority that occurred in 2004, following an at the most senior level and has accident involving a fork-lift truck and benefited from a number of delivery vehicle.
significant enhancements in the last We remain committed to reduce John Hancock, Driver, two years: in 2005 we conducted a the accident rates further, with a Travis Perkins, Bath major external review of health and targeted Group reduction of 10% by safety in Wickes.
In 2006 we recruited the end of 2007. a new Group head of health and safety with extensive experience working with the health and safety executive.
His initial priorities have been to implement the J. P. Carter recommendations of the external Chief Operating Officer review, and re-establish a new, more 5 March 2007 powerful and high profile health and safety function with a remit across the Groups activities.
During 2006, emphasis was also placed on our existing involvement in the health and safety executive initiatives covering builders merchants and retail warehouse traffic management and manual handling.
Following a comprehensive review of all existing general merchant health and 29
