70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:40 Page 12 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW For the year ended 31 December 2006 INTRODUCTION PERFORMANCE customers perceptions of our price Our forecast that our markets would In 2006 our priorities were to continue competitiveness.
We have therefore recover gradually throughout 2006 the focus on tight management of costs, achieved a net return from this initiative.
The trade market led the raise our performance on cash On a month on month basis our like-forway from early in the year, with the generation, outperform on the synergy like revenues are now increasing in line retail market not recording growth until and buying gain targets we had set at with the market, and our gross margin is the fourth quarter.
We selected and the time of the Wickes transaction, and level with the prior year.
Over the year as applied successful trading strategies in execute trading strategies tailored to a whole we grew our like-for-like both our divisions, aimed at maximising each set of market circumstances.
revenues ahead of the market with returns in the prevailing market We passed the anniversary of full consistent gross margin.
In trade, our 2005 price implementation of the price achievements in growing revenue were repositioning has won us significant repositioning of our trade businesses, aided by the initial stages of a extra business.
In retail, range which started in the second quarter of programme to segment markets and enhancements and pricing to recover 2005 and was fully implemented by better target customers.
product cost inflation have enabled us October that year.
This allowed us to Our retail business also achieved to grow like-for-like market share.
In assess the full year impact of our trading good revenue performance, growing both markets we have outperformed strategy.
Research indicates we have both like-for-like and total market most competitors and outperformed positively impacted customers share.
Whilst our year-on-year market growth rates.
perceptions of our price competitiveness.
comparisons were slightly flattered by Against this background of We have confirmed that the extra the cessation of a promotional war, our improved performance, we continued business gained has generated more gains were mainly attributable to a to grow our business through network contribution than the cost required to programme of range enhancements expansion and the trial of a new fund the price investment.
Research and store sales initiatives.
Our nonformat in an adjacent trade channel.
indicates we have positively impacted participation in the promotional war Whilst maintaining the tight controls over costs and cash introduced during the tougher market experienced in 2005, we also took steps in 2006 to increase our investment in support functions to provide a robust platform for further growth.
This has involved changes to organisation structures, senior management and physical facilities.
Part of this investment has involved the integration of the Wickes business into the Group.
This programme is now virtually complete, and we have exceeded all our targets for streamlined central support functions, reduced overhead costs and overall financial benefits.
John Reynolds, Transport Manager, James Dunn, Sales Assistant, Alan Bates, Mill Supervisor, CCF, East London Benchmarx, Croydon Travis Perkins, Wreningham 12 70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:40 Page 13 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW also meant we were able to slightly profits of 4.5m, 2005: nil was down increase gross margins over the year.
by 11.1%, mainly reflecting: an Gross margins also benefited from additional 41 days trading in 2006, an excellent performance on our during a weak season for the DIY synergy and buying gain work following market: the weaker market experienced the Wickes transaction.
Having set an for the bulk of the year: and the costs of overall target for benefits of 35m in opening new stores and relaying ranges the acquisition assumptions, we in existing stores.
In a tough year in the achieved 78m in 2006, including DIY market, the retail operating margin overhead reduction and improved excluding property profits of 4.5m, buying terms.
Our out-performance was 2005: nil fell to 5.9% from 7.4% last achieved by setting goals for stretched year note 5.
However, our selection of buying gains in addition to the original trading strategies and actions on costs retail achieved list of synergy projects.
Projects from meant we performed significantly better this original list contributed 33m in than competitors.
good revenue 2006, reflecting the poorer market We raised our targets for cash growth experienced post acquisition.
generation, including new cash-linked performance, Both our divisions maintained tight elements in incentive schemes, driving controls over headcount and other costs.
working capital performance harder and growing both likeLike-for-like headcount fell, yielding a constraining capital expenditure to like-for-like productivity improvement in critical projects or those with a short for-like and total both divisions, with merchanting payback.
We also sought to improve recording a 5.4% gain and retailing capital efficiency through more active market share ahead by 10.4%.
Overhead ratios management of our property portfolio.
We have an extensive list of active improved in the trade division, and, before property related increases, also projects in progress, involving disposals, improved in the retail division.
The relocations, re-developments and coaverage annual rate of rental increase location of multiple businesses.
In 2006, experienced on five year lease reviews we realised cash from the initial projects settled in 2006 declined compared with in addition to selling and leasing back the rates seen in 2005 supporting our an interest in a small portfolio of view that recent rental inflation will ease.
freehold properties with low capital Strong revenue performance, good growth characteristics.
These properties gross margin management, buying were sold, using 200 year leases, into a gains and tight cost controls meant we special purpose vehicle in which we were able to increase operating profits retain a 15% equity interest and certain in the trade division.
Trade adjusted rights to re-acquire the leasehold of operating margin was down by 0.1% to individual sites.
This enables us to enjoy 11.2% note 5, reflecting these benefits some capital growth should it arise.
less the full year effect of the price Improved cash flows generated from repositioning programme.
Retail operations and these other actions, operating profit excluding property provided with excellent leadership from 13 70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:40 Page 14 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW confidence and spending levels recovered slowly throughout 2006, we experienced healthy conditions in the housing market from late 2005.
Our trade markets are more sensitive to housing rather than consumer behaviour, and hence these markets performed better, and from earlier in the year, than our retail market.
Trade markets also continue to benefit from good activity levels of commercial, education and health related construction, even though these are weakening from the peak years of 2002 Paul Hampden Smith, our Group to 2004.
These positive trends in new Finance Director, reduced net debt by construction were offset by a decline in 178m, over the year to 804m since expenditure on the more consumer related repair and maintenance the Wickes acquisition, we have reduced proforma net debt by 249m note 33. segment of the market.
Overall we estimate that the materials market was MARKETS unchanged in volume terms over 2005, with cost inflation producing growth of 2006 has seen further government and MARKET SHARE commercial initiatives that strengthen about 3%.
Travis Perkins 10% the prospects for good long-term growth Others 47% in our markets.
The output of B&Q 15% construction and the supply and unit our priorities Wolseley 8% value of building materials is set to Total Market St. Gobain 7% 29.1bn grow over the long term as a result of were tight cost Grafton 4% structural factors such as demographic Focus 3% change.
This growth will benefit further management, cash Home Retail Group 6% from new regulatory requirements resulting from a number of major generation and Share of the DIY & builders merchants market based on company estimates reviews, including studies of the impact of climate change, housing needs and outperforming the state of our housing stock.
We also expect to see an increase in commercial synergy and RETAIL PRODUCTIVITY PER EMPLOYEE opportunities from the 2012 Olympics 207k and Thames Gateway regeneration buying gain 193k programmes.
We expect to see a reduced contribution to growth from a targets weakening of investment in infrastructure and a trend away from Do it Yourself towards Do It For Me.
Product cost inflation in 2006 However, the impact on our business continued at the relatively elevated 2005 2006 will be limited, partly because both our rate seen since the end of 2004 as a trade and retail businesses are well result of rising energy prices and strong positioned to benefit from any trend world markets for key commodities MERCHANDISING PRODUCTIVITY that involves greater use of tradesmen.
Whilst price PER EMPLOYEE As a result of these market factors, we competition in trade as always 206k 196k 192k continue to expect good long-term remained tough, market prices moved 182k 171k growth in our core markets.
up to recover almost all of those Conversion of these factors into increases in product costs.
current spending depends on shortProduct cost increases were also term conditions, principally consumer reflected in higher shelf edge prices in confidence and activity levels in the retail, although the average rate of housing market.
Whilst consumer increase across our catalogue was 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 14 70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:40 Page 15 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Darren Evans, Regional Sales John Williams, LGV Driver, Travis Perkins, Bath Val Drysdale, Sales Assistant, Dianne Hazell, Senior Administration Assistant Representative, Benchmarx, Croydon Travis Perkins, Ulverston Travis Perkins, Bath GROWING AND IMPROVING THE BRANCH NETWORK behind the trade market as a result of 31 Dec Acquisition Brownfield Consolidation 31 Dec Net 2007 5 March the higher mix of lightside products.
2005 2006 movement 2007 to date This category, following long established TP 533 8 19 1 559 7 566 trends, benefits from deflation as the proportion of imported goods rises.
Keyline 73 1 2 - 76 - 76 However, the level of promotional price CCF 23 - 2 - 25 5 30 City Plumbing 178 - 1 2 177 1 178 activity from competitors reduced Wickes 176 - 3 - 179 2 181 significantly following the ending of intense campaigns over the winter of Benchmarx - - 6 - 6 1 7 2005 6.
We did not participate in this Total branches 983 9 33 3 1,022 16 1,038 promotional war since customer research indicated that investment in cheaper prices and more advertising more emphasis on trade brownfield effectiveness and, supported by was unlikely to generate sufficient extra openings as goodwill prices for improving profits as the year business to yield any return.
progressed, we began to invest We expect the improved conditions This approach raised the average in improved facilities towards the end in the housing market in 2006 to carry quality of the bolt-on new branches we of 2006. through into 2007, giving satisfactory introduced and meant that whilst the The senior management team was growth in trade markets in the first half.
number of new branches reduced strengthened with a number of Improving consumer confidence is also compared to the peak achieved in 2005, significant appointments including: expected to boost growth in retail, the profit contribution of both the 2005 Carol Kavanagh who joined us from a which we anticipate will grow slightly and 2006 programme will exceed our FTSE 100 company as Group Human ahead of the trade market.
Resources Director: Robin Procter who for our markets in the second half-year We also launched Benchmarx, a new joined us from a leading company in format in the adjacent market serving an adjacent market as our new Group will depend significantly on the interest rate environment and outlook.
specialist small trade joiners, with 6 Supply Chain Director: Linda Doughty, Divergent forecasts for the likely branches operating by the end of the with a successful career in building outcome of the MPCs deliberations year.
Research indicated that this group materials joined us as Trade Marketing mean it is difficult to predict market of tradesmen are dissatisfied by the Director: and Richard Dey joined us activity in the second half.
service available from existing from a dedicated plant and tool hire merchants.
Our trial has gone well so operator to become our Group Toolhire DEVELOPMENT far, and we plan to have 20 branches Director.
These senior executives join We continued our programme of open by the end of this year.
our high quality senior management network expansion for all of our team and have already made a positive businesses, but with some adjustments ORGANISATIONAL impact.
Our overall rate of CAPABILITIES From the existing team we promoted expansion in terms of branch numbers Our cost management policy in 2006 two executives to become managing was reduced in response to the lower meant we deliberately constrained directors: Jeremy Bird was appointed as activity levels in our markets and also our investment in building Wickes Managing Director following the reflecting planning work to refine the organisational capabilities.
Despite planned retirement of Richard Bird no Wickes store formats following our this, we made significant relation, and Rob Gladwin became assumption of control.
We also put enhancements to organisational Managing Director of our newly 15 70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:40 Page 16 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW established Benchmarx business.
Both costs in 2006, we continued to invest in Jeremy and Rob joined us as board our colleagues.
We recruited 80 people members of Wickes upon acquisition, into our industry leading two-year trade and are now part of a growing group of management trainee programme in our senior executives with both trade and 2006 intake, and 72% of the original retail experience.
They join our highly 2004 intake graduating in 2006 were regarded group of nine managing appointed to a range of roles across our directors responsible for driving the businesses and support functions.
We Groups operating profits, led with will build on the success of this distinction by John Carter, our Chief programme by extending it into the Operating Officer.
At Wickes, we implemented a Master programme to enhance the skills of store colleagues at the senior all levels.
This includes the opportunity to gain a BTEC DIY retail qualification management that is unique to Wickes.
There are over 3,500 store colleagues that have team was obtained this qualification.
We also took steps to improve staff turnover, since significantly good performance here correlates closely with good branch or store strengthened performance.
Staff turnover in the trade division fell by 10%, and in retail it was down by 8%.
Several structural changes occurred The demands of running the following the integration of the Wickes business against a background of business.
We now have unified support challenging market conditions have functions, serving both the trade and presented our colleagues with a period retail divisions, for Information of unprecedented change.
In 2006 I Technology, Business Risk Assurance continued my programme of regular and Security, Property, Human visits to our branches, stores, Resources and Finance.
This has allowed distribution centres and offices and by us to reduce costs and headcount whilst the end of the year had seen just under Preparing for a delivery, Travis Perkins, Ulverston harmonising support provision.
I also meet with provide a stronger platform for further all colleagues in our support functions corporate responsibility to carry out its growth, we unified our succession over a rolling series of meetings during activities and operations whilst planning processes to ensure the the year.
I am continually impressed by minimising its environmental impact.
continued provision of internal the dedication and commitment of my Having personally studied colleagues and would like, on behalf of environmental issues over 30 years candidates for leadership roles across all businesses and functions and make the Board, to express my thanks to all of ago, it remains a surprise to me career progression opportunities them for dealing so admirably with the that some business leaders have available to our people.
challenges they have been asked to expressed themselves surprised at the As part of our planned strategic manage in 2006.
Being with colleagues need to improve corporate performance development we began development of loading customers trucks before dawn in the area.
two new central data centres to support on a freezing winter morning, or We continue to maintain expansion of our branch networks and keeping shelves full on a sweltering accreditation of our Environmental host the retail division systems on a summer evening in stores, or staying Management System to the ISO 14001 harmonised architecture.
This approach until the job of posting cash payments standard.
We have increased the will improve the resilience of the in time for a holiday break is complete resource available to environmental systems since the two centres will is to see the best of our people at work.
management over 2006 and fully provide a warm start back up facility integrated Wickes into our reporting for each other, at a reduced cost ENVIRONMENT and improvement programme.
compared to the current arrangements.
The environmental impact of business Our policy has not significantly These new data centres will come on activities has received an changed in 2006 and it remains our stream in the third quarter of 2007. unprecedented amount of attention in commitment to address the four key Although we kept tight control of 2006.
The Group has long recognised its areas of our performance where we 16 70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:40 Page 17 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW the Group has long recognised its corporate responsibility to carry out its activities and Martyn Stamp, Assistant Manager, Keyline, Hull Chris Wiltshire, Machinist, Travis Perkins, Bath operations whilst have the greatest impact and where Disclosure Project for the first time in there is the most stakeholder interest: 2006 and we continued our minimising its Reducing carbon dioxide emissions: participation in the Business in the Reducing waste to landfill: Community Green Index and our environmental membership of the UK Forest and Increasing certified timber purchases: Trade Network.
impact Preventing pollution from our operations.
Environmental improvement plan Performance data, collected from across Stakeholder engagement the business, are converted into a In developing our environmental common base and aggregated to allow approach and policy we value the views for easy comparison to earlier of colleagues, customers, environmental performance.
The final indicators are a Non Governmental Organisations, and combination of measured, averaged and the investment community.
Wherever were held in 2006 with representatives possible we have used standardised data from these groups.
In 2007 we plan to collection and reporting techniques and extend the scope of our engagement continue to work to improve the with the wider community and the accuracy of the measures reported.
This government, convening an advisory year the data has been scrutinised by body made up from these stakeholders.
Lloyds Register of Quality Assurance and We took part in the Carbon a copy of their verification statement 17 70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:40 Page 18 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW can be found in the environment section which are scheduled for delivery in of the Travis Perkins website.
During 2007, a hybrid car will be A review of the performance available as an option for company car measures, set against a changing site drivers helping them cut emissions from portfolio post the acquisition of Wickes, their work and private travel.
has meant that for increasing clarity As well as efficiency savings, moving forward we felt it necessary to renewable sources of energy remain restate the baseline at 2005 for the key an important part of our strategy, performance indicators.
We also re-set with approximately 50% of grid the performance target for carbon electricity currently being purchased emissions and waste arisings to a more from this source.
challenging reduction and added a To further focus our efforts to further indicator and target for waste reduce emissions, we have increased management to present a picture of our longer-term target for a reduction WASTE TONNAGE 2005-2006 how we are doing, not only at reducing in tonnes of carbon dioxide per the total amount of waste arising but million pounds of sales.
By 2010 we 0.9 Tonnes 1.5 Tonnes 4.7 Tonnes also in segregating and recycling waste.
now target a reduction of 20% from the levels in 2005, with an interim 2008 target of 10%.
Our previous we have target was 5% by 2010.
19.8 Tonnes 17.8 Tonnes 14.0 Tonnes 2005 2006 2008 Target increased our Waste management Waste Recycling In 2006 we moved the majority of our Tonnes Waste per m Yard Sales & Core Sales excluding sales from direct deliveries longer-term target sites to a single waste management contract, improving cost control and for a reduction in legal compliance as well as increasing CO2 EMISSIONS 2005-2006 the accuracy of performance indicators.
tonnes of carbon We also reduced the number of open skips used and introduced a waste bag dioxide emissions system.
Fewer receptacles for waste and 24.2 Tonnes 24.8 Tonnes less stock damage has helped us drive per million down the waste we generate.
Our 14.6 Tonnes 15.2 Tonnes 35.5 Tonnes recycling rate increased through the roll 2005 2006 2008 Target pounds of sales out of a pallet back haul system and Energy Transport cardboard recycling skips.
This brings Tonnes CO2 per m Group Sales our total sites recycling cardboard to Carbon management over 300.
In 2006 our overall waste TIMBER CERTIFICATION 2005-2006 In 2006 the Group emitted 117,553 arising was 48,546 tonnes with 3,824 tonnes 8% being recycled.
To further add impetus to our efforts to reduce In 2007 we plan to complete the roll 24% emissions, we engaged the Carbon Trust out of the cardboard recycling skips to 34% to work with us on building energy all sites and to introduce the collection efficiency as part of a complete carbon and back haul of more materials to management package.
We aim to further increase our level of recycling.
36% 49% 85% 2005 2006 2008 Target improve the efficiency of our existing A zero waste concept branch is also FSC Other Certied Schemes estate, as well as pilot the development planned as a test bed to find practical Timber Purchased of a new trade branch and a new retail solutions to the elimination of waste.
Note: 2005 data excludes Wickes timber gures branch, showcasing innovative Our target for waste reduction of 5% environmental technologies, including per pound of sales from 2005 levels by ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS renewable energy generation.
2008 has been achieved inside 12 & COMPLAINTS 2005-2006 We have also been looking at our months and therefore we are now delivery fleet and started to see some seeking to reduce our waste arising per fuel efficiency gains through the pound of sales by a further 5%.
Our new 5 10 0 addition of roof air deflectors.
We have target for 2008 is a 10% reduction from 5 50 2005 2006 2007 Target ordered over 150 new delivery lorries 2005 levels in the tonnes of waste per Incidents Complaints with efficient Euro IV diesel engines pound of sales.
In addition we have 18 70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:40 Page 19 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Colin Veitch, Yard Supervisor, Travis Perkins, London City Petra Tapako, Design Consultant, Wickes, Halesowen Gary Massen, Yard Supervisor, Travis Perkins, Norwich Replenishing stock at Travis Perkins, Ulverston 19 70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:40 Page 20 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Chris Fishlock, introduced a target that 25% of the been locally resolved.
Mill Supervisor, Travis Perkins, waste be recycled or recovered by 2008.
The remaining three complaints Bath related to our conduct in timber Timber management management as a result of an Our merchant division is one the Environmental Investigation Agency EIA largest multi-site chain of custody investigation into the sale of Merbau holders in Europe.
Our national flooring from illegally felled timber.
Two coverage of chain of custody enables complaints were received from the us to serve the increasing demand for investment community and one from a certified, well managed timber to the primary school class.
Our own construction and housebuilding investigation into the supply chain sectors.
Our retail division also has an supported the finding from the EIA externally certified chain of custody for report and we suspended trading the purchase and resale of timber Merbau flooring as a result.
We are products at all outlets.
confident that this is an isolated incident In 2006 we continued to make but are ever vigilant against the progress towards our target of increased importation of potentially illegally purchases of certified timber.
A harvested timber and remain committed combined estimate of 73% of timber that it has no place in our organisation.
purchases by value comes from certified Our target for 2007 remains to have Ian Sutton, sources, in line with our aim of no complaints or notifiable incidents.
Assistant Manager, Travis Perkins, achieving our target of 85% in 2008.
We Bath estimate that of the total timber COMMUNITY RELATIONS purchased, 49% was from FSC sources, With an extensive national presence of 22% was from PEFC sources and 2% was over 1,000 places across Great Britain from other schemes.
where we do business, and deeply embedded relationships in local Preventing pollution communities, we actively manage our In 2006 we received three warnings from community relations and our environmental regulators.
abandoned shopping trolleys, one for Our business raised almost noise and one for storing waste on site.
620,000 for charities, including our We maintain dialogue with the three nationally supported charities, regulators in all of these cases to arrive the NSPCC, Children First Scotland at a satisfactory conclusion and are and MacMillan Cancer Relief.
This total confident that no further action will raised includes direct donations by the result.
We also informed the Group amounting to 203,916 2005: Environment Agency of four incidents 53,794 and donations by our Julie Nicholson, where a spillage either did or had the colleagues through our payroll giving Administration Assistant, potential to enter a controlled water scheme amounting to 33,585 2005: Travis Perkins, Ulverston course.
In all cases the regulator was 16,713.
After six years relationship happy that our emergency response with NSPCC and MacMillan, our staff procedures had been effective, and took charity committee and company no action.
charity committee, chaired by the We are pleased to report that we had Company Chairman, decided it was no prosecutions for environmental time for a change and after a matters during 2006. consultation period, adopted NCH, the childrens charity and Mencap as our Complaints national charities.
We look forward to In 2006 we received eight complaints working with them to continue our about our environmental impact two charitable efforts.
of these complaints were from To celebrate the milestone of neighbours about noise, two related to launching our 1,000th branch in June inadequate pest control and one of a 2006, we launched a major community visual intrusion from an advertising initiative called 1,000 projects in 1,000 banner.
All of these complaints have places in 1,000 days.
This builds on the 20 70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:41 Page 21 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW our business raised almost 620,000 for charities Duncan Hair, Branch Manager, Benchmarx, Croydon Zoe Richards, Sales Assistant, Travis Perkins, Norwich Steve Richardson, Warehouse Supervisor, City Plumbing, Leeds work already carried out by many of our Smith, our Finance Director, with support representatives of the Travis, Perkins and branches to support local community and advice from the Companys brokers.
This programme will mean We do not employ an investor relations Feedback about investors views is that in every neighbourhood, town and manager.
The Company Chairman and gathered after our scheduled meetings village where we operate, we will Senior Independent Director attend a by brokers and occasionally by the marshal our resources and relationships selection of investor meetings Company Chairman, and steps are taken to help deliver a building related throughout the year, and the Company to enhance investor communication in Chairman attends the meetings to response.
The programme has been structured to engage our people, present the Groups interim and suppliers and customers and work with preliminary results to buy-side and sellSTRATEGY local community leaders to deliver side analysts.
In addition to these In last years report to shareholders, something of real value to the meetings, at least one day per month is we set out the results of a major communities we serve.
Although set aside to meet investors and analysts.
review of Group strategy carried out conceived and co-ordinated centrally, This regular programme is supplemented after the acquisition of Wickes, and this is essentially about our teams with two trips per year to meet with outlined our main priorities.
Since locally living our group values.
investors in Eire, Canada and the USA, then we have carried out further work In 2006 we rationalised our sports and we host a visit for analysts to a to re-check the validity of our plans sponsorship activities, concentrating on selection of our businesses once per year.
our role as main sponsor of In 2006 we conducted meetings with Much of our work on strategy, Northampton Saints rugby club.
As part of each engaged in by all of our senior exercise to present interim and management in 2005, stems from INVESTOR RELATIONS preliminary results, we typically meet thinking about our reason for existing Responsibility for communications with shareholders representing around 64% and the direction the Company should shareholders and debt providers rests of the shares outstanding.
A clear view about our Group directly with me and Paul Hampden a family lunch where we meet with mission, vision and values was evolved 21 70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:41 Page 22 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Management trainee seminar at Head Office STRATEGIC PRIORITY PROGRESS IN 2006 Continue to drive scale benefits: Acquisition growth and brownfield 42 new branches added, including: expansion: 9 acquisitions: 33 brownfields, including 3 Wickes: 3 closures: 5 merchant relocations: 3 Wickes Extra conversions: Expansion programme continues to exceed projected returns: Detailed catchment modelling updated, confirming expansion potential.
Adaptable trading in merchanting: Successful price re-positioning yielding net profits: Like-for-like sales growth brought up to market levels: Gross margins now stabilised.
Refresh our service offer and gain Initiatives launched to introduce new service packages, marketing tools and market share: customer relationship management: Simplified branch manager routines to increase resources available for managing customers: Like-for-like market share gained in both trade and retail markets.
Review our category presence Expanded core range in retail outlets: in each outlet: Increased density of retail offers and promotions: Started trials of new mandated ranges in trade outlets.
Develop or acquire specialist channels Launched Benchmarx, serving specialist joiners: in selected categories: Profiled further specialist channels for potential entry.
Seek further gross margin expansion: Out-performed on our synergy and buying gain targets, achieving 78m of benefits in 2006 against an initial synergy target of 35m: Expanded our global sourcing capability, with quality assurance facilities in China: Introduced processes for harmonising ranges between trade and retail divisions.
Drive further productivity and returns Achieved productivity gains of 5.4% in trade and 10.4% in retail: on capital: Completed analysis of value maximisation options in all freehold and long leasehold properties: Initiated 42 value maximisation property projects: Disposed of interests in 38 properties, including 35 properties sold on long leases and leased back, realising 37m cash and 16.9m profits.
22 70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:41 Page 23 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Timber stack at Travis Perkins, Norwich Daniel Layton, Shop Assistant now fork-lift driver and Dave Harvey, CCF, East London Store Manager, Wickes, Halesowen and included in last years report to information technology architecture, These actions will require an shareholders and is repeated in this including a programme of increase in capital expenditure and report on pages 4 and 5.
This year we harmonisation between trade and retail project related costs charged to revenue.
Each of our nine technologies, such as a common We plan to implement the work in a managing directors and their boards telecommunication architecture across carefully controlled manner so as to developed a clear view of their own the Groups operating sites.
match the rate at which these funds are mission and vision within the context of deployed with the continued gradual the Groups aims.
This work was then recovery in our markets.
taken further by defining a target a the next phase of This programme is designed to Bullseye - for the kind of operation, ensure that we put in place the best viewed from a customer perspective, our strategy will businesses as viewed by customers, each business felt it needed to put in and delivering a best in class operating place to achieve its aims.
A series of see significant margin.
We already achieve this with cross-business initiatives are now in seven out of our nine businesses, but place to close the gap between current enhancements to intend to stretch our lead and get all operational performance and the our businesses to this level of targets demanded in the Bullseyes.
This work will help us achieve With good long term growth objectives on our main strategic store operations prospects in our markets, proven priorities.
Those priorities, as reported expansion plans and the best businesses to shareholders last year, and our in each segment, we are confident of progress on each one, are shown in the We will also step up our branch continuing to deliver excellent returns table opposite.
expansion programme, returning to the for shareholders.
Going forward, we will continue to rate of expansion achieved in the early pursue these priorities, which we part of this decade.
Improvements in believe represent the best way of market conditions and in our formats driving value for shareholders.
and operational performance improve The next phase of implementing our the projected risk reward balance we G. I. Cooper strategy will see significant can expect, and support a greater rate Chief Executive enhancements to our branch and store of expansion.
We will also look for 5 March 2007 operations to meet the performance further profitable channels for potential standards set in the Bullseyes, entry by the Group.
particularly in service and product We will also see continued impact availability.
We will strengthen our from our property programme.
In efforts to understand and increase our addition to completion of projects share of spend by current and potential stemming from our review of freeholds customers in each of the clearly defined and long leaseholds, we will review the segments served by our businesses, with 726 short leasehold sites.
Given the size new marketing techniques.
These of our network, we expect the impact initiatives will be supported by of this programme to extend for a significant improvements to our number of years.
