26 Chairman and Chief Executive statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor relations Chief Executives statement 26 Chief Executives statement Health and safety 27 Environmental management 28 We had three key highlights in 2006 in the area of Corporate Environmental policy 30 Responsibility.
Ethics 30 Charities 31 The first was formal recognition, for the second year running, of our Community engagement 31 much improved health and safety systems and record, through the Risks and opportunities 31 award of the ROSPA Occupational Health and Safety Gold Award for our performance in the three years to December 2005.
The statistics later in this report show that our record improved yet further in 2006.
This not only reflects our continued drive to reduce accidents, but is a credit to all our managers and staff.
Health and safety is everybodys responsibility and the improvements that we have seen could only have been achieved by the whole team playing a part.
The second was again external recognition of our efforts through the Energy Efficiency Accreditation Award certificate presented to Trinity Mirror plc by the National Energy Foundation in December 2006.
Trinity Mirror is now able to demonstrate a much improved and more systematic approach to environmental management, as a result of the initiatives we have put in place over the last four years.
We set ourselves a number of challenging targets.
As this report sets out, we hit most but missed some.
While I would of course have liked us to have met all our targets, I believe that this performance demonstrates that we have not set the bar deliberately low.
We believe that our environmental performance now compares very favourably with others in the newspaper sector, but recognise that we need to continue to work hard to meet the tougher environmental standards increasingly required of large public companies.
The third was the launch of a Group-wide volunteering programme which allows all employees time to make a difference in their local communities.
