Chief Executives review Tullow had another remarkable year.
Our assets delivered strong production growth and good organic reserves replacement.
Over 50% of our exploration activity was successful and we completed our largest acquisition ever.
The quality and spread of our assets and strong oil and gas pricing The principal risks for Tullow include the management of volatility in oil and gas means the Group is in excellent shape pricing, maintaining safe and cost effective Our disciplined approach to reinvestment gives us exciting operations and successful relationships with stakeholders including governments, development opportunities and the financial flexibility to build communities, licence partners, finance a balanced long-term business providers and shareholders.
Tullow has established a comprehensive process to ensure that each of these risks is managed in a structured way appropriate to the Groups Our business is performing and Ghana in 2006, in each case benefiting size and stage of development.
Day-to-day Tullows growth in recent years has been from Tullows regional experience and core risks associated with our exploration, driven by a clear strategy, assisted by a skills in particular geological play types.
development and production activities positive market environment.
Since 2000, We were also in a position to respond quickly are covered by an Integrated Management Group production has risen from 2,500 boepd to the Hardman acquisition opportunity and System which has been adopted across to over 76,000 boepd currently and we now had the capabilities to complete the deal in the entire Group.
In addition, during 2006, have over 120 licences in 22 countries.
the Group established an Internal Audit In 2006, in the UK, the investment and The growth challenge Function to facilitate and support the overall consistent exploration success of recent The recent announcement of first production risk management and reporting process years enabled Tullow to maintain a steady from the Okume field was a major milestone within Business Units and to the Board.
stream of new projects to replace production for Tullow.
For our African business, Okume is As an independent oil and gas group, in many and extend the lives of fields.
In Africa, a critical asset which, allied to existing Ceiba ways, Tullow views risk as a positive.
Much of our production and development assets production, should make Equatorial Guinea our growth has been based on the technical, are performing well and output should our third largest producing area by 2008.
For financial, strategic and operational skill and exceed 45,000 bopd by the end of 2007. the Group, bringing Okume onstream means judgement we apply in accepting the risks In Asia, production is growing steadily that over 80% of our commercial reserves inherent in our exploration and development in Pakistan and Bangladesh, and exciting at the end of 2006 are now successfully activities, our corporate acquisitions and our exploration prospects have been identified producing.
While this is a positive achievement allocation of resources.
Just as our asset in India.
Finally the addition of the Hardman it also creates a challenge to initiate the next portfolio is balanced, we also seek to ensure business has materially enhanced Tullows generation of development projects.
Based that our risk exposure is appropriate to world-wide portfolio and in particular on our current annual production rate, Tullow a group of our size with our resources.
delivered operational control of the logistically needs to discover over 30 million barrels of This involves minimising, at all times, the critical Block 2 in the Lake Albert Rift Basin oil per year to maintain reserves and still operational risks faced by our staff and other in Uganda.
We believe our portfolio is stakeholders, while simultaneously applying more than capable of achieving this objective Comprehensive asset knowledge a commercial and investment strategy with and our exploration, development and new Our technical and commercial teams in a suitable risk reward balance to ensure ventures activities are geared towards each area have between them hundreds of the Group can continue its growth in a exceeding it.
years experience and Tullow has a reputation consistent manner.
as a capable, committed and responsible Managing risk Consistent value creation operator with partners and governments.
As Tullow has evolved, so also have the risks By understanding our strengths and applying This assists us in gaining consistent access we face in maintaining control of our business them with focus and consistency, we have been to opportunities and allows us to assess and pursuing growth.
The understanding able to demonstrate a clear record of value projects swiftly and efficiently against our and management of a wide variety of risks creation.
Over the last three years, Tullow has strategic objectives.
For example, we acquired is a central part of Tullows business and delivered total shareholder return TSR of new licence interests in Madagascar in 2005 a critical element of its strategy.
6 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 The Central Processing Facility in transit to the Okume Complex in Equatorial Guinea.
First production from the field commenced in December 2006.
371%, production growth of 161% Our vision is clear and an increase in reserves of 623%.
We have a strong concentration on value To be a leading independent oil and gas group, with a balanced portfolio and consistently seek to replenish our of exploration and production assets.
portfolio through new ventures, acquisitions and ongoing portfolio management.
Each year we aim to produce efficiently, replace Our strategy is consistent and repeatable our reserves and drill the best prospects that emerge from our exploration ranking Sustainable long-term profitable growth process.
During 2007 our attention will be on continuing to increase production to a Balance between core areas targeted level of 85,000 boepd by the 100% organic reserve replacement annually end of the year, and drilling over 40 wells, Organic growth through infill programmes and operational excellence including major multi-well campaigns in Development growth through new ventures, licensing rounds and acquisitions Uganda, Namibia and India.
Safe people, procedures and operations A long-term perspective Minimise environmental impacts and work with local communities Our industry is both competitive and cyclical and so we plan for the future while recalling A strong team with excellent commercial, technical and financial skills the past.
For Tullow, this entails ensuring our business is not over-geared, planning well in advance for our programmes and not being afraid to walk away, either temporarily or Our three year performance is strong permanently, where we do not see value.
1 2 The oil and gas industry is constantly evolving Reserves 623% Cash flow 433% and the opportunities for a group of Tullows size frequently arises from the changing focus of larger companies, the strengths and Production 161% Staff 81 weaknesses of our peers and the creativity and skills of our employees.
We have a balanced portfolio, a quality team and the Sales revenue 347% Licences 44 ambition and opportunity to keep growing our business.
The future looks very exciting.
Operating profit 666% Total shareholder return 371% 1 2P reserves and resources 2 Operating cash flow before working capital Aidan Heavey, Chief Executive Officer Our objective is straightforward 20% Total shareholder return annually Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 7
