Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chief Executives Overview Total shareholder return compound average growth rate over 10 years 18% calculated since otation in 1996 Douglas Caster, Chief Executive 1 To concentrate on aerospace and defence In October 2006 Ultra celebrated the tenth The Groups core competencies, domain knowledge, and market anniversary of its otation on the London positions give it particular credibility in the aerospace and defence Stock Exchange.
The long-term strategies sector worldwide.
Core competencies include market positioning to capture large contracts, the management of complex that Ultra has pursued have enabled the development programmes where risks need careful identication Group to achieve an annual 18% compound and control, manufacturing and aftermarket support over long timescales and the discipline to meet our commitments.
The total shareholder return over the ten-year strategy is to increase the capability of the Group to allow period since otation.
The chart below adjacent market sectors that exhibit growth to be served.
shows how Ultras share price has 2 To be a niche player where the Group has outperformed the overall market and the competitive advantage through technology or Groups aerospace and defence peers over market position Within the Groups twenty businesses, over eighty niches can the last ten years.
This achievement is be identified where the aim is to sustain competitive consistent with Ultras objective of advantage and achieve a world-leading position.
The Group values its portfolio of niches, since each offering can be outperforming the market in terms of annual defended against competition through barriers to entry increases in shareholder value by delivering resulting in the potential for superior financial performance.
above average annual increases in earnings.
Furthermore these niches provide a high level of resilience for the Group in the face of technological changes or funding cut Last years annual report and accounts backs.
This wide spread gives the Group low dependency on any single programme or platform.
briey summarised Ultras strategies to achieve this objective.
These are expanded 3 To offer a through-life product and service portfolio that includes systems, sub-systems, more fully opposite: products and components Ultra share price ten year performance The Group values any position within the supply chain that is 1200 held by any particular niche.
Frequently, more attractive 1100 margins can be generated by providing components than by 1000 supplying entire systems.
Broadening the scope of the offering 900 from components and products to sub-systems, systems and 800 through-life management is appropriate as this allows Ultra to 700 600 retain its rank in the supply chain despite our prime contractor 500 customers desire to reduce the number of direct suppliers.
400 Ultra prefers to retain a leading niche position rather than 300 move into the supply of systems with the hope of higher added 200 value.
The scope of Ultras offering is determined after a 100 rigorous strategic review.
1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc innovative FTSE all share price index solutions FTSE all share aerospace defence winning performance consistent delivery 04 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc see footnote on page 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chief Executives Overview Operating margin Operating cash conversion 15.3% 98% 2005: 14.9% 2005: 105% 4 To grow organically and by acquisition 7 To gain competitive advantage by internal and Each Ultra business has a contribution to make to the organic external teaming growth of the Group, as well as identifying well matched Teaming, internally within the Group or externally with other acquisition targets.
To ensure that organic growth is achieved, companies, broadens offerings by combining niche products businesses produce annual five-year strategic plans that target or linking domain knowledge.
It attains competitive advantage specic opportunities.
The focus on cash generation is a key by accessing off-the-shelf technology, allowing timely delivery driver to the affordability of suitable acquisitions to augment the while avoiding expensive development costs and high project Groups growth rate.
Increasingly, Ultra teams with international, world-class partners to access best of breed technology and undertakes 5 To have an efficient organisation with committed specialist system and sub-system design and integration, and competent people ensuring sovereign operational independence where required.
Ultra seeks to maximise efficiency throughout its organisation.
8 To meet our commitments The levels of commitment and competency of business management teams is continuously assessed through strategic, Ultra has built a reputation of meeting its commitments.
This budget, organisation and succession, and regular business reputation is not only based on businesses meeting their performance reviews.
The Group places a high degree of trust obligations, but also by establishing a culture which is based in, and has high expectations of, its senior staff and supports on this principle.
The Group believes that this reputation is one their development and improvement activities.
Ultra empowers of its defining and valuable characteristics.
Behaving in this management teams to run their respective businesses to deliver way fosters long-term relationships.
agreed strategies, meet budgets and continuously to develop their people.
Ultra rewards good performance through career Ultras success has been achieved by development, bonuses and share options.
The Groups culture positioning its products and services on a defines work as serious but fun.
broad range of international platforms and 6 To be an excellent and strategic supplier to programmes.
This positioning is created our customers Having established an initial relationship with customers by by applying the above strategies to ensure offering innovative solutions, businesses are expected to maximise that Ultras offerings are differentiated these positions for the long term.
This is achieved by nurturing from those of the competition in a way relationships through sustained on-time delivery of high quality products and services.
Businesses often create strategic that the customer values.
Focus is relationships rather than arms-length customer-supplier sustained on creating and maintaining this relationships by offering long-term support or through-life solutions.
Many of the Groups niche offerings involve the differentiation in the future and on design and supply of complex products and services which are continuing to provide innovative solutions typically safety or performance-critical in their application.
This to satisfy evolving customer requirements.
creates a dependency from the customers perspective and encourages a long-term strategic relationship.
see footnote on page 01 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Aircraft & Vehicle Systems 19% Buoyant civil aerospace Ultras sales of equipment for civil aircraft rose by 19% in 2006, the Groups fastest growing product category 06 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 innovative solutions Ultra, in partnership with GKN Aerospace, is developing the innovative electro-thermal ice protection system solution for the wings of Boeings new 787 Dreamliner aircraft.
This team is also developing a similarly innovative solution for the intake ice protection of the Pratt & Whitney engine that powers the new US Joint Strike Fighter aircraft new customer new technology new platform Ultra has repeatedly In Each Airbus A400M military demonstrated its ability to transport aircraft will contain design innovative solutions to innovative system solutions meet urgent military from Ultra.
Active noise and operational requirements.
It vibration cancellation systems delivered systems to enhance will reduce the aircrafts the all-round vision of internal noise considerably.
In armoured vehicle crews when the hold, Ultras innovative operating under armour.
electronic network nodes will Ultra also supplies innovative reduce the weight and electrical power management improve the reliability of the systems that improve the cargo handling system.
operational effectiveness of new technology armoured vehicles.
new platform new platform Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Information & Power Systems 20m Astute submarine equipment The value of Ultra equipment on each additional Astute submarine will exceed 20m 08 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 consistent delivery Ultras broad range of equipment on each Astute submarine will deliver consistent electrical power for the boats main systems such as emergency propulsion and signature management, consistent readiness of the weapon suite incorporating the latest version of the Tomahawk cruise missile, and consistent control and instrumentation of the boats operation, including the nuclear reactor new technology new platform In 2006, Ultras passenger In Ultra has a world-leading baggage tracking system at ability to fuse data from London Heathrow coped different tactical sources to with the increased volume of provide a coherent local checked bags that resulted airspace picture showing from the enhanced terrorist friendly and hostile threat.
Ultra has supplied consistently delivering systems that consistently above-target levels of deliver local situational customer satisfaction helped awareness to ground Ultras selection to provide commanders in Afghanistan fully-managed airport IT and Iraq.
services at Dublin and new capability Minneapolis St Paul airports.
new programme new customers Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Tactical & Sonar Systems 60m Airborne battlespace IT Ultra received contracts worth over 60m in 2006 to supply the RAFs supersonic jets with the Litening targeting pod 10 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 winning performance Winning in modern warfare requires an ability to acquire, track and designate small, mobile ground targets.
Ultra, teamed with Rafael, is providing the RAFs supersonic jets with such a ground-attack capability.
Ultra successfully upgraded and integrated the latest generation of targeting and surveillance pod on Euroghter Typhoon and on Tornado aircraft new capability Small, highly mobile targets In The excellent in-service will be identied by performance of Ultras unmanned aerial vehicles and line-of-sight tactical radios other surveillance assets.
has helped it win further Ultra will undertake a large contracts for their concept demonstration of an supply.
The capacity of the air vehicle that can loiter radios has been enhanced above enemy-held territory so that they can keep up and have the ability to attack with the insatiable demand such time-critical targets a for the transmission of potentially winning capability ever increasing volumes in modern warfare.
new capability new capability new technology new technology new platform Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Key Performance Indicators Performance indicator Definition 2006 result 1 Revenue growth Growth in total Group revenue 10% compared to the prior year.
2 Profit growth Growth in Group profit before tax, 16% amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition and fair value movement on derivatives compared to the prior year.
3 Order book visibility Order cover for next financial year as 61% cover for 2007 on consensus percentage of market consensus sales sales of 406m forecast for the year.
4 Growth in earnings per share Growth in earnings per share, before 52% over a three year period.
amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition and fair value movement on derivatives, calculated over a rolling three year period.
5 Cash conversion Net cash from operating activities, less 98% net purchases of property, plant and equipment, less expenditure on product development and LTIP purchases, expressed as a percentage of profit from operations before amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition.
6 Interest cover The ratio of profit from operations 22 times before amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition to finance costs associated with bank borrowings.
7 Relative total shareholder return Annual total shareholder return 2% per annum capital growth plus dividends paid, assuming dividends reinvested over a rolling three year period compared to the FTSE 250 index.
The indicators shown above have been identified by the Directors the major element of the Groups short-term incentive bonus as giving the best overall indication of the Groups long-term scheme.
Whilst free cash will continue to fund Ultras expansion success.
Revenue growth gives a quantified indication of the by acquisition, it is important to ensure that the balance sheet rate at which the Groups business activity is expanding.
Order remains sufficiently strong and that the cost of carrying additional book visibility, based upon expected sales during the year to debt does not become too high.
Interest cover is a reliable come, gives the Board confidence as to the achievement of future indicator of balance sheet strength.
Finally, it remains the growth forecasts.
A satisfactory profit growth trend confirms overriding objective of the Board to provide shareholders with a that additional revenue is being gained without profit margins long-term return on their investment in Ultra that exceeds that of being compromised.
It also indicates that the additional other potential equity investments with a similar risk prole.
Total contribution to profits from new acquisitions is greater than the shareholder return is a suitable measure, as compared to the extra financing costs associated with those acquisitions.
A key overall population of FTSE 250 companies.
objective of the Board is to increase earnings per share at a faster rate than other similar quoted companies in the UK.
If successful this should ensure that investors will continue to hold Ultras shares, rather than those of its peers.
The Directors aim to manage the Group so that it continues to generate high levels of cash, which can be then be reinvested in the business in the form of acquisitions.
The Board uses operating cash conversion as a simple yet reliable measure of cash generation, which represents innovative solutions winning performance consistent delivery 12 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc see footnote on page 01
