Report of the Directors continued Group Chief Executive We are grateful to those shareholders and other stakeholders Inevitably, changes on this scale are going to proceed at differing who responded to our invitation on the Unilever website to post speeds.
Overall I am satisfied with where we are at this stage in questions for Patrick Cescau.
A number of their questions are the transformation of the Group.
Equally, I know that we have reected in the Q&A below.
some challenges ahead, in particular delivering more profitable growth.
While our operating margin in 2006 was satisfactory, we How do you look back on 2006?
must strive for a better performance in the year ahead.
We We are on a journey to restore Unilevers competitiveness and werent helped in 2006 by higher than expected costs resulting growth potential.
That journey is ongoing but I think we can look from sharp increases in commodity prices, but that has merely back on 2006 with some pride and satisfaction.
served to highlight the importance of the measures we are taking to simplify our business and to squeeze out unnecessary costs.
The improving top-line performance recorded during the year suggests that the wide-ranging changes we made to the business Since becoming Group Chief Executive you have embarked in 2004 and 2005 both to our organisation and to our strategy on a significant programme of organisational change and were the right ones for Unilever.
They are putting us rmly on restructuring.
Do you feel that you now have the right the road to sustained growth.
organisation in place to drive Unilevers growth?
It is the nature of things today that you have to keep the I also believe that we will look back on 2006 as the year when workings of any organisation under constant review.
As a the business regained its confidence and self-belief after the business, that is the only way to ensure you are best serving the setbacks of recent years.
There is a new energy and optimism interests of shareholders and other stakeholders.
But yes, I do owing through the Group.
believe we are well advanced with the organisational changes needed to support the next stage of our development.
What pleased you most about the Groups performance last year?
Indeed, we are already deriving significant benets from the The quality and the broad-based nature of our growth.
All parts changes we have made, not least from our more streamlined of the business all regions and all categories contributed to governance and management structures.
Furthermore, our One healthy underlying sales growth of 3.8%.
Our cash ow position Unilever programme continues to deliver both greater clarity and in 2006 was also strong, and it was a sign of the growing significant savings as it is steadily rolled out across the whole financial health of the business that we were able to return business.
These are all helping to deliver the speed and the scale an additional 750 million to shareholders in the form of a we need to compete more effectively and could be seen reected one-off dividend.
last year in more global brand platforms, the faster roll-out of products and the launch of bigger and better innovations.
Our performance was particularly strong in those areas we had identied as growth priorities and where we had invested But we are not complacent.
We know that we will have to accordingly for example, in developing and emerging markets quicken the pace of change even further in the year ahead if we D&E and in our personal care business, which grew by an are to meet our goal of moving from competing to winning in impressive 6.3%.
This is particularly pleasing and encouraging the marketplace.
because it suggests the strategy we are following investing heavily in order to obtain leadership positions in high growth You have put the concept of Vitality at the heart of the areas is the right one to take us forward.
What evidence is there that it has had a direct impact on performance in 2006?
I would also highlight our performance in Europe, which has been Vitality is about directing our business towards the increasing a tough market for us in recent years.
Last year we re-doubled desire and emphasis on the part of consumers the world over to our efforts and this was rewarded in steadily improving results feel good, look good and to get more out of life.
As a business and a return to modest growth levels.
whose brands deliver health, hygiene and nutritional benets, we are perhaps uniquely well placed to respond to these evolving Were there any areas where you had hoped to make consumer trends.
Restoring Unilevers competitiveness has involved making a lot of To that end, Vitality is already directly impacting our performance.
In order to deliver sustained growth and It is a key element in guiding us to those high growth spaces we create value for shareholders, we have reformed our governance, now regard as critical to Unilevers long-term success.
It is also overhauled our organisation and put in place a whole new perhaps the single biggest factor driving our innovation strategy to take the business forward.
The successful launch in the UK last year of AdeZ a soya-based fruit drink is a good example, one that can be traced directly to our Vitality mission and our determination to continue developing products with proven nutritional benets.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006 11 Report of the Directors continued Group Chief Executive continued What did you mean when you said last year that the Unilevers first independent Non-Executive Chairman takes successful brands of the future would be those that not up position in May.
only satisfied consumers functional needs, but also I think it marks a significant stage in the life of the Group.
It is addressed their concerns as citizens?
the latest in a series of important governance reforms that are We have always believed that the health and prosperity of our bringing us into line with best corporate practice.
At the personal business is linked to the health of the communities we serve, level, I am very much looking forward to working with Michael which is why we contributed 78 million to communities last year.
Treschow, who brings a wealth of relevant experience to bear.
However, we also know that consumers increasingly expect We are all excited by his appointment.
At the same time, I would companies and brands to play a role in responding to their like to thank Antony Burgmans, our current Chairman, for his concerns as citizens around issues such as climate change, or significant contribution to Unilever over the last 35 years.
I would helping to address poor nutrition and disease in some of the most also like to thank two members of the Unilever Executive who impoverished parts of the world.
have also made a significant contribution to Unilever over a long period who will leave us in 2007 Rudy Markham and John Rice.
Working in partnership with governments, international agencies and NGOs is often the most effective way to help address these What are your ambitions for Unilever as you look ahead to major global threats, and Unilever has already embarked on a 2007 and beyond and what do you think will present the number of such partnerships, including for example with UNICEF biggest challenges?
and with the United Nations World Food Programme.
We have made clear that our long-term ambition is to be among the top third of our peer group in terms of total shareholder However, individual brands can and do make a difference.
That is a stretching but achievable goal.
In 2007 our remarkable success of Surf Excel in India, for example, which is aim is to continue delivering sustained underlying sales growth helping to reduce the amount of water used in laundry in some while at the same time improving our operating margin.
We are of the countrys most water-stressed regions, is a good case in all focused on that task.
So is our success in combating iodine deficiency in parts of Africa through our iodised salt brand Annapurna.
These and other One of the other key challenges we face in 2007 will be to initiatives demonstrate that it is possible to do good and do well, ensure that we obtain an even greater return on the significant and they have convinced us that this is the right direction for investment we have made in upgrading our skills and capabilities Unilever to take.
in those areas identied as critical to the long-term success of the business marketing, customer management, and research and How do you intend to position Unilever so that it can development.
We have made enormous strides in each of these benefit most from the huge rise in markets like China areas in recent years, but really have the opportunity now in 2007 and India?
to accelerate the level of performance.
There is no doubt that the most significant growth opportunities for Unilever lie in the D&E economies, and not just in China and India.
Already, D&E markets account for more than 40% of Unilevers turnover and that proportion is set to go on rising.
Our history in these countries, going back to the very origins of the Group, combined with our existing scale and reach across much of the developing world, means we are very well positioned to benefit from the shifts taking place in the global economy.
Our performance in 2006 certainly gives grounds for optimism.
Last year, we grew by nearly 8% in D&E markets.
That included some spectacular performances, not least in China where growth of nearly 30% was powered directly by the changes we are making to the business.
12 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006
