Chief Executives Statement Whilst we expect the market environment to remain difficult in 2007 and beyond, specically with continued pressure on pricing, we look forward to another year of progress in 2007 as we continue to focus on implementing the key elements of our strategy.
2006 was a challenging, but encouraging year for the Group.
We continued to target our growth to focus on our more We continued to experience difficult trading conditions in our profitable customer segments and have channelled our markets, however underlying profit before tax increased to sales and marketing efforts towards these groups.
profit before tax was introduced substantial change to our customer proposition, 10.7 million 2005: 20.1 million.
implementing customer service initiatives across the network, all designed to improve speed, transparency and choice.
We In 2005, we announced our plans to improve the Groups have invested in the Avis Preferred speed of service programme margins.
The strategy is focused on four areas: reducing cost: and in a refresh of key rental stations.
In November, the Group implementing revenue management to improve price, yield and launched a signicantly enhanced website in the UK, which utilisation: targeting our most profitable customer groups: and improves ease of use and is designed to increase the number of tight control of eet.
In last years Annual Report I referred to the customers that book directly.
We will progressively translate and strategy in terms of Phase 1 and Phase 2, but I will no longer roll out the new website across the rest of the Group in 2007. make that distinction as we continue implementation, with the phases essentially merging.
Finally, the initiatives on yield, utilisation and targeted growth, outlined above, all support our focus on tight control of eet.
In 2006 we have made another year of progress in implementing In addition, we continue to review the balance between the our strategy.
In terms of reducing cost, our organisational and corporately owned, agency and licensee elements of the network.
overhead restructuring programme is largely complete and will ultimately generate some 25 million of annual savings in 2007.
In summary, our strategy is beginning to deliver results, and the Importantly, through the restructuring, we have introduced new early signs in a number of our businesses are positive.
Whilst ways of working to improve our effectiveness as an organisation.
we expect the market environment to remain difficult in 2007 We will continue to strongly focus on costs going forward.
and beyond, specically with continued pressure on pricing, we Other areas, where there is scope to identify further savings look forward to another year of progress in 2007 as we continue include: further channel shift, benefiting from the investment in to focus on implementing the key elements of our strategy.
websites and other direct marketing initiatives: and insurance and damage costs.
We have a completely new approach to revenue management, which is already delivering benets.
A new demand forecasting system has been developed and implemented throughout the Groups major markets.
We are now investing in data tools to assist with the fast implementation of tactical price changes Murray Hennessy and the optimisation of eet levels.
It represents a significant Chief Executive step change in the way the business is managed on a day-today basis.
Avis Europe plc 5 Annual Report and Accounts 2006
