CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW WHILE ALMOST ALL OF THE ORIGINAL TARGETS FROM THE JANUARY 2005 STRATEGIC PLAN HAVE ALREADY BEEN ACHIEVED OR EXCEEDED AHEAD OF SCHEDULE, THE TRANSFORMATION OF THE GROUP IS NOT COMPLETE.
2006 results Divisional highlights The results for 2006 demonstrate the progress achieved so The Ceramics division had another outstanding year, with far in the implementation of the Strategic Plan, through trading profit up 22% over 2005 driven by revenue growth which we continue to transform the profile of the Group.
in our high-margin flow control and fused silica product Our programme of exiting commodity activities, either by lines and good progress in our strategy to improve margins disposal or closure, while improving our competitiveness in the linings business.
in mature markets and growing strongly in emerging Global steel production, our main end-market, grew 9% markets, is resulting in an intrinsically more profitable and in 2006.
During the year projects were launched to build less cyclical mix of continuing operations.
End-market growth additional production facilities in China, Poland and Mexico for our principal activities has been sound, resulting in good and to close two factories in the UK and two in the US, while organic revenue growth.
Both our net debt and the pension making further cost reductions in the global management deficit have also reduced significantly during the year.
Two non-core businesses were disposed of in Revenue from continuing operations of 1,590 million 2006, Ceramic Fibres and Carbon Blocks and a further two was up 9% on 2005 and trading profit rose 20% to 150 businesses in early 2007, Monofrax fused-cast refractories million.
Headline profit before tax increased by 30% and and a small US refractory brick business.
headline earnings per share rose 27% to 46.6 pence.
Net debt Worldwide demand for electronics remained buoyant, at 31 December 2006 was 181 million, down 112 million from which supported the Electronics division in delivering an a year earlier due to good cash generation, receipt of disposal 11% increase in trading profit, with good contributions from proceeds and some favourable foreign exchange movements.
several of our new product lines.
In mid-year the closure of The worldwide pension deficit also reduced by 70 the low-margin Industrial Metals activity in Europe was million to 155 million, which reflects the accelerated completed and, later in the year, two substantial contribution programme in the UK and the freezing of the restructuring projects were launched for completion by the main US defined benefit plans.
In the US two Assembly Materials factories will Cookson Group plc { 12 } Annual Report 2006 be closed with some production relocating to Mexico.
In the restructuring plans I mentioned earlier will only produce full Chemistry sector in Europe facilities are being consolidated benefits from 2008 onwards and further initiatives are still by closing factories in Spain and Italy, while expanding to be announced.
However, 2007 should be the last year of production in Germany and the Netherlands.
The buy-out of high restructuring charges and capital expenditure as the the former 49% JV partners in the Chemistry sectors major transformation projects are completed.
China business was completed, now giving the potential for The new targets do not assume any acquisitions, but the strong growth in this important market.
The non-core Group now has the financial strength to make acquisitions Florida-based PVC Cements business was sold in December.
The Precious Metals division delivered a 41% improvement in trading profit, with the full year benefit of Outlook the restructuring programmes completed in mid-2005 in Our main end-markets, global steel production and the US and France.
Retail jewellery markets showed modest electronics, are forecast to continue to grow ahead of GDP growth in the US but remained weak in Europe, particularly over the medium-term.
Trading over the first two months of in the UK.
In response to this we have restructured our UK 2007 has continued the positive trends from 2006.
All selling and distribution network in 2006 and, in January three divisions have detailed plans to deliver strong organic 2007, plans for a fundamental restructuring of UK earnings growth through 2007, 2008 and beyond.
However, manufacturing operations were announced.
These will the recent weakening of the US dollar, through its involve closing the Wrexham facility and downsizing the translation impact on our sterling results, would partially Birmingham operations, while transferring some production reduce this growth if it were to continue.
to a new facility in Thailand.
The US operations continue to Based on these factors we expect to continue to deliver perform well and profitability should be further improved further improvement in our underlying performance.
with the closure of the New Jersey facility and the relocation of its production to the main Attleboro plant, which is due to be completed by mid-2007.
Changing Group profile The programme of disposals, closures, restructuring and new investments is changing the profile of our activities and markets.
Geographically our markets are well-balanced with one-third of revenue in NAFTA which comprises the US, Canada and Mexico, one-third in Europe and one-third in Nick Salmon Chief Executive emerging markets, mainly Asia-Pacific.
Over the past three years, the total number of 13 March 2007 employees in our continuing operations has remained level, but with significant changes across the regions.
In AsiaPacific employee numbers have grown 66%.
In NAFTA they have reduced 10% overall, but with an increase in Mexico as production is relocated from the US.
European employee numbers have reduced 21% overall, but with growth in Poland and the Czech Republic.
We have exited many commoditised activities and also the most highly-cyclical, particularly with the sale of the capital goods business Speedline in 2003 and the Laminates business in 2006.
As a result, the intrinsic cyclicality of the Group has been greatly reduced and the profitability and stability of the mix of our activities much improved.
More to go for While almost all of the original targets from the January 2005 Strategic Plan have already been achieved or exceeded ahead of schedule, the transformation of the Group is not complete.
In November 2006, an update on the Strategic Plan with revised targets was announced, which we discuss more fully on page 7.
Many of the investment and Cookson Group plc { 13 } Annual Report 2006
