GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW PATRICK HAREN The Group has delivered a strong set of results with pro-forma While we continually exert downward pressure on T&Ds costs, this operating profit from continuing operations based on regulated is not at the expense of standards of service to our customers.
During the year, all the overall standards set by NIAER were achieved and there were no defaults against the guaranteed NIEs businesses have each delivered strong performances.
We fully recognise our responsibility to maintain and focus remains on cost reduction and efficiency while also ensuring operate a safe and reliable network.
quality of service to our customers.
We continue to make substantial investment in our infrastructure NIAERs review of T&Ds next price control, which takes effect from assets.
Network capital expenditure in the year ended 31 March April 2007, is well underway following the publication of initial 2006 was in line with the regulatory allowance.
Total capital proposals in December 2005 and we await final proposals.
We expenditure before customer contributions, including expenditure also await the outcome of NIAERs review of the price controls for on customer service systems, other non-network assets and new Power Procurement Business PPB and the transmission system systems required to support market opening in Northern Ireland, operator, SONI, which were both due to be reset with effect from was 73.5m 2005 - 72.5m.
The T&D regulatory asset base 1 April 2006.
VP&Es profit contribution for the year reduced slightly to 24.1m In December 2005, NIAER published initial proposals for the next 2005 - 25.0m due to lower operating margins for Energia, offset T&D price control, which will be effective from April 2007 to March by higher sales volumes and an active trading strategy in the winter 2012 RP4.
The key aspects of the proposals are described below: period.
Energia now has 22,400 2005 - 15,300 business customers across Ireland, this growth coming from customers in the Rate of return - NIAER proposes to adopt the precedent established small to medium-sized enterprise SME sector.
in the 2005 DNO review for the post tax rate of return to be allowed on the distribution portion of T&Ds RAB which is taken to represent The SEM, the new all-island electricity wholesale market, is 82% of the overall RAB but to apply a lower rate to the 18% scheduled to start in July 2007.
SONI is working with its RoI representing the transmission portion.
This results in a blended rate counterpart, ESB National Grid Eirgrid, NIAER and the Commission of 4.78% post tax real.
This compares to the existing rate of return for Energy Regulation CER in the RoI to set up the new market.
of 4.55% post tax real corresponding to 6.5% pre tax real.
Other Group businesses are actively participating in consultations on the market design and rules as well as reviewing their own The proposed rate of return for the distribution portion of the RAB processes and systems to identify any changes required.
would either decrease or remain unchanged for the last two years of RP4 depending on the outcome of the next DNO review in 2010.
The rate of return on the transmission portion would remain Northern Ireland Electricity unchanged.
Transmission and Distribution Controllable costs - the allowance for each year of RP4 would be set T&D revenues based on regulated entitlement increased by 0.9m equal to the RPI-indexed level of actual costs incurred during the mainly due to higher income associated with the recovery of market corresponding year in RP3 April 2002 - March 2007.
This is opening costs, offset by lower price control revenues.
Based on subject to some specific reductions in 2007 08 and 2008 09 and regulated entitlement, T&D reported profits of 83.2m compared to also a small disallowance in respect of early retirement pension 73.9m last year.
Profits benefited from a change in the method of deficiency costs.
depreciation for infrastructure assets which brings T&D into line with the majority of UK distribution network operators DNOs.
Before The allowance for controllable costs would be further reduced if the 31 March 2005, T&D infrastructure assets were depreciated at 3% T&D price in any year of RP4 would otherwise exceed a price cap of per annum for the first 20 years followed by 2% per annum for the 1.81p kWh in 2004 05 prices.
Since 1 April 2005, new assets are being depreciated on a straight-line basis over 40 years and existing assets Capital expenditure - T&D has proposed capital expenditure of on a straight-line basis over their remaining life.
This change 326m in RP4 compared to 257m in the current price control resulted in a reduction of 4.5m in T&Ds depreciation charge from period both figures in 2004 05 prices.
This investment is driven by what it otherwise would have been.
Profits also benefited from the need to replace worn assets and to meet continued growth in reductions in operating costs and the absence of certain customer demand.
These proposals have been the subject of review restructuring and reorganisation costs incurred last year.
In during the early part of 2006 by consultants appointed by NIAER.
particular, cost savings were achieved as a result of centralising customer call handling at our distribution control centre in Craigavon: this included the transfer to T&D of some services previously provided by Sx3.
Cost efficiencies also resulted from a lower headcount.
4 Group Chief Executives Review Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006 Other - NIE would be committed to funding a 1m vulnerable Viridian Power & Energy customer fund to help alleviate fuel poverty in Northern Ireland and VP&E has delivered a sound performance in the year.
Revenue a further 1m to fund research focused on identifying the best longincreased from 272.3m to 381.1m primarily due to volume growth term options for development of the T&D network to accommodate in the RoI, higher prices associated with rising fuel costs and sales Government objectives on sustainability.
These costs would be to gas customers.
Operating profit reduced slightly to 24.1m 2005 funded from NIEs own resources.
NIAER outlined in the initial proposals that it expected to issue final Generation proposals in spring 2006: we await these shortly.
Huntstown 1 has performed well during 2005 06 achieving availability after both planned and unplanned outages of 93.9% Power Procurement SONI 2005 - 92.5%.
The plant responded well to flexible despatch at Profits from PPB and SONI based on regulated entitlement certain periods during the winter, as provided for in its design for increased to 9.8m 2005 - 7.2m, reflecting increased entitlement open-cycle as well as combined-cycle operation.
In April 2006, earned by PPB under its trading incentive together with the recovery Huntstown 1 incurred an unplanned outage lasting 19 days to repair of certain costs which were provided for last year.
PPBs damage caused by a failed heat shield in the gas turbine.
This work contribution from trading has been strong this year as the result of was successfully completed at the beginning of May.
operational difficulties at the independent Coolkeeragh CCGT plant, which we do not expect to be repeated.
At 31 March 2006, Huntstown 1s gas requirements for the seven month period to October 2006 were c90% hedged.
We await the SONI is working jointly with Eirgrid, NIAER and CER to implement outcome of CERs consultation on tariff-setting mechanisms for the SEM.
The principal steps are: establishing a single market calendar year 2007 before taking any decisions on hedging beyond operator through a contractual joint venture between SONI and October 2006.
At 31 March 2006, Huntstown 1s requirements for Eirgrid: setting up the necessary operational and commercial CO emission credits were fully covered for the year ending 2 interfaces between the two companies in their roles as transmission 31 March 2007 by forward purchase contracts.
system operator in each jurisdiction: and procuring the IT systems required to operate the new market.
The capital costs are being The construction programme for Huntstown 2 is on track for split 25% SONI, 75% Eirgrid.
SONI is receiving a rate of return on commissioning in autumn 2007 with capital expenditure of 27m as its costs of 6.5% pre tax real.
Civil engineering works have proceeded well and the main equipment is due to arrive on site during summer 2006.
NIE Supply NIE Supplys profits based on regulated entitlement increased to Supply 7.4m 2005 - 6.8m due to lower operating costs and increased In Northern Ireland, Energias sales increased from 1.5TWh to incentive income from the administration of energy efficiency 1.6TWh, with customer sites maintained at 3,800 2005 - 3,800 programmes.
The business is making good progress in delivering notwithstanding some pressure on prices as the output from the new specific commitments linked to its price control in the areas of Coolkeeragh CCGT was sold into the market.
Energia plans to keypad meter installation and the promotion of energy efficiency and maintain its current level of volume sales in Northern Ireland.
NIE Supplys price control is due to be reset with effect from 1 April 2007: we will be seeking to extend it by In the RoI, Energia increased its sales from 3.1TWh to 3.9TWh, with agreement with NIAER.
customer sites increasing to 18,600 2005 - 11,500, primarily among SMEs.
Energia is growing its customer base to absorb the Powerteam future output of Huntstown 2.
Powerteam made steady progress during the year increasing its profits to 4.6m 2005 - 3.8m due to an increase in internal As indicated in the interim results, Energia has experienced pressure income and improved margins: its main focus continues to be on on operating margins following the setting of electricity tariffs by CER costs to T&D.
Over the last three years Powerteams external in the RoI for calendar year 2006, against a background of high gas business has been underpinned by a framework contract awarded in prices.
The effect of this has been partly offset by increased sales June 2003 for the refurbishment of ESBs medium voltage network.
and an active trading strategy.
The latter involved, inter alia, This contract is due to end in June 2006.
Powerteam is developing increased purchases of electricity from ESB on a regulated new revenue streams including further work with ESB, contracts for wholesale tariff at times of very high gas prices and additional the installation of windfarms in Ireland and overhead line and income from Huntstown 1 when despatched to meet system security substation contracts in Great Britain.
Group Chief Executives Review 5 We are making an active input into CERs current consultations on the appropriate level of RoI tariffs for calendar year 2007.
These tariffs, which are published by ESB following agreement with CER, set the benchmark for contracts between suppliers such as Energia and customers participating in the competitive market.
We expect the process to be challenging, given the level of forward gas prices for winter 2006 07 and the planned introduction of the SEM halfway through the tariff year.
We expect tariff proposals for the first six months of 2007 to be issued at the beginning of September followed by a final announcement in early October.
During the year, Energia started to supply a number of large customers in the RoI with gas, generating revenues of 11m 14m therms : annualised volume is c23m therms.
Renewable energy Since 1 April 2005, suppliers in Northern Ireland have been required to source a proportion of their supply from renewable generation.
Energia currently has 33MW of windfarm capacity under contract and is aiming to negotiate further contracts with windfarm developers, either as offtake arrangements, or through direct investment where projected returns are appropriate.
Windfarm development in Northern Ireland has been slower than expected as a result of planning delays.
In April 2005 the RoI government announced details of a new support mechanism for renewable energy.
Under the mechanism, renewable generators will contract with suppliers at a fixed price and suppliers will benefit from support payments levied across all customers.
Energia is assessing offtake contracts with windfarm developers under this scheme, which only received final approval on 2 May 2006.
Other Activities Other profits of 3.9m 2005 - 2.5m benefited from the disposal of property.
We do not anticipate any further significant property disposals.
Patrick Haren 23 May 2006 6 Group Chief Executives Review
