Chief Executives Review Arun Sarin We delivered another set Review of the year We have delivered another year of robust financial performance against a backdrop of increasing competition and regulation, meeting our expectations for revenue, EBITDA of robust financial and margin and free cash ow.
operational results amidst a Proportionate customer growth was strong with nearly 22 million organic net additions in the year taking the closing proportionate customer base to over 170 million across 26 countries.
Our unrivalled presence provides the platform for the next stage of more competitive landscape our strategy.
and announced returns to These results have enabled us to signicantly increase returns to shareholders.
We have increased dividends per share by 49% to 6.07 pence, purchased 6.5 billion of our shares and announced a special distribution of 9.0 billion.
shareholders over the year Financial review of 19.2 billion.
Statutory revenue increased by 10% to 29.4 billion, with over 9% growth in our mobile operations.
Excluding the net benefit from acquisitions, disposals and exchange rate movements, we achieved organic revenue growth of 7% in mobile and 8% for the Group as a whole.
Strong performances in Spain and several of our emerging markets, including South Africa, Egypt and Romania, helped offset lower growth this year in several of our more established markets.
Notwithstanding this lower growth, we outperformed substantially all of our principal competitors in our major markets on revenue and EBITDA growth.
Our focus on profitability delivered an 11% organic increase in adjusted operating profit, with 13% growth in total.
The competitive environment led to a necessary increase in net customer acquisition and retention costs but this was mitigated by our ongoing success in delivering operating efficiencies.
A key part of this growth has been the strong overall performance from our associates, increasing by over 20% this year, and in particular from Verizon Wireless in the US, growing by nearly 28% as it consolidated its market leadership.
Capital expenditure on xed assets was 4.0 billion as we continue to invest in broadening our 3G presence.
Free cash ow of 6.4 billion was slightly lower than last year as expected, with increases in capital expenditure and lower dividends from Verizon Wireless offsetting an increase of 1.0 billion in net cash ow from operating activities.
Operational highlights We have been focused on six strategic goals, including delighting our customers and leveraging scale and scope.
A core part of delighting our customers is our 3G offering.
When we launched 3G late in 2004, we targeted 10 million consumers by the end of March 2006, including Japan.
We reached this during March, shortly before we agreed to sell our Japanese operation.
8 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 Revenue bn 10% 2005 26.7 2006 29.4 0 510 15202530 Adjusted operating profit Free cash flow bn 13% bn -3% 8.4 2005 2005 6.6 2006 9.4 2006 6.4 468 10 468 0 2 0 2 We have updated our strategy to reect our changing environment 3G brings an enhanced mobile experience to our customers, who want more speed, There are several key drivers to the changing environment.
Competition is increasing not greater personalisation and richer content, and provides the platform for our future only from established mobile operators but also from new entrants, particularly mobile growth.
For consumers, we launched mobile TV capability during the year and will virtual network operators MVNOs.
There are also new types of competitor.
Established further enhance our music offering during 2006 with the launch of Vodafone Radio DJ, xed line operators are increasingly combining xed and mobile service offerings.
In a personalised, interactive radio service streamed to both 3G phones and PCs.
addition, internet based companies are extending their services to include telecommunications.
All of these factors are putting pressure on pricing.
For our business customers, we increased the number of mobile email solutions and range of email devices available.
3G broadband through HSDPA technology was The regulatory environment also remains challenging, with continued regulator-imposed launched in the year offering an enhanced data experience through greater speeds than rate reductions on incoming calls across many markets, ongoing pressure to provide 3G and faster access to the network.
This will improve our already successful Vodafone access to MVNOs to our networks and a high level of focus on the costs of roaming.
Mobile Connect offering for laptop users, who have more choice with mobile capability now being built in to the laptop.
Developments in technology also mean that our customers have far more choice and have changing communication needs, but at the same time they demand simplicity Another key part of delighting our customers is measuring customer satisfaction and value for money.
In addition to the core benets of mobility, customers want greater and brand preference.
With rising customer expectations and a tougher competitive personalisation, faster data speed and richer applications through services centred on environment, we are pleased that we continue to outperform our principal competitors the home and the ofce.
in terms of customer satisfaction and that customers continue to show preference for the Vodafone brand.
Finally, our growth historically has principally come from developed markets, particularly in Europe.
With average penetration now around 100%, these markets are maturing and The second strategic area of focus has been leveraging our scale and scope which delivering lower growth.
Whilst growth in these markets has slowed, significant growth delivers benets through our One Vodafone programme, details of which we set is now coming from emerging markets where average penetration is below 30%.
is creating greater diversity between our markets than previously.
Transactions over the last year in Turkey, South Africa, India and Romania have combined with existing We are beginning to deliver real benets in network supply chain management, as operations in markets such as Egypt to provide us now with greater exposure to this standardised designs lead to a reduced number of vendors and better terms.
service platforms, which centrally host services such as Vodafone live!, are also now established.
Developing our strategy These factors require our strategy to evolve so that we can continue to maintain Our strategic goals are ultimately designed to deliver shareholder value.
With respect our strong performance and deliver value to customers and shareholders.
We have to Japan, given the relative competitive position of the business there, the reduced established five key strategic objectives: prospects for superior long term returns and an attractive offer from SoftBank, we decided to sell our 97.7% stake based on a value for the business of 8.9 billion.
In Europe, to focus on both cost reduction and revenue stimulation: The sale completed in April, with Vodafone receiving 6.9 billion in cash, 6.0 billion of which we are returning to shareholders as part of the 9.0 billion special distribution.
To deliver strong growth in emerging markets: Rapidly changing environment To satisfy our customer needs and extend our current mobile only offering by Overall, we have performed strongly during the last year, meeting our expectations and innovating and delivering total communications solutions: delivering on our strategic objectives.
We have continued to outperform our principal competitors on revenue and EBITDA growth, as well as customer satisfaction.
We have To actively manage our portfolio to maximise returns: and established a strong brand around our customer base and increased returns to shareholders signicantly.
However, our marketplace is changing and we need to change to ensure we To align our financial policies regarding capital structure and shareholder returns can leverage our unique position and continue to outperform our competitors.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 9 Strategy Chief Executives Review continued Our changing environment Our strategic objectives Business units aligned to strategy Competition is intensifying from Reduce costs and Business Europe Eastern New existing and new players stimulate revenue in unit Europe, Businesses Europe significant price competition Middle East, Deliver strong growth in Continued significant Africa, Asia emerging markets regulatory pressure Pacic, Innovate and deliver on Afliates Customers have far greater our customers total choice in communications CEO Bill Paul Thomas communications needs Growing demand for Morrow Donovan Geitner Actively manage our broadband services portfolio to maximise Leverage Deliver strong Emerging markets delivering Key focus Innovate and returns significant growth regional scale growth from deliver total Align capital structure to reduce costs emerging communications Mobile business model is and shareholder and stimulate markets solutions changing returns policy to strategy revenues businesses In order to deliver on these objectives, we have reorganised ourselves into three key Deliver strong growth in emerging markets business units.
A source of growth is through emerging markets.
Our focus here is to build on our strong track record of creating value in emerging markets, having delivered strong In our European businesses, where competition is most intense, we will be focused performances over time in markets such as Egypt and South Africa.
Our aim is to on leveraging our regional scale to deliver cost reduction and revenue stimulation.
outperform not only our competitors but also our acquisition business plans.
For example, since we achieved control in Romania last year, the business has performed The principal focus in the Eastern Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia Pacic and Afliates strongly and ahead of our original expectations.
EMAPA region is to deliver strong growth from our businesses in emerging markets.
We will seek selective opportunities to increase our emerging markets footprint as well The new objective of our third business unit, New Businesses, is to enable us to serve the as taking opportunities to increase our stakes in existing markets, with a view to gaining total communications needs of our customers by taking advantage of evolving control where possible over time.
technology and new opportunities to deliver new services.
Delivering our customers total communication needs Cost reduction Customers have access to new technologies, devices and services.
As a complement to Our primary objective here is to leverage our regional scale and reduce our cost mobility, they want Vodafone to provide a number of new services within the home and structure in Europe through several approaches in order to maintain our the ofce.
We will extend our reach into the home and the ofce to deliver richer business We will outsource further, particularly for IT development of billing and customer applications and integrated xed and mobile services, such as higher speed internet management systems, as a key means to reduce our costs.
We will also continue to drive access.
We will use technologies such as HSDPA, DSL and WiFi to do this.
Later this year, scale benets, either at a global level, in areas such as network supply chain management we will be enhancing our Vodafone Zuhause offering to incorporate DSL.
as we achieve greater standardisation across the Group, or regionally, such as through the establishment of regional data centres to support our European operations.
As the size of Developments in technology will also enable us to provide integrated mobile and PC the Group evolves, we need to ensure the appropriate balance between local and group, offerings to give customers a consistent experience whether they are at home or on particularly in respect of central functions, and this is expected to result in over 400 fewer the move, with core services such as VOIP and instant messaging.
We also aim to extend group positions.
our business model to generate revenue from advertising in ways that customers nd attractive.
Revenue stimulation In Europe, our customers use their mobiles on average for only four minutes a day We will continue to pursue a mobile centric approach, focusing on the core benets to and approximately two-thirds of voice trafc continues to travel across xed lines.
customers of mobility and personalisation, and will resell xed line technologies only We therefore aim to stimulate additional voice usage and substitute xed line usage according to customer needs.
for mobile in a way that enhances both customer value and revenue.
Actively managing our portfolio For our consumers, we will seek to enhance revenues by continuing to deliver innovative We seek to invest only where we can generate superior returns for our shareholders in bundles and tariffs to stimulate usage, building on success in areas such as 3G bundles, markets that offer a strong local position, with focus on specic geographic regions.
It targeted promotions, family plans that focus on community groups and roaming is our policy to apply strict investment criteria to ensure that transactions yield a return through Vodafone Passport.
above the cost of capital within three to five years and overall create substantial value for our shareholders.
Equally, we will consider exiting businesses which do not meet our We are already targeting xed to mobile substitution in the home through offerings such performance requirements or provide an opportunity to create shareholder value.
as Vodafone Zuhause in Germany and Vodafone Casa in Italy and aim to target ofce communications by building on our success in business with leading edge services, There has been much speculation about our position in the US.
Verizon Wireless is the such as Ocina Vodafone in Spain, and applications through the benets of broadband.
market leader on nearly all key metrics and has significant local and regional scale, with over 50 million customers.
We will always consider the most appropriate way to deliver shareholder value.
However, we expect continued strong growth in the US and are therefore happy to remain with our existing stake.
10 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 Dividends pence 49% 2005 4.07 2006 6.07 0 2 468 Share purchases bn Special distribution 2.5bn 2005 4.0 2006 6.5 9 billion 0 2 468 We have a significant opportunity to deliver value to both our customers and shareholders.
Financial implications Capital expenditure on xed assets is expected to be in the range of 4.2 billion to Our One Vodafone programme, which primarily has been focused on our mature 4.6 billion, higher than last year due to the investment needs for recent acquisitions mobile markets in Europe, delivers efficiencies in operating costs, being payroll and and the wider rollout of HSDPA.
Free cash ow is anticipated to be in the range of other operating expenses, and in capital expenditures.
We have previously targeted 4.0 billion to 4.5 billion.
Higher tax payments, including around 1.2 billion, with interest keeping these total costs broadly stable between the 2004 and 2008 financial years, costs, from settling some long standing disputes, increased capital expenditure and with operating costs expected to rise at a lower rate than revenue.
Through our new higher nancing costs from our increased borrowing, are expected to offset continued strategic objectives, we now expect underlying operating costs alone to be broadly growth in underlying operating cash ows.
stable between the 2006 and 2008 financial years for the total of our European operations and central costs.
Executing our strategy We have a good track record of delivering against our plans and demonstrating On the same basis, we continue to target expenditures on xed assets to be 10% of outperformance against the majority of our principal competitors.
However, our revenue for the 2008 financial year.
We also continue to expect at least 1% additional environment is changing and we need to adapt to ensure we continue to meet our revenue market share between the 2005 and 2008 financial years, measured against customer needs and deliver superior returns to shareholders.
our established principal competitors in Germany, Italy, Spain and the UK.
We have established clear strategic objectives: cost reduction and revenue stimulation Our strategic changes also have implications on returns to shareholders and our capital in Europe: innovating and delivering total communications solutions: delivering structure.
We have previously indicated an intention to pay out approximately 50% of strong growth in emerging markets: actively managing our portfolio to maximise adjusted earnings per share for the 2007 financial year onwards.
We now consider it returns: and aligning our financial policies to our strategy.
We have reorganised the appropriate to target a 60% payout ratio, with effect for the full 2006 financial year, with business as we begin to deliver against these objectives.
a view to growing the dividend per share in line with underlying earnings per share thereafter.
Dividends per share have, therefore, increased by 49% to 6.07 pence for Vodafone is well placed to execute on this strategy.
Our scale makes us the clear partner the year.
of choice for others and we have a track record for innovation.
We have a strong brand and an unrivalled customer reach.
As customer demands evolve and technology As we enter a new phase in our development, we believe that the most appropriate converges, we remain focused on the core benets of mobility and personalisation capital structure, which meets the needs of both the business and shareholders, is one as we seek to deliver total communications solutions.
We have a significant opportunity that reects a higher level of gearing.
The incremental borrowing capacity this provides to deliver value to both our customers and shareholders.
enables an additional return of 3.0 billion to shareholders, which will be combined with the 6.0 billion return of cash from the sale of Japan in early August.
As a result, we do On a final note, on behalf of the Board, I would like to express sincere thanks to Ian not currently plan any further share purchases or other one-off returns to shareholders.
MacLaurin, who is retiring as Chairman, for his service and support to the Company since 1997.
We wish him continued success.
This 9.0 billion one-off return, together with the 6.5 billion share purchase programme completed during the last year and 3.7 billion of dividends, gives an overall return to shareholders of 19.2 billion.
Prospects for the year ahead While we are delivering on cost reduction, revenue stimulation and emerging market Arun Sarin growth in the shorter term, the potential benets from serving our customers total Chief Executive communications needs will materialise over a longer timeframe.
For the year ahead, we expect operating conditions to remain challenging, with a continued intense competitive environment and further regulatory pressure, but nevertheless see continued growth in Group revenue.
We are anticipating higher customer investment, pricing pressures and further termination rate reductions to impact growth in adjusted operating profit, however initiatives to deliver further cost efficiencies are expected to mitigate this effect.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 11 Strategy
