Chief Executives review We delivered another set of robust financial and operational results amidst a more competitive landscape and announced returns to shareholders over the year of 19.2 billion.
Arun Sarin Review of the year Our focus on profitability delivered an 11% organic increase We have delivered another year of robust financial in adjusted operating profit, with 13% growth in total.
The performance against a backdrop of increasing competition competitive environment led to a necessary increase in net and regulation, meeting our expectations for revenue, customer acquisition and retention costs but this was mitigated EBITDA margin and free cash flow.
by our ongoing success in delivering operating efficiencies.
A key part of this growth has been the strong overall Proportionate customer growth was strong with nearly performance from our associates, increasing by over 20% this 22 million organic net additions in the year taking the closing year, and in particular from Verizon Wireless in the US, growing proportionate customer base to over 170 million across by nearly 28% as it consolidated its market leadership.
Our unrivalled presence provides the platform for the next stage of our strategy.
Capital expenditure on fixed assets was 4.0 billion as we continue to invest in broadening our 3G presence.
Free cash These results have enabled us to significantly increase returns flow of 6.4 billion was slightly lower than last year as expected, to shareholders.
We have increased dividends per share by with increases in capital expenditure and lower dividends 49% to 6.07 pence, purchased 6.5 billion of our shares and from Verizon Wireless offsetting an increase of 1.0 billion announced a special distribution of 9.0 billion.
in net cash flow from operating activities.
Financial review Operational highlights Proportionate mobile revenue increased by 9% on an We have been focused on six strategic goals, including organic basis.
Strong performances in Spain, the US and delighting our customers and leveraging scale and scope.
several of our emerging markets, including South Africa, Egypt and Romania, helped offset lower growth this year A core part of delighting our customers is our 3G offering.
in several of our more established markets.
Proportionate When we launched 3G late in 2004, we targeted 10 million mobile EBITDA margins were slightly lower year on year.
consumers by the end of March 2006, including Japan.
We Notwithstanding this lower growth, we outperformed reached this during March, shortly before we agreed to sell substantially all of our principal competitors in our major our Japanese operation.
markets on revenue and EBITDA growth.
3G brings an enhanced mobile experience to our customers, Statutory revenue increased by 10% to 29.4 billion, with over who want more speed, greater personalisation and richer 9% growth in our mobile operations.
Excluding the net benefit content, and provides the platform for our future growth.
For from acquisitions, disposals and exchange rate movements, consumers, we launched mobile TV capability during the year we achieved organic revenue growth of 7% in mobile and 8% and will further enhance our music offering during 2006 with for the Group as a whole.
the launch of Vodafone Radio DJ, a personalised, interactive radio service streamed to both 3G phones and PCs.
6 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Revenue bn 10% 2005 26.7 2006 29.4 0 5 1015202530 Adjusted operating profit Free cash flow bn 13% bn -3% 2005 8.4 2005 6.6 2006 9.4 2006 6.4 0 2 468 10 0 2 468 For our business customers, we increased the number of Rapidly changing environment mobile email solutions and range of email devices available.
Overall, we have performed strongly during the last year, 3G broadband through HSDPA technology was launched in meeting our expectations and delivering on our strategic the year offering an enhanced data experience through greater objectives.
We have continued to outperform our principal speeds than 3G and faster access to the network.
This will competitors on revenue and EBITDA growth, as well as improve our already successful Vodafone Mobile Connect customer satisfaction.
We have established a strong offering for laptop users, who have more choice with mobile brand around our customer base and increased returns capability now being built in to the laptop.
However, our marketplace is changing and we need to change to ensure we can Another key part of delighting our customers is measuring leverage our unique position and continue to outperform customer satisfaction and brand preference.
customer expectations and a tougher competitive environment, we are pleased that we continue to outperform our principal There are several key drivers to the changing environment.
competitors in terms of customer satisfaction and that Competition is increasing not only from established mobile customers continue to show preference for the Vodafone brand.
operators but also from new entrants, particularly mobile virtual network operators MVNOs.
There are also new types The second strategic area of focus has been leveraging our of competitor.
Established fixed line operators are increasingly scale and scope which delivers benefits through our One combining fixed and mobile service offerings.
In addition, Vodafone programme, details of which we set out last year.
internet based companies are extending their services to We are beginning to deliver real benefits in network supply include telecommunications.
All of these factors are putting chain management, as standardised designs lead to a reduced pressure on pricing.
number of vendors and better terms.
Our shared service platforms, which centrally host services such as Vodafone live!, The regulatory environment also remains challenging, with are also now established.
continued regulator-imposed rate reductions on incoming calls across many markets, ongoing pressure to provide Our strategic goals are ultimately designed to deliver access to MVNOs to our networks and a high level of focus shareholder value.
With respect to Japan, given the relative on the costs of roaming.
competitive position of the business there, the reduced prospects for superior long term returns and an attractive offer Developments in technology also mean that our customers have from SoftBank, we decided to sell our 97.7% stake based on far more choice and have changing communication needs, but a value for the business of 8.9 billion.
The sale completed in at the same time they demand simplicity and value for money.
April, with Vodafone receiving 6.9 billion in cash, 6.0 billion In addition to the core benefits of mobility, customers want of which we are returning to shareholders as part of the greater personalisation, faster data speed and richer applications 9.0 billion special distribution.
through services centred on the home and the office.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 7 Chief Executives review continued Our changing environment Our strategic objectives Competition is intensifying from existing Reduce costs and stimulate revenue in Europe and new players Deliver strong growth in emerging markets Significant price competition Innovate and deliver on our customers total Continued significant regulatory pressure communications needs Customers have far greater choice Actively manage our portfolio to maximise returns in communications Align capital structure and shareholder Growing demand for broadband services returns policy to strategy Emerging markets delivering significant growth Mobile business model is changing We have updated our strategy to reflect our changing environment.
Finally, our growth historically has principally come from In our European businesses, where competition is most developed markets, particularly in Europe.
With average intense, we will be focused on leveraging our regional scale penetration now around 100%, these markets are maturing to deliver cost reduction and revenue stimulation.
Whilst growth in these markets has slowed, significant growth is now coming from emerging The principal focus in the Eastern Europe, Middle East, Africa, markets where average penetration is below 30%.
This is Asia Pacific and Affiliates EMAPA region is to deliver strong creating greater diversity between our markets than previously.
growth from our businesses in emerging markets.
Transactions over the last year in Turkey, South Africa, India and Romania have combined with existing operations in The objective of our third business unit, New Businesses, is markets such as Egypt to provide us now with greater to enable us to serve the total communications needs of our exposure to this growth potential.
customers by taking advantage of evolving technology and new opportunities to deliver new services.
Developing our strategy These factors require our strategy to evolve so that we can Cost reduction continue to maintain our strong performance and deliver Our primary objective here is to leverage our regional scale value to customers and shareholders.
We have established and reduce our cost structure in Europe through several five key strategic objectives: approaches in order to maintain our competitiveness.
In Europe, to focus on both cost reduction and We will outsource further, particularly for IT development of revenue stimulation: billing and customer management systems, as a key means to To deliver strong growth in emerging markets: reduce our costs.
We will also continue to drive scale benefits, either at a global level, in areas such as network supply chain To satisfy our customer needs and extend our current mobile management as we achieve greater standardisation across only offering by innovating and delivering total the Group, or regionally, such as through the establishment communications solutions: of regional data centres to support our European operations.
To actively manage our portfolio to maximise returns: and As the size of the Group evolves, we need to ensure the To align our financial policies regarding capital structure and appropriate balance between local and group, particularly shareholder returns to support our strategy.
in respect of central functions, and this is expected to result In order to deliver on these objectives, we have reorganised in over 400 fewer group positions.
ourselves into three key business units.
8 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Business units aligned to strategy Business Europe Eastern Europe, New Businesses unit Middle East, Africa, Asia Pacific, Affiliates CEO Bill Morrow Paul Donovan Thomas Geitner Key focus Leverage regional scale Deliver strong growth Innovate and deliver to reduce costs and from emerging markets total communications stimulate revenues businesses solutions Revenue stimulation We will seek selective opportunities to increase our emerging In Europe, our customers use their mobiles on average for markets footprint as well as taking opportunities to increase only four minutes a day and approximately two-thirds of voice our stakes in existing markets, with a view to gaining control traffic continues to travel across fixed lines.
We therefore aim where possible over time.
to stimulate additional voice usage and substitute fixed line usage for mobile in a way that enhances both customer value Delivering our customers total communication needs and revenue.
Customers have access to new technologies, devices and services.
As a complement to mobility, they want Vodafone For our consumers, we will seek to enhance revenues by to provide a number of new services within the home and continuing to deliver innovative bundles and tariffs to the office.
stimulate usage, building on success in areas such as 3G bundles, targeted promotions, family plans that focus on We will extend our reach into the home and the office to community groups and roaming through Vodafone Passport.
deliver richer business applications and integrated fixed and mobile services, such as higher speed internet access.
We will We are already targeting fixed to mobile substitution use technologies such as HSDPA, DSL and WiFi to do this.
in the home through offerings such as Vodafone Zuhause in Later this year, we will be enhancing our Vodafone Zuhause Germany and Vodafone Casa in Italy and aim to target office offering to incorporate DSL.
communications by building on our success in business with leading edge services, such as Oficina Vodafone in Spain, and Developments in technology will also enable us to provide applications through the benefits of broadband.
integrated mobile and PC offerings to give customers a consistent experience whether they are at home or on Deliver strong growth in emerging markets the move, with core services such as VOIP and instant A source of growth is through emerging markets.
We also aim to extend our business model to here is to build on our strong track record of creating value in generate revenue from advertising in ways that customers emerging markets, having delivered strong performances over find attractive.
time in markets such as Egypt and South Africa.
Our aim is to outperform not only our competitors but also our acquisition We will continue to pursue a mobile centric approach, business plans.
For example, since we achieved control in focusing on the core benefits to customers of mobility and Romania last year, the business has performed strongly personalisation, and will resell fixed line technologies only and ahead of our original expectations.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 9 Chief Executives review continued Special distribution 9 billion Dividends pence Share purchases bn 49% 2.5bn 2005 4.07 2005 4.0 2006 6.07 2006 6.5 0 2 468 0 2 468 Actively managing our portfolio On the same basis, we continue to target expenditures on We seek to invest only where we can generate superior returns fixed assets to be 10% of revenue for the 2008 financial year.
for our shareholders in markets that offer a strong local We also continue to expect at least 1% additional revenue position, with focus on specific geographic regions.
It is market share between the 2005 and 2008 financial years, our policy to apply strict investment criteria to ensure that measured against our established principal competitors in transactions yield a return above the cost of capital within Germany, Italy, Spain and the UK.
three to five years and overall create substantial value for our shareholders.
Equally, we will consider exiting businesses Our strategic changes also have implications on returns to which do not meet our performance requirements or provide shareholders and our capital structure.
We have previously an opportunity to create shareholder value.
indicated an intention to pay out approximately 50% of adjusted earnings per share for the 2007 financial year There has been much speculation about our position in the onwards.
We now consider it appropriate to target a 60% US.
Verizon Wireless is the market leader on nearly all key payout ratio, with effect for the full 2006 financial year, with a metrics and has significant local and regional scale, with view to growing the dividend per share in line with underlying over 50 million customers.
We will always consider the most earnings per share thereafter.
Dividends per share have, appropriate way to deliver shareholder value.
However, we therefore, increased by 49% to 6.07 pence for the year.
expect continued strong growth in the US and are therefore happy to remain with our existing stake.
As we enter a new phase in our development, we believe that the most appropriate capital structure, which meets the needs Financial implications of both the business and shareholders, is one that reflects a Our One Vodafone programme, which primarily has been higher level of gearing.
The incremental borrowing capacity focused on our mature mobile markets in Europe, delivers this provides enables an additional return of 3.0 billion to efficiencies in operating costs, being payroll and other shareholders, which will be combined with the 6.0 billion operating expenses, and in capital expenditures.
We have return of cash from the sale of Japan in early August.
As a previously targeted keeping these total costs broadly stable result, we do not currently plan any further share purchases between the 2004 and 2008 financial years, with operating or other one-off returns to shareholders.
costs expected to rise at a lower rate than revenue.
Through our new strategic objectives, we now expect underlying This 9.0 billion one-off return, together with the 6.5 billion operating costs alone to be broadly stable between the 2006 share purchase programme completed during the last year and 2008 financial years for the total of our European and 3.7 billion of dividends, gives an overall return to operations and central costs.
10 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Outlook for 2007 financial year Organic proportionate: Mobile revenue growth 5% 6.5% Mobile EBITDA margin Around 1 percentage point lower than 2006 Free cash flow 4.0 4.5 billion Capitalised fixed asset additions 4.2 4.6 billion We have a significant opportunity to deliver value to both our customers and shareholders.
Prospects for the year ahead and we need to adapt to ensure we continue to meet our While we are delivering on cost reduction, revenue stimulation customer needs and deliver superior returns to shareholders.
and emerging market growth in the shorter term, the potential benefits from serving our customers total communications We have established clear strategic objectives: cost reduction needs will materialise over a longer timeframe.
and revenue stimulation in Europe: innovating and delivering total communications solutions: delivering strong growth For the year ahead, we expect operating conditions to in emerging markets: actively managing our portfolio to remain challenging, with a continued intense competitive maximise returns: and aligning our financial policies to our environment and further regulatory pressure, and see organic strategy.
We have reorganised the business as we begin to growth in proportionate mobile revenue in the range of 5% to deliver against these objectives.
Proportionate mobile EBITDA margins are expected to be around 1 percentage point lower than the 2006 financial Vodafone is well placed to execute on this strategy.
Our year on an organic basis.
We are anticipating higher customer scale makes us the clear partner of choice for others and investment, pricing pressures and further termination rate we have a track record for innovation.
We have a strong reductions, however initiatives to deliver further cost brand and an unrivalled customer reach.
As customer efficiencies are expected to mitigate this effect.
demands evolve and technology converges, we remain focused on the core benefits of mobility and personalisation Capital expenditure on fixed assets is expected to be in the as we seek to deliver total communications solutions.
range of 4.2 billion to 4.6 billion, higher than last year We have a significant opportunity to deliver value to both due to the investment needs for recent acquisitions and our customers and shareholders.
the wider rollout of HSDPA.
Free cash flow is anticipated to be in the range of 4.0 billion to 4.5 billion.
Higher tax On a final note, on behalf of the Board, I would like to express payments, including around 1.2 billion, with interest costs, sincere thanks to Ian MacLaurin, who is retiring as Chairman, from settling some long standing disputes, increased capital for his service and support to the Company since 1997.
We expenditure and higher financing costs from our increased wish him continued success.
borrowing, are expected to offset continued growth in underlying operating cash flows.
Executing our strategy We have a good track record of delivering against our plans and demonstrating outperformance against the majority of our Arun Sarin principal competitors.
However, our environment is changing Chief Executive Vodafone Group Plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 11
