The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Chief Executives Review: 2006 demonstrated the success of the Weir Group strategy, exiting non core activities, restructuring those which underperform, increasing exposure to higher growth markets and delivering improvements to underpin future growth.
We remain on course to realise further improvements in 2007.
In 2002, we first defined our ambition to achieve sector-best performance, by targeting those markets which offered the most attractive prospects and where we had a realistic ability to lead.
The portfolio of Group businesses has changed dramatically since this time.
We have largely restructured our underperformers, exited lower margin activities and acquired growth businesses in the higher margin, high growth oil sector.
At the same time we outlined our philosophy to meet and exceed customer expectations, which we passionately believed would play a direct role in the Groups earnings growth.
We engaged the entire organisation in the implementation of the Weir Production System, a structured process geared to delivering a leaner and more disciplined organisation.
Today, our best manufacturing facilities deliver industry leading performance and every business in the Group has well defined plans to maximise operational performance.
We remain absolutely convinced that these developments will continue to unlock our full potential for increased customer satisfaction and improving financial returns.
The benefits of these strategies are clearly evident in our 2006 results.
Group revenue increased 19% to 940.9m with over 80% of the 1.1bn A key component of our success in the year input in the year tied to the mining, oil and gas, power generation and has been the strong portfolio of businesses naval and marine markets.
with solid positions in growing and Operating margins also improved substantially, particularly in our Engineering Products Division which reported 10.3% in 2006 against 7.4% back in 2002. attractive markets.
The significant reduction in the Groups debt is a direct reflection of the benefits of our Lean initiatives with improved working capital, lower inventories and improved on-time delivery all featuring prominently in the excellent cash generation achieved in the year.
Our Journey to Excellence Engineering Products Division Engineering Products posted new records in 2006 growing input 23%, revenue 21% and profits 49% when compared to 2005.
The division includes the combined activities of our Minerals, Clear Liquid and Valves & Controls businesses which supply pumps, valves and ancillary equipment to the oil and gas, power generation, mining and general industrial markets.
A key component of the divisions success in the year has been the strong portfolio of businesses with solid positions in growing and attractive markets.
Input grew 23% to 683.8m with almost 80% being attributable to the mining, oil and gas and power generation markets.
We achieved excellent results from Minerals up 19% and Clear Liquid up 32% which combined with 20% growth from Valves & Controls to achieve the Groups highest ever level of order input.
4 Chief Executives Review In 2006, the divisions revenue grew 21% to 608.5m against 501.4m last The Valves & Controls businesses made good progress in 2006 and year with a largely balanced workload of new project and aftermarket activity.
contributed to the revenue and profit growth in the Engineering Products The realigned portfolio of businesses specialise in safety critical, high wear Division during the year.
The principal markets for our Valves businesses are applications where new project sales provide the foundations for medium power and oil which represented more than 80% of input in 2006. to long-term spares and service sales streams.
The Valves & Controls business continued to build on its achievements in Operating profits at 62.6m were 49% above 2005, validating our the Chinese power market and was successful in its integration of our newly confidence in the strategy outlined back in 2002.
Profitability improved acquired wholly-owned subsidiary located at Suzhou.
The increased activity in every area in the year and the full benefits of the previous years UK in the domestic United States power market helped deliver growth in restructuring, the acquisition of Gabbioneta and continued contribution turnover in the United States operation.
from our operational excellence initiatives all featured in underlying margin Weir Valves & Controls France benefited from its ongoing success in growth to 10.3% against 8.4% last year.
Eastern European nuclear markets where upgrade work is being funded Our Engineering Products segment includes a strong portfolio of businesses by the European Union and also work in the Middle East oil and gas markets.
in the mining, oil and gas and power generation markets where the Growth in sales and profits from this business was evident in the 2006 results.
fundamentals point to sustained future progress.
Global population is The restructuring of the Weir Valves & Controls UK operation is now complete expected to expand dramatically in the next 25 years and this, combined and the move to a modern, appropriately sized facility was executed on time with increasing infrastructure needs in China and India, is expected to and under budget.
The second half performance of the UK business provides underpin ongoing sector growth in the medium term.
increased confidence in the delivery of anticipated improvements and The Engineering Products businesses reaped additional benefits from focusing positions us well for further progress in 2007. on Lean processes and continued to accelerate their execution of the Weir We remain encouraged by the prospects for the Valves & Controls businesses.
As a whole, the initiative provides all our businesses with The United States operation will move to larger premises to capitalise on a common set of world class practices which provide the fuel to achieve the growing power opportunities in their domestic market and our recent improving results and prepare us for the challenges of the future.
acquisition in China, coupled to further progress from our UK and French Our Minerals businesses posted another year of solid progress with significant operations, are expected to deliver further improvements in 2007. gains in input, revenue and profit when compared to 2005.
The principal Our Clear Liquid businesses contributed significantly to the excellent results market for our Minerals business is global mining which accounts for more of Engineering Products in 2006.
Strong end markets, the benefits of prior than 70% of the collective turnover in the year.
year restructuring and the addition of Gabbioneta were all significant Minerals input grew 19% to 390.5m reflecting the ongoing strength of contributors to the Clear Liquid businesses improved results.
global mining markets, the benefits of managements emerging market Clear Liquid includes a portfolio of pump businesses with solid positions in strategy and our entry into the specialised areas of the power generation and growing and attractive markets.
In 2006, input increased 32% to 222.7m oil sectors.
The combination of the ongoing spares stream from the existing reflecting the continued strength of the oil, power and general industrial installed base and the potential business derived from new orders secured in markets which represented more than three quarters of total orders booked the year provides a solid platform for future progress.
The Minerals business recognised at the outset of their strategic review in The results for Clear Liquid include the full year benefits from the prior year 2002 that they needed to respond to the changing demographics of the restructuring of Weir Pumps.
This included an extensive analysis of their global mining market and implemented plans to establish and grow market business portfolio and a strategy to deploy resources to the oil and power positions in South America, Asia and the Former Soviet Union.
Today the sectors from where the most value could be derived.
The current strength of Group is the best geographically positioned of any supplier to the market these sectors has contributed greatly to the improvement and we continue with emerging countries representing 30% of 2006 input.
to develop our strategy to sustain this success in a cyclical downturn.
Power-related input totalled 47m in the year and reflects the increased The 2006 results include a full year contribution from Gabbioneta which was global requirements for flue gas desulphurisation used to improve emissions acquired in the final quarter of 2005.
Gabbioneta grew its input substantially in coal fired power stations.
The Minerals team has built progressively a to 50.2m due, principally, to the continued buoyant project activity in the leading position in this high growth area of the market and during the year downstream oil market which represents the vast majority of the companys secured new contracts in China, Spain, Italy, Poland, Czech Republic and target market.
The business is now fully integrated and has an active North America.
programme to implement the Weir Production System to accelerate Minerals secured 26m of oil related orders, due in part to the success of their operational and financial progress in the future.
strategy to develop pump products for the Canadian oil sands market dating The Clear Liquid speciality businesses continued to perform well with back to 2004.
The highly abrasive application and growing investment excellent progress at our operations in Missouri and California which rationale for the development of the worlds significant deposits of oil sands benefited both from stronger domestic demand and the increased provide the basis for a considerable growth driver for the future.
geographic reach of the Group.
Weir Lewis Pumps, which specialises During the year, Minerals added significantly to its installed foundry capacity in highly aggressive acid pumps, continued to benefit from phosphate with new facilities coming on stream in South Africa and China and an processing investments in the Former Soviet Union and Middle East and expansion to the Chilean operations.
All of these investments were launched Weir Floway, our specialist vertical turbine business, achieved significant successfully and added much needed capacity to respond to market share gains in the critical application fire pump market.
In 2007, further investments will be made to add foundry The medium term outlook for the oil, power and related general industrial capabilities in Brasil and the Chinese business will enter full operational status.
markets remains positive and this, coupled to our ambitious plans for Going forward the Minerals business will benefit from the favourable operational improvement, provide a solid platform for further progress economic climate while continuing to make progress in the key pillars in 2007. of its future strategy.
5 T Th he e W We eiir r G Gr ro ou up p P PL LC C R Ae np no uratl a Rn ed po Arc tc2 o0 u0 n6 ts|2 C 0h 0i5 ef Executives Review Engineering Services Division Operating profits at 9.8m were 46% above 2005 with both the liquid gas and defence activities making progress during the year.
Operating margin at Input from Engineering Services increased 5% to 236.6m 2005: 225.5m.
9.1% was slightly below the 9.8% achieved in 2005 and reflects the balance Revenue increased 3% to 225.2m 2005: 218.8m producing an operating of new project work which remains at early completion stages when profit of 12.4m against 13.6m in 2005, primarily due to once off costs compared to the work stream last year.
of 4.4m related to restructuring initiatives in the UK, United States and Middle East.
The liquid gas operation, Weir LGE, is the market leader in the design, project management and commissioning of facilities for the shipbuilding and In the UK, input grew 6% to 60.0m 2005: 56.7m with new hydro orders onshore storage of liquid gas.
During the year, input grew 23% to 98.8m contributing to solid growth in our power generation activities.
Rationalisation with the absence of significant onshore work being more than offset by of the number of UK Service Centres was largely completed during the year increased orders booked in the marine market.
and 2007 results are expected to reflect the improving returns.
Turnover and profits from the liquid gas business also grew significantly when At our Middle East business, input grew 62% to 26.9m 2005: 16.6m with compared to 2005, as revenue and profit taking milestones were achieved significant new orders booked in oil services.
Once off costs were taken in the on orders booked in prior periods.
The marine market cannot realistically be year to realign overheads and refocus the operation on the oil sector.
Good expected to sustain the new build work evidenced in 2005 and 2006 and second half improvements are now expected to underpin further progress.
therefore order intake is expected to decline significantly in 2007.
Revenue The Canadian operation had another successful year benefiting from and profits can, however, be expected to be maintained for the medium continued buoyant market conditions and Weirs growing position in the term as new projects now extend into 2009.
In the United States, we took the decision to close our The defence and nuclear businesses performed well, improving both revenue loss making service centres which, while disappointing, will result in the and profits in 2006.
Order input was 80.3m against 31.8m last year and remaining United States businesses contributing positively to Services results our increased presence in Australia and Canada contributed significantly in the coming year.
Recent investments in these territories, and the award of The Australian operations performed well in the year, growing revenue the previously announced Spanish submarine contract, provide a strong and profits when compared to 2005 and our investment in larger facilities defence order book going into 2007. in Western Australia, which will come on-line in the first half of the year, is expected to provide further growth in 2007.
2007 Outlook The restructuring work undertaken in 2006 was necessary to reposition the Engineering Services Division in those sectors and geographies which are The Group remains in good financial condition with a much improved order critical to the future of the Group.
The rationalisation of our UK infrastructure, book and a continuing level of confidence in our most important markets.
closure of smaller less profitable United States Service Centres and refocus By remaining on course, capitalising on our strong portfolio of businesses and towards the oil services sector in the Middle East leave the division better striving for continued operational improvement, we will deliver a good level equipped to improve margins and take advantage of the significant of progress in 2007. opportunities available for accelerated growth.
We remain optimistic of the prospects within our Services Division.
The restructuring investments made in 2006 together with the excellent progress from our joint ventures in Saudi Arabia and Abu Dhabi provide the foundations for significant improvement in 2007.
Defence, Nuclear & Gas Division Mark Selway The Defence, Nuclear & Gas Division delivered a further year of solid Chief Executive progress with significant gains in input, revenue and profit when compared 21 March 2007 to the results of 2005.
The division includes the combined activities of our UK based gas storage and nuclear businesses and our global activities in defence.
Input grew 60% to 179.1m with over 90% attributable to the naval and marine markets.
We achieved excellent results from Weir LGE which benefited from the continued strength of the new build ship market, while Weir Strachan & Henshaw, our defence and nuclear business, reported significant new project work in the year.
In 2006, the divisions revenue grew 57% to 107.2m against 68.3m last year.
The majority of growth in the year was due to the liquid gas operations achieving predetermined milestones on new ship contracts which grew their revenue to 58.1m in 2006 against 22.1m last year.
