Chief Executives Review 2006 has seen the Groups strategy of estate was 346 second half of 2005: Direct bets across the estate, which has generating organic growth, exploiting 287.
The improved profitability in both been favourably received by our new platforms and executing valueestates was due to a combination of customers.
We also completed the rollout enhancing acquisitions continue to deliver greater gross win per machine and better of our new text system and an EPOS long-term value for shareholders.
The contractual terms with our main FOBT system throughout the Stanley Retail Group produced a strong profit supplier Leisure Link, which were effective estate during the period and in performance in the period, fully from May 2005.
However, the imposition consequence the entire estate has been leveraging the benefits of the Stanley of Amusement Machine Licence Duty in running on identical systems since the Retail acquisition, which was completed in August 2006 has adversely affected end of March.
The year has also seen a strong average weekly profitability of each performance from FOBTs and the impact terminal by 38.
Telephone channel of the World Cup, both of which have boosted year-on-year gross win growth The average number of AWPs traded in Telephone gross win grew by 8% to while operating expenses continue to be the period fell to 303 in 2006 FY 2005: 57.5m and operating profit increased by kept under tight control.
Consequently, 353 within the William Hill estate.
profit on ordinary activities before interest, Stanley Retail estate, the average number taxation and exceptional items was up traded also fell from 386 AWPs in the The channel benefited from the World 19% to 292.2m 2005: 245.0m and second half of last year to 314 in 2006.
Cup and increased football betting in earnings per share were 45.5p, a rise of general as well as more normal 24% after adjusting for last years Non-exceptional costs in the channel horseracing results.
In addition there was exceptional items compared to 2005. were up 16% 5% excluding Stanley some favourable high roller activity Retail.
Excluding Stanley Retail, there especially in the second half of the year.
In recognition of these excellent results, were minimal increases in staff costs due the Board is recommending a final to reduced overtime and premium Costs in the channel were up 5% dividend of 14.5 pence per share, taking payments under the new LBO staff principally due to higher marketing spend the full year dividend to 21.75 pence, an employment contracts and productivity focused around the World Cup.
improvements resulting from the investment in EPOS.
FOBT rentals fell due We ended the year with 160,000 active to more favourable contractual terms, telephone customers 27 December 2005: Retail channel which are exclusively profit-share based, 174,000.
The Retail channels gross win grew by and AWP rentals fell due to the reduction 18% to 736.0m 6% excluding Stanley in the number of machines in the estate.
Interactive channel Retail and pre-exceptional profit Savings were also made due to a higher increased by 24% to 225.9m 9% portion of VAT expense being recoverable Interactive gross win increased 6% to excluding Stanley Retail.
following the change in tax regime for 130.5m and operating profit showed a FOBTs.
These savings were offset by small increase to 61.5m.
Within the original William Hill estate increased provisions for staff bonuses: excluding Stanley Retail, total gross win increases in rent and rates due to Growth in Interactive sportsbook gross increased by 6% year-on-year.
In this part increased LBO numbers and rent reviews: win was modest in the period when of the estate, gross win from over the higher energy costs reflecting general compared to our expectations at the counter OTC was flat while FOBT AWP market conditions: and depreciation and beginning of the year.
Since we launched gross win was up 18%.
maintenance charges as a result of our Interactive channel in 1999, we have introducing new text and EPOS systems.
fully exploited our legacy bookmaking There were no exceptional costs in the LBOs in the Stanley Retail estate and client management systems but it current year.
The prior period exceptional performed better year-on-year than those has become increasingly clear that the costs related to the integration of the in the original William Hill estate with Interactive sportsbook is being impacted Stanley Retail acquisition.
gross win growing by 7% for the full year by the relative inflexibility of our current and second half gross win growth of 10% technology configuration.
Our NextGen We completed 233 development and LBO achieved.
For the year as a whole, FOBT technology programme is designed to refurbishment projects in 2006 including gross win grew by 18% and OTC gross rectify these issues and deliver systems 50 new licences, 70 extensions and resites win increased by 4%.
clearly superior to anything currently and 113 LBO fittings.
Overall, we spent available to our major competitors.
By the 40.1m on estate development in 2006.
The average number of FOBTs in the end of 2007, this programme is expected original William Hill estate increased to to deliver a number of enhancements and 6,034 FY 2005: 5,892 in the period and in At 26 December 2006, we had 2,165 LBOs give us a flexible platform to more easily the Stanley Retail estate the average in the United Kingdom, 9 in the Channel introduce better products going forward.
number of FOBTs was 1,567 compared to Islands, 2 in the Isle of Man and 48 in the We anticipate that these changes will be 1,539 in the second half of last year.
The Republic of Ireland: a total of 2,224. undertaken alongside the technical average net profit per machine per week changes required by the Gambling in the William Hill estate was 494 FY 2006 has seen the introduction of the Commission, which are yet to be 2005: 402 and in the Stanley Retail capability to take a wider range of Tote finalised.
We also launched an period reflecting World Cup and other systems, we continued to increase our interactive bingo game in partnership more general web-based advertising and range of in-running betting opportunities with Virtue Fusion in January.
on our sportsbook and we launched 10 indications of trading from both these new arcade games during the period that ventures are encouraging.
Stanley acquisition expanded our offering to 20 games.
Total active accounts increased to 405,000 The integration of the Stanley Retail estate as at 26 December 2006 27 December was completed by the end of March 2006 Poker and Casino has also had a 2005: 341,000. in accordance with the plans we drew up challenging second half after an in 2005.
Key tasks achieved in 2006 were encouraging start to the year.
These Costs in the channel increased 10% the completion of the re-branding of the products have been affected by strong mainly due to higher marketing spend, LBOs, installation throughout the Stanley competition particularly following the higher technology charges and closure Retail estate of the same version of EPOS withdrawal of many operators from the costs of WHTV.
and audio-visual text systems already US market in September 2006, which has deployed in the William Hill estate and the impacted poker site liquidity in general Operating expenses closure of the Stanley Retail head office.
and made the competition for European Expenses net of operating income for The Stanley Retail estate has delivered customers more intense.
We continue to the Group were 445.3m, an increase of strong gross win growth in 2006, have confidence in the long-term 15% 6% excluding Stanley Retail.
particularly in the second half with gross prospects of these products and in win growth of 10% achieved year-on-year.
December 2006, we extended our Excluding Stanley Retail, staff costs which We remain confident that the acquisition contract with our poker and casino represented roughly half of our total will deliver the synergies and other software partner, Cryptologic.
As part of costs increased 7% in 2006, mainly benefits of up to 20m we anticipated at the new contract, Cryptologic have made reflecting provisions for profit based the end of 2005, which compares a significant commitment in respect of incentive schemes.
Excluding these favourably with the original estimated game and other product development.
provisions from this period and the synergies at the time of the acquisition of comparative period, staff costs have risen 13m.
In October 2006, we decided to close our by 2% reflecting a 3% general pay award Interactive TV WHTV channel following a and an increase in the number of LBOs review of its operations and the Regulatory development now trading, partly offset by an conclusion of a trial broadcast of its improvement in productivity driven by The Gambling Commission has now been content into our LBOs.
Whilst we have the rollout of EPOS.
Property costs, which established and the Commission and exited this particular arrangement, we represented 17% of our total costs, were DCMS are in the process of developing remain committed to the strategy of up 12% over the comparable period the regulations, conditions, standards and supplying customers with a means to reflecting higher energy costs and guidance under the Gambling Act 2005 place bets on an interactive TV platform increases in rent and rates, in part driven and the Commission will take over its and of supplying tailored content to our by an increase in average LBO size and an duty to promote the licensing objectives own LBOs, once we have identified a increase in the number of LBOs.
under the Act with effect from profitable and cost effective means of 1 September 2007. doing so.
Depreciation costs increased 38% with the full year effects of the rollout of EPOS and In January 2007, we launched internet skill The Group is preparing for the text systems along with the supporting gaming in partnership with implementation of these detailed technology, although this was partly GameAccount, the worlds largest requirements.
We have been heavily offset by staff costs savings.
The cost of integrated network of skill-based games.
involved in dialogue with the Commission providing pictures and data to our LBOs Accessible through a tab on William Hills both by ourselves and via our trade was up 7% over the comparable period homepage, the fully integrated browserassociations, with a view to ensuring that due to the increased size of the estate and based skill games available on the site appropriate and proportionate regulations price increases.
Advertising and marketing include multiplayer blackjack, gin rummy are implemented.
However, we remain costs were up 22% over the comparable 5 concerned that certain requirements have This would mean that SIS would not be relating to horseracing and sports betting yet to be finalised, while the technical able to transmit pictures from these 30 were also applied for and granted.
In standards for the remote businesses have tracks except when they are generally addition to activating these units the recently been published for consultation available via terrestrial coverage once its proposed joint venture intends to with finalised documentation not current contracts expire.
If this happens, evaluate other opportunities for growth in expected to be available until June.
We we will have to decide whether to have the Italian market.
are concerned that insufficient time is two different sources of pictures from the being given to the industry to enable full beginning of 2008 if we want to maintain Dividends and capital compliance with these technical coverage of these horse tracks within our structure standards from the beginning of LBOs.
This could imply an extra cost for us The Company is proposing to pay a final September.
We will continue to hold but also an inferior service for customers, dividend of 14.5 pence per share 2005: discussions with the Commission to press as the co-ordination of the timing and 12.2 pence per share on 5 June 2007 to for this and other issues to be resolved in broadcasting of events achieved by SIS shareholders on the register on 27 April a practical way.
would not be possible with two different 2007.
The 19% increase in the proposed transmission sources.
In the event that we We also look forward to the proposed final dividend reflects the strong decide to take the service offered by the deregulation that the Gambling Act performance achieved in 2006 and our proposed joint venture, we plan to seek enables, such as extended betting shop confidence about the Groups future an appropriate reduction in the level of opening hours and the installation of prospects.
our current funding of the UK horseracing higher payout gaming machines, both industry via the levy scheme.
Following the acquisition of Stanley Retail of which will be permitted from in June 2005, the Board considered the 1 September 2007. International activities optimal capital structure and financing arrangements for William Hill.
In In July 2006, the Group signed a nonCost of content September 2005, the Board announced it binding memorandum of understanding On 14 December 2006, the Government intended to maintain an efficient and with the Spanish gaming group Codere.
announced that it had decided to retain flexible capital structure and would Codere is a company dedicated to the the Horserace Betting Levy Board and the achieve these objectives by targeting a private gaming sector in Europe and Latin associated horserace betting levy scheme.
ratio of net debt to earnings before America.
With more than 25 years This follows the publication of the exceptional items, interest, tax, experience, it operates slot machines, findings of a report compiled by an depreciation and amortisation EBITDA of bingo halls, sports betting outlets, independent committee under the approximately 3.5 times to be achieved racetracks and casinos in Spain, Italy, chairmanship of Lord Donoghue.
This over the medium term.
A new five-year Central and South America.
committee was established to investigate bank facility of 250m was arranged in whether there was any alternative The parties plan to create a joint venture June 2006 to underpin this objective and commercial arrangements that could to develop a sports betting business in the Board announced with its interim replace the current levy scheme but Spain.
Spain is one of the largest results that they were increasing the total concluded that, currently, there was not a gambling markets in Europe and the buy-back programme from the previously secure and alternative funding region of Madrid has recently published announced target of 200m 300m, to mechanism for horseracing.
At the same and several of Spains regions are now circa 320m 400m by the end of 2007. time, the Government announced its developing legislation to regulate sports By the end of December 2006, the Group intention to modernise the existing levy betting, allowing the establishment of net debt to EBITDA ratio was 3.3 and mechanism by reducing as many of the land-based businesses.
The parties are 257.0m had been returned by means of administrative burdens as possible.
We planning to apply jointly for a licence in on-market share buy-backs.
welcome the Governments intentions to Madrid shortly and intend to apply in As we are now close to our target modernise the scheme and we remain other regions in Spain if regulations are leverage and as we have current committed to providing a fair and passed which make such applications investment commitments, both equitable financial contribution attractive.
internationally through our joint ventures supporting the UK horseracing industry.
The Group has established a joint venture with Codere and domestically in respect SIS, a company partly owned by the company with Codere relating to the of some retail bolt-on acquisitions, we Group is currently the sole provider of UK Italian gambling sector.
Following a currently estimate that the pace of our horse racing pictures and data content to tendering process in 2006, the Group and rolling share buyback programme in 2007 bookmakers.
SIS via the betting industry Codere were jointly awarded concessions is likely to slow.
We remain committed to has contracts, which expire at the end of to exploit licences issued as part of the returning surplus capital to shareholders 2007 with a number of UK racecourses to tender process launched in August 2006 and our buyback programme will be kept broadcast pictures and data to LBOs.
by the Italian regulatory authority.
Recently a proposed joint venture award comprises 20 concessions to between Alphameric and Racing UK has operate horseracing betting shops, 7 claimed to have secured exclusive concessions to operate sports betting David Harding transmission rights from up to 30 UK shops and 28 concessions relating to Chief Executive racecourses from the beginning of 2008. sports betting points.
Remote licences 6 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Chief Executives Review
