Chief Executives Q&A Our people are the best in the industry.
Their commitment to operational excellence drives the search for continuous improvement which underpins our service delivery.
Graeme McFaull, Chief Executive How do you see Our people recognise that we are being set, across the business, as we Q. Wincanton today?
only as good as todays performance focus on the implementation of the and tomorrows new idea, and key to strategy that will deliver our vision.
Wincanton is an excellent everything is the customer.
A. business with a successful We have achieved a lot in recent past and an exciting future.
It has These customers include Europes years, and are already well-established increased tremendously in scale, largest retailers and manufacturers.
throughout much of Europe, but we geographic presence and service We are growing our share of business can and must make more rapid complexity in recent years, without with these customers, working both progress.
The pace of change is losing sight of its core people values within and across country borders.
accelerating in our industry and and customer-focused culture.
we must accelerate with it.
We work very hard to build and develop We now have the scale and these relationships.
They have What changes will geographic presence to serve our become, in many cases, long-standing Q. you make?
customers across Europe but we partnerships which have been critical never put scale before customer to our past successes and they are To succeed, we must combine service.
There are bigger, but not also the key to our future growth.
A. strength in national markets better, companies in our sector.
with a regional and Pan-European Will Wincantons service offering.
Our customers must What are Wincantons Q. strategy change?
have confidence that Wincanton can Q. strengths?
deliver industry-leading solutions Our vision remains clear and operational quality, consistently, Our people and our customers A. and unchanged.
We will be both nationally and across Europe.
A. are our greatest strengths.
recognised as the premium operator, The changes I have made since the European leader in our sector.
becoming Chief Executive have been Our people are the best in the industry.
made with this goal in mind.
Their commitment to operational Since becoming Chief Executive, excellence drives the search for I have visited all the countries in In recent months I have re-organised continuous improvement which which we operate, spent time with all our internal management structures, underpins our service delivery.
Their our management teams and met our making them flatter, more flexible creativity and talent for innovation largest customers.
I am now even and more responsive.
A new ensure the constant renewal and more firmly convinced that this goal Operating Board has been created, development of our service offering.
Stretching targets are joining together our country and 6 Wincanton plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Four Pillars of Strategic Growth Operational Customer Product Value Excellence Intimacy Leadership sector managing Directors, ensuring Do you see Wincanton diversity is an important strength, At any one time we are likely to be that we work as one business across Q. entering new geographic giving us balance and mix and the reviewing half a dozen potential Europe.
opportunity to manage our targets but we are very selective.
We in a number of national markets operations on a portfolio basis.
do our homework on these potential have been strengthened through Our clear priority is to continue targets in detail and we do it well.
A. to strengthen and expand our The portfolio today is very different current European presence.
There is from the Wincanton of 10 years ago.
Acquisitions are not a strategic Key value-driving functions, such great potential to build further on this I fully expect Wincantons portfolio in imperative for Wincanton.
There are as business development, human existing presence, which already 10 years time to have evolved very attractive opportunities for good resources and IT have been regives a highly-competitive platform in significantly compared to the organic growth in our existing oriented to give Group-wide focus what remains a fragmented market.
We will therefore only in addition to support in national We see significant opportunity in make further acquisitions when we markets.
Customer and key account many of the existing EU member This means that we are constantly have a high degree of confidence that planning processes are being states and are also looking actively, reviewing new sectors, new significant value can be added to reinforced across the business and often with existing customers, at services, new technologies to Wincanton relative to the entry price a series of new marketing initiatives new opportunities in the countries refresh and develop the portfolio, for our investment.
have been launched to continue to expected to join the EU in due course.
based on our core business raise awareness throughout Europe competences of outsourcing and Any final comments?
of the Wincanton brand, our We monitor possible opportunities supply chain management services.
Q. capabilities and core values.
beyond the EU but expect, at this stage of Wincantons development, Do you expect Wincanton Our success to date has been Research tells us that our customers to focus our efforts and resources Q. to make further acquisitions?
A. based on adding value for look to Wincanton for operational on achieving our goal of European shareholders by adding value for excellence, an in-depth understanding leadership.
We have built a good track customers.
We are very conscious of of their business, innovation and value.
A. record for making acquisitions our responsibilities to our stakeholders.
These are the Four Pillars of our Is Wincanton considering at sensible prices and integrating service offering.
We must be ready to Q. new sectors or services?
These acquisitions have We take great pride in Wincantons continue to be flexible and anticipate complemented our organic growth progress to date.
I am personally the changes that ensure that we will Wincantons business and allowed us to accelerate our proud and excited to be leading meet, and exceed, the expectations A. incorporates a large number strategic development.
Wincanton into the next stage of our customers in all these areas.
of customer solutions, providing a of its development.
wide range of services across many There are many opportunities for sectors of the economy.
This further consolidation in our market.
Wincanton plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 7
