WO40006 R&A 2006 01-19 10 10 06 10:09 pm Page 08 Group Chief Executives review An impressive year This has been another outstanding12 months for the Group, with record results for the10th year in succession.
We are positioning ourselves to make further progress I was delighted and honoured to take over as results from Wolseley Austria and Brossette were less Wolseleys Group Chief Executive on 1 August 2006. satisfactory, although we remain confident that both We enjoyed a great run under Charlie Banks these businesses will deliver improved performance in leadership and I want to put on record my admiration the coming 12 months.
This time next year, I expect to be reporting results Charlie established some fine foundations which are from three new Wolseley countries, after the completion reflected in the figures you see in this Report, with of our acquisition of DT Group, which was agreed just 2005 6 characterised by excellent growth in North before the year end.
At just over 1.3 billion this is the America, strong market outperformance in the UK, largest single acquisition in Wolseleys history so far.
good performances in Holland, Switzerland and Italy DT Group is the Nordic regions leading distributor of and broadly satisfactory results elsewhere in the Group.
building materials, with a strong presence in Sweden, Norway, Finland and Denmark and significantly In North America, Stock Building Supply achieved broadens our European reach.
excellent results, outperforming the market and growing sales by 27.4%.
Towards the end of the year a Just as the DT Group acquisition will take us into reduction in housing starts and a fall in the price new geographic areas, others have taken us into of timber affected revenue and this is likely to be new product areas.
For example, during the year continued into the current financial year.
Ferguson Wolseley UK bought William Wilson and AC Electrical saw outstanding growth, with a 35.1% increase in to move into the electrical distribution sector for the top line performance and 40.4% bottom line growth first time and moved further into the insulation driven by some of the highest fill rates in the industry, materials market through the acquisition of Encon.
our ongoing distribution centre strategy, our market In the USA, Stock Building Supply also entered into focus and a clutch of successful acquisitions.
Wolseley the electrical products and services market and Canada recorded a solid performance and again strengthened its position in installed services, meeting delivered double-digit growth.
a clearly emerging need from our major home construction customers.
Despite major changes to our UK business, which included the completion of a comprehensive We invested 914 million on a total of 53 acquisitions restructuring, the business performed well in a in seven countries during the year, as follows: challenging market, with good acquisition performance driving sales up by 14.4%.
In continental Europe, the North America Europe highlights included good progress in Switzerland and Number of acquisitions 31 22 Italy, the Benelux countries and also a rewarding Total consideration for performance from our French business, PBM.
The acquisitions 497m 417m Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 08 Group Chief Executives review WO40006 R&A 2006 01-19 10 10 06 10:09 pm Page 09 Our European market: At the end of the financial year we had operations in13 European Ireland Denmark countries, having moved into Belgium for the UK Netherlands Belgium first time.
As the new year opened, we were Czech Republic Luxembourg France Austria finalising our acquisition of DT Group which Switzerland Hungary gives us a major presence in Sweden, Norway, San Marino Finland and Denmark.
Italy Historically, acquisitions have delivered around half us to be not only reliable, but also, more importantly, of our annual growth and this is an area where our a true partner in their business.
In industry at large, there is always concern that acquisitions fail Service to deliver the anticipated benefits: at Wolseley a We shape our business to meet our customers rigorous assessment process and skilful integration needs in whatever way is most advantageous for into the Group ensures that acquisitions perform in them.
We go out of our way to make it easy for line with expectations and deliver shareholder value.
customers to choose Wolseley whether thats through deliveries, collection services, online shops, shared branches or any other initiative.
Since the largest majority of our business is transacted at the A simple business model, executed with local level, through more than 4,650 locations across commitment and focus Europe and North America, our objective is to lead A distribution business like ours is not an overly the industry when it comes to access and availability complex model.
What makes us different is the way in which we focus You can read practical examples of our model in on our markets and execute our business model.
Thats the competitive advantage behind our growth and were not about to radically change such a proven strategy.
A track record of success and a focused future So the future is about evolution not revolution.
The emphasis remains on growth, through acquisitions We have demonstrated year after year that by and through organic growth driven by our capabilities doing it our way, we can consistently deliver excellent in four key areas which are at the heart of our success: performance.
In this, our tenth successive year of delivering record results, we have again demonstrated People that, despite facing some challenging market We invest in and support the most important conditions, we can continue to grow and in most resources that we have: our people.
Our customer cases have been able to outperform both the market experience is based on interaction with our 70,000 and the competition.
plus people and customer service is at the heart of every recruitment we make and every training So our emphasis remains on profitable growth driven programme we launch.
Our commitment is to recruit by an ever stronger focus on the core competencies and train the best people available throughout our that underpin the execution of our business and industry that have a particular eye on providing some key factors that we believe give us true outstanding customer service.
This includes the way competitive advantage.
we assist customers in all aspects of their business, by providing the right products at the right time, as Our structure is designed to keep the right activities well as being knowledgeable in all aspects of their at the right level in the Group the continental groups particular needs.
are directly responsible for the profits of the operating companies they oversee.
This is their key priority and Product area of focus.
In addition, they are responsible for We continue to offer more products and services to organic growth: being same branch sales, new branch more customers in more sectors in more countries.
openings, expansion into new geographies, as well as We buy the right products at the right specification expansion into new customer types throughout their and the right price.
Our objective is to have the widest areas of responsibility.
product offering of anyone in the industry, so we can fulfil all of our customers particular needs.
This At the Group and continental levels we also focus on includes carrying some of the most recognised brands the strategy and our five core competencies, which in each of our business sectors to allow us to support feed into the operating companies and underpin their our customers in each specific area.
Distribution Human resources and leadership development We buy our products well and provide those products Customer service is why we exist as an organisation.
and services reliably, efficiently and quickly to our Identifying and training the top talent within our customers.
Our logistics infrastructure allows us to industry therefore not only impacts customer service, ensure that our size translates directly into better, but also our ability to support double-digit growth.
Our objective is to have the highest Whilst we recognise that people are a large component order fill rates of anyone in the industry, as this will be of our costs, we strive to identify and train people as of great benefit to our customers so that they consider one of our most valuable investments.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 09 Group Chief Executives review WO40006 R&A 2006 01-19 16 10 06 3:00 pm Page 10 Our North American market: We have an extensive branch presence across the continent, served by our impressive Distribution Centre network.
During the year we continued to grow our leading positions in both the building materials and the plumbing and heating markets in the US and Canada.
Distribution centre Organic growth and acquisitive growth the only way to make it work is by serving local We have just appointed Adrian Barden, previously customers, locally.
We will continue to go out of our Managing Director of our UK business, to a newly way to try and help our customers succeed we created position to lead our global M&A efforts.
make their problems our problems and we work with This will bring even more focus to our acquisition them to find solutions.
Loyal customers provide repeat processes, in a more competitive market, including business and increasingly more business, as the developing a target base of acquisition opportunities amount of product they buy from us increases.
on both continents, establishing a formalised integration process of acquisitions into the Group and We are also making it easier to do business with us refining our post acquisition performance review process.
In the USA and the UK we have structured our branches into focused business groups USA Sourcing or core brands UK to put a real emphasis on a We are elevating sourcing to a higher level to deliver particular sector, customer or product range.
the right products to our customers.
This will include Results from the businesses structured this way Charlie Banks retires responsibility at the Group level for the top 3050 show significant organic growth, so its a model we Charlie Banks retired at suppliers, which will be coordinated with both the are extending across the Group.
This single point the end of the financial continental groups.
focus on specific customer groups, be they plumbers, year, following 39 years with electricians, roofers, or general contractors, means our Ferguson and Wolseley, the We want to identify and drive low cost country own customers know what they can expect.
Our team of last five as Group Chief brand proprietary brands throughout the entire Group people are real subject and product experts, the Executive.
Here is his parting so that this will be a significantly larger portion of our products are relevant to the requirement and the message.
business within the next two to three years.
spend initiatives will also deliver cost savings across It has been an honour and a our business.
privilege to have been associated with Wolseley for so many years.
Looking ahead Supply chain In my time as Group CEO, we We have huge potential for further growth.
As you will We are developing a format such that supply chain saw sales almost double in size see in our Performance review on pages 20 to 41 the becomes a distinct competitive advantage across the and both the share price and size of our potential market is vast and despite our Group.
Simply put, our intent is to have the broadest EPS rise dramatically.
It has success we still have only a relatively small share.
product offering with the highest fill rates of anyone in the industry.
We believe that the right combination of Look across the 19 countries where we currently None of our achievements would sourcing and supply chain will become a significant operate and youll find that we are in just about every have been possible without the competitive advantage.
sector of construction materials somewhere but we continued support of our dont as yet provide a complete offering anywhere.
Business improvement Even without moving beyond Europe and North I am also grateful to the Board for Our aim over the next several years is to continually America, there are significant opportunities for our giving me the opportunity to lead improve our net margin by focusing on a number businesses to share knowledge and learn from each this great company and to our of growth and cost reduction initiatives.
In looking employees, without whose others experiences in order to extend our product at the longer term, increased focus on efficiency and unswerving commitment we range and introduce ourselves to new customers.
productivity throughout the entire Group will bring great would not have been able to benefit in improving our overall net margin.
The utilisation execute our strategy and deliver In conclusion, I would like to thank the Board and you, of information for the benefit of customer service and such exceptional growth.
our shareholders, for giving me the opportunity to lead productivity will be at the forefront of this initiative, but this great company.
I believe we have a tremendous it is certainly not limited to that aspect alone.
I know that we have laid the future ahead of us and with the continued loyal foundations for continued commitment of our outstanding 70,000 plus strong success in the coming years and team, without whom we would be nothing, we can I have total confidence in Chip The future look to the future with confidence.
We are committed Hornsby and his team to lead So what are my objectives for our organisation in the to making Wolseley the name the world builds on.
Wolseley to new and even immediate future?
We are still focused on delivering greater heights.
double-digit sales growth but now with a greater emphasis on margin improvement and the new leadership structure is designed to allow us to build on our experience and our scale.
Our customer base runs into millions every one of them with individual needs, being serviced by our front Chip Hornsby line staff.
Above all, this is a relationship business and Group Chief Executive Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 10 Group Chief Executives review WO40006 R&A 2006 01-19 10 10 06 10:09 pm Page 11 Looking ahead WO40006 R&A 2006 01-19 10 10 06 10:09 pm Page 12 Invest Thomas Kopsa, Amy Beal and Jason Powers, Ferguson Trainees in Raleigh Durham, USA Investing in people People are our key People well continue to create and develop competitive advantage.
We support them in many exciting and innovative programmes to attract different ways, ensuring that they have the skills to meet our requirements and their high quality employees into the Group.
But well also increasingly invest in training and development programmes which are designed to help all our people fulfil their and our potential.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 12 Group Chief Executives review WO40006 R&A 2006 01-19 10 10 06 10:09 pm Page 13 Deliver Duncan Fellows, British Gas Engineer, Cheltenham Spa, UK Delivering to the customer In North America, Ferguson is widely respected for Across the Group, the EGP is complemented by We work hard to ensure that market-leading graduate programmes that once again a wide range of innovative activities, ranging from our recruitment programmes brought people into the organisation in 2005 6 and established programmes at Stock Building Supply to are geared to identify has recently seen them recognised by Business Week the new Groupwide International Leadership customer-focused people magazine as one of the top 50 places in the USA to Development Programme, among others.
with the passion to deliver.
People dont just join Wolseley companies they stay at Wolseley companies for longDuring the last year we invested 21 million on term careers.
Our new Group Chief Executive, the 142,000 days of training and development.
head of our North American organisation and the President and CEO of Ferguson, along with countless This investment in our people allows us to deliver the other members of our leadership team, each have services our customers need.
For example, British over 20 years service with the Group.
Gas service engineers are able to get on with their jobs, thanks to an innovative agreement with Wolseley The European Graduate Programme EGP delivers UK.
A single national account means that engineers a pipeline of  graduates who can collect products and spare parts from any of our can move effortlessly between cultures as well as branches throughout the UK, with just a signature, languages.
The programme, which provides a mix meaning better and more immediate service for British of on-the-job training with formal residential courses, Gas customers.
has proved popular with trainees and managers alike.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 13 Group Chief Executives review WO40006 R&A 2006 01-19 10 10 06 10:09 pm Page 14 Today Earth wire sold by William Wilson, UK Todays trends We believe that we Product well continue to introduce new offer the broadest product range in our industry, under products to our existing customers, giving the umbrella of countless brands from more than 4,650 branches across 19 countries.
them the opportunity to buy more goods and services from us.
But well also use our understanding of industry trends to identify emerging demands and win new customers in new sectors.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 14 Group Chief Executives review WO40006 R&A 2006 01-19 11 10 06 8:36 pm Page 15 Tomorrow Charles Evans and Ronnie Patterson, Stock Building Supply, North Carolina, USA Tomorrows advantage In the UK, we moved into the electrical distribution High volume, production builders in the western States Were always looking for sector for the first time, through the purchases of the USA are increasingly demanding a turnkey new opportunities where of William Wilson and AC Electrical.
In the USA, installation service from suppliers they need the our expertise and experience we followed suit with the acquisition of Efficient, people who provide the frames to also install can provide customers with an electrical supplier based in Las Vegas.
In both equipment throughout the build project.
more products at the right instances, were giving customers more opportunities specification and the to become and remain Wolseley customers.
Stock Building Supply evolved its business model right price.
to meet this new demand, shaping its service to win In the Spring, Brossette and PBM opened a joint business from a new set of customers by providing facility Batipole in Lannion, France, allowing the products and services they need, how and where customers to purchase from one location building they need them.
materials from PBMs Reseau Pro brand, electrical products from Brossettes CDL brand and plumbing and heating equipment from Brossette.
The French businesses will continue to innovate to find ways to meet their customers needs.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 15 Group Chief Executives review WO40006 R&A 2006 01-19 10 10 06 10:10 pm Page 16 Scale Wolseley UKs new DC, Royal Leamington Spa, UK More choice and availability Over 50% of Ferguson products Distribution well continue to roll out our now pass through the doors of one of their 9 DCs and the proven Distribution Centre DC strategy, Iowa facility alone handles over 77,000 products.
using our expertise and financial strength to set the industry standard in logistics.
But well also develop initiatives at the sharp end of the supply chain, creating new ways to get products to customers, with increased speed and reliability.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 16 Group Chief Executives review WO40006 R&A 2006 01-19 11 10 06 7:33 pm Page 17 Simplicity Wasco branch, Diest, Belgium Less hassle and cost Our DCs have helped to transform the Ferguson At the Wasco branch in Diest, Belgium, we have gone We constantly search for business in the US.
DCs dont only save costs they one step further implanting not one but two new innovative ways, such as also have impact on customer satisfaction.
Fill rates product areas within the branch.
So in addition to our branch within a branch out of the US DC facilities regularly exceed 94% and their regular plumbing and heating supplies, Wasco concept, to take more are amongst the highest in our industry.
customers can now access spare parts from a Parts products to more customers.
Center area and specialist fixings from a Unifix area, Now were rolling out the DC model across Europe.
These additional product areas The new National Distribution Centre opened in the UK are also introducing a new customer base to the in August 2006 and the Italian DC will follow towards Wasco brand.
Plans are already advanced to open similar facilities in other countries.
Through the branch within a branch initiative, we establish a counter from one brand in the premises of another, thereby increasing the branchs total product offering without increasing the size of the branch itself.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 17 Group Chief Executives review WO40006 R&A 2006 01-19 10 10 06 10:10 pm Page 18 Convenient Toblers innovative website www.
ch Remote capability We look for ways to make Service well continue to exploit technology it easy for customers to do business with us and that in order to interact with customers in whatever includes Internet technology that enables customers to buy online.
But well never forget that successful business relationships are built on successful personal relationships.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 18 Group Chief Executives review WO40006 R&A 2006 01-19 10 10 06 10:10 pm Page 19 Personal Bob Smith, Wolseley UK, providing customer service for 60 years Personal service Few people would place plumbers close to the top customer group such as plumbers, electricians, We get close to our of a list of those who use the web in their daily lives.
roofers and so on delivers a truly personal, customers, listening to what Yet a recent e-business initiative at Tobler in Switzerland knowledgeable service.
Customers know what they need and then creating is proving the very opposite.
The Tobler website to expect and they know that our people will give innovative, often highly experiences an average of over 1,600 hits each day them the personal service they need to get on with personalised services, and more than 15,000 unique visitors per month.
All 50,000 plus Tobler products are available online.
Our customers experiences are based on their If customers place an order by 6pm, products are interaction with our people.
We invest in a wide range delivered first thing the following morning, either to of programmes that help ensure that when customers the plumbers business or to the job site.
meet any of our people, they do so with somebody who speaks their language literally as well as In the UK and the USA, weve structured our branches professionally knows their business, understands to put a real emphasis on a particular sector, customer their pressures and can meet their needs.
This single point focus on a specific Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 19 Group Chief Executives review
