Operating and Financial Review 5 Chief Executive Officers Review Excellent results from Yell.
com and a strong performance from Yellow Book are driving Group growth.
John Condron Chief Executive Officer Once again, I take great pleasure in of our strategy has resulted in a stable In July we completed the $1.6 billion reporting a highly successful year for the Yell retention rate of 75% and a 4.7% growth in acquisition of TransWestern Publishing, which Group.
In an environment of increasing the average revenue per advertiser.
We also included 332 directories and increased our competition, both for our printed and online attracted 104,000 new advertisers into our coverage to 46 states.
Former TransWestern products, we have grown our business in the printed directories.
directories are performing in line with UK and the US.
We delivered a strong expectations, with the directories we published financial performance and made further We continued to develop Yell.
com, launching for the first time providing 25% of overall improvements to all areas of our operations.
innovative products for our advertisers and revenue growth.
The integration is now enhancing the search experience for our users.
complete and we expect an uplift in the Our strategy of winning new customers, Searchable advertisers grew by 23% to performance of former TransWestern directories keeping existing customers and growing their 174,000 and the recognised revenue per to begin to flow through during the next investment with us, continues to drive our average searchable advertiser grew 28% to financial year.
We also made a further14 in-fill business.
In the UK we are the largest player 378, largely driven by new high-yield acquisitions, the largest of which was Clarke in the classified advertising market, and in the initiatives.
The increase in advertisers helped Directory Publications, completed in January US we are the largest independent classified drive growth in the number of searches, and in 2006, extending our coverage in California.
directory publisher, with almost 60% of the March 2006 we recorded more than sector.
32 million searches, a 52% increase over Regulation March last year.
In April 2005, the OFT concluded its market During the year I have met many of our study and referred what it defined as shareholders and have been asked a range Yellow Book classified directory advertising services of questions about our business and its future, Our US operations delivered another year of to the Competition Commission CC some of which are shown opposite.
I will strong growth, with total revenues growing for investigation.
endeavour to answer them for you in 49% to 922 million.
performance was driven by organic growth, We have co-operated fully with the CC by the acquisition of other directories, and by throughout and have played an active role in Yell UK an increasing contribution from the investigation.
We have provided them We grew our UK business revenue by 5% to Yellowbook.
with evidence of the increasing and 699 million.
Growth was driven by a 65% diversifying competition in the market, increase in revenue from Yell.
com grew revenue by 47%, driven including the continuing impact that we 60 million, while revenue from our printed by a growth in online advertisements.
In expect the entry of BT and the growth of directories, Yellow Pages and Business Pages, January 2006, we acquired Click Forward, a internet usage, to have in the future.
leading search engine marketing company, demonstrated the excellent value we give further extending the services available via advertisers, including reducing prices since Our focus for printed products this year has Yellowbook.
com 2001 far beyond levels required by regulation, been on retaining the right advertisers and continues to grow, with more than 2.4 million and improving our customer service from an growing their investment with us.
The success visitors using the site in March 2006. already high standard.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006 Operating and Financial Review 6 104 Yellow Pages directories cover the UK and Northern Ireland.
835 Yellow Book directories in 46 states and Washington DC.
It is clear that there is real competition for all greater choice for users and wider coverage Informacin, S. A. TPI.
We have since forms of classified advertising in the UK and for advertisers.
We will continue to launched a public offer to acquire the that the strength of our performance derives demonstrate the value of Yell.
com advertising, remaining shares in the company.
TPI is the from investment and the excellence of our to use performance-based pricing, and leading publisher of print and online execution, and not from the weakness of the to offer advertisers a wide choice of directories in Spain, where it publishes competition.
182 directories and distributes more than 36 million copies.
The company also has We believe that any open-minded In the US, we will focus on organic growth, leading positions in Peru, Chile and Argentina, examination of the substantial body of through the growth of existing directories and and is present in Brazil.
The acquisition gives evidence we have provided can only directory re-launches.
We will build on our us a foothold in mainland Europe for the first conclude that, ten years after its original position as the only truly national classified time and expands our platform for growth.
imposition, regulation has done its job and directory publisher to attract large, national is no longer required.
We will look at potential in-fill We believe the acquisition will create acquisitions as opportunities arise.
significant value for our shareholders as we Strategy transfer our tried and tested skills into the Our approach of simplicity, focus and discipline Building on the growing popularity of fast-growing Spanish economy.
continues to define our business.
com, we will develop new of winning new advertisers, keeping them and products and services for advertisers and The future growing their investment with us drives our users.
The acquisition of Click Forward allows The growth and development of our highly business forward, alongside our investment in us to offer advertisers specific campaign successful operations in the UK and the US new products and services.
opportunities and enables them to optimise will continue to secure our position as a their websites to give them greater visibility leading force in directory advertising which For our UK printed products, our marketing to search engines.
We will offer this service we believe to be the best information bridge programmes are based on demonstrating the to all YellowBook.
com advertisers during between buyers and sellers.
This, alongside high return on investment advertisers receive the coming year.
the proposed acquisition of TPI, means we from our directory advertising.
We have are well-placed for further success in the recently introduced Call Counter, which We intend to make further improvements to coming years.
allows advertisers to measure the volume of our business operations by developing and calls generated by their adverts, and we will expanding our interactive customer service offer this service to advertisers across all of channels on both sides of the Atlantic.
This our Yellow Pages directories.
Other planned will make us even easier to do business initiatives include branded advertising with, further enhancing our reputation in opportunities and new sector-specific guides our markets.
John Condron TPI Chief Executive Officer For Yell.
com, we plan to improve One Search, On 28 April 2006 we reached agreement a facility which eliminates the need to search with Telefnica S. A. for the acquisition of their for a business by classification, and provides 59.905% stake in Telefnica Publicidad e Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006
