Chief Executives review Operating and financial review Chief Executives review A strong platform for future performance BAE Systems delivered another year of good financial performance, underpinned by programme schedule and cost adherence across the Group.
Mike Turner Chief Executive 6 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 Year in review contribution rates, reductions in future as the return of Bradley vehicles to as BAE Systems delivered another year of benefits for employees and one-off cash and new condition.
Substantial funding for such good financial performance, underpinned asset contributions by the Group.
This shared reset activities has been available through by programme schedule and cost adherence approach has achieved a good outcome for supplemental budgets in support of current across the Group and reflecting the benefits all parties.
The Board is in consultation with military operations.
Supplemental spending now flowing from our world-class Lifecycle the trustees of the Groups pension schemes is expected to continue in the near term Management and Performance Centred to consider the implication of the Airbus sale but the Groups business plans are based Leadership processes.
on more prudent longer-term assumptions.
The performance of the US businesses US businesses BAE Systems is a leader in electronic has again been excellent with the Groups In the US, the integration of the former warfare technology including electronic expansion in the US market over recent United Defense activities into BAE Systems protection systems.
Such advanced has been completed successfully.
The land, years generating good returns.
Good protection systems are expected to progress has continued in the UK armaments and ship repair activities that continue to be a funding priority.
businesses with programmes on track comprised the acquired United Defense Equipment modernisation is also expected and meeting their key milestones.
to continue and the Group is actively A number of export opportunities have also The Electronics, Intelligence & Support involved in current and new generation progressed, most notably in the Kingdom business continued to achieve growth land systems, including Future Combat of Saudi Arabia where, under an agreement ahead of the addressable US Department System variants.
In addition, the digitised, between the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and of Defense DoD budget, with like-for-like A3, version of the Bradley is a core element the UK government, the Group is working to sales up 6%.
Contributing to this growth of the modernisation and modularisation modernise the Saudi armed forces including was strong demand for electronic protection of US forces.
progressing towards a contract for 72 systems.
The business continues to lay the BAE Systems is a high technology Typhoon aircraft.
foundations for sustained performance with new business wins, including substantial business and a major participant in force We have continued to divest those businesses contracts for Common Missile Warning transformation activities including new that were non-core to our strategy.
In May Systems to protect aircraft.
generation Intelligence, Surveillance and the Group initiated the sale of its 20% Reconnaissance programmes.
The decision to A number of significant new support sell the Airbus stake was consistent with business wins include the award of a prime As a result of strong positions in these priority contract to provide software development our strategy of maximising value from areas, and notwithstanding expectations for a that business, recognising it was facing and management support services to flattening of growth in overall defence spend, an increasing number of challenges.
The the Department of Homeland Security.
organic growth in the US businesses is sale was completed in October following expected to continue at a level above the BAE Systems continues to look for shareholder approval.
The proceeds will underlying DoD addressable budget growth.
opportunities to grow its US business be directed to developing the core business by acquisition following the successful UK businesses and a repurchase of up to 500m of the additions to the Group over recent years.
The performance on large complex weapon Groups shares is underway.
Progress has been slowed by sustained system programmes in the UK has been The sale of the Aerostructures business high valuations of businesses that would good and is expected to continue to progress was completed in March and the sale of align with the Groups strategy.
Further as more programmes move to production.
Atlas Elektronik was completed in August.
acquisitions will have to continue to meet Deliveries of Typhoon continue to schedule.
our strict value creation criteria.
In the A big concern for the Group in recent years meantime, organic growth in the US 113 aircraft have been delivered to the four has been the funding of its pension schemes.
partner nations including 38 now in service Agreements were concluded during 2006 with the UKs Royal Air Force RAF.
The revised The focus on current operations in funding plan in the UK schemes includes a Afghanistan and Iraq is generating a high Flight development of the Nimrod MRA4 level of armoured vehicle reset activity such programme continues and the formal combination of higher company and employee Performance Centred Leadership PCL Support Council The Groups PCL framework was A support council has been created designed and developed using best to share best practice and co-ordinate practice from around the globe.
It drives support activities and processes business success by linking individual across the Group with the objective goals with the wider goals of the of optimising through-life support, not organisation, enabling employees only for in-service equipment, but also to understand how their own success for platforms under development.
contributes to the success of the whole business.
com 7 Chief Executives review Chief Executives review Operating and financial review Chief Executives review continued production contract was received in July Pioneering work that BAE Systems previously At the heart of this strategic framework for nine aircraft together with an option for undertook through a series of small pilot is the recognition that industry has to the conversion of the three aircraft currently support programmes, in partnership with the demonstrate and deliver value for money in flight development to production standard.
UK Defence Logistics Organisation, is now and through-life capability for the UK armed being applied across the MoDs fixed wing forces, whilst also generating appropriate In October, a production order for 28 Hawk aircraft fleet.
In December the Group signed returns for shareholders.
BAE Systems is well Mk128 aircraft for the RAF was secured.
a ten-year availability-based partnership positioned to address these requirements.
Following the launch of the first of class agreement providing all support up to the In response to encouragement from DIS, Type 45 destroyer, outfitting is progressing front-line for the UKs Tornado aircraft.
BAE Systems has been considering to programme.
The second ship was Within the land sector, the successful opportunities for a more integrated UK naval launched on 23 January 2007 and major introduction of the armoured fighting vehicle capability.
Such considerations included steel sections are also well underway for partnering arrangement is underway with discussions with VT Group regarding the the third and fourth ships.
The planned build the in-service date achieved, on schedule, possibility of a bid for Babcock.
These efficiencies from one ship to the next are for the upgraded FV430 Bulldog armoured initial discussions were not taken forward being met or exceeded.
In addition, progress but opportunities for consolidation of the risk reduction, a small amount of profit has continues towards the transformation of UK naval industry continue to be explored, been recognised on the programme.
arrangements for the supply of munitions.
and, in December, the Group announced Both of the Landing Ship Dock Auxiliary discussions with VT Group with a view to At the end of 2005 the UK government ships originally contracted to BAE Systems integrating the naval surface ship activities.
published its Defence Industrial Strategy for the UKs Royal Fleet Auxiliary were DIS.
DIS is a very significant change Other markets completed.
The Group was asked to programme for both industry and the UK In addition to its strong positions in the assist with completion of the fourth MoD.
It will help determine the future level of UK and US markets, BAE Systems has a ship in addition to taking over lead BAE Systems involvement in the UK defence significant presence in the other important yard responsibility for the ship class.
industrial base as it is implemented.
markets of Australia, Saudi Arabia, South Development and assembly of the first of Africa and Sweden.
It is intended that long-term partnering class Astute submarine progressed well.
agreements, currently being discussed In all six countries, BAE Systems is A key 2006 milestone, electrical power with the UK MoD in all three air, land and recognised as an important on-shore to switchboards, was achieved enabling sea sectors, will form the basis for much of defence and aerospace supplier.
The commissioning activity on the boat to the implementation of DIS.
These long-term Group continues to look for opportunities commence.
Work on the second boat, partnering agreements will specify the future to strengthen its position as part of the Ambush, is also proceeding well with capabilities and requirements for each defence industrial base of those countries.
sector, enabling both the UK MoD and major milestones, such as the closure industry to make long-term investment of the reactor compartment, demonstrating A major growth opportunity is the Groups decisions with a greater degree of certainty significant schedule advance compared with role in supporting the partnership between than has been possible previously.
Pricing discussions on boats the UK government and the Kingdom two and three, together with the initial of Saudi Arabia to update the capability of The UK MoD has committed to a complex phase of boat four, are well advanced.
A key feature weapon long-term partnering agreement that of this agreement is also to assist the will preserve capabilities and business within In addition to UK weapon system Kingdom in developing its defence industrial the MBDA guided weapons joint venture.
procurement programmes, the development base and the training of its workforce.
of the support business continues.
An integral part of DIS is the identification of BAE Systems is delivering a reduction in the BAE Systems has been pursuing a strategy those technologies that are likely to remain UK Ministry of Defences MoD in-service to transition its Saudi business from key to the future capability of the UK armed cost, improving equipment availability and a UK-centric operation to a major forces and that need to be retained on-shore.
consequently front-line capability for the in-Kingdom presence.
Consistent with A good early example was the launch of an armed forces.
Further opportunities for Unmanned Combat Air Vehicle technology this strategy BAE Systems continues valuable support business growth remain.
Nimrod under ice Lifecycle Management LCM Nimrod MRA4 undertook its first transatlantic The delivery of the Groups strategy is dependent upon the successful winning flight in September to Eglin Air Force Base, and execution of projects.
The application Florida, where the development aircraft, of our world-class LCM process is critical PA2, underwent a series of successful to our capability to deliver these projects environmental trials to demonstrate the to schedule and cost.
LCM is a powerful maturity and reliability of the aircraft at and flexible process which promotes the o o extreme temperatures, from -40 C to 44 C. application of best practice programme execution and facilitates continuous improvement across the Group.
8 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 Recognising that the security and welfare Executive Committee 2007 Top Ten objectives: of the 4,600 employees and their dependants in Saudi Arabia is paramount, In support of the Groups strategy, the Executive Committee has agreed the top ten objectives a major construction programme is well for 2007. underway to create two new residential and workplace facilities.
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia These investments establish a significant Meet our 2007 financial targets and Progress the business strategy with industrial footprint in Saudi Arabia with through the rolling five year Integrated the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia a growing in-Kingdom technical capability.
Exports This will enable the Group to satisfy business plans that are both realistic Focus on key export opportunities many of its Saudi customers needs and challenging 8.
Application of mandated business Demonstrate a commitment to Industrialisation is a key feature of processes partnering across the business to the modernisation programme and the Ensure application of the mandated maximise business-winning opportunities commitment to Typhoon will allow us to business processes 9.
Develop existing and new home markets build on the established Tornado support 3.
Programme execution Maximise development and growth in activity.
Opportunities for new business in Further increase management focus existing and new home markets other areas of the Kingdoms armed forces on meeting our contracted schedule are also being considered.
Leadership and cost commitments Demonstrate leadership at all levels As in the UK, Typhoon and Tornado are 4.
US businesses towards achieving a world-class highexpected to operate side by side for many Continue to grow our US businesses performance culture that helps deliver years and these in-country investments the strategy and objectives are expected to generate returns for 5.
UK businesses shareholders over many decades.
Continue to implement DIS with focus on through-life capability management in the In summary, BAE Systems is progressing air, land and sea domains to deliver cost well.
The Groups strategy is delivering and capability benefits to our customers and a focused, high performing, defence and acceptable profit levels to our shareholders aerospace business with good positions in key markets around the globe.
As a result, the Group has a robust plan to deliver profitable growth for our shareholders.
Mike Turner Chief Executive 21 February 2007 Managing Major Subcontractors Successful relationships with our partners and subcontractors across the supply chain are key to our performance.
We have distilled best practice from within the Group and other world class organisations into a Gold Standard for Managing Major Subcontracts.
Roll-out of this best practice across the Group will accelerate our learning and improve performance in this strategically important capability.
