Chief Executives review Our strategy In last years annual report, I set out our strategy for continuing to deliver Our chosen markets are almost all experiencing steady growth with some the reliable, responsible growth which shareholders have enjoyed over specific sectors developing at or above double-digit pace.
are deliberately focusing on the faster moving segments of our markets and on strong, successful customers who, themselves, are setting the pace During 2005, we undertook an in-depth analysis of our business and for expenditure in their sectors.
the markets which it served and established a clear strategic context for the future development of the Group.
Last year, we identified four areas in which we intended to develop our business to ensure that we will be able to maintain our target growth Our analysis demonstrated that market leadership was critical to rates over the medium and longer term.
We have positions of leadership in many of our markets, excellent people, a strong portfolio of long-term customer relationships, These were: UK regional infrastructure contracting: professional and well-developed supply chains and a very substantial order book a powerful technical services: the extension of our investment business into new basis on which to build.
We also have the cash resources to invest in markets: and establishing strong domestic businesses in selected overseas growth and to ensure that we continue to have a dynamic organisation.
markets based on our UK model.
We remain confident that our growth ambitions can be satisfied over the next two to three years from the momentum inherent in the business mix Ian Tyler Chief Executive as it was at the start of 2006.
Double-digit compound growth is not, however, an inherent characteristic of most of our markets, which grow in line with GDP at 2-4%.
Last year, we identified four areas in which we intended to develop our business to ensure that we will be able to maintain our target growth rates over the medium and longer term.
06 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Our business UK infrastructure Professional and technical services The majority of the businesses in which we make our best and most There is a clear trend amongst our key customers to demand a reliable margins are in UK infrastructure markets, many of which broader and more proactive role from us, in addition to that have strong positive growth momentum, including major public represented by our long-established construction and maintenance building, social housing, utilities contracting and regional civil services.
To do this, we are building our upstream capabilities in engineering.
In these areas we are already well positioned, and programme management and technical consulting.
We have been anticipate vigorous demand growth over the medium to longer term.
making good progress in this market since forming our professional services division, Balfour Beatty Management, in 2003.
Birse acquisition strengthens our market position In July 2006 we substantially strengthened our regional presence in UK civil Balfour Beatty Management is an increasingly engineering with the 32m acquisition of Birse Group plc.
important differentiator The acquisition of Birse takes us a significant step forward in our aim to Balfour Beatty Management is one of the UKs fastest-growing consultancies.
expand our UK regional presence.
Birse, which has annual revenues of over Formed in 2003, it increased its professional staff from 200 to 350 during the 300m, provides a range of civil engineering services, with regional strengths year.
In 2005 it was instrumental in securing a 380m alliance with National complementary to our existing network.
Integrating Birse into our regional Grid to replace gas mains in Greater Manchester.
In 2006 it played a key role operations, which has now been substantially achieved, will accelerate in securing another National Grid alliance worth up to 550m to upgrade and growth, improve performance, broaden our geographic coverage and take us repair the overhead electricity line network on the eastern side of England, into some specialist civil engineering markets in which we have previously and a major contract for United Utilities.
had little or no presence.
Balfour Beatty Management enables the Group to offer customers an It will give us greater strength in coastal engineering work for local authorities, integrated, high-quality consulting and contracting package.
When we and in civil engineering for the rail industry.
It brings us additional engineering bid for large and complex projects, its expertise in programme and project and project management skills in water and other process activities.
It also management, alliances, value engineering and business improvement gives us a successful building business focused on the education sector in processes gives us considerable competitive advantage.
Its expertise is also the North of England, which has become a part of Mansell, our regional highly sought-after in its own right: it generates some 50% of its business building business.
independently from the rest of the Group.
Balfour Beatty Management is building a reputation for innovation with projects such as the new Kings Cross St Pancras Underground Station, where it has significantly reduced project costs, and work for BAA at Heathrow Terminal 5.
It is further enhancing Balfour Beattys reputation for handling large and complex projects successfully.
Strategic developments Strategic developments Birse acquired for 32m Kings Cross St Pancras Underground Station programme management a key reference project Strong further growth in Mansell Consultancy partners in long-term gas and electricity alliances Leading position in complex building market consolidated Key component of airport bids and preparation of Exeter International Other regional targets identified Airport development plan 07 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Chief Executives review continued Private finance Overseas markets Our UK PPP business, Balfour Beatty Capital, has substantial skills In the longer term, maintaining our growth targets will require the and in-built growth momentum.
The experience and expertise development of broadly-based domestic businesses outside the UK.
represented in its team of over 200 professional staff put the business Our key target markets are the United States, Western Europe and in a strong position to expand.
The PPP market remains healthy in South-East Asia.
We will focus on the sector markets with greatest the UK, and new markets are emerging overseas notably in the US, long-term potential, combining organic growth from our existing Western Europe, South-East Asia and in the UK.
positions of strength with selective acquisitions.
We have committed equity of over 300m in a portfolio of public sector Our international expansion will be judicious, and progressive.
Our choice concessions, for which we have raised over 7bn of funding.
These are largely of territories is based on four key criteria: concentrated in the healthcare, education and transport sectors.
Six further the markets we address must be large enough to make a projects are at preferred bidder stage, with 21 bids submitted during 2006. substantial difference: In education, the 40bn Building Schools for the Future BSF programme they must offer an acceptable business environment which does is providing new opportunities alongside more traditional PPP schemes.
not discriminate against foreign ownership: We recently secured the pathfinding project at Knowsley on Merseyside and are currently bidding more schools projects.
The social housing market they must be sufficiently endowed with sophisticated customers is growing strongly and is a significant area of opportunity in conjunction who will pay for superior levels of quality, safety and innovation: and with Mansell.
they must offer us the opportunity to achieve a leading market We are also a major participant in PPP road projects and have been shortlisted position without undue risk.
for the 1.5bn M25 road widening and maintenance PPP scheme.
Within the territories which fit these requirements, we will apply another set of criteria for building our presence.
Our businesses will have to have Developing the South Wests airport of choice high-quality, long-term sustainable earnings: a market presence at the core of Balfour Beattys existing competency range: be complementary to other Balfour Beatty Capital is now extending its reach into non-PPP investments.
Balfour Beatty businesses in the territory: have a proven, successful Since 1993 we have been a 25.5% shareholder in Barking Power, which owns management team: and see project delivery, risk management and customer and operates Barking Power Station.
In January 2007 our specialist subsidiary service as their key differentiators.
Regional and City Airports acquired Exeter International Airport.
We have significant experience in the design and construction of airport assets and aim to make Exeter the airport of choice for the South-West.
Other airport Becoming a major builder in the US opportunities are being pursued.
The acquisition of Centex Construction, the $2bn annual revenue US building We are also pursuing PPP opportunities internationally.
In the US we are part company, agreed in February 2007, will create critical US mass in a core of the bbm AlRail Transfer consortium that has been shortlisted for a new rail Balfour Beatty business and add substantial new business development connection between Oakland Airport and the Bay Area Regional Transport opportunities, including in PPP.
Centex has strong market positions in system in California.
We have bid for Bremen Hospital in Germany and for Texas, Florida, Washington DC and North Carolina and is a leading player an extension to a Further Education facility in Singapore.
in the military housing market.
It is anticipated that this acquisition will be immediately earnings enhancing and will accelerate our penetration of US growth markets.
Strategic developments Strategic developments Two new UK PPP concessions and three new preferred bidder positions secured Acquisition of Centex Construction in the US agreed Exeter airport acquired in January 2007 Acquisition of Charter in the US Short-listed for Oakland Airport Connector Profit growth in Hong Kong and Dubai Offices established in the US, Germany and Singapore Small, strategic acquisitions planned for Balfour Beatty Rail 08 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006
