As a result of a strong team performance we achieved yet another record result for the Barratt Group Oyster Wharf, Battersea, London SW11.
This award-winning contemporary development of 150 homes, in a prominent West London location, includes affordable housing, live-work 6 units and commercial and leisure space.
group chief executives review David Pretty, Group Chief Executive, Barratt Developments PLC.
As a result of a strong team performance we achieved yet FORWARD ORDER BOOK another record result for the Barratt Group.
We increased We started the new financial year with a strong forward order completions and underlying profits, improved margins, book of 845m and, with further good sales progress, generated strong forward sales and strengthened our land forward sales have now increased to 1.14bn, 27% higher bank and balance sheet.
than last year, and a new record.
Together with completions We also received widespread recognition for the quality of to date, this secures 56% of our full year requirement.
our designs and environmental performance, as well as the These record forward sales put us in a healthy position for quality of construction across the Group.
We remain well placed for further growth this year and in the future.
HOUSING MARKET In the first 6 months of our financial year the housing market was challenging.
However, in the second half HOUSEBUILDING sentiment improved and buyer confidence returned to We completed a total of 14,601 new homes, an increase of normal.
Nevertheless, we competed well in all of our 1.8%, at an average selling price of 165,800, which was operational areas throughout the year and produced a good 3.7% lower, as a result of the significant increase in social sales result.
housing units and changes in the geographic profile of our completions.
Total private completions were 5% down, at The fundamentals of the housing market remain sound, with 11,899 units, with an increased selling price of 182,800, good buyer confidence, a benign interest rate environment up 0.4%.
Social housing completions increased by 53.5% and good employment levels.
These are underpinned by a to 2,702 at an average selling price of 90,500, down 11%.
severely restricted supply of housing across the country caused by constant planning delays.
There is an enormous Our housebuild turnover was 2,422.0m 2005: 2,472.4 need for new homes and every year that this demand lower by 2%.
remains unsatisfied, pent up demand increases.
We are well placed to help satisfy this need.
Our operating margin improved to 16.7% 2005: 16.0%, benefiting from our strict control of build costs, and the On current trends we are confident of another year of impact of the implementation of a wideranging efficiency progress.
drive in each of our divisions.
We also improved the efficiency of our selling and marketing activities and increased sales outlets.
All this helped mitigate general cost pressures and improve our margin.
We continue to take action to further reduce costs throughout our business.
The underlying operating profit from our core housing activity increased to 404.6m, up 2%.
This development of 79 traditionally-styled new homes is in a superb location with convenient access to the M25 and Gatwick airport.
7 1 2 CORE STRENGTHS Our core strengths of geographic and product diversity and time buyers.
An ideal first step on the home ownership our urban regeneration and social housing expertise, ladder, it provides good living space, a stylish open plan kitchen, a separate double bedroom and full bathroom, plus continue to support business growth and provide valuable protection from market fluctuations.
its own private balcony all within 380 sq ft and at an affordable price.
The first 30 iPads have recently been completed in Middlesbrough and were all sold well ahead of construction, at prices from 85,000.
5 further sites for 120 Geographic and Product Diversity iPads are now under construction in Northern England, with 11 further sites for 484 iPads soon to start in various Two of our greatest strengths are our wide geographic locations across Britain.
An additional 48 sites for 1,642 spread and extensive product range.
These ensure we iPads are in the pipeline.
avoid an over-dependence on any one geographic area or market sector and enable us to adjust production, sales and The Group also recently unveiled an Eco-Village of new land buying in line with market conditions.
Today, we have homes in Chorley, Lancashire, each packed with the latest in over 450 sites being built by our 33 operating divisions energy efficient and green technologies.
The first project of working throughout England, Scotland and Wales.
We are its kind in Britain, it opened to wide acclaim.
The seven able to serve virtually all sectors of the market at prices traditional family houses will be independently assessed by currently from 85,000 to over 2m.
Nevertheless, we have the University of Manchester in order to establish accurate a competitive average selling price of 165,800 which data on energy costs and benefits, as well as customer increases our appeal to the widest range of buyers.
The findings will help us assess and evaluate a Earlier this year, we successfully launched our new iPad wide-range of state-of-the-art technologies in a variety of product, targeted at bridging the affordability gap for firstpermutations.
It will also help us decide which features we 3 8 can cost-effectively include in future homes whilst maintaining affordability for our buyers.
We are increasing our investment in the Midlands and North of England, where we already have successful divisions, but where we believe we can further profitably increase market share.
This will include the upper market sector where a new range of homes will be introduced during the year.
Already, 4 prestigious sites for 100 homes have been acquired with the first units due for completion in 2007.
Other areas of the country have been identified where we can increase coverage and market share.
Our new East Anglia division got off to a successful start in the year, completing its first 30 homes.
It has a range of sites now under way and should complete 150 homes this year.
It is on track to complete over 400 homes a year by 2010.
In June we completed the acquisition of Squires Bridge Limited, a small Guildford based developer.
The acquisition is expected to provide over 250 lowrise traditionally built homes from four development sites in Hampshire and West Sussex.
This follows the acquisition last year of Acre Developments Limited which provided 375 plots in Scotland.
We have completed a series of highlysuccessful developments in the capital.
This project is providing 35 new homes on a former retail site in a superb location.
2 Barratt EcoSmart show village, Chorley, Lancashire.
We have incorporated the latest in energy-efficient and green technologies 6 into seven family homes, whose performance is being independently assessed by the University of Manchester.
This project is creating a vibrant new community of up to 1,000 homes, plus shops, restaurants and offices on a 37-acre derelict waterfront site.
This unique partnership scheme, on a former printing works, is providing 98 homes for local people, plus 50 artists studios let at around half the commercial rate through Acme Studios, a registered charity.
5 Steven Boyes, Group Board Executive Director centre, with Andrew Devine and Samantha Evers, of Barratt York, winners of the Groups Development Team of the Year award.
6 & 7 Barratt iPad apartments have been designed to help bridge the growing affordability gap for first-time buyers.
The iPad provides good living space, open-plan kitchen, separate double bedroom and full bathroom, plus private balcony.
7 9 1 Urban Regeneration and Brownfield Development We continue to lead the regeneration of Britains cities and urban areas with a 30 year track record in brownfield development and urban renewal.
82% over 11,900 of our homes in the year were built on brownfield sites, rising to over 95% in London.
This is well in excess of the Governments 60% target.
2 Our urban regeneration activities are not solely undertaken in London and the South East.
Our brownfield activities extend to towns and cities across the rest of the country, including: Newcastle, Leeds, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Cardiff, Bristol, Birmingham, Leicester, Brighton and Southampton.
Our expertise is vividly illustrated by our recent transformation of the centre of Swiss Cottage see front cover photograph in North West London.
A groundbreaking public private partnership between Barratt, commercial partner Dawnay Day and Camden Council, our Visage project is a spectacular 16-storey glass apartment building, including both luxury apartments and family apartments for local tenants to be managed by Ujima and Acton Housing Associations.
A new 76,000 sq ft sports and leisure centre has also been provided for the local community, as well as a new community centre and a doctors surgery.
3 10 A notable new example is in South Lanarkshire, West Scotland.
Here, Barratt and AMEC Developments are working together, alongside a PFI project being promoted by AMEC to renew schools.
Barratt has secured 9 sites to build almost 1,400 new homes worth more than 185 million.
This is one of the largest programmes undertaken by Barratt in recent years, will start next year, and run on until 2011.
This will help reinforce our position as a leading housebuilder in Scotland.
Brownfield development has massive potential right across Britain.
With our unrivalled track record and our ability and willingness to work with others, we remain very well placed to contribute to, and benefit from, the nations increasing emphasis on urban regeneration.
4 Social Housing Partnerships Our social housing partnerships continue to contribute to the success and growth of our business.
We lead the industry in the provision of affordable housing, whether it is for low cost homes for sale, rent, shared ownership or special 1 City Point, Brighton.
The former goods yard of the citys needs.
We significantly increased output in the year, railway station is being transformed into a mixed-tenure building 2,702 homes for our housing association partners, scheme of 248 contemporary homes.
A supermarket, hotel an increase of 54%.
Our production has increased 216% and training school are also planned for the site.
over the past 5 years and we remain the largest provider of 2 Mark Pain, Group Finance Director, presents Fiona Santini, of social housing from the private sector.
Barratt Exeter, with the Groups Sales Advisor of the Year award.
Currently, we have 157 partnerships underway across 3 Explorer Court, Plymouth.
This highly-successful development Britain, with a further 49 due to start.
provided 51 homes in a prime location and won praise for its bold design.
In June we became the first housebuilder to receive direct funding from English Partnerships to provide low cost first- 4 Clive Fenton, Group Board Executive Director centre, with London-based apprentices.
Our apprentice training time buyer homes for key workers in the South East.
The programme continues to be the largest in the industry.
grant will be used at our major Axiom, Feltham regeneration project in the London Borough of Hounslow.
5 Stylish interiors: our homes feature versatile interior layouts,  to maximise living space to suit modern There is an enormous and growing need for social housing lifestyles.
in all its forms and Government emphasis on this crucial 6 The Zone, Bristol.
This stunning contemporary development in sector is increasing.
With our long experience in this field the heart of the city is providing 320 apartments and and our national network of local divisions, we remain well townhouses, including homes for rent and shared ownership.
placed to contribute and maintain our leadership.
11 5 6 1 2 LAND AND PLANNING CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our land acquisition and planning skills continue to serve us We have continued to make good progress in Corporate well.
Once again we were able to strengthen the size and Responsibility CR and our strategy has become more quality of our land bank in the year, acquiring 19,661 plots, embedded in our day-to-day operations across all areas of which was 5,060 plots, 35%, more than we used.
These our business, including governance and risk, environmental increased the land bank to 59,000 plots and, including management, human resources, health and safety, 7,500 further plots agreed, now brings our total land bank to community issues and supply chain management.
This is the highest ever and represents During the year we achieved the international standard 4.5 years supply at current volumes.
ISO 14001 for Environmental Management at a further 9 We spent 841m on land acquisition during the year, an divisions, bringing the total to 15.
By the end of 2007 all increase of 96m over the preceding year.
This reflects our divisions should have an environmental management system continuing investment in the organic growth of the business.
This will assist us in controlling risks and delivering continual environmental improvement on our Notwithstanding the extremely slow planning system, we development sites.
achieved an increased level of planning approvals for 18,840 plots.
This is 15% more than the previous year.
As We continue to work closely with all our stakeholders and a result, we have all the necessary approvals in place to over the last 12 months have concentrated on engagement achieve our requirements for this year.
Furthermore, over with employees and customers.
We developed a new 90% of the land required for 2007 08 is already owned or corporate induction programme, which informs our contracted, and over 70% for the following year, 2008 09. employees about our commitment to CR, and also launched a Customer Care Code of Practice.
Further details of our progress are available in our third CR SKILLS TRAINING report at www.
co. uk Our apprentice training programme continues to be the largest in the industry, making a real contribution to HEALTH AND SAFETY addressing the national construction skills shortage.
Currently, over 500 apprentices are receiving on-site skills Whilst we have made good progress in our management of training on our developments nationwide.
In addition, we health and safety during the year to 30th June, in particular have 55 graduates on fast-track career paths.
a reduction of 36% in our accident rate to 672 reportable accidents per 100,000 persons employed, we are saddened We have significantly increased our investment in general to report that a fatal accident occurred on a Barratt skills training.
Over a third of our workforce has now development on 26th September 2006. achieved the CSCS Construction Skills Certification Scheme standard.
We remain on track to have a fully The accident occurred at our Battersea Park Road carded and qualified workforce, including our development in London when a tower crane collapsed and subcontractors, by 2010. resulted in the tragic deaths of two people.
Barratt is very shocked by this loss of life and, together with the crane contractor Falcon, is working closely with the Police and Health and Safety Executive to establish exactly what happened.
This award-winning development built on Southamptons former football stadium provided 228 new homes, including 44 for rent, and utilises a geo-thermal district heating system.
2 Geoff Hester, Group Board Executive Director, at Herons Landing, Fareham, a superb development of 16 waterside homes close to the town centre.
One of the largest single redevelopment schemes in Docklands, this will provide around 700 apartments, plus retail and leisure space.
Already more than 500 homes have been sold.
4 Barratt site managers swept the board in the prestigious NHBC Pride In The Job competition for quality workmanship, winning more awards than any other builder.
Three won top Regional Awards: l-r Michael Dent, Ian Ingram and John Fox.
5 Laurence Dent, Corporate Director left, and Bhagwant Singh Chodha, a bricklayer with Barratt Leeds, who beat off competition from over 500 other apprentices to become the Groups Apprentice of the Year.
13 1 CUSTOMER CARE We have completed a comprehensive overhaul of our quality and customer service procedures and our independently audited buyer survey responses show continued improvement.
However, we are targeting further, and lasting, improvement in all parts of our operation.
Our new 10-point Customer Charter unequivocally sets out 2 the standards of quality and service we strive to provide to our customers.
We have also rolled out a Customer Care personal code of practice for all our staff, suppliers and sub-contractors, pledging our commitment to the core values of integrity, respect and courtesy upon which the OUTLOOK delivery of quality and service depend.
A comprehensive staff training programme for the new Charter and the Code We have achieved another good result, despite a very of Practice has been implemented.
competitive market, and have delivered our 14th consecutive year of growth.
We have made a good start to the new financial year and have a record forward order book in place.
AWARDS The underlying fundamentals of the housing market remain Our construction teams produced another excellent sound, the market has returned to normality and we are performance in this years NHBC Pride in the Job confident of our ability to compete and continue to grow our campaign securing 53 Quality Awards, up from 51 last year, business.
Our national geographic spread and wide product a new record, and more than any other housebuilder.
mix, together with our brownfield and social housing Barratt was also named by the Sunday Times and Business expertise are key strengths.
Notwithstanding general in the Community as one of the UKs Top 100 companies concerns about interest rate trends, our record forward that count, and recognised by the Governments advisory sales, strengthened land bank and strong finances put us in body, CABE Commission for Architecture and the Built a healthy position for the coming year and will provide many Environment as one of only 5 private sector companies growth opportunities for the Group in the future.
whose forward thinking and motivation has led to better buildings and public spaces.
The Group also did extremely well in the 2006 Daily Express British Housebuilder Awards, scooping 10 top honours, more than any other housebuilder.
Barratt Homes lifted Gold, Silver and Bronze awards in a variety of categories, David Pretty whilst KingsOak secured the Best National Builder in Britain Group Chief Executive 27th September 2006 Award, for the second year in succession.
This 138-home project on a former hospital 2 Axiom, Feltham.
In the London borough of Hounslow, work is under site involved the careful refurbishment of Edwardian Grade II listed way on two major town centre regeneration schemes.
This project is buildings into apartments, plus new-build townhouses.
providing over 800 homes, including shared ownership homes for local key workers and first-time buyers.
Barratt has been a key player in the Thames Gateway area since 1981, completing over 12,000 homes.
This landmark regeneration scheme is providing 299 new homes plus a new supermarket.
