06 3i Report and accounts 2006 Chief Executives statement With another very good set of results behind us, a detailed strategy for the future, and confidence high within the organisation, we remain determined to accelerate the development of 3i to deliver further shareholder value.
Philip Yea Chief Executive 10 May 2006 3i Report and accounts 2006 Chief Executives statement 07 I am pleased to report a very good set of full year financial results I am very pleased with the further steps we have taken on our and further progress in implementing the plans we set for the people agenda.
business over the past 18 months.
In particular, these results In a rapidly growing industry where experience is critical and provide tangible evidence of the continued success of our Buyout personal compensation at the most senior levels is performance business and the benefits of the recent strategic changes made related and uncapped, it is critical to ensure that both the to the models for our Growth Capital and Venture Capital financial and non-financial elements of our people proposition are business lines.
as competitive as they can be.
To supplement the carry schemes Financing markets continue to be favourable, with the private which we have implemented across our business lines, we have equity markets giving high valuations to good assets.
These also introduced market aligned co-investment schemes whereby conditions have provided the opportunity for us to achieve a members of our investing team make personal investments record level of realisations and also realised profits.
All of our alongside 3i and third-party investors capital.
business lines have been active sellers into these markets.
We have also made further changes to our internal organisation Yet, at the same time, each of our three core business lines has to ensure that we give our investing teams maximum flexibility to increased its level of new investment.
The most notable increase operate as self-standing partnerships with the same operational was within the Growth Capital business, reflecting its focus on flexibility as their competitors, yet enable them to be both the larger deal sizes when compared to a year ago and the growing beneficiaries of and contributors to the network of knowledge importance of Asia within our strategy.
sharing that differentiates 3i from most firms within our field.
The rate of growth in private equity markets over the last Our Business review which follows, contains a number of decade has, for many people, raised genuine questions as to examples showing this culture of cross-geography crossthe sustainability of returns and the relative advantages of business line co-operation at its very best.
this ownership model as the asset class becomes more To reflect the ambitious nature of our agenda, we have also mainstream.
We continue to believe that there is more than created a Group Partnership, which brings together those senior ample opportunity and that the key issue for the Group is to business leaders who can make the broadest contribution to the leverage its competitive advantage in those particular markets further development and expansion of the firm.
which provide greatest returns over the mid term.
The recent move of our London office to more modern premises Our teams in Asia have been strengthened, our teams in the has had a significant impact in terms of communications and US are being reinforced and, more indirectly, we have made produced an enhanced experience for visitors to 3i, as well as an a number of investments in selected funds which can bring improved working environment.
exposure to specific geographies or asset classes that we cannot achieve on our own.
We have also reviewed our capital requirements over the coming period and, notwithstanding the significant level of opportunity We have recently completed a comprehensive strategic review we have identified, we believe it is appropriate to make a further of both our current and future business areas within the private return of cash to shareholders.
Although accounting for the equity field and, where appropriate, will continue to use our equity option within the Convertible Bond issued in 2003 has, balance sheet to develop new business lines, and our under IFRS, reduced reported profits and will continue to do knowledge-sharing culture and market access to attract new so if we are successful in delivering shareholder value through an people to join us.
increase in the share price, the flexibility to satisfy the Bond As part of this review, we have also looked in detail at the redemption in 2008 in either cash or shares provides a significant opportunities and structure of each of our current business lines.
equity cushion should realisation markets slow for any reason.
We have concluded that we should increase the mix of late-stage Markets remain favourable and, although we expect our levels investment within our Venture Capital business, an area which of realisations in the new financial year to be below last years particularly plays to our international differentiation.
As a result of exceptional levels, we expect to increase our level of investment this change we have amended our cash-to-cash IRR target for again if the present economic conditions continue.
this business line to 25%, with vintage year volatility of plus or minus 15%.
We have also confirmed the opportunity for both With another very good set of results behind us, a detailed this business and our Growth Capital business within the US, and strategy for the future, and confidence high within the are building our local teams accordingly.
organisation, we remain determined to accelerate the development of 3i to deliver further shareholder value.
