Business review 4 Chief Executives statement growth range that we announced last BG Group reported record results in 2006, year for the period 2005 to 2012. marking ten years of industry-leading growth.
Our Liqueed Natural Gas LNG business enjoyed a record year: operating profits increased by 94% and production volumes were up by 63%.
The increase in volumes was driven by the commencement of long-term supply contracts from Nigeria and from Trinidad and Tobagos Atlantic LNG Train 4.
New guidance was given on Frank Chapman the prospects for higher profitability in Chief Executive this business segment, owing to the anticipated tight LNG supply situation, which is expected to continue at least until 2012.
We anticipate that this will BG Group reported record results, marking further increase the value of BG Groups ten years of industry-leading growth.
highly exible and low cost LNG portfolio.
Over the past year, we have further strengthened our base set of assets and In our downstream businesses, signicantly enhanced our major projects Transmission and Distribution achieved out to 2012 and beyond, such that we are a 9% increase in total operating profit, set fair to continue our high growth driven by volume growth at Comgas in programme for the next ten years.
Brazil and at our two Indian distribution businesses.
Our Power portfolio OPERATING PERFORMANCE performed steadily, and continued As the Chairman notes in his statement, to produce strong returns.
growth this year translated into a 24% increase in earnings per share, continuing STRATEGY FOR SUCCESS a trend which has seen our operating At its heart, our strategy is focused upon profits grow at an average compound a simple concept: securing competitivelyannual rate of 39% over the last ten years.
priced gas and connecting that gas to In our business segments, 2006 was a specic, selected, high value markets.
strong year for Exploration and Production BG Group is unique in the energy industry E&P : production increased by 19%: unit in having an integrated gas focus, with nding and development costs and unit skills to compete throughout the gas operating cost remained in the most value chain.
This enables us to invest competitive, top quartile of the industry: selectively across the gas chain, wherever while sound progress was made with we see the opportunity to create value.
Overall, we have added Our ten-year track record demonstrates significant E&P resources to our portfolio how this strategy has consistently created as a result of our exploration success value for shareholders.
The strategy is also over the past year.
Together these achievements allow us to reconrm proving robust in the context of important trends in the business environment and we our objective of delivering outstanding earnings to 2009, with confidence in the believe that we will sustain our competitive projected 6% to 10% annual production advantage in the face of these trends.
BUSINESS REVIEW 5 Despite rising costs, BG Group has countries.
In China, we took stakes in LOOKING FORWARD continued to perform well, growing three deep water exploration licences This year has seen improvement exploration and production resources while covering some 25 000 square kilometres.
in our distinctive, long-life asset base: maintaining top quartile positions in both We also secured licences containing enhancement of our future opportunity nding and development, and operating existing discoveries, including the Hassi set: and a significant increase in our E&P costs.
Key to this continued success is the Ba Hamou eld in Algeria and the Abu resources.
These strengths mean that distinctive base set of long-life assets that Butabul discovery in Oman.
BG Group is well placed to face the are already onstream and that contain challenges of the future and to continue We strengthened our LNG market further development potential.
positions and continued to build upon We recognise that, for many governments, the exibility of our portfolio.
The Dragon The outstanding achievements of this natural resources are key to achieving LNG regasication plant in Wales is on year have been delivered through the economic growth.
Our aim is to build track to begin production by the end of commitment of our employees.
Together businesses which reect our host 2007 and we made good progress in we have delivered ten years of growth, governments economic priorities.
This enhancing the capacity and exibility of transforming BG Group into an commitment has helped us to add to our our US facilities at Elba Island and Lake internationally diverse, integrated portfolio at a time when reserves renewal Charles.
We also signed a new project energy major with a reputation for is a central concern for the industry.
development agreement to build and strategic innovation, delivery and gas supply a regasication plant in Chile.
In the past year we have PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENTS strengthened our production portfolio We continued actively to develop our Towards the close of the year, we and built further upon our operational portfolio in 2006, with significant extended our power business into the performance record, foundations that progress on major projects.
In Kazakhstan, USA, a focused move that strengthens position us well to sustain BG Groups for example, we progressed our eld our integrated US strategy.
The Dighton growth over the next ten years.
development plans at Karachaganak: and Lake Road power plants will deliver a fourth stabilisation train and rail export synergies in gas and power marketing facilities were sanctioned: and we secured once integrated into our portfolio.
further export capacity in an additional Innovative thinking lies at the heart of pipeline route, accessing higher value BG Groups success and the annual Chief Western markets.
These developments Executives awards reinforce the value of together with progress on a key gas sales technological innovation to our business: agreement have laid the foundations for teams from UK Upstream, Tunisia and the now much expanded Phase III of Egypt were winners in 2006.
In Nigeria, Frank Chapman we are working towards project sanction CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Chief Executive of Olokola LNG: FEED is nearing completion At BG Group, Corporate Responsibility and the next stage of project agreements is central to how we deliver our business are being nalised with a view to strategy and is embedded in our start-up in 2012. decision-making process.
We have built and extended our existing Our Lost Time Injury Frequency of 0.36 per production operations around the world.
million hours worked was a significant In the UK North Sea, we continued to improvement over 2005.
The STEP UP invest around our J-Block hub.
The safety initiative has continued to make an Jasmine discovery is one of the largest in impact: over 95% of employees and longrecent years and offers very significant term contractors have undergone safety potential, while the Jackdaw discovery behaviour intervention training.
We have may also represent a significant also strengthened our behaviour-based development.
In Brazil, we made an safety processes, training an additional exciting new discovery, Tupi, which we 2 000 employees and contractors as will appraise further this year.
In India, observers who will positively reinforce we now estimate that in-place volumes safety standards and behaviours for the Panna Mukta elds represent throughout our operations.
We have some two billion boe.
We plan to increase also assembled a working group to production in India by 60% from 2006 to examine the findings of the Baker Panel 2009 by extending Panna Mukta and the investigation into the Texas City Renery nearby Tapti eld.
We have also extended our exploration Our commitment to Corporate portfolio.
We were awarded eight new Responsibility was recognised in the exploration licences in Norway, including FTSE4Good index and Dow Jones the Bream discovery: this makes BG Group Sustainability Indexes and in our first the fifth largest exploration acreage place ranking in our sector in Goldman holder in the country, a position that we Sachs 2006 Environmental, Social and have developed in just three years since Governance Index.
In Alaska, we entered licences in the Eastern North Slope and North Slope foothills.
We also established operations in four new See presentation of non-GAAP measures, page 152.
