Business Review Group Chief Executives Statement Alliance & Leicester is making excellent progress towards becoming the UKs leading direct bank.
Alliance & Leicester delivered a good set of Our current account business had a record year.
Richard Pym financial results in 2006.
We also achieved We opened 300,000 new accounts and delivered Group Chief Executive strong franchise growth and increased the strong profit growth.
We now have 1.64m active proportion of business both sold and managed current accounts.
In addition, we continue Our personal customer deposit balances grew by to develop and implement projects which are 2.1bn during the year, to 22.7bn at the end of transforming Alliance & Leicester into a growing, December.
Growth in direct account balances was modern, efficient bank.
strong and these now account for around 60% of Our 2006 core operating profit was 585m, up total savings balances.
7% from 548m in 2005, and underlying basic Our unsecured personal loan gross advances earnings per share were 92.4p, up from 87.1p in were 2.3bn, an estimated market share of 2005.
Basic earnings per share were 96.4p, up 6.4%, compared with our share of stock of 5.1%.
The Board is proposing a final Changes to our credit criteria have resulted in dividend of 36.5p, making total dividends new loans written in 2006 being of higher quality of 54.1p, an increase of 5%.
We continue to believe that the We achieved each of our strategic objectives in proportion of loans in arrears is around its peak.
As well as delivering strong franchise It was 5.6% at the end of December 2006. growth, we improved our operating efficiency, Alliance & Leicester is growing its customer base.
maintained above average asset quality and Total sales in 2006 increased through both our delivered an underlying return on equity tier direct and branch channels.
Our brand continues 1 capital of 21.5%.
to be recognised as providing customers with We have updated our strategic objectives, good value, and for the third successive year the reflecting our confidence that the significant Alliance & Leicester brand received more best changes that are taking place across the Group buy mentions in national newspapers than any will deliver future success.
Our new objectives are of our competitors.
to deliver a minimum underlying return on equity A number of areas of the UK financial services tier 1 capital of over 20%, and an underlying industry are the subject of current or potential basic earnings per share growth of at least regulatory scrutiny.
Our strategy emphasises RPI 9% by 2009. excellent value for customers and straightforward dealings with them, an approach which we Retail Banking Progress believe to be generally aligned with the Retail Banking core operating profit was 445m, regulators agenda.
Revenues increased by 25m and operating expenses fell by 9m.
Asset We remain committed to direct banking, quality remains very strong, with the impairment and market research and benchmarking 585 studies continue to show that we have a higher charge in the second half of 2006 in line with the 548 540 proportion of new business generated online charge in the first half of the year.
Our Retail Banking strategy offers customers The proportion of business originated and great value products, particularly when they managed via the direct telephone and internet choose to buy or transact using direct channels.
More than 38% For the second year in a row, our market share of of our Core 4 product sales were sourced via the new business was greater than our share of stock internet in 2006, higher than the 30% achieved for each of our Core 4 products mortgages, in 2005.
Half of our current accounts and savings current accounts, savings and personal loans.
accounts are now registered for internet banking, In mortgages our market share of net lending and on average more than 600,000 internet 04 05 06 was 4.4%, compared with our share of balances banking transactions were undertaken online of 3.5%.
Core Operating profit m 5 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business Review Business Review Group Chief Executives Statement continued Our branches are an important part of our to 6.5bn, and our active business banking distribution capability and are being transformed current account base increased to 76,300 into a network of sales and self-service stores.
accounts, with 24,700 new accounts opened In 2006 we refurbished a further 49 branches in during the year.
our new design concept and we plan to refurbish Our Commercial Banking strategy is based on up to another 50 during 2007.
In addition, we building primary, full-banking relationships.
will be rolling out deposit-taking ATMs into all of We offer market-leading direct banking facilities.
The machines installed so far have These are complemented by our growing network been well received by our customers, with up to of business centres for businesses with a turnover 70% of card-based deposits in some branches between 1m to 10m, and an increasing range now being made using an ATM.
of products and services for larger corporates.
Our direct banking strategy is being reflected in We are steadily and effectively evolving our our customer base.
In recent years, customers commercial lending operations, with specialist joining Alliance & Leicester have, on average, teams operating in a wide range of markets, been both younger and had higher incomes and we are now taking more lead roles in than those joining our competitors.
This business is growing well, attracting more customers from locations where with strong asset quality being maintained.
we have traditionally had lower market shares, 445 438 436 for example 20% of new Premier current account Our commercial customer internet banking service customers recruited over the past two years are was launched in 2006 and already has over 46,000 from London.
From September, customers have been able to open new accounts online, We will continue to enhance our product portfolio and over 35% of new business banking account in 2007.
This will include entering new segments applications in December originated via the of the current account and prime mortgage internet.
In 2007 we will continue to develop markets in which we currently do not have this internet service, including implementing specific offerings.
Most notably, we are planning our second factor authentication security process to offer customers combined mortgage and and online statements.
In addition, our secured 04 05 06 personal loan and specialist mortgage operations During 2006 we opened a further four business will have their first full year of trading in 2007. centres, making a total network of nine.
In 2007 Retail Banking Core Operating profit m we plan to open another four centres, and to We are confident about the future growth increase the number of relationship managers prospects for our Retail Banking business.
in each of our existing centres.
We will also be In 2007 we expect the rate of decline in the enabling business banking customers to use our net interest margin to slow and the unsecured retail branch network for banking transactions.
personal loan impairment charge to be below that in 2006.
In 2006 we launched our pre-paid debit card, 162 targeted at the business to business sector.
Commercial Banking Progress During the year we rolled out full functionality, 132 126 Commercial Banking had a good year, delivering a including the ability to access money from ATMs core operating profit of 162m, 30m higher than and reloadable cards.
We are planning to issue a in 2005.
Increased profits from commercial lending significant number of cards in 2007, building on and business banking more than offset a 17m fall successful pilots that are currently underway in in the profitability of our cash handling business.
Commercial lendings profit included 32m from We are confident about the outlook for our the sale of customer leases in September.
Future earnings 04 05 06 We saw good franchise growth in each core growth will be driven primarily by commercial product.
Cash sales increased by 5% to 69bn, lending and business banking, with support from Commercial Banking commercial lending balances increased by 1.0bn cash sales and pre-paid debit cards.
In addition, Core Operating profit m 6 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report and Accounts 2006 we are well advanced in our discussions with the period, we will have surplus capital.
The Groups I have gained enormous personal satisfaction Post Office and anticipate the agreement of a new Board will ensure that the capital is deployed in from the progress the business has made over the cash contract in the first half of 2007, which the most effective manner, taking into account five years since I first became Chief Executive.
should facilitate profitable growth of our cash the views of our shareholders and the credit However, I will be 58 years of age later this year handling business.
and I have asked the Board to begin to consider who my successor will be and the Board has In 2007 we are planning a share buyback of up System Developments appointed a search consultancy to look at the to 300m.
In October 2006 we announced plans to replace range of potential candidates, both internal and our core IT banking systems with Alnova Financial external.
It is never possible to predict timescales Our People Solutions Alnova, an Accenture banking for these processes and in the meantime I am I would like to thank our people for their solution.
This system, which has proven very fully committed to ensuring that Alliance & contribution to our achievements in 2006.
Over successful for a significant number of banks in Leicester has a successful 2007. the past twelve months they have continually Europe and elsewhere, is an important part of shown their willingness to adapt to the changes Over the past five years our share price has building a modern, efficient bank.
It will increase that are taking place across the Group as we outperformed the FTSE all share banks index by our flexibility, allow further simplification of our implement our strategy and deliver our goal over 20%, generating a total shareholder return operations and enhance customer service, with of being the UKs leading direct bank.
The projects we are implementing and real-time, customer focused processes based are planning across the Group will enable us to on a single view of the customer.
The results of our annual employee opinion achieve our strategic goals, and therefore deliver survey which over 80% of our people Alnova will replace our existing legacy systems for continued growth and value for shareholders.
completed were as good as in previous years commercial and personal current accounts, savings and significantly better than the average for a We face the changing future of banking with and personal loans.
It will be implemented in UK company, confirming that our workforce is great confidence.
phases over the next three years, with the first motivated and supportive of the changes being Richard Pym deliverables in 2008.
The costs of implementing made at Alliance & Leicester.
Group Chief Executive the new system will be treated as part of business as usual and will largely be capitalised.
The Outlook implementation will incur only marginal We expect the UK economy to continue to incremental systems costs, as the cost of grow in 2007, with GDP growth of around 2.5%.
maintaining legacy systems will be reduced.
This backdrop provides good opportunities for growth in all our core products.
Capital Management and Basel II The mortgage and commercial lending markets In 2006 we continued to manage our capital grew strongly in 2006, whilst the personal proactively, issuing 300m of preference shares unsecured lending sector saw lower gross and completing a share buyback of 13.8m shares lending and the effect of an increase in personal with a value of 150m.
Despite the recent bank base We are the first UK bank to have obtained rate increases, we expect the mortgage and unconditional approval from the Financial commercial lending markets to remain strong Services Authority FSA to operate under the in 2007, although we expect slower rates of new Basel II regime, effective from 1 January growth than in 2006.
We are a beneficiary under the new regime.
to focus our plans for lending growth in the Our risk weighted assets, including the impact UK homeowner and commercial sectors.
of operational risk, have reduced by between 35%-40% under Basel II, with the weighting for The Future our mortgage assets being around 10%.
Alliance & Leicester is making excellent progress towards becoming the UKs leading direct bank.
During each of the first three years of Basel II, the Group is required to hold capital at or above We have a clear strategy and we are confident of a calculated transitional floor.
Whilst the our ability to deliver it.
The Group is changing transitional floors will restrict the amount of and is now radically different from the business excess capital the Group can deploy during this that demutualised 10 years ago.
Alliance & Leicester Annual Report and Accounts 2006 7 Business Review
