4 Chief Executives statement Last year, I reported to you on our plans return of 25.8% on capital invested.
During the year the to develop the Alliance Trust, both as a Early in the year we took a relatively Company delivered core investment for those seeking a cautious stance, conscious of the long term store of increasing value and strong investment uncertainties in the oil market and as an organisation investing in its own those emanating from terrorist threats.
performance, growing banking and financial services company.
As it became clear that governments its net assets by a I am pleased to report to you on the and markets were able to accommodate results of the past year.
the inflationary pressures of higher record 402m.
commodity prices we again increased our exposure to equities in certain Asset Allocation and Performance regions and sectors.
In the light of Over 18 months ago we set up our increased confidence, we geared the Asset, Liability and Income Committee portfolio by a modest 2.7% of net assets ALICo which manages the capital of to take advantage of the current the Company within the investment and strength of markets and as a partial asset allocation strategies agreed with hedge to our exposure to the US dollar.
ALICo also We will consider further gearing, at an considers and judges the merits, timing appropriate pace and level, to increase and risks of gearing, and of hedging returns or offset exchange risk.
other exposures such as foreign One of the best performing parts of the currencies.
portfolio was that managed from our Equities remain our key area of focus office in Hong Kong, with a performance and we have now had a full year of of 36.0% against the local benchmark of managing the equity portfolio on a 32.4% for Asia-Pacific and 51.6% country or regional basis, with the against the local benchmark of 41.4% relevant investment managers for Japan.
We have an excellent team in supported by regional and global Hong Kong, headed up by Anthony Muh, analysts.
which has shown clear ability to I am encouraged that, within the equity outperform and manage risk in this portfolio and as at the year end, six out volatile part of the world.
We are of the seven regional portfolios have building on this expertise and potential outperformed their local benchmarks.
to generate earnings in this area by This represented 95% of the value establishing an asset management within the equity portfolio.
On the equity company which will operate out of the portfolio as a whole we achieved a Hong Kong office and take third party From left to right: Alan Harden, Chief Executive Hyman Wolanski, Head of Pensions Anthony Muh, Head of Asia 5 mandates.
By leveraging our existing self-administered scheme and their expertise, which is managed expertise and resource we will seek to administrators in the market.
Hyman within our transparent investment generate additional returns for framework, will be built upon to provide Wolanski joined us as Head of Pensions future growth and returns to shareholders.
in ATS, which, after the purchase, has a shareholders.
total of around 3.3bn of assets under We do not benchmark the total portfolio administration and by plans We are proud of our company and our against any index and we retain the administered is one of the top five SIPP staff and we are committed to increasing freedom to move between equity providers in the UK.
Pensions A Day, the positive momentum going forward.
markets and to invest in other assets.
now only a short time away, provides In the coming year we will: This year we invested 20.8m in real tremendous opportunity of which we estate, and have now, within the Further strengthen our asset will take advantage both in the property portfolio, two prime properties, allocation process.
individual pensions market and in the both with a good long term income corporate SIPP and other employer Provide the investment tools needed stream and capital growth potential.
This investment marked the beginning of a specialisation which we intend to Leverage our investment expertise Investment in resources nurture and a property portfolio to and risk management skills to and people which we intend to add as opportunities ensure even greater benefits to arise.
Our real estate including We are in the midst of implementing a shareholders.
oil mineral rights appreciated by 18.3% programme for the modernisation of all Complete the integration of from 24m to 28.4m.
our technology, administration and Wolanski & Co. Trustees with operations.
This programme is being Alliance Trust Savings to create a put into place both for our investment Financial Services Subsidiary leading UK pensions business that company and for Alliance Trust Savings.
offers a full and attractive range Our investment policy allows for We are also investing for the future in suitable for individuals and allocation of capital to subsidiary ensuring that we have the right skill companies.
companies and this year we increased sets and expertise within our staff.
In our investment in Alliance Trust Put in place modern, efficient the investment area we will be adding Savings, convinced of the potential to technology systems across the additional expertise in portfolio risk and provide pensions, share dealing whole organisation.
quantitative analysis, and we are services, deposit facilities and building more capability in dedicated investment wrappers to its customers.
private equity and fixed income areas to During the year, Alliance Trust Savings strengthen our ability to allocate capital purchased Wolanski & Co. Trustees and manage risk in these areas.
Limited, one of the leading self-invested Investment managers will be given the personal pension SIPP and small tools needed for optimum performance
