4984 BHPB Ann Rev Pt 1. qxd 08 09 06 2:14 PM Page 6 Chief Executive Officers Report BHP Billiton is a major producer and supplier of the raw materials that are essential for the development of economies around the world.
Understanding the forces impacting societies around the world is essential if we are to remain well positioned to play our role to support communities and economies as they develop.
Chip Goodyear, Chief Executive Officer The business strategy put in place five this year was the result of the commitment years ago has served the Company well and hard work of our 38,000 employees in enabling us to take advantage of the and the large number of contractors who upswing in demand for the commodities support them.
This is a very busy time in we produce.
However, during the year we the resources industry and our continued recognised a need to build on our strategy success will rely on our people and their to ensure it could take us forward over the determination to outperform.
Licence to Operate We have been talking for the last three While we have recognised for some time or four years about the processes of the need to earn our right to be part of urbanisation and industrialisation across the various communities impacted by our the developing world leading to a secular presence, the way in which we behave as a change in commodity demand that is Company has never been more important, different from the traditional business cycle.
particularly as we compete for access to We needed to ensure that our business resources in regions whose communities strategy recognised this probability and need to be convinced of the benefits we could evolve to encapsulate everything bring to them.
needed to realise the potential benefits The health and safety of our people from a multi-decade secular change in continue to be paramount to our success, demand for commodities.
our licence to operate and our The result has been a refinement of our sustainability as a business and industry.
We have chosen to We continue to strive towards a state of represent this refined strategy in a simple Zero Harm to our people.
Yet three people form, via a seven-layered pyramid, that lost their lives at our operations during the I believe assists our constituencies in year and we were seriously concerned by understanding the critical drivers to our some increasing injury trends in the first success: our seven strategic value drivers.
While the trend improved in the second half through a concerted This Report provides an overview of our management focus, the statistics reinforce business against each of these seven our belief that that we must never take the strategic drivers and provides some safety of our people for granted.
examples of achievements during the year that reflect how we put these drivers World-class Assets into action.
Our strong and diverse asset base, giving People us exposure to the production and sale of more than 20 individual commodities People will always be fundamental to our throughout the world, will continue to success and they form the foundation of underpin the success of the Company.
Our people find year, in response to record demand, we resources, develop projects, operate worldstretched production from these assets to class facilities and deliver our products new levels, with annual production records reliably and efficiently to customers all over set for aluminium, copper, iron ore, nickel the world.
Our strong performance during and natural gas.
6 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 4984 BHPB Ann Rev Pt 1. qxd 10 9 06 4:50 PM Page 7 The BHP Billiton Way Perhaps more quietly, our global exploration activities continued to increase In an extremely challenging industry as we search for the next set of options for environment, with the cost and availability growth, many of which will be in regions of both people and essential materials that will create their own set of challenges.
under enormous pressure, the knowledgeHowever, we have demonstrated our sharing, systems and processes we can capabilities for developing projects and apply throughout our global operations operating in new environments.
As we give us a significant competitive focus more intently on opportunities in advantage.
This year we expanded our sub-Saharan Africa, for example, we do so Operating Excellence program and knowing we have already developed and commenced Business Excellence across now successfully operate one of the worlds BHP Billiton.
In addition to established most cost-efficient aluminium smelters programs such as Six Sigma and networks in Mozambique and own and operate a and knowledge sharing activities, we have world-class nickel asset in Colombia and expanded the function to include a whole deliver oil and gas from our operations in of business focus on excellence.
Financial Strength and Discipline The drivers outlined above show our US$5.0 billion dollars were invested commitment to meeting the opportunities in growth projects during the year and a presented by what we expect to be the further US$1.9 billion on capital expenditure extensive urbanisation and industrialisation that goes to improve our existing assets of the developing world.
We do not we were able to maintain our strong suggest that this growth will be A credit rating, reduce debt further and uninterrupted, constant or predictable.
return significant funds to shareholders.
However, we are confident that as well Excess capital was returned to shareholders as positioning us for ongoing growth, through share buy-backs and dividends BHP Billitons strategy will enable us to totalling US$5.0 billion and US$2.2 billion provide value to shareholders and sustain respectively.
Since 2001, we have returned our business throughout any downturns.
a total of US$15.5 billion to our Let me leave you, however, with a simple shareholders.
proposition: that China is determined to become a knowledge economy by 2050.
Project Pipeline To achieve its vision, hundreds of millions Four new projects came online during of people will need to move from rural to the year.
They were: Escondida Norte and urban areas.
That will require residential Escondida Sulphide Leach in Chile and dwellings, industrial facilities and Worsley DCP and RGP2 in Western associated infrastructure.
Another seven projects: Shenzi, materials that we produce and sell are Stybarrow, NWS Angel, Alumar Refinery essential elements of these infrastructure Expansion, RGP3, Samarco and Koala requirements.
We believe the world may be Underground were approved to be witnessing just the beginning of a whole developed and come online over the next new period of change and BHP Billiton is three to four years.
Our development an essential element of that change.
pipeline currently shows 23 projects in either execution or feasibility, representing a total investment of US$13.8 billion.
Growth Projects The integration of WMC Resources assets into our businesses and the sale of its fertiliser business were successfully completed during the year with the result Chip Goodyear of significantly boosting nickel and copper production during a year of strong prices, adding uranium to our product range and providing growth options for the future while continuing to optimise our portfolio.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 7 4984 BHPB Ann Rev Pt 1. qxd 08 09 06 2:14 PM Page 8 People Samarco, Brazil 8 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 we see it for its copper, nickel and silver components, but jacqueline sees it as her mobile link to the world: a dinner invitation from mum: an update from a colleague... 4984 BHPB Ann Rev Pt 1. qxd 08 09 06 2:14 PM Page 9 At BHP Billiton, people are the foundation of our strategy.
It is our people who find and develop our mineral and energy resources, maintain and operate our assets and ensure that our products reliably reach customers.
But while people are key to our business success, they are also one of our scarcest assets.
Todays strong demand for minerals and energy means that the industrys requirements for skilled technical and professional people is high.
At the same time, the number of people entering the industry has been declining for many years.
This has resulted in a shortage of people across the industry, particularly for developing new projects.
Our pipeline of new projects is the largest in the industry.
Staffing these projects with people who meet our high standards is a considerable challenge.
To meet this need, we have a strong focus on graduate recruitment, employee development and creating a distinctly BHP Billiton work culture.
We want our employees to enjoy coming to work for a Rajan Pillay Company that is demanding of performance but also a challenging and Business Improvement fun place to work.
Specialist HSE, Mozal, Mozambique Rajan has an outstanding track record in the area of reduction, maintenance and general process.
He joined the HSE team in July 2005 and has already delivered exceptional results.
Indeed, every day someone just like Rajan is putting the extra effort into their day-to-day work that makes this Company a success.
Corporate Centre, Melbourne Cannington, Australia BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 9
