Operating and Financial Review Chief Executives statement Our primary objective is to create shareholder value.
This requires: To deliver this we: The retention of the right skills and experience.
Have a very strong focus on the quality and An understanding of clients needs so that we profitability of underwriting.
Aim to grow the business over the long term but, Operational excellence to deliver efficiently high in recognition of the cyclicality of our markets, service standards to clients and high quality will reduce income if the risk return relationship is underwriting and management information.
Sound risk management, an ability to recognise Will actively manage the balance sheet with a changing risk and reward dynamics and to adjust focus on return on equity.
our underwriting and investment portfolios accordingly.
Financial results Charles Philipps Gross written premium In 2006 we increased gross premium by 12.1% Chief Executive to 1.1 billion.
This reflected good growth, particularly through Amlin Bermuda, in catastrophe exposed business where prices strengthened through the year up to the up 12.1% important 1 July renewal season when a large proportion of US wind exposures were renewed.
For further details see page 16.
Profit before tax The profit before tax of 342.7 million, up 83.6% over 2005, was well ahead of initial expectations and was partly the result of negligible catastrophe events in a year when prices had reacted so strongly to the extraordinary hurricane activity up 83.6% of 2004 and 2005.
Good performance was nevertheless achieved in most lines and very acceptable combined ratios recorded in areas We had an excellent year in 2006, with all such as our UK commercial division where parts of the organisation working hard to conditions have been under increasing pressure Return on equity move Amlin forward.
For further details see page 36.
We had high expectations for the year financially with strong underwriting conditions in most Return on equity, our most important internal areas and prospects for a significant hardening of 34% performance metric, was 34%, the fourth of catastrophe exposed lines.
Having raised successive year in excess of 20%, bringing our equity at the end of 2005 it was important that weighted average ROE since, and including, Amlin Bermuda had a successful start and, more 2001 to 22.7%.
We set a goal in 2001 to achieve importantly, created a sound foundation on a cross cycle average ROE of at least 15% in the which to build.
We also had to address a major belief that, by managing Amlin well we could change in catastrophe exposures when we achieve it, and that, being ahead of our decided not to renew the retrocessional theoretical cost of equity, we would create reinsurance protecting Syndicate 2001. shareholder value.
We have continued to invest in systems and Strategy process change, leading the Lloyds market in I am very pleased with the progress made across a number of projects aimed at improving our the Group towards our Vision of becoming competitiveness and attraction to brokers the global reference point for quality and our and clients.
strategy for building shareholder value.
Focus on quality and profitability of underwriting The decision to adjust our catastrophe exposures and operate with significantly less retrocessional reinsurance in 2006 was not taken lightly and followed much analysis and consideration of the options and their impact on both potential volatility of performance and bottom line profitability.
It is a tribute to our underwriting leadership that they were able to plan and achieve a change in approach to management of catastrophe exposed business.
Peak exposures were reduced and an 10 Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 acceptable relationship achieved between the by clients and regulators which is forcing change We completed our second MORI survey of probable maximum loss to a very large event in the way some brokers plan to trade, it is staff in 2006 which indicated high levels of and return prospects.
As well as being an important that we expand our brand recognition staff satisfaction and a strong understanding excellent example of the focus on underwriting internationally and this will take some effort.
More detail is shown on page 27. profitability in action, strategically this demonstrated an ability to reduce reliance on Our marketing and distribution service Governance reinsurance which would not have been possible companies for specialist lines such as yachts, To align our risk management with future best but for our well diversified business.
For more bloodstock and credit insurance generated practice we have separated our compliance and details see page 17.
44.8 million of premium in 2006, up 6.9% on internal audit functions and merged compliance 2005.
While a relatively small component of our with our business monitoring unit, refocusing it The strength of our underwriting team has again business, we have invested in new systems, as Risk Assessment and Monitoring, headed been maintained with turnover of our senior which are now operating for our marine units, by a Chief Risk Officer.
This is intended to underwriters at only 4.35% in 2006.
The initial which will make volume growth easier to handle.
provide greater focus to the measurement team at Amlin Bermuda has been expanded and reporting of all categories of risk across through recruitment although we failed to secure ROE focused capital management the Group.
This will help us address any more senior underwriting expertise for it in 2006.
The successful issue of 230 million of 15 challenges resulting from the introduction of This will be required to achieve our growth year subordinated debt in April 2006 further the Solvency II regulatory standards and should, plans and we expect to announce progress increased our financial strength as well as over time, enhance our risk measurement so on this shortly.
providing greater scope for balance sheet that we can better use our resources.
management over the coming years, if, as The War team in our Marine division was also we expect, we will have capital surplus to Outlook expanded to help growth in this class which our requirements.
It provides Amlin with more The adjustment to our catastrophe exposures has high margin potential.
With every year that flexibility to return equity to shareholders while and the growth in the balance sheet resulting passes our underwriting teams, especially with maintaining sufficient regulatory capital to from our exceptionally strong 2006 financial their stability, have more experience providing withstand major catastrophes and to be able result places us in a more robust position.
strong prospects for continuing to generate to respond quickly to event driven cyclical superior performance.
For further details see strengthening.
For further detail see page 32.
With record net unearned premium of page 24.
507.8 million, and margin potential in many The special dividend announced with our results classes still healthy, we expect to generate Long term growth potential is a clear demonstration of our intention to a further good return on equity in 2007.
While cyclical pricing pressure will most likely manage our balance sheet to enhance For more detail see page 40. result in Amlin not pushing hard for organic top shareholder returns and value.
line growth in the short term, it is nevertheless There are signs that the growth in industry important for us to continue to build our capability People capital and a search by some reinsurers to to attract and handle long term growth.
We motivate employees to excel in building and increase diversity are placing downward maintaining high standards through a clearly pressure on rates.
We are hopeful, however, The share of business from reinsurance articulated Vision to which business objectives that industry discipline will be applied to increased to 38.6% in 2006 and, at the right are linked, meaningful financial incentives based maintain margins which reflect the risk assumed time, we will seek to balance this with more on performance, and the promotion of a culture rather than growing market share senselessly.
which seeks to improve continually what we do As we have demonstrated before, we will so that we can continue to build shareholder value.
reduce exposures and are prepared to forego In 2006, as well as laying a good foundation in premium income when margins become Bermuda, we made excellent progress in a We are grateful to our employees for their hard unacceptable.
If this happens we will look to number of initiatives aimed at improving Amlins work and what they have achieved.
It was retain good margin business where we can attractiveness to brokers and clients, at helping pleasing to see the first Capital Builder Incentive and will actively manage the balance sheet the Lloyds market tackle process change, and payments rewarding our underwriters well for with a focus on shareholder returns.
developing the technology and infrastructure to some excellent performance over the period be able to trade electronically.
We have made our first awards position to receive risk placement data under the new Capital Builder incentive which electronically, and to process claims using was approved by shareholders in May 2006. electronic files which will increase efficiency for It aims to reward underwriters for achieving both brokers and Amlin and will improve client returns over a five year period which are in service.
This will help to strengthen our long term excess of targets set by class of business.
For further detail see Charles Philipps page 30.
More widely, the introduction of the Share Incentive Chief Executive Plan allows us to increase the alignment between Our underwriting expertise, financial strength all staff and shareholder interests and it will and focus on improving client service has hopefully broaden from the current level of 17%, become more consistently recognised with the number of employee shareholders.
Amlin scoring highest among Lloyds managing agents and fifth among London market insurers Retention levels, especially in key areas, remain overall for brand recognition in a survey of high and we continue to invest in building skills.
London market placing brokers in 2006.
The development of claims competencies was an We need to sustain this into the next cyclical excellent piece of work in 2006 which will provide upturn to encourage maximum business flow.
a sound template for other technical areas in 2007.
I was also particularly pleased with the completion of work on our core values which are now being With three London market brokers being rolled out.
They are designed to motivate key acquired by US brokers in the last two years, and attributes which will help sustain our success.
with an increasing requirement for transparency For more detail see page 27.
