Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 8 Group chief executives statement Dear Shareholder, It has been a good year for Aviva.
During 2006 we produced our best ever set of financial results and we ended the year in a strong position to continue our good progress.
This success was achieved while completing the integration of RAC in the UK and the purchase of AmerUs in the US.
AmerUs represents a significant move for us, creating a dynamic and thriving business with greater access to the largest savings market in the world.
Im delighted to welcome Tom Godlasky and his team to Aviva.
Our priority is to integrate AmerUs quickly with our existing US business, achieving our projected cost savings and enhancing the profile of Aviva in the US.
Exceptional growth in the UK In the UK, we have generated exceptional growth in our long-term savings business.
Total sales increased by 31% to over 13 billion, helped by strong pension sales resulting from changes brought about by pension simplification following A-Day in April.
We have increased our share of a market that is itself growing very strongly.
In October, we communicated our plans for the UK long-term business to analysts and investors.
Our focus is on developing the business to exploit new market opportunities, continuing to improve service, rationalising our cost base, simplifying our legacy systems and managing the retention of existing customers.
We also announced annual cost savings across both the long-term savings and general insurance businesses of 250 million by 2008, at a cost of 250 million.
These cost savings will mean a reduction of 4,000 in our UK headcount, although we will seek to minimise the number of compulsory redundancies through natural staff turnover and voluntary measures.
Our UK general insurance and health businesses produced a strong result, proving again that we are able to produce sustainable returns from this business.
During the year, we completed the integration of RAC and the disposal of its non-core subsidiaries.
Continued international expansion Our international businesses continue to grow and develop.
To recognise the increasingly diverse and complex nature of these businesses, I asked Tidjane Thiam to take responsibility for continental Europe.
This allowed Philip Scott to focus on our rapidly developing businesses across North America and the Asia-Pacific region during 2006.
Our confidence in our international businesses was highlighted by our announcement that we expect to achieve double-digit sales growth over the next five years, while growing new business contribution at least as quickly.
During 2006, we saw strong sales from our new bancassurance partnership with Allied Irish Banks in Ireland and continuing rapid expansion in Asia.
This growth demonstrates our commitment to the continued development of our distribution capacity and our ability to deliver results from new opportunities.
Forward thinking We continue to make progress as a forward thinking company.
It is vital that we dont see this as simply a slogan, it has to be fundamental to the way we operate.
It means positioning ourselves for tomorrows opportunities, anticipating our customers aspirations and finding ways that lead to exceptional performance and customer service from our people.
Forward thinking also means helping our customers to think about and plan for their future.
Two developments that take us a step further down that road are websites devoted to financial planning.
We created and are supporting a website called www.
org, which focuses on retirement planning.
In the UK, Norwich Union has launched a make sense of it website to help people understand investments and to highlight the benefits of taking professional advice.
If we are to achieve our growth plans, it is important for us to have a strong brand to support us.
Weve made great progress in building the Aviva brand this year.
The Forward thinking campaign has been hugely successful in raising our brand profile with our target audience this year and we will continue to invest in it over the next three years.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 9 Financial results Our pre-tax operating profit of 3,245 million 2005: 2,904 million reflects continued strong operational performances from our portfolio of businesses and the success of our proven strategy.
Our return on equity shareholders funds was 13.1% 2005: 15.0%.
On an IFRS basis, the group operating profit before tax was 3,110 million 2005: 2,128 million.
The group delivered an overall profit before tax attributable to shareholders of 2,977 million 2005: 2,528 million.
Retirement In January, I announced my intention to retire in July this year.
Im proud to have had the opportunity to help create a leading company in the global insurance industry.
With almost ten years as group chief executive under my belt, there are other dimensions to my life and other things that I want to achieve in both international charity work and the business world.
Now is the right time for me to set out on those adventures while I have the energy and desire to make a difference.
I wish Andrew Moss and Philip Scott every success as they step into their new roles of group chief executive and group finance director, respectively.
Our people In September, we conducted our second global employee survey, and our first to cover all business units in the group.
The results of the survey are helping us to identify the differing needs of employees around the world, share examples of good practice and provide a fulfilling and supportive work environment.
We are a diverse organisation, something that I see as an important strength.
Diversity not only benefits individuals, it enriches our pool of talent, offers new ways of thinking and improves our understanding of customers.
Outlook We are continually working to get the right balance between risk, return and growth, and I think that this set of results shows that we are making excellent progress.
Managing risk against return is integral to everything that we do and will remain a consistent theme in 2007.
We continue to benefit from our diverse geography, distribution and product range and we actively use this balanced portfolio approach to manage away a significant proportion of risk.
In the stable and mature markets of the UK and continental Europe, I believe that access to distribution will be our key driver of growth.
We will seek to expand our bancassurance channel and significantly enhance our direct capability.
We see the capital generated by our general insurance and health businesses and our superior understanding of customer needs as key differentiators.
The rapidly developing markets in the Asia-Pacific region represent a substantial longer term area of growth for us.
We will be looking to accelerate our growth in India and China, while continuing to explore the potential of other markets.
Across the region, we will be working to expand distribution through bancassurance, independent financial advisers and the direct sales force.
In North America, the AmerUs acquisition provides us with a scalable platform for growth in what is the largest single market in the world.
Our focus is on successfully integrating AmerUs and achieving our projected costs savings.
I believe that we are in the right markets, at the right time.
We have produced an excellent set of results for 2006 and have put ourselves in a strong position to build on these results in 2007.
Richard Harvey Group chief executive Growth ambitions are annual averages after minority interests, before acquisitions, and assuming no major changes in economic conditions.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information
