Group Chief Executives review Delivering on our strategy Earn, invest and grow John Varley Group Chief Executive Barclays PLC start this review by thanking the 123,000 employees of the Barclays Group, whose dedication and creativity helped us achieve record results.
Our strategy of earn, invest and grow continued to deliver very strong growth in profits in 2006.
Our ambition is to become one of the handful of universal banks leading the global financial services I industry.
I believe that the universal banking model is helping us Our strategy of earn, invest and drive the higher growth for shareholders that I set out to achieve three grow continued to deliver strong years ago, by providing us with new options in products, services and markets.
In our business, strategy simply stated is anticipation followed by service: we anticipate the needs of customers and clients.
We then serve them, by helping them achieve their goals.
The needs of customers and clients are changing.
The drivers of change include: the privatisation of welfare: wealth generation and wealth transfer: explosive growth in demand for banking products in emerging markets: the securitisation of assets and cash flows: the use of derivatives in risk management: the significant growth in the use of credit cards for payment and borrowing: and the opportunity for capital markets and private equity to fund infrastructure development around the world.
To capitalise on these sources of growth, I have put a new structure in place by creating Global Retail and Commercial Banking GRCB under the leadership of Frits Seegers, who joined Barclays in July 2006.
GRCB brings together: UK Banking, International Retail and Commercial Banking and Barclaycard.
GRCB gives Barclays a single point of strategic direction and control to these businesses, thereby increasing our capability to drive growth and synergies globally and to enter new Performance versus goals markets.
We believe this will enable us to replicate success from one For the three years from 31st December 2003 to 31st December 2006, part of the world in another.
This GRCB structure mirrors the Barclays delivered a total shareholder return TSR of 66% and was organisation of Investment Banking and Investment Management positioned 6th within its peer group, which is second quartile.
under Bob Diamond, which also gives a single point of strategic The TSR of the FTSE 100 Index for this period was 54%.
For the year to direction and control to a group of global businesses which enjoy 31st December 2006, we delivered a TSR of 25% and were positioned substantial synergies.
The TSR for the FTSE 100 for the year was 14%.
My obligation as Group Chief Executive is to assemble the best team Economic profit for 2006 was 2.7bn, which, added to the 3.3bn I can.
We have added significantly to our management bench strength generated in 2004 and 2005, delivered a cumulative total of 6.0bn for in 2006, particularly in GRCB, and have concentrated on supplementing the goal period to date.
This equates to compound annual growth in our existing talent with deep specialist retail and commercial banking economic profit of 28% per annum over the period, which is well ahead and card experience across a range of international markets.
Barclays PLC 8 Annual Report 2006 Operating review 1 Group performance We commenced parallel running for Basel II at the end of 2006.
Whilst We made substantial progress on our strategic priorities and delivered there are still areas in which the regulators have not yet defined the record financial results.
Profit before tax increased 35% to 7,136m.
requirements for detailed implementation, we continue to anticipate Earnings per share rose 32% to 71.9p, and economic profit was up 54% a modest benefit to our capital ratios from Basel II.
Profit excluding business disposals of 323m increased continue to report our capital ratios under Basel I.
29% to 6,813m, and earnings per share increased 23% to 66.8p.
Executive management We increased the total dividend payout to 31p, a rise of 17%.
I want to acknowledge the significant contributions of two executive Income grew 25% to 21,595m, well ahead of expense growth of 20%.
directors who are leaving Barclays.
David Roberts, previously Chief The growth was broadly based by business and geography, reflecting Executive of International Retail and Commercial Banking, left Barclays momentum in each business.
All businesses made significant at the end of 2006 after 23 years of outstanding service.
Naguib Kheraj contributions, with especially strong performances from Barclays has been a generator of very significant value for the Group over the last Capital, UK Banking and Barclays Global Investors, and a substantial ten years in a number of different roles at Barclays, most recently as contribution to income from Absa in its first full year of ownership.
I thank David and Excluding Absa, Group income grew 18%, compared with expense Naguib warmly for their dedication to the success of Barclays and I wish growth of 13%.
The mix of income and profit continued to evolve.
Our new Group Finance Director, Chris Lucas Approximately half our profits came from outside the UK, up from joins us in April and brings a wealth of experience in financial services.
Outlook Operating expenses increased 20% to 12,674m.
The Group We enter 2007 with strong income momentum in Barclays, driven cost:income ratio improved two percentage points to 59%.
by high levels of customer activity and good risk control.
The global We continue to target top quartile productivity for all businesses, economic outlook continues to be positive and we are well positioned and in 2006 the ratio improved or remained flat in all businesses.
to capture further growth in the years ahead.
Operating expenses include gains on the sale of properties of 432m partly offset by accelerated incremental investment expenditure of approximately 280m.
Excluding Absa, impairment charges on loans and advances increased 26%.
The increase was mostly attributable to the challenging credit environment in UK John Varley unsecured retail lending, which was partly due to the continued rise in Group Chief Executive the level of personal insolvencies.
In the second half of 2006, as a result of a number of management actions, flows into delinquency decreased and arrears balances declined across the UK cards and unsecured loans portfolios.
We therefore believe that we passed the worst in Barclaycard UK impairment in the second half of 2006.
UK mortgage impairment charges remained negligible, and the wholesale and larger corporate sectors continued to be stable with a low level of defaults.
When I look at these results, I am pleased to see increased productivity in our use of capital, risk and costs.
Return on average shareholders funds improved four percentage points to 25%: profits grew much faster than Daily Value at Risk and risk weighted assets and the associated consumption of capital: and income growth exceeded cost growth by five percentage points.
Capital management Our strong credit rating and disciplined approach to capital management remain sources of competitive advantage.
Our capital management policies are designed to optimise the returns to shareholders whilst maintaining our credit rating.
The improved capital ratio was driven by the strong capital generation of our business portfolio, the impact of disposals, including our stake in FirstCaribbean International Bank, and the efficient management of the balance sheet through the use of the capital markets.
We have invested almost 2bn to support the capital required for our organic growth throughout the portfolio at a very attractive rate of return and we also increased the dividend to shareholders by 17%.
