08 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 Chief Executives statement Tim Ingram Building on our competitive advantage 2005 06 has again been a good year for amount of 70m.
In addition, we invested Caledonias shareholders, with NAV per a further 85m as follow-on funding in share increasing by 33.6% to 2061p per existing investments, making a total of share at 31 March 2006.
This is 9.6% more 155m of investment during the year.
than the increase in the FTSE All-Share index More detail on investments is included in over the same period.
The growth of NAV table 3 on page 18.
This includes a further per share compared to the FTSE All-Share 34.5m invested in India including the UK index over the years since we converted listed India Capital Growth Fund bringing to investment trust status is shown in the the total value of Indian investments to graph on page 9. around 48m at 31 March 2006.
We have again been actively and Investment activity constructively involved with all our investee The last year has seen strong increases companies, which we believe continues to generally in share prices across the globe.
It is our normal This has inevitably meant that it has become policy for a Caledonia investment executive an easier market in which to achieve to join the board of the investee company realisations and it has become more difficult as a non-executive director and considerable to find new investments at an entry price time is spent in working supportively which we believe presents sufficient value with management to achieve long-term creation potential for our own shareholders: shareholder value creation.
During the however, our distinctive style does still year, we have had a Caledonia executive mean that we are continuing to find some as a director on the board or appropriate new opportunities at acceptable prices, committee of 17 of our top 20 investments.
although recently this is tending more to Whether we have representation on the be in the unquoted segment.
board or not, efforts are made to influence During the course of our financial year constructively the operations and strategy our investment committee evaluated of each investee company.
around 125 potential new investment Although we are a long term investor, opportunities.
These were short listed down we believe there comes a time when it is to a more manageable number which were appropriate for us to disinvest or partially then intensely evaluated, and from which sell down from an investment.
In addition, we made eight new investments for a total there can be redemptions within funds in Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 09 Net asset value per share since investment trust conversion Net asset value per share p FTSE All-Share rebased 2100 1800 1500 1200 900 2003 2004 2005 2006 which we have invested, which also give Outlook rise to capital flows back to Caledonia.
It is, to say the least, very difficult to With conditions in the last year having been predict in advance when markets are to so favourable for realisations, full and partial reach their zenith in the cycle.
Recent events disinvestments totalled over 307m during suggest that this may now be happening.
the year, which was significantly up on the At Caledonia, we do not deliberately take previous years figure of 218m.
However, we are careful realisations are listed in table 4 on page 19. not to overpay for new investments and, As mentioned in the Chairmans notwithstanding the proposed elective statement, Kerzner International, the special dividend, our present expectations, resorts owner and operator in which we on the assumption that the bid for Kerzner have an 8% stake, is recommending to its International completes, are that we are shareholders acceptance of a bid at $81 per likely still to be holding liquidity on our share by a management-led investor group.
balance sheet at the end of the current If the offer is implemented, we will receive financial year.
$237m and have put in place forward By carefully selecting the right foreign exchange contracts to hedge this.
opportunities where there are strong As a result of the above activity, our net management teams, by continuing our liquid funds increased to 180m at 31 March active involvement in investee companies 2006, and we are proposing an optional and through disinvesting when appropriate, return of funds of approximately 128m by we seek to maintain our distinctive way of an elective special dividend.
Costs Keeping the overhead costs down is an important objective for us as every pound of costs is a pound reduction in our shareholders net assets.
Nonetheless, it is vital that we have sufficient resources to be Tim Ingram able to manage our portfolio effectively in Chief Executive a hands-on fashion while also attracting and evaluating a good deal flow of new opportunities.
We believe that being a self-managed investment trust company, with direct control over costs significantly helps this objective.
Our total overhead costs for the year were about 0.9% of our net assets, which compares favourably against a pre tax weighted investment trust industry average of 1.4%.
