4 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2006 CHAIRMANS AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT 2006 was an excellent year for Close Brothers with group profit before goodwill and taxation of 157 million 2005: 129 million, up 21%, and earnings per share before goodwill up 19% to 74.1p 2005: 62.0p.
There was no goodwill impairment this year 2005: 18 million.
In the light of these results, the board, which continues to pursue a progressive dividend policy, recommends an increased final dividend of 22.0p per share which, together with the interim dividend, makes a total dividend for the year of 32.5p per share 2005: 28.5p.
Sir David Scholey Colin Keogh Chairman Chief Executive Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2006 5 CHAIRMANS AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Our strategic priorities are to continue to build on the recent strong progress in asset management and to return the growth rate in our banking division to its long term trend.
These financial statements reflect for the To continue to achieve our goal of delivering On the private clients side we saw good first time the application of International long term profit and dividend growth to our growth in profit both on and off shore as we Financial Reporting Standards.
shareholders, we have continued to invest in continued to reap the benefits of the earlier Comparative figures have been new initiatives.
reorganisation of our business units.
The effect on our strengthened our new business opening balance sheet was not material.
Our asset management division is development capability and we bolstered Our profit now includes a charge for shareimplementing a major re-shaping and our team of private client fund managers.
based remuneration of 3 million re-branding exercise following some Over the coming year we will be bringing 2005: 2 million but no charge for significant recruitment.
The banking division together our private client businesses on goodwill amortisation.
has also recruited further specialist teams and off shore under one brand, Close and is developing new products to exploit Wealth Management Group.
This will create OVERVIEW the mortgages market.
a solid platform for further growth.
After four consecutive years of earnings growth we were delighted to achieve On the acquisition front, after an active Considerable progress was made in our the groups best ever profit.
Asset 2005, this year has been quieter, the only funds business this year.
We announced in management, corporate finance and transaction completed being the purchase April 2006 that we had acquired 70% of banking all exceeded previous records of a 70% holding in Fortune, a London Fortune.
This acquisition broadens our whilst the securities division produced its based fund of hedge funds business, from exposure to alternative asset and multihighest contribution since the dot com era.
Whilst a number of manager classes, an important strategic Operating income increased 20%, opportunities became available during the objective, as well as taking us into an area operating margin remained high at 29% and year, we maintain a disciplined approach to which we believe will be of increasing costs remained under firm control with the valuation and will only invest where we see interest and importance to both private and expense income ratio steady at 67%.
We were encouraged this institutional clients.
In the coming year we Overall pre-tax return before goodwill year by the successful integration of, and will be regrouping certain of our funds impairment on opening capital was 27% strong performances from, all of the deals activities together under the Close 2005: 24%.
completed in the previous year with Investments banner.
We expect this to exceptional results being achieved by our result in more productive and cost-effective In broad terms, market conditions were new broker dealer in Frankfurt.
favourable for our investment banking businesses but were more challenging for Our strategic priorities are to continue to build Our private equity business had a record banking although the credit quality of our on the recent strong progress in asset year and we expect continued strong loan book remained good.
management and to return the growth rate in performance in this area.
our banking division to its long term trend.
Our The divisional mix of our operating profit securities businesses have strong positions in We remain excited by the prospects for before central costs is shown in the table their respective markets and we see continuing this division.
demand for the independent advice offered by our corporate finance business.
Corporate Finance Corporate finance had an excellent year 04 05 06 % % % We constantly look for acquisition with profit up 67% to 17 million.
London, Asset Management 13 21 22 opportunities to strengthen our existing Frankfurt and Paris all delivered record Corporate Finance 7 7 9 market positions and to take the group into performances.
The major part of this Securities 28 24 27 new areas of growth.
growth came from mergers and Banking 52 48 42 acquisitions work where markets have 100 100 100 Asset Management been buoyant.
The other two areas of our Our asset management division had another business, debt advice and restructuring, good year with further profit growth and have also been busy with our market pleasing strategic progress.
Profit rose by position and expertise in the latter now 21% to 38 million and our funds under management by 16% to 8.2 billion.
6 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2006 CHAIRMANS AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT The planned and profitable run off of a OUTLOOK recognised as amongst the best in Europe.
We achieved a record profit in 2006 in a The division has also won a number of motor finance book acquired last year was year in which the economic climate was the principal cause of this small reduction in industry awards for successfully completed relatively benign and stock markets our loan book.
Good growth in a number of transactions.
areas, particularly property finance and invoice finance, helped to mitigate the Our opening pipeline is, once again, Looking forward, the general UK political effect of insurance premium deflation and healthy.
and economic outlook is becoming the contraction of our print finance somewhat opaque, with risks perhaps business.
Securities more on the downside interest rates, Our securities businesses did well with inflation and consumer debt than the We are not anticipating any immediate operating profit up 34% to 48 million.
improvement in our premium finance business where cyclical premium deflation Winterflood Securities, our UK marketAll our businesses have started the new continues, albeit at a reduced rate.
In the making business which sits at the heart of year in good shape and, regardless of the meantime, we can see attractive growth short term economic climate, our retail equity and bond trading in London, prospects in several of our other specialist confidence in our long term growth had a successful year in generally strong financing businesses and we have a number prospects remains strong.
Bargain numbers were up of interesting new initiatives under way.
significantly on last year although the profit per bargain decreased somewhat.
BOARD CHANGES As previously announced Sir David Nevertheless, operating margin held Scholey will be retiring from the board Sir David Scholey steady at 37% on increased income.
at the conclusion of our forthcoming Chairman Annual General Meeting.
After a thorough Close Brothers Seydler, our Frankfurt selection process assisted by external based broker dealer, had an outstanding consultants, Sir David will be succeeded first full year in the group, with pre-tax profit as chairman by Mr. Roderick Kent, who of 9 million.
This was an excellent return served as managing director of Close on our cost of 21 million.
Our business C. D. Keogh Brothers for 28 years until 2002 and as a has thrived as German investor interest has Chief Executive non-executive director since then.
recovered strongly on the back of rising equity markets and as the new issues Mr. Strone Macpherson, the senior market has returned to life.
SIR DAVID SCHOLEY independent director, will be appointed Sir David has been one of the Citys major deputy chairman following our forthcoming figures over several decades, and our Our new financial year has got off to a Annual General Meeting.
He has brought reasonable start, better in London than us breadth of experience and vision.
Mr. Bruce Carnegie-Brown was appointed Frankfurt, but trading levels are lower than Sir Davids steady hand has guided us a non-executive director of the company last year.
through the excitement of the heady equity on 22nd June, 2006.
We are pleased to markets in 1999 2000, the later bear welcome him to the board.
Banking market and the top management Banking profit was up 6% to 74 million on a succession in 2002.
We shall greatly miss Following these changes the board will loan book of 1.9 billion which was slightly the courtesy, charm and good humour that comprise five executive directors and down on last year.
Bad debts remained well he has displayed in this role.
He departs six independent non-executive directors, contained and provisions as a percentage of from our board safe in the knowledge that in addition to Mr. Kent as chairman.
the average loan book were 1.0%, an Close Brothers remains on solid historically low level.
Banking continues to foundations with a bright future.
We thank provide a high divisional operating margin, him for his consistently sound judgement which remained steady at 37%.
