Letter to Shareholders Overall retail sales performance demonstrates global strength of The Body Shop brand Results Summary We achieved positive growth in both total retail sales and comparable store sales in three of our four regions and in most of our markets.
Overall, total retail sales were up 7% to 772.0 million and comparable store sales grew by 4%.
Worldwide, a net 88 new stores were opened in the year, bringing the total to 2,133.
Sales through The Body Shop At Home were up 14%, whilst our e-commerce channel in the USA more than doubled sales.
In the Americas region, total retail sales growth of 4% was enhanced by positive growth in The Body Shop At Home and e-commerce.
Comparable store sales of -1% reect a decline of 2% in the USA, together with an improvement to 1% in Canada from -3% in the previous year.
As we reported in Adrian Bellamy, Executive Chairman, and The roll out of our new store format has January, retail sales in the Americas region Peter Saunders, Chief Executive officer left progressed during the year and we have underperformed expectations during the continued to grow The Body Shop At Home Christmas period.
This was driven in part and e-commerce channels in line with our by lower trafc levels in the shopping malls, The Body Shop is multi-channel strategy.
Our investment compounded by execution issues in our programme in SAP is now largely complete.
inventory supply chain that led to some outcelebrating 30 years of We have also expanded into new markets, of-stock positions.
A special task force was trading this year, having with store openings taking place in both put in place last autumn to resolve these Russia and Jordan during the year.
Good progress has now grown over that period Since the year end, a recommended cash been made and we expect the situation to into a substantial global offer has been made by LOral to acquire the be fully resolved over the next three months.
entire issued share capital of The Body Shop Asia Pacic continued to achieve strong branded retailer operating for 300 pence per share.
We believe that sales growth during the year, with total retail in 54 countries.
LOrals significant strengths in the sales up 11% and comparable store sales up Overview management and development of global 6%.
The benets of strong brand positioning Our overall retail sales performance brands, combined with our skills as a global and in-store execution were helped by demonstrates the global strength of retailer with strong values and commitments, generally improving economies in the region.
We continued to will be a powerful combination in the Countries achieving particularly strong achieve a robust sales performance in Asia cosmetics and personal care market place.
comparable store sales growth included Pacic and Europe, Middle East and Africa.
The Body Shop is celebrating 30 years Malaysia 17%, Indonesia 17%, As we reported in our Christmas Trading of trading this year, having grown over that Taiwan 11%, Singapore 9%, Japan Update, the US and UK regions did not period into a substantial global branded 7% and Hong Kong 6%.
Korea showed achieve the targeted rate of growth during the retailer operating in 54 countries.
Over the an improvement to 2% from -8% in the important Christmas period and this impacted last four years, operating profit and earnings previous year.
In Australia, comparable store the groups profit outcome for the year.
We per share have improved substantially sales were at but strong growth continued achieved a 6% increase in operating profit, and we continue to manage the business to be achieved in The Body Shop At Home.
in line with the forecast we made in January.
Europe, Middle East & Africa performed 02 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 03 Our new store design continues to be rolled out across our four regions.
More and more guests are enjoying The Body Shop At Home parties.
Our Christmas special edition Cranberry range proved very popular with customers.
well with both total retail sales and our ongoing capital investment programme continued to focus on product innovation, comparable store sales growing by 7%.
in new stores, store refurbishments and the roll out of our new store design and the Highlights included continuing strong information systems, with 32.0 million development of improved customer service comparable store sales growth in the Middle having been invested during the year.
programmes for our sales associates and East 11% and the Nordic region 12%.
This represented the second year of our The Body Shop At Home consultants.
In Western and Southern Europe, good 3-year 100 million investment programme Our strategy in product development is positive growth was achieved in France announced two years ago.
We ended the year to innovate across our various product ranges 11%, Spain 6%, Holland 6% and with net debt of 12.7 million.
and categories to encourage multiple Germany 3%, whilst the trend continued After a higher effective tax rate, earnings purchases and higher transaction values.
Our store base in per share were marginally lower than in the New product activity during the year included Eastern Europe, although small, is performing previous year at 13.6 pence, in line with a range of introductions including: well.
Stores were opened in two new our forecast.
Spa Wisdom, a range of luxurious home franchised markets in the region during the Following the recent recommended cash spa products containing six natural year: Jordan and Russia.
We now have six offer by LOral to acquire the entire issued ingredients sourced through our stores in major Russian cities, with another share capital of The Body Shop, the Board has Community Trade programme: 11 openings planned for the current year.
resolved to pay a second interim dividend of a Passion Fruit Bath and Body range: This market offers The Body Shop an exciting 4.4 pence per share in lieu of a final dividend.
strong seasonal trend make-up development opportunity as one of the worlds Together with the first interim dividend of 2.2 collections: fastest growing cosmetics markets.
pence, this makes a total of 6.6 pence, 16% three additional new lines in our heritage In the UK and Republic of Ireland, total higher than in the previous year.
Vitamin E skin care range: retail sales grew by 3%, with comparable four additions to the core home fragrance store sales up 2%.
The comparable store The roll out of our range with Mango, Coconut, Papaya sales performance reects growth of 3% in and Almond, together with four new new store format has the UK, with a decline of 1% in the Republic seasonal oils: of Ireland.
The growth in the UK was achieved progressed during the year an improved holiday gift programme for despite a challenging trading environment and we have continued Christmas, incorporating a selection of during the Christmas period.
The Body Shop seasonal bath and body products from to grow The Body Shop At Home performed well, with growth of our limited edition Vanilla Spice, 15% year on year.
At Home and e-commerce Cranberry and Candied Citrus ranges: Gross margins improved on the same a Strawberry Bath and Body range: channels in line with our period last year, although operating margins six additions to our Almond Bath and were somewhat lower, principally due to multi-channel strategy.
Body range: non-recurring costs of over 4 million.
a new Cassis Rose fragrance range.
These non-recurring items comprised Brand Position and Image reorganisation and other costs that have Over the last year, we have made further For the current year, we are excited about been incurred to improve performance and progress with our strategy to differentiate the strong pipeline of new products coming reduce future operating costs.
Operating The Body Shop by developing a masstige through, including a major new-look make-up profit rose 6% to 41.5 million, in line with positioning for the brand.
We seek to provide collection and a skin care range using the forecast we made in January.
customers with a shopping experience Aloe Vera sourced through our Community We achieved operating cash ow of 71.2 that combines excellent service with a Trade programme.
million, after a reduction of 8.5 million in comprehensive range of naturally-inspired Our Love Your Body loyalty programme working capital.
This includes a 12% reduction personal care products offering high continues to grow, with more than 2.1 million in inventory year on year, reecting performance benets and competitive pricing.
cards sold in 16 countries by the year end.
efficiencies gained from our investment In order to deliver this masstige The programme is proving highly successful in in information systems.
We are continuing experience for our customers, we have raising average transaction values in store and 02 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 03 Letter to Shareholders we are now starting to promote the use of the our customers homes through The Body Shop The Body Shop, with sales through franchised card through our e-commerce channel in the At Home and via the internet.
stores representing 54% of total retail sales.
The programme will be extended to a The Body Shop At Home continues to We value the contribution that our franchisees further 13 markets in the current year.
show positive growth in the three markets in bring to our global organisation through their which it currently operates: the USA, the UK significant market experience, energy and Store Development and Australia.
We believe this direct sales expertise.
Our new store design, developed to provide channel offers significant growth opportunities Over the past two years, as a small number customers with an improved shopping for The Body Shop in both existing and new of our franchisees have wanted to pursue experience, continues to be rolled out across markets.
Plans are progressing for the launch other interests or to retire, we have had the our four regions.
At the year end, there were of The Body Shop At Home in Germany opportunity to make strategic acquisitions 154 stores reecting the new design, of which during the current financial year.
Following the purchase approximately half were new and half were Our e-commerce site in the USA of the head franchise businesses in Hong refurbished stores.
com has outperformed Kong and Canada in the 2005 financial expectations since its launch in September year, we acquired the companies operating 2004, more than doubling sales and making The Body Shop in the Netherlands, Belgium We are continuing a contribution to profit in its first full year of and Luxembourg in March 2005. with our expansion of operation.
We are on target to launch an All three of these acquisitions have e-commerce site in the UK during the autumn, performed ahead of our expectations and The Body Shop brand into in time for the key Christmas trading period.
have enhanced earnings per share in the new markets, with stores first year of ownership.
We expect to gain Systems Development further benets from these acquisitions as having opened in Russia Our investment programme in information we continue to develop the brand in these and Jordan last year.
systems is designed to gain maximum markets and achieve the additional synergies efficiencies by leveraging one back ofce to be gained through integration with our A key element of the new store design is a system across our three sales channels.
new make-up merchandising xture, which is The most significant element of this now installed in almost all stores around the investment programme is the global Our Values Making a Difference world.
This new xture will support the launch implementation of SAP.
The implementation The Group donated 1.0 million to charitable of our new make-up collection, which is being is now largely complete, having been organisations last year, of which 0.7 million accompanied by an intensive staff successfully rolled out on budget and on time was donated to The Body Shop Foundation development programme.
to a number of our company-owned markets.
and the remaining 0.3 million to other We are continuing with our expansion of It is now in the process of being extended to organisations.
The Body Shop brand into new markets, with the remaining company-owned markets, We have continued to actively promote stores having opened in Russia and Jordan including the USA where an earlier version our values and to improve our social and last year.
We have also progressed with our of SAP has been in place for the last six years environmental performance over the past year.
plans to open in India, with the first store due and will be upgraded to the current version in This includes strengthening our in-store to open there this summer.
We have already started to realise customer communications, telling customers Pakistan and Poland are also planned for the productivity gains from our investment the stories behind our values with a particular current year.
programme in SAP and are confident of focus on our Community Trade programme.
achieving the targeted return on investment.
Global campaigns continue to raise Developing a Multi-Channel Organisation awareness and funds to support social issues Central to our strategy is the development of a Franchising and Acquisitions that are important to customers.
The Stop multi-channel organisation that allows us to Franchising continues to play an important Violence in the Home campaign has now service our customers in dedicated stores, in role in the growth and development of been launched in 40 countries and has raised 04 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 We have sold more than 2.1 million cards for our Love Your Body loyalty programme.
New-look Bronzing powder is now presented in a luxurious compact with a stunning embossed sun design.
Our Community Trade signs in-stores tell customers the stories behind our ingredients.
over 500,000 for domestic violence charities document, which was sent to shareholders sales up 8% and comparable store sales in the past year.
In the Americas, US on 12 April 2006. up 5%.
customers donated over 100,000 old mobile On 4 May 2006 LOral announced that, as Over the last four years, our operating phones to raise funds for the National at 1.00 pm on 3 May 2006, being the first profit and earnings per share have improved Coalition Against Domestic Violence NCADV.
closing date of the offer, valid acceptances substantially and we continue to manage In Canada, the campaign raised funds to had been received in respect of 79.4% of the business for sustainable long-term support the long-standing partnership with the existing issued ordinary share capital of performance.
We look forward to continuing the Canadian Womens Foundation.
Together with the 22.8 million to work together with our employees, Pacic, The Body Shop in Singapore launched shares in The Body Shop already held by franchisees and The Body Shop consultants the campaign with six high prole public LOral, LOral had therefore acquired or to full The Body Shops potential as a global buses carrying the Stop Violence in the received valid acceptances of the offer in retail brand.
Throughout Europe, a special respect of 89.9% of the existing issued share edition lip care stick became a best seller and capital at this time.
LOral also announced customers donated thousands of products and that the offer would remain open for gifts which The Body Shop staff distributed acceptance until 1.00 pm on 31 May 2006. to local womens shelters.
In the UK, customers donated over 60,000 mobile Over the last four years, phones, which have been transformed into personal safety alarms for vulnerable women Adrian Bellamy our operating profit and or recycled to raise funds for the pioneering Executive Chairman earnings per share have Fonesforsafety initiative.
improved substantially and Our UK stores have also supported the Make Poverty History campaign through the we continue to manage the sale of over 200,000 white wristbands, raising business for sustainable in excess of 100,000 for the campaign.
We have signicantly strengthened our long-term performance.
stakeholder engagement during the past year Peter Saunders in areas such as violence against children, Chief Executive officer chemicals in products, fair trade, ethical trade, We believe that LOrals significant 5 May 2006 sustainable ingredients and Against Animal strengths in the management and Testing.
We have also published an development of global brands, combined independently veried Values Report, which with our skills as a global retailer with strong contains clear targets for improvement in the values and commitments, will be a powerful areas identied as strategic priorities.
combination in the cosmetics and personal care market place.
It is intended that Recommended Cash Offer by LOral The Body Shop will retain its existing identity On 17 March 2006, the boards of and values and operate independently within The Body Shop and LOral reached the LOral group, led by the current agreement on the terms of a recommended management team.
cash offer by LOral to acquire the entire issued share capital of The Body Shop for Current Trading and Outlook 300 pence per share.
The offer values In the first eight weeks of the current year, The Body Shop at approximately 652 million.
sales trends are slightly ahead of those Further information is set out in the offer reported for the last full year, with total retail The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 05
