Chief executives review In our last two annual reviews, since I joined in September pharmacists, with 65% of all UK pharmacy graduates applying to join us, up from 45% 2003, Ive reported on the massive changes taking place in the previous year.
within every area of our business, and on the progress weve For me, though, even more significant than the made towards our goal of building a better Boots.
Im proud statistics was the significant part Boots played during the year in developing and expanding of what we have achieved over that period, and particularly the role of pharmacists in promoting the good health of the nation.
Over half of our 4,000 pharmacists have now undergone further training that enables them to take on Medicine Use Reviews, an important new frontline healthcare duty.
Because in 2005 06, we have started to deliver level, yet we were able to remove any impact on our promises.
on margins through better buying and the So far, probably the best example of how Our strategy, which we said was the only one successful relaunch of core Boots brands such an expanded pharmacy role can benefit our o possible to restore Boots fortunes, has begun as N 7.
And, more literally, we continued to customers and help to meet national healthcare to prove itself enabling us to achieve good build a better Boots by opening 24 new stores priorities has been provided by the successful results, in the context of a pretty gloomy High including our stunning new London showcase launch of the free Chlamydia testing programme, Street.
And the proposed merger we announced for the very best of Boots at Sedley Place in set up with the NHS, in 200 of our London during the year puts us on the threshold of an Oxford Street.
Two factors, Im convinced, account for I must also briefly mention our Change One Building a better performing Boots everything weve achieved over the past Thing campaign.
While other retailers were We said it would take some time to transform year: our highly focused strategy and our scrambling to clear Christmas stock, we were our business and in 2005 06 we can report extraordinary people.
And Id like to say helping millions of customers keep their New good progress, completing most of the major a bit about both.
Years resolutions, providing them with the programmes designed to put in place the expertise and encouragement needed to help essential infrastructure of an efficient modern Trusted health advisers to the nation them quit smoking, lose weight, and generally retailing operation.
We cant yet claim that Boots is the worlds get themselves into shape for 2006.
Id call that best Health and Beauty retailer.
But thats our the pure undiluted essence of Boots: using our From installing state-of-the-art tills in goal and were 100% clear that well only expertise to make a real contribution to the approximately 1,500 stores to rebuilding our achieve it by playing to our traditional health of our customers, at the same time entire IT and distribution systems, it would strengths.
as generating very healthy sales.
be hard to exaggerate the scale of this work.
Yet we not only succeeded in avoiding any Our drive to put the chemist back into Boots A big year for our Beauty business disruption to our business, we actually stepped continued to gather pace in 2005 06, as we At Boots we never forget that looking and up our performance right across the board.
opened 43 new pharmacies in our stores, and feeling good go hand in hand.
So, while a lot dispensed over 100 million items the first of our focus in 2005 06 was on reinforcing our Our like-for-like sales held firm compared to last time, to our knowledge, that this milestone has healthcare credentials, our Beauty business year, in market conditions that saw many other ever been passed by a retailer outside North continued to grow at an impressive rate.
major retailers suffering like-for-like declines.
We are also increasingly becoming Our prices achieved a far more competitive the first choice employer for newly qualified 4 Annual report 2006 AR6934 Boots Annual Report 2006 31 05 2006 Final sign off Richard with Mike and Gail, store managers at Mansfield and Burton-on-Trent.
We opened 10 new beauty halls: a fantastic environment in which to explore our enormous range of toiletries and cosmetics.
Our 4,000 beauty consultants helped millions of customers feel better about their appearance, and find the products best suited to their needs.
The relaunch o of N 7, of which the cosmetics range is already Britains biggest cosmetics brand by revenue, exceeded even our high expectations with sales up by 13% in the first year after relaunch.
o But it was probably the success of our N 7 skincare range that gave me the greatest pleasure.
I personally asked our people to make its successful relaunch a special priority.
They did, and after a phenomenal effort on their part, the range has seen a 29% year on year sales increase, which leads me neatly onto that second major reason for our excellent progress in 2005 06 Our dedicated and expert people When I used to work for another well known retailer, I naturally took a close interest in Boots as a major competitor.
Most of its strengths, at that time, I felt we could combat, but not the lady in the white coat.
Boots people male as well as female have a great deal to offer, in terms of product knowledge, helpfulness and sheer professional expertise.
I believe that what our people offer our customers goes beyond health and beauty: these days, were in the business of personal care.
And, to deliver that, our aim must be to create the conditions and provide the support our people need to give of their best, at all times.
Returning for a moment to our pharmacists the most expert of all our expert people our key effort over the last year has been to get them out from the backroom and into our stores, where they can spend more time advising our customers.
More efficient dispensaries and Annual report 2006 5 AR6934 Boots Annual Report 2006 31 05 2006 Final sign off Chief executives review 350 new accuracy checking technicians are Although there is no mandatory requirement to will be easy.
Merging two businesses, however 60 making this possible.
produce an OFR, we made a decision to do so.
well they complement each other, will present midnight pharmacies We see this as a firm commitment to a more some testing challenges.
to be open by the end Since the shop floor is where every retailer of 2006 open and accountable future which can only stands or falls, Ive talked mostly about our serve to reinforce the trust in which Boots But we wont take our eye off the ball.
As stores and the people who work in them.
youve read, weve made great progress over of course, they can only be as good as the the past year towards our goal of building a people behind the scenes from the scientists A merger that puts Boots on the brink better, more efficient Boots.
Now, with the who develop our own-brand products, through of a new era proceeds of our successful sale of BHI, were the IT specialists who ensure our stores have Looking ahead, as I started by saying, my in a position to consolidate our gains with 65% all the information they need, to everyone strong conviction is that Boots is on the brink major investments now underway in further of all UK pharmacy involved in running our increasingly efficient graduates applied of an exciting new era.
Of course, news of our training for our people, and much needed to join Boots supply chain.
And without exception, they all proposed merger with Alliance UniChem took improvements for 700 of our smaller stores played a big part in our improved performance many people by surprise.
But the executive and opticians practices.
And my promise to last year.
team is quite certain that it represents Boots shareholders this year is that we wont let best opportunity for growth both at home and, anything distract us from continuing to pursue Good corporate citizens: from CSR to OFR especially, in global markets.
the strategy which, I believe in time, will make In July 2005, we produced our first full Boots the worlds best health and beauty retailer.
Alliance UniChem is a very strong partner 70m to be spent on improving for Boots.
Crucially, their key strengths Finally, the traditional and, in this case, heartour smaller stores Our recent track record in this field is second their wholesaling skills and, especially, their felt words of thanks.
Its been a really good to none in our sector, but CSR goes back to the international reach complement those of Boots year for Boots, and each one of our 63,000 earliest days of our business.
So what was new our experience of UK High Street retailing and people can take a share of the credit.
last year was not our very wide range of CSR our expertise in brand development.
And by Thank you all very much.
activities, but our recognition that we needed to bringing these valuable assets together, we organise, monitor and report on them in a more will create a major international pharmacy-led systematic manner.
And by doing so, Im pleased health and beauty group capable of benefiting 79% to say, we succeeded in winning important proportion of Christmas from anticipated growth in the health and beauty gift sales that recognition for our many achievements in this beauty market sector.
were Boots own-brand area most notably, for the second year running or exclusive products the UKs highest ranked retailer in Business in Immediately, on the day the proposed merger The Community Social Responsibility Index.
completes, Boots share of the UK dispensing Richard Baker market will rise, taking us back to a clear Chief Executive The document you are now reading represents number one, as we were in the time of Jesse the next important step towards greater Boot.
And from there, we will be in pole position openness in reporting on our business.
The to continue strengthening our role as providers Operating and Financial Review OFR was of expert healthcare to the nation, and building conceived by the UK government as a means our brand overseas.
of providing shareholders of listed companies with greater disclosure than a conventional Challenges and opportunities ahead annual report presenting a more In the spirit of openness and transparency to comprehensive and balanced analysis of which Ive referred, I wont pretend that this business performance.
6 Annual report 2006 AR6934 Boots Annual Report 2006 31 05 2006 Final sign off
