Dear Shareholder BPs purpose is a progressive one.
That Group chief means we aim to generate returns for our investors by providing the energy for basic human needs such as light, heat and mobility and to do so in a safe, sustainable and environmentally responsible way.
Our financial results were executives very strong in 2006.
However, we fell short of our expectations in certain areas, notably with two oil spills in Alaska and the inability to start up the Thunder Horse platform as soon as review we had hoped.
We are headed in the right strategic direction and we should not allow recent setbacks to obscure that.
We have been urgently addressing operational issues and matters related to our safety performance.
And I believe that, from the lessons we have learned, the fresh investment and priorities we are putting in place and the determined reafrmation of our core values, BP will emerge a stronger company.
Our staff across the world have responded to the tough challenges of the year in an exemplary fashion.
I am immensely proud of their resilience and would like to thank them.
They are as determined as my successor, Tony Hayward, and I are to restore BPs performance and reputation.
The trading environment has been extremely volatile.
The oil price hit a high of $78 per barrel in August before falling back to end the year at about $59 per barrel.
The Henry Hub price for gas fell signicantly during the year to close at around $5.50 per million British thermal units.
Rening margins widened over the summer before narrowing towards normal levels in the winter.
These movements are characteristic of an industry that is not only cyclical but also affected by trends such as rising concerns about energy security and climate change.
Safety Before addressing our financial performance, let me City to be processing about 400,000 barrels per day of crude talk about the things that did not go so well, for these have oil by the end of 2007. absorbed much of my and the teams attention.
Safety has We are also implementing lessons from the two oil spills always been one of our core priorities.
Scrutiny of the group and the cases of corrosion that occurred at Prudhoe Bay in has inevitably been dominated by the investigations into the 2006.
When corrosion was found in August, we rapidly shut March 2005 explosion at the Texas City renery, in which 15 down production as a precaution.
Nearly 27,000 individual of our co-workers tragically lost their lives, and into the pipeline radiographic or ultrasonic inspections of the pipeline system corrosion at Prudhoe Bay in Alaska.
have since been carried out and output was restored to its It is an unavoidable fact that we operate in a hazardous full level in late 2006.
We are replacing 16 miles of transit industry.
But accidents of any kind cause people to question lines, increasing spending on major maintenance and retaining a team of independent corrosion experts as advisers.
the values that underpin our company.
They also cast a shadow over our many successes and the fact that, around the world, We took similar precautionary action to replace subsea hundreds of thousands of employees and contractors work components for the Thunder Horse platform in the Gulf safely for BP, with dedication and integrity.
The components had passed industry tests and BP aspires to be an industry leader in the three dimensions met regulatory requirements but a metallurgical failure was of safety personal safety, process safety and the revealed when our engineers tested compliance with BPs environment.
We have had a strong track record in the dayown, more stringent, standards.
We are now replacing the to-day personal safety of our people.
In 2006, our recordable equipment in question and expect Thunder Horse to start injury frequency rate, the standard industry measure, fell to production by the end of 2008.
0.47 per 200,000 hours worked, the lowest in our history.
There were also seven fatalities.
Every death is a tragedy, but Integrity We are also taking action to ensure that people we should recognize that this number has reduced signicantly, across BP behave with consistent integrity.
During the year, to the lowest level in nearly 20 years of reporting.
I am there were allegations of market manipulation in our US trading particularly pleased with the large drop in driving-related operations.
We have responded to these serious allegations fatalities, from 14 in 2003 to two in 2006, following the by making internal improvements and instituting a thorough implementation of our new driving safety standard.
On internal review by independent auditors.
the environment, we continue to make progress in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and the environmental impact Performance In terms of financial performance, the year of our products.
was a record one, with replacement cost profit rising 15% to $22.3 billion, representing a return on average capital Our response to the Baker report In January, former US employed of 22%.
Thanks to our share buyback programme, Secretary of State James A Baker, III and his panel published earnings per share rose faster than profits, by 22%, to a candid and thorough report into process safety management 111.1 cents per share.
The panel was established by BP on Our role as a leading international oil company is to build the recommendation of the US Chemical Safety and Hazard strong and sustainable supply chains between producing Investigation Board in the wake of the Texas City tragedy and countries and markets around the world.
In emerging economies was intended to provide lessons not just for us but for the such as Algeria, Angola, Azerbaijan, Egypt, Indonesia and entire industry.
Trinidad & Tobago, our investments help to increase the ow BP will implement the Baker panels recommendations and of supplies to world markets as well as strengthening local we are now consulting with the panel on how best to do that.
economies and contributing to economic development.
Many of the recommendations are consistent with our own Our joint venture in Russia, TNK-BP, brings together BPs internal reviews and our aim now is to develop a timely and experience with local assets, capabilities and resources to intelligent plan of action in order to transform BP into an help increase production.
Our experience in working in the industry leader in process safety management.
Russian Federation is to act with caution, respect and genuine Importantly, the panel did not conclude that BP intentionally reciprocity.
The agreement we concluded with Gazprom withheld resources on any safety-related assets or projects during the year to provide liqueed natural gas LNG cargoes for budgetary or cost reasons.
The panel interviewed hundreds indicates the scope for co-operation to build new supply of employees in the course of its work and observed that it chains in the international marketplace.
We also deepened had seen no information to suggest that anyone from BPs our strategic relationship with Rosneft, Russias second largest board members to its hourly-paid workers acted in anything oil company, investing $1 billion in a stake at its initial public other than good faith.
That investment has risen by about 25% in Our response to the Baker report comes alongside what value.
We are also exploring the Sakhalin IV and V licence areas we were already doing to embed consistently high standards in a joint venture with Rosneft and have signed a protocol with of safety and operational integrity throughout BP.
This includes them to carry out joint studies in the basins of the Russian an ambitious four-year programme of investment in safety arctic region.
and operational integrity right across the group and the In 2006, capital investment in our exploration and production creation of an advisory board of external experts to assist segment totalled $12.1 billion, excluding our investment in and advise BP America Inc. in monitoring the operations of Rosneft.
We added 1.4 billion barrels of oil and 1.3 trillion cubic the US businesses, with particular focus on compliance, safety feet of natural gas to our booked reserves for subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities.
We have decided to move solely to and regulatory affairs.
At Texas City itself, a new leadership team has introduced world-class training programmes, the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC basis of increased the number of safety inspectors, renovated major reserves reporting to simplify disclosures and allow for easier units and relocated hundreds of employees.
We expect Texas comparison with competitors.
Our reserves replacement ratio, BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 7 using reserves calculated in accordance with SEC guidance, The future This is my last letter to shareholders as I am was 113% on a combined basis of subsidiaries and equitysoon to retire as group chief executive.
I have devoted my accounted entities, excluding acquisitions and disposals working life to BP and I would like to thank shareholders, an excellent result.
the board and our employees for their support over the We produced more than 3.9 million barrels of oil equivalent past 12 years.
per day and continued to build our presence as a producer and I believe that, although our journey has not always been supplier of natural gas.
The production level was affected by smooth, the fundamentals of the company its assets, its strategic divestments but, excluding the historic impact of strategy and its people are very sound.
BP has certainly these, our production continues to grow.
Since the year-end, changed dramatically since 1995.
By most measures it has we have signed a significant gas production-sharing agreement doubled or tripled in size and has grown from being a regional with the Sultanate of Oman.
In rening and marketing, we player, based principally around the North Sea and Alaska, continued to develop strong positions in areas of fast-growing to a truly international company.
We now produce more demand, supplying millions of customers every day.
Our lowthan 100,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day from eight carbon power business, BP Alternative Energy, made a strong different countries, up from three countries in 1995.
And start, with significant additions in wind and solar capacity.
long-term investors should gain comfort from our creditable Specic highlights of the year included the start of production reserves position.
in the East and West Azeri oil elds in the Caspian Sea and BP is widely recognized as a pioneer in the oil and gas the start of operations for the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline, industry for both reducing greenhouse gas emissions and which links the Caspian Sea to the Mediterranean.
There investing substantially in alternative and renewable energy were discoveries in Angola and the Gulf of Mexico.
Shareholders have benefited too and, from our first gas produced from the Cannonball platform in Trinidad mid-1995 until the end of 2006, total returns were 278% & Tobago and from In Amenas in Algeria.
With our partners, in dollars and 203% in sterling.
we commissioned a new LNG regasication terminal in China.
Our financial framework is robust.
We aim to invest in our We announced a major investment at our Whiting renery operations: to pursue a progressive dividend policy: to maintain in the US to process Canadian heavy crude, providing a new our gearing within a range of 20-30%: and to return any surplus source of supply for the North American market.
cash to shareholders, circumstances permitting.
During the 2006 was also a year when environmental issues, chiey year, we bought back 1.3 billion of our shares, of which climate change, remained at the top of the public agenda.
358 million were for cancellation, with the remainder being BP Alternative Energy, launched in 2005, is a rapidly growing held in treasury.
We also paid total dividends of 38.40 cents, business devoted to providing low-carbon power from solar, or 21.104 pence, a share, an increase of 10% on 2005. wind, hydrogen and natural gas sources.
The business BPs strategic priorities are enduring: to build production developed strongly in 2006, doubling its solar manufacturing in some of the worlds largest oil and gas elds: to focus capacity since 2004, acquiring wind power interests with a on advantaged reneries and retail markets: to capture worldpotential total generating capacity of some 15,000 megawatts scale gas market positions: and to participate in fast-growing and increasing gas-red capacity.
It also further developed its markets for gas and low-carbon power.
ground-breaking plans for hydrogen power stations fed by We are emerging from 2006 with our basic values tested, fossil fuel feedstocks from which carbon dioxide is extracted but reafrmed.
My successor as group chief executive, and stored underground, minimizing the environmental impact.
Tony Hayward, is a wonderful choice and I wish him and In the transport sector, we took new steps towards providing the company every good fortune.
more sustainable energy by announcing the forthcoming establishment of a university-based Energy Biosciences Institute, seeking to mirror in energy the benets that biological sciences have brought to medicine.
We also set up a dedicated biofuels business and entered into a partnership with DuPont to produce a new generation of biofuels.
Our guiding principle remains that of mutual advantage creating benets for others as well as for ourselves.
I hope The Lord Browne of Madingley this year has shown that, when we fail in that respect, we Group Chief Executive will work relentlessly and transparently to solve the problems.
23 February 2007 8 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006
