qxp 28 3 07 22:01 Page 6 ANNUAL REVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW ABOUT THE FRIENDS PROVIDENT GROUP UK LIFE & PENSIONS Group Chief Executives Review Let me start my first review as Group Chief Executive by saying how immensely privileged I feel to be given the opportunity to lead this great Company, succeeding Keith Satchell who has been an outstanding chief executive over the past ten years.
Under his leadership, the Friends Provident Group has been transformed into one of the acknowledged leaders in our industry, significantly larger than when he took office, and now with much greater potential for further profitable growth.
The Group has continued its strong advance through 2006 and these are some of the most notable highlights: UK Life & Pensions New business profits up by more than two-thirds as a result of record sales Cementing our position as one of the top providers of pensions Being selected by the John Lewis Partnership to offer life assurance to their customers the first such retail distribution agreement for us Being voted Life Insurer of the Year at the annual British Insurance Awards and retaining our 5 Star service rating for the third consecutive year International Life & Pensions Achieving record sales and significantly increasing the associated profit Opening new branch offices in Singapore and Switzerland, extending our international reach Successfully entering the pensions market in Germany Deepening penetration of existing markets and enhancing diversification of earnings by territory Asset Management Restructuring the way the business is managed and strengthening the investment teams Developing new products to build our position in higher margin areas Identifying new distribution and growth opportunities Making real progress in embedding a performance driven culture It is evident from these achievements, and from our financial results generally, that the Friends Provident Group has been successfully building momentum ever since our stock market flotation in 2001, accelerating year on year.
It led us to announce in 2006 that we aim to grow the value of UK new business at a very challenging rate: also to express our confidence in the continued growth of our International operation and in the successful turn-round of the asset management company, F&C.
This general gathering of pace has characterised 2006 and I am confident that 2007 will see this trend of success continue.
Philip Moore, Group Chief Executive 6 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 17447 Newfrontend Txt.
qxp 28 3 07 22:01 Page 7 INTERNATIONAL LIFE & PENSIONS ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CONCLUSIONS AND OUTLOOK Philip Moore succeeded Keith Satchell as the Friends Provident Group Chief Executive at the beginning of 2007.
Here he gives his views... on strategy... on service Expect no significant change.
The strategy we I see service as the end result of everything else have followed over recent years has proved to be we do.
It is what distinguishes us from others.
It has brought us much success and cannot be done well without investing in many will continue to do so.
Although new to the top things, but at heart, quality of service is a reflection job, I have worked closely with Keith, the Board of the quality of the people who deliver it, and our and my other management colleagues over the people are very good.
last three years in developing the general direction Many rely on us.
We must never lose sight of the of the Group and I have every confidence in it.
power of the human touch.... on customers... on style We have to ensure that the interests and Everyone is different and thats a good thing.
My expectations of our customers remain at the heart job is partly to ensure Friends Provident is a place of everything we do.
We work in an industry that where everyone can realise their full potential for is often perceived negatively.
We must play our the good of all.
We want our people to believe in part in reversing this perception, because our themselves and in the decisions they make, and industry actually does so much good in helping even take calculated risks which they feel are people manage their finances, often at very appropriate to help us achieve our aim, which is to difficult times in their lives.
set new standards in our industry.... on culture... on outlook Friends Provident has a very distinctive culture that I recognise that I am taking over at a very exciting benefits our customers and ourselves.
It has been time in the development of the Friends Provident created and is sustained by the people who work Group.
We have three good businesses, albeit for us and the talent, innovation and high values that each is at a different stage in its development.
We have a superb team and But each has real potential, and the marketplaces our good reputation is in safe hands.
It is a team in which we operate, although still fiercely that is really making a difference and I am grateful competitive, are now more positive than they have to them all.
I confidently expect the Group to go on growing and to do so profitably.... on values Whether at business or individual level, there is a right and a wrong way to behave, and it matters.
We operate to a set of values that not only reflects Friends Providents unique heritage but also gives us a real competitive advantage today.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 7
