BUSINESS AND STRATEGIC REVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES INDUSTRY OVERVIEW 04 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2006 Operating and financial review CHIEF EXECUTIVES INDUSTRY OVERVIEW Whether new challenges come from our own evolving standards or from regulatory restrictions, we can grow if our positioning and strategy are right.
Paul Adams, Chief Executive We have reported another good set of numbers for 2006 fourth dimension, namely, harm reduction, for the but what is the state of the tobacco industry and how is millions of adults globally who will continue to be British American Tobacco expecting to fare in the future?
Before looking forward, it is worth examining our recent Current and future market past.
Over the last five years we have grown volume, Currently smokers consume over five trillion cigarettes with our four GDBs leading the way, up 57 per cent a year globally.
against a backdrop of quickening regulatory changes, China, the worlds largest cigarette market, makes up excise increases and declines in the incidence of smoking.
35 per cent of global volumes.
Outside China, over half Not all the changes have been external, some are the global market is held by the six biggest international self-imposed.
Five years ago we pioneered the industrys manufacturers which, in 2006, were: Philip Morris, with first voluntary code, a set of restrictions on our marketing a global market share of 18.7 per cent, British American activity worldwide.
The conclusion Ive drawn is that Tobacco including associates total volumes with it is still possible for us to succeed in an ever tougher 17.1 per cent, Japan Tobacco with 7.7 per cent, Imperial environment.
Whether new challenges come from our Tobacco with 3.5 per cent, Gallaher with 3.1 per cent own evolving standards or from regulatory restrictions, and Altadis with 2.1 per cent.
we can grow if our positioning and strategy are right.
Regulation of the industry and its products has We have a strong and complete portfolio of brands at increased in recent years, including graphic health different price points.
As well as our GDBs, it includes an warnings on packs, advertising and promotion restrictions unrivalled range of regional and local brands which play and, more recently, restrictions on public place smoking.
a vital role in our success in many markets.
We have a full Future regulation will largely be framed by the World range of tobacco products and we have a track record Health Organisations Framework Convention on Tobacco of innovation that our competitors struggle to match.
Control, which entered into force in 2005.
Increases In addition to the opportunities for top line growth, there in excise rates in many of the higher-price markets are are very significant opportunities to make cost savings leading consumers to switch to cheaper brands and this through our productivity initiatives.
As you can read on trend is expected to continue.
However, in emerging page 14, we are ahead of schedule and the more work markets, consumers are increasingly trading up, so we do in this area the more we identify further savings.
We also believe that we have the right responsibility Over the next decade, we expect the average daily strategy for both the short and the long term and we consumption of cigarettes to fall in many of the worlds position responsibility as a key part of our overall business largest markets.
We also expect a declining incidence strategy.
Consequently, we have invested signicantly of smoking generally, leading to smaller percentages more in R&D, particularly around harm reduction.
of populations being smokers, particularly in currently high margin markets such as Canada, Germany and We agree that risky products such as tobacco should be Japan.
However, the number of adults over the age regulated.
Currently, tobacco regulation broadly focuses of 20 in the world is forecast to grow 11 per cent by on three areas: preventing people from starting to smoke, 2015.
As a result, although the proportion of adults encouraging quitting and protecting people around smokers.
smoking will probably decline, global volumes are However, we strongly believe that these prevention, expected to be broadly unchanged at some five trillion cessation and protection efforts are missing an important in 2015.
This future market represents a volume and BUSINESS AND STRATEGIC REVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES INDUSTRY OVERVIEW Annual Review 2006 British American Tobacco 05 Operating and financial review profit pool where, for those who are best positioned, The following section contains: there will still be a great deal to play for.
06 Our strategy Unfortunately, the market has also attracted illicit Growth manufacturers and distributors of tobacco.
We estimate Productivity that some 6 per cent of tobacco consumption, about Responsibility 300 billion cigarettes a year, is supplied by smuggled Winning organisation or counterfeit trade.
How Our key performance indicators much of the industry will become illicit in the future?
10 Our strategy in action We continue to work proactively with governments 10 Growth and customs authorities to try to stem this rising tide.
Our approach to marketing While volumes are forecast to decline in some Strategy markets, mainly the current higher margin markets, GDB strategy is working they are set to grow in others, mainly in lower margin Other international brands markets.
Nevertheless, global industry profits are also Relationships with customers set to increase over the next decade.
British American GDB performance Tobaccos broad geographic base means that we are well 14 Productivity represented in many of the lower margin markets where Supply chain savings volume and profitability are expected to grow, and that Overheads and indirects we are not so reliant on high margin markets, where volumes are declining faster than the global average.
14 Responsibility Dow Jones Sustainability So, despite a changing business environment, we are Indexes confident that the tobacco industry has a secure future Climate change and that British American Tobacco has the strategy and Harm reduction products to prosper in it.
18 Winning organisation The evidence of the past decade bears this out.
Although Employees the total global volume of cigarettes has been broadly Employee opinion static over that time, our global market share has grown signicantly as a result of both acquisitions and organic growth, and our operating profit has increased by over GROUP NUMBERS 2006 60 per cent.
Gross turnover Conclusion 25,189 million The tobacco industry is mature and all players, including Revenue after deducting duty, excise us, face some big challenges, but we still have lots of and other taxes room for growth.
British American Tobaccos strong brand 9,762 million portfolio and record of innovation, our trade marketing expertise, our cost savings potential, the global diversity profit from operations of our earnings base, our presence in emerging markets 2,622 million and the future size of those markets: these are all reasons Net capital expenditure for us to believe that our business can continue to grow.
419 million Research & Development expenditure 76 million Charitable and community donations 17.6 million Employees 55,145 Global cigarette volumes 689 billion
