Group Chief Executive Officers Review ensure ongoing growth of our voice business.
We believe strongly that our voice broking activities have material room for further expansion.
We have had a consistent strategy for several years which can be summarised as: providing customers with more efficient electronic trade execution, reduced integration costs, improved post-trade feeds and liquidity across a wide product range: maintaining close long-term relationships with our customers: developing the business through the combination of people and technology: extending product and service innovation: and Michael Spencer growing our voice and electronic businesses, both organically and by selective acquisition.
ICAP operates as a global business in markets that are truly global.
Our vision is to create A key component of the execution of our strategy is the milestone the global exchange for OTC financial products agreement we reached in April 2006 and to build a global brand in wholesale to acquire EBS for US$517 million and 36.1 million new ICAP shares.
We believe that we can This company enjoys a leading best provide the service our customers need global position in electronic spot foreign exchange with a very broad by combining the strengths of our people customer base, excellent technology and average transaction volumes of together with technology and that by doing over US$145 billion per day.
so we set the standard for our industry.
In addition, we will benefit from EBSs well qualified and ICAPs strategic goals remain experienced management and staff.
constant and very clear: to be the The acquisition of EBS is expected leading global intermediary in the to be completed by 5 June 2006. wholesale OTC markets by a clear margin with at least a 35% share of This acquisition will more than double overall market revenue and with 50% ICAPs annual electronic broking of our profit derived from electronic revenue to more than US$375 million broking.
As the more commoditised per year and will raise ICAPs products migrate to electronic broking estimated overall commission market we aim to develop the leading global share from 28% to approximately franchise in structured and exotic 32%.
The proportion of Group profits products, energy, credit, equity from electronic broking is estimated derivatives and less liquid markets to to rise to 33%.
8 ICAP plc Annual Report 2006 EBS 2005 revenue by category EBS 2005 revenue by product EBS 2005 revenue by region Transaction 74% Core spot 72% Europe 47% Access 14% Market data 11% Americas 28% Market data 11% Ai 9% Asia 25% Other 1% Prime 8% We plan to combine EBSs strengths combined group will be managed Description of EBS business in electronic spot foreign exchange on an integrated basis and report to Origins with ICAPs other electronic broking Jay Spencer, ICAPs Global Chief Formed in September 1993 as a businesses and create a global Information Officer.
A dedicated partnership of the leading FX multi-product platform with further project management office will market-making institutions major growth potential and significant oversee the process of integration, Novel introduction of pre-screened economies of scale through combining reporting to Steve McDermott, credit and globally distributed and leveraging technology networks Executive Director, ICAP plc.
The combined global network will cover more than 1,500 ICAP operates as a global business Global market leader customer installations in 45 countries in markets that are truly global.
More than 2,000 traders on 800 plus a further 470 users that have Our vision is to create the global dealing floors across the globe secure internet access.
exchange for OTC financial Average of US$145 billion in spot products and to build a global brand FX per day, peak US$235 billion In parallel with the continuing in wholesale financial services.
The market leader for currency development of our voice broking We believe that we can best provide pairs making up 60% of global business and the development of the service our customers need by volumes new markets, this acquisition takes combining the strengths of our Average of 700,000oz in gold and us further towards our goal of offering people together with technology 7,000,000oz in silver per day comprehensive electronic execution and that by doing so we set the Robust scaleable platform and post-trade services for liquid, standard for our industry.
It moves 34% of capacity ICAP a step closer to offering full Looking ahead, in the short term we Peak quotes per day: multi-asset electronic trading with have to complete the integration of 32% of capacity liquidity in foreign exchange, cash EBS, to extend further our electronic Peak deals per day: bonds and repo, as well as derivatives broking business into an increasing 76% of capacity in many currencies.
In future we want number of markets with highly liquid, Availability: 99.999% to provide the ability to cross trade commoditised products and to extend spreads and products and take our voice broking business into more market efficiency to a new level.
Activity in our We hope to make it possible soon markets is driven by the volatility to trade in a 10-year government generated from a broad range of bond in a local currency and then, influences, over which we have no through a chain of other linked control.
We aim to achieve secular deals, produce a hedged transaction growth from increasing market share in an interest rate derivative in a and expanding product coverage.
Our operating profit margin growth depends on our cost control and our As a part of the integration of EBS ability to extract the scale economies we are reorganising our reporting that make these businesses so structure so that ICAPs electronic sustainable.
I am pleased to say the broking operations will be integrated firm has never been in such good in a single, new, global electronic shape and with so many opportunities.
This division will be run by Jack Jeffery, CEO of EBS and David Rutter, CEO of ICAP Electronic Broking North America, will be deputy CEO.
Michael Spencer All technology resources of the Group Chief Executive Officer Annual Report 2006 ICAP plc 9 IN 10 ICAP plc Annual Report 2006 TUITIVE Annual Report 2006 ICAP plc 11
