indd Proof: 09 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 18 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 06 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 We are well on the way to realising Chief Executives review our objectives of world class nuclear Bill Coley operations, improving financial stability and obtaining life extensions for our stations.
With higher cash flows this year, we took the opportunity to increase investment in plant and accelerate the work required to improve operational performance of our power stations.
BE forward looking our focus is on continuing investment in our power stations to improve materiel condition and reliability.
300 a net increase of 300 350,000 in staff numbers over the last two years.
our workforce and the 283m Company raised 350,000 invested during the for the princes trust.
year, an increase of 121m over investment in plant the year before.
40.9m 2,600 we now have over tonnes 54% 2,600 industrial and last year our nuclear over the last two years commercial supply power stations avoided our lost time accident rate customers.
the emission of over has improved by 54%.
40.9m tonnes of Co. 2 British EnErgy group plc 07 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 Four years ago Drew pearson to the hnC i already have.
Apprenticeship was balancing working on a farm i may also go for a degree.
responding British Energy takes to an advert in his local paper, At 21, he has increasing the business of he secured an apprenticeship in responsibility including, developing new mechanical engineering and on occasions, managing talent seriously.
joined our turbine support other team members.
comments: the working our opportunities atmosphere here is superb.
for apprentices and he says: to be given its always totally professional, graduates attract this chance was pretty but also fun and with a overwhelming at first, but the fantastic sense of teamwork.
applications from training ive received has been all over the country.
it has given Drew was our trainee of the me an nvQ and im now year 2005 06, recognising thinking about an hnD to add his willingness to learn and DrEW pEArson rECEiving his help others.
trAinEE oF thE yEAr AWArD We aim to continue to develop our trading operations to reduce risk and collateral volatility.
the Company has made substantial progress in our trading operations, we not only captured over the year, although output was below our increased margins from higher power prices, original plan.
With the restructuring behind us, but have also been successful in extending our profitability and cash flow have shown the average duration of the fixed price portion significant improvements as we have been able of the trading book.
realised power prices to capture the benefit of higher market prices.
increased by 57% to 32.0 MWh contributing to an operating margin of 9.2 MWh.
As at our focus has not changed.
We will continue 11 June 2006 we had fixed price contracts to focus on: in place for around 73% of the planned output for the year ending 31 March 2007 at an achieving world class nuclear operations: average contract price of approximately improving financial stability: and 43 MWh.
this price excludes the impact of pursuing life extensions for our stations.
capped price arrangements of approximately 5 tWh at around 30 MWh.
safety is, and will remain, our fundamental priority.
the wholesale market for electricity continues to be volatile, which is likely to continue due this year our team made significant progress to uncertainty over gas supply, environmental in staffing and processes to support and legislation and increasing concerns over deliver improved operational performance.
lengthening total unplanned losses for the year were the average duration of the fixed price portion down by 27%, with smaller losses of less of the trading book serves to reduce earnings than 1 tWh down by 39%.
substantial progress to reduce was 60.4 tWh for the year, compared to collateral calls has also been made through 59.8 tWh for the corresponding period last zero and capped collateral trades.
We have seen improvements in many 11 June 2006, we had 35.9 tWh of zero areas of operational performance, leading capped collateral trades for up to five years to an improvement in lost nuclear output to and have extended the weighted average 12.9 tWh compared to 17.7 tWh in the end point of our structured contract portfolio corresponding period last year.
this was largely to over 16 months from around 10 months offset by additional planned work in respect as at 31 March 2005. these successes are of additional and extended statutory outages important to improving the financial stability accounting for some 4.2 tWh of lost output.
We aim to continue to in september 2005 we were very pleased develop our trading operations to reduce to announce a 10-year life extension for risk and collateral volatility.
We will continue Dungeness B power station to 2018. our efforts toward world class standards for 19 05 06 22 04 05 03 04 41 02 03 38 01 02 57 Number Job: 7005 BE AR06 Front.
indd Proof: 09 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 18 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 08 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 Chief Executives review trading and risk management and focus on the and achieve world class performance.
We needs of our customers to provide them with continue to recruit or appoint senior staff to 32 MWh products that help them succeed and allow ensure we have highly qualified management them to grow their businesses.
to operate our business well into the future.
realised power prices Continuing investment will be made in our British Energy generates around 20% of the increased by 57% to people and our plants to achieve our objective uKs electricity, a product that is important to 32 MWh, contributing of world class operational performance.
the lives and livelihood of the people of the uK.
to ensure good value for our investment, We have a highly qualified team of energy to an increased operating we have a new projects team drawing on professionals who are today making a margin of 9.2 MWh expertise from around the world, working in significant contribution to ensuring the uK conjunction with our supply chain team and meets the need for safe, secure, reliable, low contractor partnerships to deliver the carbon energy for business and industry.
With have submitted our response to the Energy higher cash flows this year, we took the review advocating a balanced mix of energy opportunity to increase investment in plant efficiency and conservation along with new to 283m and accelerate the work required generating capacity through renewables, clean to improve performance of our power stations.
coal, natural gas and nuclear generation.
We Lost Time Accidents Nuclear We expect to continue to invest at these higher look forward to our role in securing the energy levels through 2007 08. investment is targeted future for the uK.
to improve operational performance and improve the prospects for life extension.
We We are well on the way to realising our have now commenced the technical work objectives of world class nuclear operations, required to evaluate life extensions at hinkley improving financial stability and obtaining life point B and hunterston B and we expect to extensions for our stations.
i continue to be make a decision by 31 March 2008. impressed with the skill, knowledge and dedication of the British Energy team and Critical to the success of the Company is their commitment to grow value for you, having a skilled workforce to operate our our shareholders.
assets not only today, but over extended lives, and to realise future opportunities for British Energy.
our staff numbers have increased by approximately 300 over the last two years as part of our efforts to ensure we have the skills Bill Coley base to deliver the improvement programme Chief Executive safety-driven spEnt FuEl is sAFEly trAnsportED FroM our tornEss stAtion in spECiAlly DEsignED sECurE FlAsKs
