REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT This has been a year of significant changes not just for Sky, but for the entire industry.
Throughout the year, our focus has been on setting the pace of change, and re-affirming our appetite to continue doing so.
The development and launch of new products and services that are more flexible and of higher quality and value has been at the centre of this.
Our new High Definition Television service is one example.
It represents the biggest revolution in TV picture quality in decades, and once again Sky is leading the field by being the first company to be able to offer the service nationally, across the widest range of HD channels, ranging from Sky Sports to Artsworld.
And despite an early hiccup with one of our suppliers, the vast majority of our very first HD customers were able to enjoy the World Cup in glorious HD and Dolby 5.1 sound and they loved it.
The acquisition of Easynet, completed in March, is another example of our commitment to innovation for our customers.
It has prepared the way for Skys new generation of broadband services.
This is in addition to the already industry-leading technology that includes the much-loved Sky and, more recently, Sky by mobile.
With Sky Broadband weve designed an incredible product which both rewards our loyal customers with a quality service offering simplicity, flexibility, quality, and great value, and opens up new and substantial growth opportunities for the Company and all our shareholders.
With special features like free wireless access, security, parental controls and an optional professional home installation across all packages, were confident that Sky Broadband will be a simple choice for millions of our customers creating a new dimension to our business whose potential we are only beginning to see.
Each of Skys offerings sits at the top of the industry in terms of choice, quality and delivery.
In every case, signs indicate that consumers are eager to take advantage of new services, allowing us to capitalise on our capabilities and deliver an unparalleled entertainment and communications proposition.
This year we also completed the implementation of our new customer management system.
Our levels of customer service have always led the industry, and it has proven to be a key differentiator.
By raising this bar even higher, we increase our competitive advantage and we can bring new technology to the market faster, improve sales, provide better service for our existing customers, and increase the efficiency of our marketing.
These and other customer-facing initiatives are vital to Skys health and competitiveness.
All of the backstage activity that goes on at Sky will only be effective if we continue to invest in the reason that people subscribe to Sky an extraordinary package of onscreen content.
This year we forged new deals with partners ranging from Disney to the England and Wales Cricket Board.
Our partnership with Disney means we can now offer more family entertainment to Sky customers, while the advent of legal movie downloads means our range and accessibility grows every day.
We also became reacquainted with some old friends notably the FA Premier League and UEFA, with whom we have negotiated to continue two of the successful partnerships that have made Sky Sports the home of football.
These are just a few examples of the enormous activity and enterprise that Sky people invest every day into making what goes on screen for our customers the absolute best in its class.
We were busy on other fronts, too.
This year we announced that, through the measurement, reduction, and offsetting of our carbon dioxide emissions, we have achieved carbon neutral status.
It is the first commitment of this kind by a major media company anywhere.
Caring about what our customers care about is at the centre of our community activity, and I am personally proud to be able to take such a firm stand on this issue, which is so important to all our people at Sky, and is a growing and important issue for our customers and their families.
The combination of technology, entertainment, and the continuing dedication of our workforce has improved customer growth, turnover, and earnings.
We are healthy, strong and hungry and I look forward to the coming year and all of the opportunity it holds.
Thank you for your involvement.
James Murdoch Chief Executive Officer 4
