Chief Executives Review Overview I am delighted to be able to report that BSS has continued to make substantial progress over the past year with both the Industrial and Domestic Divisions performing well.
As a Group we have achieved significant sales and profits growth and this, combined with continued improvements in working capital and cash management, has provided the base for further increases in shareholder value.
Like for like sales over the period are up 11.8%, as we have continued to secure further market share gains and win larger contracts.
Our strategy of driving profitable, cash generative organic growth in the existing businesses through superior service, has served us well in recent years and will continue into the future.
This growth will be supplemented, where appropriate, with bolt on acquisitions that Gavin Slark provide us with complementary product ranges and sales channels.
Chief Executive The total builders merchant market has been down during the year although we would expect to see some signs of recovery during 2007.
The Repair and Maintenance market has continued to be buoyant where expenditure is of a less discretionary nature than the Improvement market.
Government backed expenditure in areas such as Health, Education and Social Housing has continued to be strong and we would expect this to continue through 2007, and beyond.
During the year we have experienced product price inflation of some 3%: although this has been heavily influenced by increases of some 40% in the price of copper.
Like for like sales over the period Domestic Division are up 11.8%.
Revenue Year ending 31st March 2006 601.3m 16.6% Year ending 31st March 2005 515.8m Operating Profit before unallocated charges Year ending 31st March 2006 29.9m 10.7% Year ending 31st March 2005 27.0m Margin Year ending 31st March 2006 5.0% Year ending 31st March 2005 5.2% The Domestic Division has maintained healthy profit and sales growth.
We have continued to gain market share and delivered like for like sales growth of 12.6%, with a total sales growth of 16.6%.
However, as expected, our continued large contract wins reduced our margins during the second half.
Our contractor installer business continued to gain market share.
Last year we achieved sales in excess of 40m, from the Governments Social Housing programme, up from 25m the previous year.
We continue to win new Government backed contracts.
Our sales of High Efficiency boilers have now reached the Governments target of 95% of all boiler sales.
Our policy of ensuring high stocks at the start of the year enabled us to achieve excellent order fulfilment in a rapidly changing environment.
Our sales of boilers were up 7% by volume in a market that was down 6%.
5 Chief Executives Review continued Our focus on plumbing and sanitaryware has also borne fruit where our sales are up 20% in a market that is down 13%.
This again reflects the benefits of our focus on Repair and Maintenance market where spending is less discretionary.
We are also pleased to have renewed our contract with British Gas, the Groups largest customer, for a further 3 years from 1st July 2006.
Our second tier merchant business continues to benefit from the growth in the number of independent distributors.
Our product offering remains excellent, with an extended range of sanitaryware products, copper fittings, gas and electric fires being brought to market during the year.
Industrial Division BELOW: The 200th PTS branch Revenue opened at Guildford Year ending 31st March 2006 262.3m 13.7% Year ending 31st March 2005 230.7m Operating Profit before unallocated charges Year ending 31st March 2006 16.6m 14.5% Year ending 31st March 2005 14.5m Margin Year ending 31st March 2006 6.3% Year ending 31st March 2005 6.3% The Industrial Division has delivered solid growth during the year with the increase in Public Sector spending in areas such as Health and Education having a beneficial impact.
In Education we are benefiting from the rebuilding of schools, childrens centres as well as school modernisation: and in health we have secured contracts with Manchester, Derby, Stoke Mandeville and Royal Alexandra hospitals.
Sales to Terminal 5 Heathrow approached 4m and the Division continues to build on its reputation for timely delivery and excellent service on major infrastructure projects which should set us in good stead to win larger value contracts in the future.
We New branches have also just secured the contract for modernisation of Ministry of Defence properties Aspire which will continue for a number of years.
continue to exceed expectations in terms Branch Network of both sales We have continued to expand the branch network with the Domestic Division opening a further 18 branches during the financial year taking its total number of achievement and branches to 221 at 31st March 2006.
A further five branches were added during the financial year through acquisitions taking the total branch network for the Group profit generation.
to 289 branches at the end of May 2006.
Results from our new branches continue to exceed expectations in terms of both sales achievement and profit generation.
Consequently, we will seek to continue to expand the contractor installer estate by up to 30 new branch openings per year over the next three years.
Additionally we would expect to increase by two the number of F & P Wholesale branches with new outlets in London and then Scotland.
6 Logistics Infrastructure The Domestic Division opened a new enlarged Regional Distribution Centre at Witton, Birmingham during August 2005 in advance of the 2005 heating season.
This was opened on time, below budget and with no disruption to normal service to branches.
The 100,000 sq ft facility will service future sales growth and provide a solid foundation for further branch expansion over the next few years.
Acquisitions In December 2005 we acquired Warrens for a cash consideration of 14.4m.
Warrens is a major regional supplier of industrial pipeline and heating to the construction industry and will enhance the range and depth of products supplied by our Industrial Division through its branches in Oldham, Birmingham, Leeds and East London.
The Warrens name will be retained, although its branches will be integrated within our existing administrative structure.
We intend to utilise the Warrens strength in B brands to provide us with greater opportunities within the value conscious end of the contract market.
During March 2006 we also acquired Price Tools.
Price Tools is a national distributor of hand held power tools to the construction, infrastructure and manufacturing sectors operating from a single site in Birmingham.
In addition it has a growing business in personal protective equipment to the same customers.
Price Tools has a skilled management team and will provide BSS with an exciting opportunity to enhance our product range for our customers through the Groups extensive branch network.
Both of these acquisitions underline our commitment to pursue further growth both organically and through selective acquisitions of businesses with complementary product ranges and sales channels.
Given the relatively short period that we have owned both businesses, they have not had a significant impact on the financial results for the year to March 2006.
Both businesses are expected to be earnings enhancing in the first full year after acquisition.
Current Trading and Outlook The Groups commitment to enhancing shareholder value is undiminished.
We are confident that BSS is well positioned to continue to drive improvements in the existing business and that our strategy for growth is sound.
Sales growth during the whole of the financial year to March 2006 remained strong and market conditions for the principal areas in which we operate continue to be resilient.
In the Domestic Division, the Repair and Maintenance market continues to be positive and we expect further Government expenditure on Social Housing.
Likewise, in the Industrial Division, we believe there will be further spending on Health and Education by the Government, and opportunities with other large infrastructure projects.
Trading during the first six weeks of the new year has been in line with our expectations and we anticipate a further year of progress at BSS.
Gavin Slark, CHIEF EXECUTIVE 30th May 2006 7 The Group continues to build on its reputation for timely delivery and excellent service.
