Operating & Financial Review Chief Executives Report This time last year, I said that There was also further downward pressure exerted on our I expected our 2006 results to earnings with many of our larger competitors significantly represent no more than a reducing their fees in an attempt to retain or win new business.
modest overall improvement We do not anticipate that these trading conditions will change over 2005.
In the event, the for brokers in the foreseeable future.
We will therefore continue outcome was in line with that to plan the future development of the Group making the statement with revenues of assumption that the current trading conditions are here to stay.
459.5 million up 1% or 4% at constant rates of exchange.
Risk & Insurance good underlying performance Dominic Burke Against this background of difficult trading conditions, it is all Underlying profit before tax for the more pleasing to report that the Groups Risk & Insurance continuing operations increased by 4% to 76.5 million, activities saw an increase in turnover of 2%, or 6% at constant although this would have shown a 20% increase in underlying rates of exchange, while the margin fell by 1% to 16%.
Greater profit before tax at constant rates of exchange.
detail of the performance of the businesses that constitute this The Group's trading margin for 2006 was 13% which division are set out in the operating review on pages 12 to 17. compared with 14% in 2005.
However, at constant rates of These activities can however be broken down into two broad exchange it would have been 15%.
These results demonstrate that the Group has turned a corner Firstly, our retail operations in the UK and overseas, all of which and once again started to grow underlying profits.
The fact that performed well with turnover increasing by 4% and the trading this increase in profits was achieved against the backdrop of margin increasing by 1% to a very satisfactory level of 21%.
the continued weak US dollar and highly competitive trading conditions is a considerable achievement on the part of everyone who works for the Group.
Risk & Insurance 2006 Turnover - 379 million Challenging trading conditions continued Australia & The continued weakness of the US dollar and the New Zealand movement in our achieved exchange rate had a 60m JLT Risk Solutions significant negative impact on revenues of 11.6 110m million in the year and a corresponding material impact on trading profit and profit before tax.
Contained within the Finance Directors Review is an UK & Ireland explanation of why the performance of parts of our 49m business are so greatly influenced by the dollar sterling exchange rate: also contained within Agnew Higgins Asia Pickering that review are details of our hedging policy and how 31m 19m it helps mitigate our exposure to currency Canada Lloyd & Partners fluctuations.
18m 30m Latin JLT Re America 44m As reported at the half year, insurance market 18m conditions continue to be challenging with a very competitive insurance rating environment across all UK & Overseas Retail Operations 46% London Market Operations 54% lines of insurance other than US catastrophe.
These falling insurance rates reduce that part of the Groups revenue which is earned as a commission on These businesses continue to perform well despite competitive the insurance premium which we estimate is about market conditions.
They are also not greatly impacted by half of our Risk & Insurance revenues.
movements in exchange rates with income and costs predominately being in the same currencies.
These businesses contributed about 38% of the Groups revenues in the year.
6 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Secondly, our specialist Risk & Insurance businesses which are Our UK Employee Benefits business has made significant largely London Market based, saw revenues increase by 1% progress year on year to the extent that revenues have or 7% at constant rates of exchange.
The trading margin increased by over 60% since 2002 and the trading margin reduced from 15% to 12% but at constant rates of exchange increased from 11% to 17% over the same period.
Today, the this would have been some 4% higher at 16%.
Employee Benefits division makes a very significant contribution to the Group's financial results.
The London Market operations comprising of JLT Risk Solutions, Agnew Higgins Pickering, Lloyd & Partners and Our Employee Benefits business continues to have good JLT Reinsurance Brokers JLT Re, contributed 44% of the growth potential and gives the Group a counter balance to the Groups revenues in 2006.
During the year this was the area of cyclical nature of the insurance markets.
The pensions market our business which was significantly impacted by the weakness remains very active and our strategy is twofold: firstly to be the of the US dollar: the reason for this being that a substantial provider of choice of the services that continue to be required proportion of their revenue, some 130 million, is earned in by final salary pension schemes and, secondly, to develop our dollars while costs are sterling denominated.
position further in the retirement savings and wider employee benefits markets of the future.
During the year, significant actions were taken to improve the performance of the Risk Solutions business and these are detailed later in this report.
The benefits of these actions will start to be seen in the current financial year following the merger of Risk Solutions with Agnew Higgins Pickering to form Jardine Lloyd Thompson Ltd. 2006 was the first full year of trading for JLT Re and, not unexpectedly, the margins reduced significantly as we exited some lines of business while continuing to invest in others.
A major focus for growth is the non-marine Employee Benefits reinsurance sector which is by far the largest segment of Five years of growth the reinsurance market and an area where JLT currently has less than a 1% market share.
We have changed the Turnover m Trading margin % senior management team in this area and recruited a 100 20 17% number of senior brokers and analysts in order to build out 16% our capabilities and this process will continue in the current 80 14% 13% 15 year.
11% 60 The high quality of the people who have joined JLT Re, the 10 analytical skills we have developed and the relationships 40 being built with leading insurers globally gives us 47m 51m 59m 71m 76m confidence for the future prospects of our reinsurance 5 20 broking business.
0 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Employee Benefits produces another strong performance The Groups Employee Benefits division once again produced a strong financial performance with revenues up 8% and the trading margin improving by a further 1% to 17%, a step closer to our long term goal of 20% for this business.
Today our UK Employee Benefits business contributes 17% of the Groups turnover.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 7 Operating & Financial Review Operating & Financial Review Chief Executives Report Everyone, too, is aware of our intention to expand by bolt-on Conclusions of our operational review acquisitions, particularly by acquiring businesses in areas At the time of our Interim results, we wrote about the where we already have strong infrastructure and integration operational review that commenced in early 2006.
has given us a much clearer sense of what JLT is, of our strengths and the course we intend to steer.
Our commitment Disposal of US based retail broking and to the principal lines of business that constitute the Group has employee benefits business been reaffirmed as retail, specialty, wholesale and reinsurance broking and employee benefits.
The Operational Review led us to conclude that the concept of building out our US retail operation was no longer the right Our task is to develop JLT as a specialist insurance and strategy.
The agreement for the sale of this business was reinsurance broker with international reach.
We will also announced in early September and the transaction completed continue to build out our Employee Benefits business in the in mid October.
The sale underlined the Groups clear strategy UK and in time overseas.
of concentrating on areas of proven business strength.
The Group will be strengthened if we focus development Following the sale, JLT is no longer on the ground in the initiatives and investments on our stronger businesses that US retail market and no longer in direct competition with the have, or can secure, positions among the leaders in their major independent US retail brokers.
As a result, the Group is particular marketplace.
well placed to re-establish its position as a leading independent wholesale broker, providing access for those We are now clear, too, about what we are not.
We do not independent US brokers to the London, Bermudian and aspire to be an insurance broking giant with coverage in every European insurance markets.
Instead, our international network Our approach 1 2 3 4 F Fo oc cu us s B Ba alla an nc ce e R Riis sk k O Op pp po or rt tu un niit ty y We are focusing on We will continue to We are investing in We are looking for our leading market take advantage of our lower risk initiatives opportunities to grow positions and our diversified and balanced organically and by existing strengths business mix bolt-on acquisitions enables us to service global clients who look for specialist and industry specific knowledge in those sectors in which JLT has a leading position.
Throughout the Group, everyone is now aware of the focus on lower risk initiatives to further grow the business, together with the use of thorough research, analysis and appraisal to reduce investment risk.
8 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 This London Market reorganisation provides JLT with very Reorganisation of London Market operations clear benefits.
It has created a leading specialty broker The US disposal also enabled the Group to reorganise and with strong product and most industry sector expertise.
simplify its Risk & Insurance London Market operations.
We have re-established our standing as a wholesaler to US While this reorganisation was effective from the beginning of brokers and we are excited about the opportunities this the current financial year, much work was done in 2006 to creates in the post Spitzer era.
Finally, and importantly, the effect the changes.
Today, we have three London Market changes have brought much greater clarity both internally businesses: and externally about what JLT stands for and where its strengths lie.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Ltd, formed by the merger of JLT Risk Solutions and Agnew Higgins Pickering.
This combined business has product expertise and industry Closure of UK defined benefit pension scheme sector knowledge in construction, power & energy, financial The closure of the UK Defined Pension Scheme to future risks, marine, life sciences, telecoms and global and accruals was announced in August and became effective in international major accounts.
We decided to take this difficult decision because we felt the Group had no option but to take action to mitigate Lloyd & Partners Ltd, a leading London Market, Bermudian the risks associated with the 153 million deficit on our and European wholesale broker.
Previously, this business had balance sheet at the end of 2005, a liability fluctuating in predominantly provided its services to independent retail response to factors wholly outside of our control.
brokers in the US but has now broadened its services to brokers worldwide, including Group owned companies in Asia, Australia, Canada and Latin America.
Our London Market restructure Lloyd & Partners JLT Reinsurance Jardine Lloyd Limited Brokers Limited Thompson Limited Wholesale broker providing access Specialty broker committed to major Reinsurance and aerospace global to London, Bermudian and accounts.
Product and industry sector practices.
Established position in: European insurance markets.
expertise in : Marine Focus on major Property and Construction Aviation Casualty risks with significant Power & Energy Building capabilities in non-marine strength in : Financial Risks Offshore Energy Marine Cargo Life Sciences Healthcare Telecommunications JLT Reinsurance Brokers Ltd, which incorporates our Alongside the closure, we have agreed a programme of reinsurance and aerospace global practices.
We have a exceptional contributions with the Trustees of the Scheme, strong market position in both marine and aviation details of which are contained in the Finance Director's reinsurance and the intention is to now focus on growing Review on pages 20 to 23.
With the actions now taken we our non-marine reinsurance broking capabilities.
have reduced the deficit by 35% to 100 million by the year end.
The Defined Benefit scheme has now been replaced with a Defined Contribution Scheme offering our employees competitive benefits.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 9 Operating & Financial Review Operating & Financial Review Chief Executives Report During the year the Group has also continued to invest in new Aligning costs with revenues but still investing for business areas - such as JLT Re in the US, Employee Benefits the future and in new territories such as China.
As highlighted at the half year, certain of our businesses needed to better align their costs with their current revenues.
As part of In many of our existing businesses we are making material new the London Market reorganisation, we incurred a 13 million investments in our IT systems capabilities and developing our exceptional charge, 9 million of which was incurred in cash.
It is our belief that, over the longer term, this will generate a quantum improvement in operational quality This one-off cost has been substantially incurred as we reand efficiency.
Benefits will include reduced operating costs, engineered Risk Solutions and JLT Re, including Aerospace, to improved management information, better quality of service reduce their cost base and ensure that they are capable of delivery, and very importantly, position JLT among the leaders delivering the target margins that have been set internally.
as market communications and product distribution patterns The actions taken have led to a reduction in headcount of over change.
100 personnel in these two businesses, the majority of which was during the second half of 2006.
A stronger management team As anticipated, the trading margin for Risk Solutions further As we have reshaped our business over the last year, the declined in the second half of the year resulting in a margin for opportunity has been taken to greatly strengthen the senior the year of 8%.
As previously advised, our target margin for this management.
Today, all of the principal lines of our business are business was 15% by the end of 2008.
We are confident that represented on the Group Executive Committee GEC, this the actions that we have taken will ensure that the newly being the Groups senior management team.
formed Jardine Lloyd Thompson Limited will achieve this 15% margin in 2008, and we expect substantial progress towards this goal in 2007.
Members of the Group Executive Committee Dominic Burke Chief Executive Retail Operations London Market Employee Benefits JLT Executive Operations Asia Pacific Jardine Lloyd Thompson Ltd Employee Benefits Commercial Director Brian Carpenter Andrew Agnew William Nabarro William Nabarro Mark Drummond Brady UK & Europe International Chairman Martin Hiller Adrian Girling Mark Drummond Brady Lloyd & Partners Ltd Canada Latin America Legal Director John Lloyd Dominic Burke Vyvienne Wade Reinsurance & Aerospace Finance Director Alan Griffin Jim Rush Projects plc Board member George Stuart-Clarke Whilst the Group has reduced costs in certain businesses it Eight of my colleagues on the GEC have been appointed since must also continue to build its operations in those areas where the start of 2006.
It is this fundamental change to the senior clear opportunities for strong growth have been identified, and management team and their collective ambition and drive that this is being done.
is now permeating the Group as a whole.
There are fewer layers and less distance between the boardroom and the We are a people business and we have continued to recruit coalface.
Above all, there is a general commitment to market leading individuals across both our Employee Benefits openness and teamwork.
and Risk & Insurance divisions and this has included a number of important high profile new hires.
10 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 2006 was, for JLT, all about taking the required action to get Secondly, and as I have already mentioned, by investing in IT the Group back on to a firm footing for future growth.
It was a systems and developing our operating methodology to both year when we cleared the decks and got ourselves ready for improve efficiency and service delivery to our clients.
The third area on which we are focusing is to ensure we are a I would like to thank all my colleagues for their support, loyalty leader and beneficiary of industry change rather than its victim.
and enthusiasm without which we could not have achieved all Fourth, and finally, we have made no secret of our that we have in 2006. determination to grow by acquisition in areas where we already have strong, well-positioned businesses.
Merger of SIACI with ACSH The merger of our French associate company, SIACI, with Much has been achieved in a relatively short period of time and the foundations have been put in place to give grounds Assurances et Conseils Saint-Honor ACSH was announced in February this year.
SIACI ranks among the leading for optimism in 2008 and beyond.
independent brokers in France and has been an associate of In my first year as CEO I have been greatly impressed by the the Group since 1991.
It has been enormously successful as quality of our people.
an insurance broker to large French corporations and multinational companies and also has a relatively small but During a year in which we have seen significant internal meaningful employee benefits operation.
changes and many external challenges, our people have retained as their priority meeting the needs of their clients.
ACSH has a smaller broking business but one with strength in Above all else, it is this commitment to our clients that will the power and construction sectors, being areas in which JLT ensure the future success of Jardine Lloyd Thompson.
The larger part of ACSH's operations is in employee benefits.
The combination of these employee benefits operations creates a very strong business with an unequalled blue-chip client list.
JLT will have a 20% stake in the merged Company - and our expectation is that our relationship will be even stronger and broader following the merger.
As part of the transaction, JLT acquires SIACI's subsidiaries in Italy, Poland and Spain.
Dominic Burke These are not particularly large businesses but each Chief Executive represents an important piece in our European and 20th March 2007 international network and offers attractive prospects for growth.
Developing these operations and working more closely with the combined business will enable JLT to build a much stronger European platform.
Looking to the future As explained in the Chairman's Statement, although it is still early in the year, it is anticipated that JLT will show further progress in its financial performance in 2007 set against 2006.
Looking beyond 2007, the responsibility of the senior management team is to accelerate the growth now being achieved.
This we plan to do in a number of ways: Firstly, we will add value if we better coordinate and utilise the assets and strengths we have across the Group, be it our international network, or our industry or product specialty teams.
Actions are already being taken to ensure that this happens.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 11 Operating & Financial Review
