Group Chief Executives Review A strategy that works Our UK-led strategy of balanced production, balanced distribution and capital strength remains the right one to build on the success of 2006 and deliver further value in 2007.
Tim Breedon Group Chief Executive 6 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Our combination of protection, annuity, product and service offering to the advised Legal & General has a clear and insurance and savings including pensions consistent strategy.
This includes developing multigives us a product range that can meet a manager and platform solutions which widen scale, we focus largely on the UK customers needs at every stage of their life.
choice and add to administrative convenience market, and we provide a wide range Financial protection for individuals and their for IFAs.
They make it easier for customers, of value-for-money products backed families often coincides with changes to with their advisers, to make asset allocation by strong technical skills, excellent mortgage arrangements.
They also administer a portfolio of administration, multi-channel through unitised products or ISAs can be long term savings and investments managed distribution and a customer part of a series of long term saving vehicles, by a variety of asset managers but held on a service ethic.
perhaps including employer or personal single online platform.
Cofunds, the fund Our underlying businesses again performed pension schemes.
Ultimately, accumulated supermarket with which we have formed strongly in 2006.
The 46% increase in our UK savings can be consolidated in the most a strategic alliance and which now has over new business was achieved against a favourable efficient way, and a lifetime income purchased 11bn of funds under management, is an economic backdrop and demographic changes by way of an annuity.
example of leadership in its sector.
that encourage long term saving and financial Legal & General is active in all these retail In addition, our direct distribution capability planning.
Ultimately our success is due markets, as well as providing group schemes, serves our customers and enhances our to having the right mix of well-designed bulk purchase annuities and institutional fund offering to business partners.
competitively-priced products, sold through management for employers and pension funds.
the most effective distribution channels.
Flexibility in profitable distribution will In addition our Investment Management remain important to growth.
In the future Balanced Production business has established itself as a leading consumer purchasing patterns, and regulation Legal & Generals broad product range provider of index tracking funds and other of sales, may change for example as a result differentiates us from other companies in the investment products.
of the Financial Service Authoritys upcoming UK life and pensions sector.
We maintain a Balanced Distribution Distribution Review.
This will place a wide product set, giving us flexibility to Balance and flexibility also underpin our premium on those financial product providers adjust to consumer preferences.
best-adapted to an increasingly multi-channel distribution network.
We continue to expand distribution through new bank and building society partnerships, Growth and profitability most recently with Nationwide, which with It is axiomatic to our strategy that growth 11 million customers, is the countrys largest should not be at the expense of profitability.
Each partnership is different, We monitor margins closely across the but collectively our business partners have product range and aim to adjust our business over 40 million personal finance customer mix accordingly.
accounts in the UK, and a powerful High Street presence.
Some 60% of our retail sales Occasionally where necessary, we make are through IFAs.
We constantly evolve our changes to our portfolio of business.
Ten Year Total Shareholder Return % 162 121 103 Legal & General FTSE Life Assurance Sector FTSE 100 www.
com 7 Group Chief Executives Review cont.
For example, in April 2006 we launched a and improved efficiency.
This will help us new Self-Invested Personal Pension SIPP make the most of the very considerable skill product, and in General Insurance, we base of our workforce.
withdrew from the motor and subsequently Achievements and Outlook the healthcare sectors.
2006 was a year of significant milestones for Over 90% of new business is generated in Legal & General.
We are an established scale the UK.
Our strategy is strongly focused on player in the UK market.
Our bulk annuities our domestic market, though our overseas business passed the 1bn single premium businesses principally in the United States, mark in new business during the year: despite France and the Netherlands are valuable the arrival of new competitors.
Our wealth assets and solid performers.
Strategically, we management business achieved significant 90% are open to new opportunities in different sales growth, with over 11bn of new UK markets, but only where they satisfy our savings premiums.
Our institutional fund of new business generated rigorous internal investment criteria.
management business added almost 21bn in the UK of new funds under management, taking us Capital Strength to 233bn in total.
Capital strength enables us to take the strain of growing the business and provides security for Looking ahead, Legal & Generals scale gives long term customers and policyholders.
It is a us the opportunity to invest in the people and further strategic differentiator and is reflected skills to make further gains in our markets.
in our AA financial strength rating from Our focus on core skills and products, and our Standard & Poors.
Excellence in the balance sheet strength, position us well in management of our capital is a key skill for a markets which continue to provide growth life company.
Our previous capital structure opportunities.
Our flexibility across product has served us well for a decade, enabling us to and distribution lines will enable us to adjust deliver growth across a stock market cycle.
The our business mix to concentrate on delivering current capital review will ensure we balance growth and doing so profitably.
capital strength, growth and shareholder The UKs underlying economic strength, return in the most efficient way.
The Board combined with later retirement and improving currently intends to initiate a programme longevity mean continuing growth in saving of returning capital to shareholders from the through long term financial products.
second half of 2007 where it is clear that there Corporate activity to tackle pension fund is excess.
deficits is positive for our institutional fund This capital review is taking place against a management and bulk annuities businesses.
changing regulatory and fiscal background.
The mortgage market remains active which Our challenge is to have the right amount of generates business flow for protection and capital, the right type of capital, and to deploy general insurance businesses.
our capital in the right places.
In late 2006 We remain of the view that our UK-led strategy we took the first steps by establishing a new of balanced production, balanced distribution reinsurance company to assume our own and capital strength remains the right one to pension and annuity liabilities.
Further build on the success of 2006 and deliver further actions, which will provide long term benefits progress in 2007. to our business, are planned in 2007.
A skilled workforce During 2006 we realigned management responsibilities to create a clearer structure in our Protection and Annuities, Wealth Management and With-Profits businesses.
These changes will deliver increased focus, Tim Breedon end-to-end product and profit responsibility Group Chief Executive 8 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006
