Chief Executives statement Gas commercialisation discussions progressed During 2006 we made sound progress in all in Turkmenistan with an independent verification of our contingent gas reserves 395 bcf, aspects of our business.
Group working interest a defined plateau production rate and the selection of the preferred route to link to production increased for the sixth consecutive export infrastructure.
Following the death of President Niyazov in December 2006 year averaging 34,240 bopd, 9% above the and the subsequent election of President Berdymukhamedov, the oil and gas authorities previous year, whilst the average unit cost of in Turkmenistan have re-affirmed their commitment to continuing these discussions.
production was unchanged at US$2.50 per working interest barrel, one of the lowest in We successfully bid for an additional exploration licence in Yemen bringing us to a total of six the sector.
licences in our Middle East North Africa portfolio, in five of which we are Operator and hold interests close to 100%.
Whilst initial exploration drilling of three shallow wells on the East Kanayis licence in Egypt failed to find commercial hydrocarbons, this represents only a small part of the planned exploration programme.
Finally, in India, Hindustan Oil Exploration Company HOEC successfully drilled and tested a horizontal development well in These discoveries are close to existing fields basement reservoir a first in India on its and infrastructure owned by Burren and both undeveloped PY-1 gas field offshore south-east are already in production.
Since a long-term gas sales contract drilling is being conducted on both these is close to signature, the development of fields to determine their potential size.
the field, subject as always to acceptable development costs, can now begin in earnest.
Significant progress was also made on waterParticipation in a US $33 million rights issue injection projects on our two core producing by HOEC in Q4 resulted in Burren increasing fields, which have the potential to materially its shareholding from 26% to 27%.
increase reserves through higher recovery factors.
In Turkmenistan, a pilot water-injection STRATEGY AND OBJECTIVES project in both shallow and deep reservoirs Burrens strategy is to create shareholder value was successful.
The shallow reservoirs, in Atul Gupta by investing in oil & gas projects in four key particular, exhibited excellent injectivity and Chief Executive Officer hydrocarbon regions of the world: the Caspian, gave early positive responses from observation West Africa, the Middle East North Africa and wells.
For the deeper layers, injectivity is The average discount at which our crude was India.
We aim to conduct our businesses in a variable but a positive response has already sold relative to Brent improved to US$5.20 bbl socially responsible manner and seek to attain been seen and we have enough confidence compared to US$7.20 bbl in the previous year.
the highest international standards for health, to move ahead with plans to expand the The Group successfully replaced reserves by safety and the environment.
injection programme from the current capacity adding 15 million barrels in Turkmenistan at of 10,000 bwpd to 30,000 bwpd.
In Congo, a finding cost of US$2.70 bbl Turkmenistan Our objectives are to grow our production after minor delays in procuring equipment, exploration costs only, against depletion by and reserve base by: i further development injection started at the beginning of 2007 production of 13 million barrels.
of our existing fields: ii exploring our existing and is planned to increase to 60,000 bwpd concessions: and iii acquiring new assets during the year.
The above production and reserves growth with proven reserves and production.
To that came directly as a result of an aggressive end, our growth strategy is not confined to Our agreement with Eni in March 2007 to drilling programme which saw the Group exploration: we are also prepared, as we have purchase a further 5.5% interest in the MBoundi participate in a record 51 development successfully shown in the last five years, to field, along with an additional 2% of Kouilou, and exploration wells.
Thirty of these were take on and manage reservoir development reflects our belief that the MBoundi field in development wells of which 26 were put on risk, political risk and market risk.
particular has significant future upside potential production.
A total of 21 exploration wells with Eni as operator.
We expect this deal to be were drilled which resulted in two discoveries, completed at the same time as Enis purchase the Balkan field in Turkmenistan and the from Maurel & Prom.
06 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006 Click to return to contents We believe the areas of the world in which We continue to place great emphasis on With net cash at year end of over US$200 we work offer such opportunities and we will attracting and retaining the best quality staff million, all generated through operating cash seek to manage the associated risks through and to that end are delighted to have recruited flow, and no debt, Burren has proven its ability the application of technical and commercial Simon Gill as Operations Director and Ian to build a profitable business.
Our focus on expertise, maintaining close relationships with Bingham as Chief Geophysicist.
fundamentals of the upstream business, with governments and partners who can provide a disciplined approach to cost control, stands local knowledge and support.
OUTLOOK us in good stead to achieve our programme of Based on sound fundamentals of hydrocarbon organic growth complemented by new projects.
We are proud of our record of maintaining cost reservoir exploration, performance and efficiency and we believe, even in the current development, our outlook for 2007 and Finally, as of September 2006, I was honoured environment of high commodity prices, that beyond remains positive.
to have been appointed as Chief Executive cost control is a key part of performance.
and will strive to the best of my ability to create To that end we will continue to analyse every During 2007 we expect to maintain working value for the Group and all its stakeholders.
aspect of our cost structure and look for interest production at about 35,000 bopd.
means of reducing costs efficiently.
Assuming that the Eni transaction completes successfully this could add a further 2,000 bopd.
Our immediate objectives for the coming year, This year we plan to drill approximately the as described more fully in the Business Review, same number of exploration wells as in 2006 are to continue the development of our including six wells by HOEC, with a particular Atul Gupta producing fields in Turkmenistan and Congo focus on Congo, before switching to the Chief Executive Officer via increased development drilling and water Middle East North Africa in 2008. injection, whilst maintaining the pace of exploration.
We intend to focus efforts In relation to HOEC, Burren continues to provide on progressing gas commercialisation in shareholder and management support as Turkmenistan and in identifying new investment HOEC seeks to develop its PY-1 gas field and opportunities to make best use of our strong explore its other acreage.
Since its origins in the early nineties, Burrens I expect this growth to continue, driven by Having seen Burren through its first three aim has been to create shareholder value by water-injection programmes on our existing years post flotation, I am proud of what we organic means.
Our strategy has been to fields and by the addition of Turkmen gas have achieved.
In Atul Gupta, the Group seek out opportunities before they became production once the commercial parameters has a highly capable Chief Executive in widely known, to keep a close eye on costs, are finally agreed.
Having had modest whose hands I am confident to leave the and to grow reserves, production and cash exploration success in Turkmenistan, the day-to-day running of the business, allowing flow reinvesting the surplus in new theatres exploration focus shifts to Congo for 2007 me to focus fully on new business opportunities of operation.
and then on to the Middle East North Africa which will deliver the next cycle of growth.
The success of this strategy has been demonstrated by the growth in Group The management team is highly motivated to production, which has increased from just further develop the business and work has over 2,000 bopd in 2000, when we took been going on during the last year on several over operatorship of the Nebit Dag licence, important new business initiatives, some of to over 34,000 in 2006. which may come to fruition in 2007.
Finian OSullivan President 07 Click to return to contents Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
