CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW IT HAS BEEN A DEFINING YEAR FOR THE LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE DURING WHICH THE VALUE AND STRATEGIC IMPORTANCE OF YOUR COMPANY WAS ESTABLISHED BEYOND DOUBT OUR STRATEGY IS DELIVERING STRONG GROWTH The Exchange occupies a unique strategic position at the heart of the City of London.
We have a customer franchise of exceptional and international quality.
Active promotion of our strong global brand has helped to secure our position as the worlds IPO venue of choice.
We are facilitating and benefiting from a secular shift to derivatives linked and high volume electronic trading which has produced a surge in volumes on SETS, our primary engine of growth.
Our information services and products reach into all corners of the globe.
In the first half of 2007, our new technology platform TRM is expected to provide customers with the fastest, most reliable and scalable equity trading platform in the world.
This promises a continuation if not an acceleration of our very strong growth prospects for the foreseeable future.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE This years financial performance underlines how much more valuable an asset your company is becoming.
Revenue before exceptional items grew 19 per cent to 291.1 million while costs rose just seven per cent to 171.0 million.
Operating profits before exceptional items rose 42 per cent to 120.1 million.
Reflecting this, adjusted basic earnings per share rose 55 per cent to 37.4p per share.
THE WORLDS CAPITAL MARKET We are successfully leveraging our global reputation, the quality of our markets and access to our deep pools of international capital to attract companies to a London listing.
Our specialist marketing teams are working with the market to focus on the key growth markets of Russia, India and China, as well as markets that are developing an appetite for the growth capital available in London, including the Middle East, South Korea and even the United States.
This year Issuer Services activity helped to bring 622 companies from 32 countries around the world to our market, including 67 per cent of Western Europes IPOs.
The Main Markets international reputation was enhanced with 107 new listings 89 from the UK and 18 from overseas.
6 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2006 AIM is the worlds most vibrant growth market.
Supported by the TECHNOLOGY LED GROWTH Exchanges own regulatory regime it is specifically designed for Our commitment to the development of cutting edge technology smaller growing companies.
This year AIM has become a truly is a distinct competitive strength.
In early 2003, despite being in international market with 247 foreign companies now quoted.
the middle of a difficult bear market, we launched our Technology Our international plans for AIM continue to develop.
In October we Roadmap TRM.
We intend it to set a new global benchmark for announced our intention to build AIM for Europe, in order to supply exchange platforms, providing our customers with the fastest, the capital needs of thousands of smaller growing companies most efficient and technologically advanced equities market in the across Europe.
We believe AIM will help the European economy world by the first half of 2007.
Improved efficiency, transparency achieve more dynamic and faster growth.
and latency are already reducing customers costs, fuelling liquidity growth and cutting the cost of capital for our companies.
Last years record of 432 new issues on AIM was easily surpassed this year.
510 new companies joined, taking the total to 1,473, This year we have achieved two key TRM milestones.
In September raising over 7.9 billion.
Now established as a mainstream asset Infolect, our new market data ticker plant, went live, reducing class, AIM has over 40 per cent of its stock in the hands of information broadcast latency from 30 to two milliseconds.
October the trading platform upgrade doubled core trading capacity.
These two developments were implemented while maintaining A key factor in the Exchanges international success is the number 100 per cent availability for the sixth consecutive year.
and range of firms and individuals who access our information to do business on our markets.
Our real-time market data is received Marking a new phase in global exchange technology, the transition on terminals in more than 100 countries as numbers increased to our new trading platform that will occur in the first half of 2007 from 95,000 to 104,000. will deliver the speed and robustness, the capacity and agility that is central to our technology strategy and fundamental to the SEDOL Masterfile, our new worldwide securities identifier has growth of our market.
delivered 1,100 licences in its third year of operation, improving market efficiency on a global scale and adding to our growth story.
Multiple currencies, time zones and asset classes all present medium and long-term opportunities.
A cost effective multi-asset A SECULAR CHANGE IN TRADING class trading platform is now in sight.
The Exchanges commitment We are experiencing a structural shift in the way that UK equities to technological innovation has put us in prime position to lead this are traded.
SETS, our electronic order book, is experiencing strong important development.
growth and is at the heart of the biggest change to secondary market trading since Big Bang 20 years ago.
OUTLOOK Since 31 March 2006, trading conditions have remained very The rapid recent development of the off-exchange UK equity positive.
New issue activity has been buoyant, on both the Main derivatives market has been assisted by the increasingly efficient Market and AIM, with total money raised on our markets ahead of hedging mechanism that SETS provides.
Moreover, the historic the same period last year.
The very strong growth on SETS seen in drag of stamp duty on UK equity markets activity is being the last quarter of the last financial year, continues, and the number diminished over time by more tax efficient trading structures of professional terminals taking the Exchanges real time data is hedged on SETS.
The growth of sophisticated algorithmic trading, up again.
We have made an excellent start to the financial year which seeks to execute ever more complex technical trading and continued strong trading should keep us on track to deliver strategies, is also a major driver of change and growth.
Such another very strong financial performance in 2007. trading may already account for as much as 40 per cent of our total electronic trading and continues to grow rapidly while derivatives The Company continues to explore opportunities for additional linked SETS trades are estimated to account for around a third of growth within the industry.
The Exchange has a unique franchise SETS business.
and strategic position, and a number of strategic options are available to it.
This means that value traded on SETS this year increased by 35 per cent to 1,190 billion: there were record consecutive We are committed to our customers.
They drive our growth and months in January, February and March 2006 and we we will continue to work with them to realise our vision around experienced 19 of the 20 busiest trading days ever in this their rapidly developing global businesses, in developing the worlds quarter.
Not only did SETS value traded grow faster than other capital market.
major global cash equity exchanges, it also grew significantly faster than the major global derivatives platforms in the final quarter of the year.
SETSmm, the hybrid order book we launched in 2003, made a significant contribution to growth with a 91 per cent increase in the value of midcap stocks traded.
This year SETSmm was extended to a further 300 Main Market small cap stocks as well as the AIM 50, bringing the benefits of narrower spreads and increased liquidity to even more companies and driving additional business onto the order book a more efficient market creating benefits CLARA FURSE for customers, investors and our shareholders alike.
Chief Executive In February we forecast that SETS volumes would double in the three years from 2005 to 2008.
Already the rate of growth in average SETS bargains per day achieved in 2006 38 per cent is well ahead of the rate required to meet this target.
7 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2006
