11448 R&A 2006 front 1 27 3 07 13:44 Page 12 12 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Statements I joined as Chief Executive Officer of PartyGaming Chief Executives in April 2006.
The attractions of the role were many: PartyGaming was then the worlds largest online gaming company, operating in a sector business review that I knew well and one that had delivered spectacular growth.
PartyGaming was a pioneer in the sector and it had already been very successful in capturing the lions share of that sector growth, The Groups becoming a multi-billion dollar corporation, listed on the full market of the London Stock Exchange and also a constituent of the FTSE 100 share index.
primary objective My immediate task was to define a set of has always been to objectives with my fellow executives and the Board and then develop, agree and implement deliver attractive a strategy for the Group one that was sufficiently flexible to ensure that PartyGaming could continue to rise to the challenges in one of long-term returns for the most dynamic sectors in business today.
The pending threat of a change in the legislative our shareholders landscape in our then largest market, the US, meant that both the objectives and strategy needed to work irrespective of legislative or other legal developments.
Objectives and strategy Whilst the enactment of the UIGEA has had a substantial impact on the scale and structure of PartyGaming, the Groups business objectives and strategy remain robust.
The Groups primary objective has always been to deliver attractive long-term returns for our shareholders and the effective closure of a major market was clearly a significant setback.
However, PartyGaming has Mitch Garber a proven track record in seizing opportunities Chief Executive Officer during periods of rapid change and I believe it is well placed to capitalise on the anticipated growth and opportunities that exist in international markets.
Nonetheless, whilst the business model has proved its ability to generate high returns, its sustainability will be heavily dependent on the continued management of both regulatory compliance and reputation risk.
11448 R&A 2006 front 1 27 3 07 13:44 Page 13 13 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Statements Online gaming is a relatively young industry and operates in regulatory and legal environments that tend to lag behind market and product developments.
Whilst the combination of the internet and gaming has proved to be contentious in a number of territories, we continue to believe that ultimately a regulatory framework for online gaming is the only sensible, long-term solution.
Achievements in 2006 Companies like PartyGaming are setting the Launch of integrated platform and standard both in terms of the quality of operations shared wallet and also in helping to assist governments and Launch of PartyCasino, PartyBingo regulators to formulate appropriate safeguards for and PartyGammon the benefit of consumers.
As eGaming Reviews Entry into non-US sports betting via acquisition Operator of the Year in 2006, we have been of Gamebookers and launch of PartyBets widely recognised by our peers for the quality of our operations and also for our approach to Multi-lingual versions of PartyPoker responsible gaming.
By setting high standards we are able to demonstrate what can be achieved to ensure fair play and protect our customers around the world.
Priorities for 2007 Understanding regulatory developments and Keep growing the international player base managing regulatory compliance are clearly Roll-out multi-lingual functionality important to the long-term success of our business.
Roll-out multi-currency versions of games Closely aligned with the management of Continue to manage regulatory compliance regulatory compliance is the management and preservation of our corporate reputation.
Seek international partnerships As a gaming business that means ensuring that our customers are treated fairly.
In practical terms, we aim to ensure that our games and services are offered to customers in a safe and secure environment, one that seeks to protect children and the vulnerable.
Industry leader PartyGaming was voted Operator of the Year in 2006, a reflection of the Groups standing amongst its peers.
11448 R&A 2006 front 1 27 3 07 13:44 Page 14 14 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Statements Localise the customer offer The Groups Chief Executives already substantial success in international markets has been achieved despite the fact that players have had to play all games in English, rather business review than their local language.
PartyGaming is set on broadening the appeal of its games in international markets and increasing the number of active players by offering multi-lingual as well as Our objective, to drive shareholder returns multi-currency options for its games as well as whilst managing regulatory compliance and through the development of local alliances.
reputation risk, has been set in the context of a highly competitive international marketplace, Broaden the product base For some time the one that is continuing to grow and is changing Group has offered a broad suite of online games daily from a technological as well as a regulatory on the back of both internal development that perspective.
The business strategies that we are included poker, casino and bingo, as well as executing to achieve our objective, in order of through M&A and the licensing of technology priority, are as follows: from third-parties.
The addition of backgammon took place in June 2006 and the Group acquired Grow the player base This is a key driver of Gamebookers, a non-US facing sports betting revenue.
The take-up of online gaming by adults business, on 3 August 2006.
The Group has since around the world is still very small and the sector 1 launched PartyBets, its own Party-branded sports accounts for just 5.4% of the global gaming book that is fully integrated into the PartyAccount market by value.
The market rate of growth from shared wallet.
international territories since 2003 has been much faster than from the US and this is expected to Act responsibly Setting, maintaining and continue.
Since early 2005, PartyGamings improving high standards of responsibility are international expansion has been focused on key elements of the Groups business strategy.
developing markets outside of the US and this has This is important from a regulatory and reputation been accelerated following the passing of the standpoint and also makes sound commercial UIGEA.
Through the continued development of sense.
Whilst the vast majority of PartyGamings new and exciting marketing campaigns as well as customers enjoy playing games, a small minority the exploitation of a broad variety of marketing can find themselves in a position where gaming channels, the Group continues to see considerable may be assuming too large a part of their lives.
potential in a number of markets.
Mergers and The Group has put in place a series of checks acquisitions M&A have also proved to be and balances to help such players recognise the an incremental source of new customers and signs of problem gaming and provide them with PartyGaming will continue to explore opportunities information about where they can turn to for help.
that meet its financial and strategic criteria.
The know your limits logo that now appears on our sites seeks to ensure that customers are aware of and play within their own means.
1 Based on gross gaming yield Global Betting and Gaming Consultants, February 2007 11448 R&A 2006 front 1 27 3 07 13:44 Page 15 15 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Statements Players are encouraged to set time and deposit Whilst the inter-relationship between our revenue limits to improve self-awareness of how much and our KPIs is complex, the key dynamics can they are playing and self-exclusion tools are be illustrated by the diagram below.
Protecting children is a The growth of our customer base can be seen paramount objective.
The Group uses third-party from the number of new player sign-ups and databases wherever practicable to verify the unique active players, both of which then feed identity and age of customers before they play into active player days and average daily and also seeks to encourage parents and revenue.
The number of new player sign-ups and guardians to keep their log-in and payment details existing active players that remain active tend to confidential to prevent misuse by children.
reduce over time new sign-ups may find that online gaming is not for them while existing players Measuring our success may lose interest or may migrate to competitors.
The delivery of attractive returns for shareholders This decay profile is known as player attrition.
is something that can only be proven over time, As a result, the active player base is constantly but in large part will be determined by revenue changing.
Increasing new player sign-ups, as well growth, as well as our ability to control costs.
as retaining existing players are important drivers of Revenue growth is dependent upon the dynamics revenue growth.
The recent launch of multi-lingual of each of our key performance indicators KPIs and soon to be launched multi-currency versions and therefore our success should be measured of our games during 2007, should all help to drive by the impact of the strategies outlined above new player sign-ups and improve player retention.
on each of the KPIs and ultimately revenue and Clean EBITDA.
Summary of our business model Key performance indicators Other indicators Financial results Player New player sign-ups real money attrition No.
of active players Player Active players existing attrition Revenue x Mix of games Average yield per active player Frequency of play 11448 R&A 2006 front 1 27 3 07 13:44 Page 16 16 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Statements Broadening the product base is another way we Chief Executives can maximise player yield.
When we introduced blackjack on to PartyPoker in October 2005, the gross spend per player that played both poker and business review blackjack increased by over 40%.
By cross-selling additional games to players we can both increase player yield and also extend player life players are less likely to lose interest or join other sites if Average daily yield per active player is another they have other new and exciting games to play.
key variable in the revenue equation.
Player yield Over the past 18 months we have launched is influenced by frequency of play, the mix of blackjack on PartyPoker, we have also launched games played, the overall mix of players including PartyCasino, PartyGammon, a new version of their experience, and exogenous factors such as PartyBingo, PartyBets as well as virtual horse and changes in exchange rates.
As large numbers of dog racing.
While we have no published targets new, less-experienced players are added to the regarding the number of games we would like to overall player pool, so the average yield can be have, we expect to continue to add new games expected to fall inexperienced players tend to over time.
These might be games that we acquire play and spend less than their more experienced through M&A transactions, games developed by counterparts.
In summary, the equation is complex!
our own software developers in-house, or games Measuring the success or otherwise of initiatives developed by and licensed from third-parties.
to increase player yield needs to be viewed in the The Group continues to take corporate context of the other key performance indicators, responsibility very seriously.
We invest large and the growth in active players in particular.
amounts of time, effort and capital in developing A falling average yield may simply indicate increasingly sophisticated systems and processes a hugely successful sign-ups strategy rather that allow us to continue to raise the bar on what than a failing yield management strategy.
can be achieved in terms of player security, age Conversely, a rising yield per player may be verification and responsible gaming.
Being a function of a very poor level of new player recognised by regulators and public bodies such sign-ups rather than a successful yield as GamCare, a leading UK charity and authority management initiative.
on problem gambling, for setting the industry Attracting players using different marketing standard will continue to be a way of monitoring techniques and promotions and ensuring that our progress in this area.
While such a strategy may the right player receives the right promotion at act as a drag on profit growth in the short-term, the right time is a complex and important activity.
by helping to secure the trust and confidence of PartyGaming has developed and will continue our players, as well as governments and regulators, to invest in innovative campaigns that are this is an important and long-term source of value backed up by sophisticated delivery systems, for the Group.
deployed across a multitude of marketing channels.
Our Everyones Playing campaign was designed to promote games across the integrated Party-branded systems platform: the simplicity of the Everyones Playing tag line and supporting visuals also enabled us to roll-out the campaign in many different languages around the world.
The addition of multi-currency during 2007 should also broaden the international appeal of the Groups products.
11448 R&A 2006 front 1 27 3 07 13:44 Page 17 17 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Statements Managing regulatory compliance The online gaming industry is like many others and has a number of inherent risks associated with it.
These include general business risks such as changing consumer tastes, competitive and economic risks and so on.
While each of these is important and needs to be managed, the current lack of clarity regarding the regulatory position around the world and the potential impact upon our business, both positive and negative, of major shifts in that position means that the management of regulatory compliance is an important strategic consideration for the Group.
It can have direct consequences on player volumes, player yield and thus revenue and profit.
Developing a business strategy capable of withstanding shifts in the regulatory landscape is vital to achieving our long-term objectives.
As we continue to expand internationally, the task of accurately assessing the impact of political and regulatory change and remaining compliant become increasingly complex.
For some time we have recognised the importance of this task and have a dedicated team that is responsible for monitoring and managing our compliance, as well as a network of advisers around the world to ensure that we are as well-prepared as possible to deal with actual and potential changes in the regulatory and political landscape.
Each of the business strategies outlined above were unaffected by the passing of the UIGEA.
The considerable experience of the management team and of the Board meant that the Group has been able to withstand what was a considerable blow to our business.
However, the passage of the Act did require that we make a number of structural changes to our management organisation so that it was better aligned with Everyones playing the international, multi-product, multi-lingual The Group has recently launched a new and now multi-currency nature of our business.
The management of our own resources in executing our business strategies has also had to adapt as a result of the changes to our business.
I am pleased to say that, while our operating margins have been affected by the removal of US revenues, the performance since we stopped taking bets from US customers has been strong and is evidence of our ability to adapt quickly to what was a seismic event for our Company.
11448 R&A 2006 front 1 27 3 07 13:44 Page 18 18 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Statements Managing our people Chief Executives The requisite reorganisation of our business following the passage of the UIGEA was significant: we reduced the number of employees by over business review 40% and totally reorganised the management structure.
This was executed in a very supportive manner in a matter of weeks and is a reflection of the quality and professionalism of our people.
We run a lean ship at PartyGaming and require a high level of individual responsibility from all of our staff as well as a very high work ethic.
Our operating mantra is that if something needs doing do it.
Such an environment does not suit everyone, but for those who are able to thrive in a dynamic workplace, we aim to ensure that the rewards are at least as good or better than anywhere else in the industry.
All of our employees have a stake in the Company and so are highly geared to performance.
But working at PartyGaming is not just about financial rewards.
We have a flat management structure so that idea flow and the identification of issues does not get lost in layers of bureaucracy things need to and do happen fast!
This is one of the reasons behind our success and I believe will also be a key factor going forward.
We can attract and retain the best people not just because we pay them well but because PartyGaming is a dynamic, challenging and exciting place to work where there are big opportunities to make a real and valuable contribution.
I think that it is this factor that separates us from our competitors.
11448 R&A 2006 front 1 27 3 07 13:44 Page 19 19 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Statements Current trading and outlook Territories within EMEA have been and continue In the four weeks ended 28 January 2007, average to grow rapidly and thus provide exciting gross daily revenue reached $1,172,000, a 19% opportunities for the Group.
Our product increase from that achieved in the four weeks to development, marketing and customer service 11 December 2006, as disclosed in the trading is now totally focused on customers outside update given by the Company at the end of 2006. the US, including Asia.
Customers from parts In poker, new player sign-ups averaged over 2,300 of Asia may represent a substantial but as yet per day and there were on average 58,000 active untapped opportunity for the Group.
We are players per day, generating average gross daily exploring several initiatives in the region and revenue of $789,000.
In casino, average gross believe that these opportunities and our plans in 2 daily revenue was $318,000 while in sports betting, other international markets will bear fruit in the gross win per day averaged $58,000 per day.
Backgammon generated average gross revenue The legislative landscape and market dynamics of $7,000 per day.
around the world are constantly changing making In the following four weeks, ended 25 February it difficult to predict exactly what things will look like 2007, average gross daily revenue had increased in 12 months time.
However, it is clear that online to $1,327,000, a 13% increase over January.
gaming has huge popular appeal among adults In poker, new player sign-ups averaged over 2,400 around the world and it is generally accepted that per day and there were on average 66,000 active this trend will continue.
players per day, generating average gross daily It is against this background that the Board revenue of $856,000.
In casino, average gross daily believes that whilst regulatory uncertainties revenue had increased to $378,000 per day while continue in a number of territories, the Group has in sports betting, gross win per day had increased the resources and the necessary skills to execute to $86,000 per day.
Backgammon revenues fell its strategy and achieve its long-term objective to gross revenue of $6,000 per day.
The growth of delivering attractive returns for shareholders.
in revenue has had a positive influence on profitability and Clean EBITDA margins of the Continuing operations should benefit from further revenue growth.
Solid start in 2007 Gross daily revenue in February 2007 was $1.3 million per day, up from below $1 million per day in the four weeks to 11 December 2006.
2 Including Empire Online and Intercontinental Online Gaming casinos at their average daily rate post-acquisition on 19 January 2007 11448 R&A 2006 front 1 27 3 07 13:45 Page 20 From being one down... 11448 R&A 2006 front 1 27 3 07 13:45 Page 21... to getting one over Good news, bad news?
Win or lose, our customers play for entertainment.
Its not about changing your life, its about the unadulterated pleasure you get from beating your competitor!
