CHieF eXeCUTiVeS reView Overview Just over three years ago, Cairn made the transformational discovery of mangala in rajasthan.
Following successful completion of the iPO in January 2007, and its establishment as an autonomous business, Cairn india is well placed to move that discovery and others in rajasthan forward in preparation for first oil production in 2009. in parallel with this, Capricorn is examining a number of opportunities for growth.
india The iPO of Cairn india is a natural evolution of our business, building on the decade of remarkable achievement that Cairn has enjoyed in South Asia.
The successful completion of the iPO has created an autonomous business with an experienced management team capable of developing and building on our world class assets in india.
Cairn indias oil and gas fields at ravva and CB OS-2 continue to be the cornerstone of its existing production.
During 2006 both of these assets benefited from revised gas prices and improved oil production.
An ongoing drilling programme at ravva and new developments planned on CB OS-2 will ensure that these assets continue to underpin Cairn indias activities elsewhere in india.
A step change in production is expected from 2009, when the first of the rajasthan developments is scheduled to come onstream.
The mangala field will be brought on production first, followed by the Bhagyam and Aishwariya fields: targeted gross production from all three is 150,000 bopd.
Once onstream, these fields will create enormous value for the Goi, the rajasthan State Government and for investors OpERatiNg Cash flOw and other stakeholders in both Cairn and Cairn india.
$000 Laboratory studies have indicated that the early application 0 50 100 150 200 250 of enhanced oil recovery eOr techniques on the mangala and Bhagyam fields is expected to significantly extend the production plateau and ultimate reserves for these fields.
Further work is also planned to determine the best method of extracting the oil from the potentially productive Barmer Hill formation.
indias exploration potential is huge, with the majority of the 26 hydrocarbon basins in the country being under-explored.
Cairn india has recently secured two new exploration blocks in the NeLP Vi licensing round and now has an interest in a total 150,000 of 15 blocks in india.
Cairn india is well placed to build on this asset base and to bid for further exploration acreage that may BOPD GrOSS PrODUCTiON TArGeT FOr rAJASTHAN be offered in future licensing rounds.
15 blocks HeLD By CAirN iNDiA 6 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 rajasthan Upstream rajasthan midstream The upstream picture in rajasthan is progressing well.
Cairn india is aligned with its joint venture JV partner, Current estimates for the proven and probable 2P ONGC, on a midstream solution and intends to become hydrocarbons in place for the six fields: mangala, Bhagyam, an active participant in midstream activities with a view to Aishwariya, Saraswati, raageshwari Oil and raageshwari optimising value from its exposure to the entire production Deep Gas: total 2.2 billion boe and the associated 2P reserves and oil sales chain.
plus contingent resources are 864 million boe.
Through third party discussions and studies relating to the The additional smaller and or low permeability fields and evacuation of the crude, Cairn india now has a comprehensive reservoirs have an estimated 2P hydrocarbons in place understanding of the construction schedule for a pipeline volume of more than 1.4 billion boe.
Over the coming from the fields in rajasthan.
Specialist consulting engineers years, Cairn indias focus will be on converting as much have been retained to help develop this knowledge base of this contingent resource base into 2P reserves as is further and to assist Cairn india in addressing the associated economically possible.
technical and commercial issues involved.
in this regard, work is also ongoing to establish optimal A proposal is currently being prepared for submission to the eOr techniques in the rajasthan block to extend plateau Goi seeking approval to include within the FDP a pipeline to production and maximise recovery factors.
Laboratory work transport rajasthan crude from mangala to a coastal terminal is currently underway to establish the potential of these facility.
The proposed routing of the pipeline will allow access technologies, particularly in relation to how they can be used to the existing pipeline infrastructure and refinery network, in mangala and Bhagyam, the largest of the rajasthan fields.
with a final coastal delivery point that also affords access to the majority of indias refining capacity.
it is proposed that the The first phase of development drilling on Saraswati has pipeline will fall within the definition of the field development been completed and development drilling is now underway activities and will, accordingly, be funded 70% by Cairn india on raageshwari.
Development drilling on mangala is and 30% by ONGC.
if the pipeline is included in the FDP and scheduled to commence in 2008. approved by the Goi, the costs would be recoverable under the Production sharing contracts PSCs.
The conceptual The Goi has approved the Declaration of Commerciality for engineering and route identification for the pipeline are at Bhagyam, the second largest field in Block rJ-ON-90 1, an advanced stage.
along with the Shakti field.
Field development plans FDPs for Bhagyam and Shakti have been completed and are expected Cairn india and ONGC are continuing discussions on the to be submitted to the Goi in Q2 2007. approach to pricing the rajasthan crude.
CAIRN HAS UNDERGONE AN EXTENSIVE RESTRUCTURING OF ITS BUSINESS WITH THE IPO OF CAIRN INDIA AND THE FORMATION OF CAPRICORN.
WE CONTINUE TO BE FOCUSED ON DELIVERING THE RAJASTHAN DEVELOPMENT AND ENSURING THE UPSTREAM PROJECT REMAINS ON TRACK TO PRODUCE FIRST OIL IN 2009.
CAIRN INDIA IS ALIGNED WITH ITS JOINT VENTURE PARTNER ONGC AND INTENDS TO BECOME AN ACTIVE PARTICIPANT IN MIDSTREAM ACTIVITIES WITH A VIEW TO OPTIMISING VALUE FROM ITS EXPOSURE TO THE ENTIRE PRODUCTION AND OIL SALES CHAIN.
WE ARE ACTIVELY EVALUATING GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES FOR CAPRICORN.
CHieF eXeCUTiVeS reView CONTiNUeD rajasthan Project Funding RAHUL DHIR, CEO OF CAIRN INDIA Cairn indias funding for the initial upstream development will be provided from ongoing cash generation, its retained proceeds of the iPO $600m and specific banking facility $850m.
Funding for the midstream pipeline can also largely be met from these sources.
Once the mangala oil field is onstream, subsequent development phases will be funded out of the resultant cash flows and borrowings under the facility.
Bangladesh A planned three well offshore drilling campaign in Bangladesh commenced in January 2007 and is ongoing.
However, due to operational delays the third well in the sequence an exploration well on the Hatia prospect will now not be drilled in the current weather window.
A separate high impact exploration campaign targeting both the Hatia and magnama prospects is being planned for late 2007 early 2008.
The first well drilled in the current programme was a down-dip appraisal well on the South Sangu field, which unfortunately encountered a gas water contact in the main reservoir.
The gas volumes associated with South Sangu are now considered to be non-commercial and a decision has been On the appointment of Rahul Dhir as CEO of Cairn India in made not to proceed with its development.
April 2006, Sir Bill Gammell commented Rahuls intimate knowledge of India, and his international banking and Present drilling operations are focused on a Sangu infill specialist experience of world energy markets, will be development well Sangu-10.
The principal objective of the invaluable to Cairn.
Sangu-10 well is to test a potentially undrained compartment in the main Sangu field.
At the time of the January 2007 On completion of his studies in Delhi and the US, rahul operational update, it was expected that the results of started his career as an oil and gas engineer before moving Sangu-10 would be known by the time of the preliminary into investment banking.
Prior to his move to Cairn india results announcement.
However, operational delays have to lead the iPO, rahul worked for merrill Lynch, where he meant that the results of this well are not yet available.
advised some of the worlds leading oil and gas companies.
it has therefore been decided to reclassify 88 bscf of the 100 bscf attributable to the success case from the 2P to the 3P Both of my parents worked for ONGC and so the oil category to reflect fully the risk that this compartment may and gas industry was part of my upbringing.
As a student, be partially drained.
This has had the effect of increasing the i even worked in the Cambay Basin which is located to the gross Sangu reserves reduction to 213 bscf compared to the south of the rajasthan Basin, in which Cairn india is now 187 bscf announced in the January 2007 operational update.
Coming back to india as CeO of Cairn india has been very exciting india today is very different from the The Sangu gas field, although now in decline, has produced country i left 20 years ago.
indias growth potential is in excess of 400 bscf since commencement of production in increasingly recognised and understood, with virtually 1998.
To date, the Sangu JV has generated gross revenue in every major business now paying attention to it.
the globe, the oil and gas sector is also realising that india is relatively under explored as a hydrocarbon province.
results and Financial Performance Cairn india is well placed to play its part in fulfilling this Production for the year, on an entitlement interest basis, tremendous potential and i believe that the next decade has decreased by 13% to 24,523 boepd 2005: 28,240 boepd.
is going to be remarkable for us and for india.
This is primarily due to reduced gross field production at Sangu with entitlement further impacted by reduced development expenditure incurred in 2006.
A breakdown Rahul Dhir of production is shown in the table in the Operating and Chief executive Officer exploration review on page 21.
Cairn india Limited 8 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 The Groups production mix continues to be gas biased approximately 73% on an entitlement basis.
This, combined with contractual gas price caps, resulted in an average price realised by the Group for the year of $31.84 per boe 2005: $25.44 per boe.
The increase was mainly due to 69% higher oil prices achieved.
Cairns exposure to world oil CAirN eNerGy PLC HOLDiNG iN CAirN iNDiA POST iPO prices will increase significantly when production commences from rajasthan.
Operating profit pre-exceptional items and operating cash flows were $6.9m and $207.2m respectively 2005: $55.6m $940m and $139.6m.
The Group made a loss after tax of $82.0m 2005 profit: $79.1m, mainly due to the exceptional oil and gas reTUrN TO CAirN eNerGy PLC SHAreHOLDerS write down of $71.5m as a result of the downward reserves revision on Sangu.
On 9 January 2007, Cairns indian business was floated on the Bombay Stock exchange and the National Stock exchange of india, pursuant to Cairns strategy of increasing the autonomy of that business and of realising value for shareholders.
$300m iPO PrOCeeDS AVAiLABLe TO CAPriCOrN The total proceeds raised in the flotation were $1.98bn and, on 27 February 2007, the Company announced the proposed return of 481m approximately $940m of this cash to shareholders of Cairn energy PLC equivalent to 3 per share.
Cairn india has retained $600m, with the remainder of the proceeds currently being held to fund Cairns ongoing business held by its wholly owned subsidiary Capricorn.
This provides financial flexibility to support the growth of Capricorn, with the aim of creating and realising further value for shareholders in the future.
The expected $1.1bn gain on disposal of the 31% interest in Cairn india in the iPO will be included in the results for 2007.
The Group signed a $1bn syndicated revolving credit facility on 27 June 2006 $845m unutilised at 31 December 2006.
Following the iPO, the $150m corporate facility was cancelled and the remaining $850m transferred to Cairn india to finance the rajasthan development.
At the year end the Group had net cash of $701.3m, including funds raised in the pre iPO placing of $751.8m 2005: net cash $95.5m.
Sir Bill Gammell Chief executive 27 march 2007 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 9
