Directors report: Overview Group Chief Executives review Group Chief Executives review Our results in 2006 demonstrate excellent and continued progress in the delivery of the Groups growth and value agenda Mark Tucker Group Chief Executive Total EEV basis operating profit from continuing operations 15% 2006 1,976m 2005 1,711m EEV basis shareholders funds APE new business premiums 15% 16% 2006 11.9bn 2006 2,470m 2005 10.3bn 2005 2,134m Comparison at constant exchange rates CER.
Comparison at reported exchange rates RER.
6 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Directors report: Overview Group Chief Executives review The Groups strategy is centred on optimising our competitive The Board recommends a final dividend of 11.72 pence per advantages in life assurance, becoming a leading provider share, bringing the full-year dividend to 17.14 pence per share, of financial services for the retirement market, and on the an increase of five per cent over the full year 2005 dividend of further development of our asset management businesses.
implementing this strategy our clear aim is to secure superior The full year dividend is covered 1.5 times by post-tax IFRS growth in value for our shareholders.
operating profit from continuing operations.
In 2006, we continued to focus on developing our position The Board will focus on delivering a growing dividend, which will in our chosen markets of Asia, the US and the UK: markets continue to be determined after taking into account the Groups that we believe offer the greatest opportunity for sustained financial flexibility and opportunities to invest in areas of the profitable growth.
The Board believes that in the Total Group operating profit before tax was 1,976 million on a medium term a dividend cover of around two-times is appropriate.
European Embedded Value EEV basis, an increase of 15 per cent, Insurance operations and the Groups return on embedded value was 13.5 per cent The Groups position in Asia continues to develop rapidly with the 2005: 15.5 per cent.
Statutory International Financial Reporting region accounting for almost 50 per cent of the Groups 2006 new Standards IFRS operating profit before tax was 893 million business profits.
One of the key priorities in the region in 2006 was 2005: 957 million.
to continue to build our distribution capability.
Agency remains the major channel in the region and during the year we added 115,000 Across the Groups insurance operations, new business agents, to total 285,000 agents by the end of the year.
Building the increased by 16 per cent to 2,470 million, on an APE basis.
agency force in a disciplined way in developing markets such as Profits on new business exceeded 1 billion for the first time, India, China and Indonesia is critical to success, whereas in some 20 per cent up on 2005.
Average margins across the Group of the more developed markets in the region such as Hong Kong remained strong and were 42 per cent 41 per cent in 2005 and Singapore where agency numbers are more stable, the main and returns on new business have also improved.
Operating focus is on increasing productivity.
Non-agency distribution is profit from the insurance businesses was 2,209 million, on also developing strongly and accounted for 30 per cent of new an EEV basis, increasing by 28 per cent on 2005, and IFRS business in 2006 26 per cent in 2005 as we established a number operating profit increased by 15 per cent to 1,087 million.
of new and important relationships during the year.
As well as In asset management we delivered record net flows at M&G experiencing rapid growth Asia became cash positive in 2006, and in our rapidly growing retail businesses in Asia.
Net inflows in line with our previous forecast, with a net remittance of of 8.6 billion were 66 per cent ahead of 2005 and external funds 28 million to the Group.
under management increased to 57 billion 2005: 46 billion.
Operating profit from these businesses was 254 million, up In 2007 and beyond, Asia offers significant potential for 46 per cent on 2005. profitable growth and we are on track to deliver on our target to at least double 2005 new business profits by 2009.
We are in Difficult trading conditions in the UK personal loans market led all the regions major markets and see further opportunity to build to losses at Egg, the Groups UK banking business, of 145 million distribution, improve productivity and efficiency and increase sales 2005: profit 44 million.
In January 2007 we received an offer for of our market leading unit-linked products.
We also see scope to Egg from Citi and the business was sold for 575 million in cash, increase sales to our seven million existing customers: to use our subject to completion adjustments.
We expect this transaction to regional and Group expertise to play a key role as the retirement complete by the end of April 2007. market develops in a number of Asian countries: to extend our The Groups cash flow developed strongly in 2006 and its direct distribution capabilities and to increase selectively our capital position remains robust.
Taking into account our plans presence in the Accident and Health product sector across a for sustained high levels of growth and a normalised level of scrip number of markets in the region.
dividend uptake we expect our operating cash flow to be positive in 2008.
In light of this the Board has reviewed its longer-term dividend policy.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 7 Directors report: Overview Group Chief Executives review Group Chief Executives review continued Our strategy in the US is to focus on the opportunities that exist competitive advantages but we will only write business that in the growing retirement market as the US baby boomers retire, meets our required returns.
with a particular emphasis on variable annuities.
We have marketMuch of our Wealth and Health business is low margin leading product flexibility and high levels of product innovation, and our strategy will be to improve returns through a much a focus on advice-based distribution and on maintaining high narrower business, exiting segments that are unprofitable and service levels at low cost.
As a result our retail sales in 2006 grew concentrating our effort only where we have a material and at more than double the rate of the market overall.
Variable annuity sustainable competitive advantage and where we can achieve sales increased by 48 per cent over 2005, and we have achieved returns significantly in excess of the cost of capital.
We have compound growth of 45 per cent over a five-year period.
withdrawn from provision of front-end commission individual In 2007, our aim is to capitalise on the market position that pensions and will also exit front-end commission unit-linked the Jackson team have built, growing distribution and further bonds, segments of the market where we do not see that developing the product range to address both existing and new adequate returns can be made.
For example, in January 2007, we launched a new We believe there is an opportunity in the retirement savings simplified retirement annuity aimed at mutual fund representatives, market for us to capitalise on our proven low risk multi-asset extending our distribution reach.
We remain confident that we can investment capabilities.
We will bring a new range of products continue to outperform the market and gain profitable market share.
to the market based on these capabilities and with improved In the UK, retail insurance new business increased by 14 per cent returns through a focus on trail, rather than front-end commission.
in 2006 and overall new business sales were up one per cent.
We We will concentrate our advice-based distribution activity on the continued to focus on writing for value across the UK business significant number of investors approaching retirement who have with average margins increasing to 30 per cent 27 per cent in substantial assets outside personal or corporate pension plans, 2005.
Returns on new business improved to 15 per cent and or have investments in poorly performing funds, and require remain high compared with the rest of the UK market.
We also see opportunity to develop further our already strong Notwithstanding this strong performance, we have continued to position in the corporate pensions market and we will improve assess the positioning of our UK insurance operations, examining returns by focusing on schemes with higher case sizes and a broad range of potential options with a clear goal of maximising holding costs as volumes grow.
We are confident that there are profitable opportunities for the Group in the retirement income We will participate in the health market through our existing joint and savings market.
venture with Discovery, which will be expanded to include our We have significant competitive advantages in the retirement new Flexible Protection product.
A combination of the strength of income market, in particular our flow of internal vestings from the Prudential brand in the UK, clearly differentiated products and our back book of personal pensions, and this market remains very the operational capabilities of Discovery, provide an excellent base attractive.
We therefore see retail annuities and equity release to deliver profitable growth in these markets.
The joint venture will and the nurturing of our existing policyholders as key parts of our be led by Discovery.
In the wholesale annuity market we also have distinct EEV basis operating profit from long-term business from continuing operations 28% 2006 2,209m 2005 1,722m EEV basis new business profit Asset management business IFRS operating profit 20% 46% 2006 1,039m 2006 254m 2005 869m 2005 174m Comparison at constant exchange rates CER.
8 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Directors report: Overview Group Chief Executives review Actions are in place to realise 65 per cent of the previously Group announced cost savings target of 115 million for the UK As a Group we are continuing to increase the level of co-operation insurance business.
We have increased our annualised target and the exchange of ideas across our businesses.
cost savings to 195 million by 2010 and our current estimate The Groups asset management businesses are using their global is that these savings will lead to a 60 million positive impact presence, exchanging information to support their investment on embedded value.
Total restructuring costs are estimated decisions and to enable the efficient management of over 6 billion to be up to 165 million.
We have initiated discussions with the regulator on the In our insurance businesses, which remain predominantly market possible reattribution of the inherited estate of the Groups specific, collaboration is taking place where there is a commercial main with-profits fund in the UK, Prudential Assurance Company.
Product development teams are working across the An Independent Policyholder Advocate has been nominated to Group to access existing skills and expertise.
In distribution, the represent policyholders should a decision be taken to proceed.
We UK business has utilised the very successful techniques developed will only proceed if there are clear benefits to both policyholders by Jackson in the US, to segment the independent financial adviser and shareholders.
If a decision is taken to proceed a formal market, saving time and cost and improving returns.
appointment of the Policyholder Advocate could be expected to take place later this year.
Work is ongoing to consolidate our technology infrastructure in particular across the UK and the US.
A single Customer Service With a focused strategy in the UK based on our competitive Desktop is now under development and will be launched in 2007. advantages, we see opportunities for growth in the retail market at high margins and returns relative to the overall market.
In the Central to the management of the Group is capital efficiency and wholesale annuity market we will write business that meets our capital allocation.
During 2006, we have made significant progress required returns and by definition the flows will be lumpy year in the assessment of, and management of, risk on a Group-wide on year.
We are maintaining our 14 per cent IRR target for new basis.
This understanding provides a solid foundation as we business and we expect the UKs shareholder-backed business continue to embed decision making on a risk-adjusted basis.
to become a net capital generator for the Group by 2010.
Summary Asset management The Group goes into 2007 with strong momentum.
I continue to Maintaining superior investment performance is the key see tremendous scope for the Group to build sustainable profitable factor in the continuing growth and success of the Groups asset growth and secure superior growth in value for our shareholders.
In 2006, the performance of M&G in the UK and Europe and our asset management businesses in Asia has again been very strong, adding value to our insurance businesses worldwide, supporting record net inflows and continuing the growth of the Groups external funds under management.
In 2007, we will continue to build on the strong growth over recent years in both M&G and in Asia.
In addition, Jackson will enter the US retail mutual fund market for the first time, a significant market that continues to gain momentum, especially among the baby boomers.
Previously announced UK cost savings target of 150 million by 2009 included 35 million in relation to Egg, which was acquired by Citi in January 2007.
Previously announced restructuring costs of 110 million included 25 million related to Egg.
