Chief executives statement It is a great pleasure to be able While I will refer to the business in more detail below, it is important to emphasise at the to report that we have achieved our start that what we have achieved this year has highest profits ever for the second been the result of hard work and in many cases long hours and dedication on the part of our year running.
In this, our 265th enormously committed staff.
year, the overall business In our core investment management business has grown solidly and profitably 19 investment professionals joined during the course of the year 11 from the business we have added staff, clients that was acquired from Dexia and eight and space, during a time when by recruitment.
markets have been positive for Although recruiting individual investment managers does not attract headlines in the same us and our clients.
way as a corporate acquisition, it is a very effective way of growing our business and we are pleased that 2006 saw so many people joining us.
Many of them have come from organisations undergoing corporate change and they have enjoyed joining a stable organisation committed to private clients and to providing the highest quality of service.
The fact that we are an independent listed company, with about 20% owned by staff, retired staff and their families, helps us attract high quality professionals.
6 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2006 5 KE 5 $ GI One theme that has attracted considerable The performance of several of our unit trust press comment over the year has been the funds has led to very favourable press comment developing market for self-invested personal and awards.
During the latter part of 2006, the pensions SIPPs.
This is an area of great interest Rathbone Income Fund went through a to us and to our clients, and during 2006 we significant milestone when it reached 1 billion.
consolidated our pension advisory work into a This is a major achievement given it was under new regulated company, Rathbone Pension & 50 million five years ago and it is one of the Advisory Services Limited.
This business received very few funds in the UK to have been ranked authorisation and started trading on 1 August in the top quartile for each one of the last 2006, and enables us to give advice on the seven calendar years.
establishment of pension arrangements which Other key events included the re-branding may well include a SIPP for our existing clients, of our international trust business as Rathbone as well as attracting new business to Rathbones.
This was designed to Many existing clients already have and coincide with the move from three legacy many more may well want a SIPP to run locations in Jersey into a splendid new, alongside their main portfolio, as it is a taxpurpose-built building on The Esplanade.
efficient way of planning for retirement.
The Although this caused some inevitable disruption obvious attraction to Rathbones of this business to the Jersey business, we believe that the is that we can use our investment management move into one building will have significant expertise to manage the underlying assets in tangible and intangible benets.
Indeed SIPPs have sufficient exibility in atmosphere has been remarkable and staff that we are able to offer an ethical SIPP no longer have to walk miles simply to to those clients who require it.
Our offshore investment to advising on and running our own SIPP management business in Jersey has also been products, we are also active in the management re-branded as Rathbone Investment of investments for other SIPP providers.
To this end, we have been successful in It has been an eventful year all in all with building our presence on the panels of a number progress being made on all fronts across our of life company-run SIPPs or similar pension business areas, both large and small.
The GE Life relationship is already forward with enthusiasm and confidence.
resulting in significant fund inows and we hope the other earlier stage relationships will prove as mutually beneficial.
This activity has also increased our prole in the independent financial adviser market Andy Pomfret where we already have a good reputation for Chief Executive unit trust management, and we are seeing a 28 February 2007 growing interest from IFAs in our discretionary fund management service.
Many shareholders will have noticed our increased advertising activity for both our discretionary fund management services and our unit trusts, particularly the new High Income Fund.
The feedback we have received suggests this has been beneficial in raising the reputation and prole of Rathbones amongst a range of audiences as well as directly attracting new clients.
7 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2006 5 KE 5 $ GI
