Business review Governance Accounts 13 Chief Executives overview 2007 has started well with a total of 132m of Strong performance major contracts won and extended in the first 8 weeks.
2006 has been another active and successful year, We are also now in the position where we have no with record major sales wins and strong operational material contracts due for renewal in 2007 and 2008 performance across the Group.
Ipage 24 The market for BPO in the UK and Ireland continues to Our current bid pipeline stands at 2.6bn February provide excellent growth opportunities.
Our extensive 2006: 2.2bn and contains some exciting opportunities, infrastructure and capability provide us with a strong particularly within the life and pensions and local competitive edge across our markets and enable us to government markets.
Behind this is an active prospect present strong propositions to clients.
list of opportunities which are yet to reach a shortlist stage.
We have already secured strong revenue growth Building value for shareholders for 2007 and our efforts are now focused upon achieving a similar position for 2008.
To ensure we are building value for shareholders, we focus on a number of key measures alongside Our businesses have developed well and grown profitability: operating margins, cash flow, capital across the year securing new and repeat business.
expenditure, return on capital employed, gearing We have also continued our strategy of expanding and economic profit.
We also focus on maintaining a existing offerings and entering new market segments conservative but efficient capital structure.
Collectively through acquiring small niche businesses.
Our they form an integral part of building value for our operational capabilities continue to grow, evidenced shareholders on a consistent basis over the long term.
by the smooth running of both our major integrated We have set out our aims and performance regarding contracts and our separate businesses.
Growth of our BPO offshore operation in India Over the 10 years to 14 February 2007, the market has accelerated, with the business doubling in size in capitalisation of the Group has increased from 360m the past 12 months.
By 2009, we anticipate that we to 4.1bn.
The total shareholder return in this period will have approaching 3,000 people based in India.
has been 10.5 fold, equivalent to a 27% compound Our offshore facilities are delivering significant savings, annual return.
providing operational flexibility, raising service quality and increasing productivity.
I page 35 Growing our business Our continuing focus We aim to generate profitable and sustainable growth both organically and through small to medium sized We remain enthused by the many opportunities that complementary acquisitions.
Of the 21% increase in exist to develop the Group and we will continue to turnover in 2006, 16% was achieved through organic build long term value for our shareholders, clients growth and the remaining 5% was derived through and our employees.
Securing and renewing major contracts is an important component of our growth.
Across the Group, we have over 20,000 customers and our retention rate is excellent.
Our sales performance in 2006 was very strong.
We secured 23 major new and extended contracts with an aggregate value of 1.37bn 2005: 1.14bn.
Ipage 21 Paul Pindar Chief Executive The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
