Royal & SunAlliance 6 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Group CEOs business review It has been an important year for the Group during which we have continued to deliver on our strategic and financial objectives We have continued to supplement our organic growth with m 2006 2005 selective acquisitions in Ireland, the UK, Norway and Canada.
The Net written premiums 5,484 5,300 acquisitions along with the distribution deals that we announced Underwriting result 310 263 in 2006 are expected to contribute premiums of over 400m Operating result 780 743 when at a full run rate.
Combined operating ratio COR 93.3% 94.1% While we look to profitably grow the business, our commitment is Underlying return on equity 20.7% 21.6% to sustainable profitable performance.
In 2006 weve continued to deliver against this.
We have increased the underwriting profit Over the last four years, we have built a portfolio with a by 18% to 310m and weve improved the operating result by good geographic spread and strong market positions.
The combined operating ratio of just have also been focused on operational excellence in our over 93%, marks the twelfth consecutive quarter of combined underwriting, claims and expense management.
The benefits ratios in the nineties.
of this work are clearly evident in our financial performance, The after tax loss of 20m reflects the expected 499m and in 2006 weve delivered another strong result.
writedown of the US operation and US trading loss for the year.
Last year I also set out our plans to come off risk in the US On a like-for-like basis, profit after tax from continuing operations and bring finality and certainty to our exposure.
In line with increased by 14% reflecting the strength of the ongoing Group.
this strategy, in September, we announced the disposal of our Operating result m US business to the US management team through a company called Arrowpoint Capital.
Weve now completed the transaction, 780 resolving the last of the Groups legacy issues and completing 743 the Group restructuring we started in 2003.
The disposal allows us to focus solely on the development of our 623 ongoing businesses and to continue to deliver on our objective of building one of the leading Property and Casualty insurers.
Strong financial performance During 2006, we have increased net written premiums by 3% to 5.5bn.
In each of our regions there are opportunities to profitably grow the franchise and new business was up 26% on last year.
2004 2005 2006 In Denmark, Sweden and Italy we are growing ahead of the market, while in Canada, the Baltics and Latin America we have Across the Group, each of the regions has delivered a strong continued to achieve double digit growth.
The UK remains our result.
The UK combined of 92.3% is in line with last year and the toughest market with premiums broadly in line with last year, underwriting result is up 4% to 160m.
The Commercial combined reflecting our disciplined approach.
of 92.6% remains strong, while in Personal we have achieved an Across the Group, retention rates remained strong at 83%.
excellent result, improving the combined ratio by 4 points to 91.6%.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2006 7 In International we have improved the combined ratio by nearly a point to 94.0%.
The underwriting result is up by 35% to 85m, driven by continued strong performances in Canada, Europe, Asia and the Middle East.
Canada has achieved another outstanding result with an 85% increase in the underwriting result to 48m.
The Latin American combined of 103.7% reflects acquisition integration costs, higher reinsurance costs and the impact of some adverse weather and large losses.
We have taken the opportunity to strengthen the leadership team with the appointments of a new regional CEO, CFO and a new Risk Director and with the actions we have taken, we expect to see the result improve during 2007.
Scandinavia delivered another good performance with a combined of 93.9% and a 15% improvement in the underwriting key areas.
The purpose of the Academy is to develop the next result to 75m.
This was driven by a positive rating environment generation of talent, utilise our technical skills to support our growth and improvements we have made to our claims management.
plans and ensure we are driving best practices across the Group.
These results have been achieved against the backdrop of a In terms of expenses, we have now achieved our original goal of competitive market and highlight the benefits of our balanced 270m of savings ahead of schedule.
In June, we announced a portfolio.
new target to reduce headcount by over 1,500 and to deliver a The rating environment has remained mixed by business class further 130m of expense savings by the middle of 2008.
In Personal lines, weve seen rate increases in the are making good progress.
We have reduced headcount by over low single digits across our core markets.
In Commercial, while 1,000 and are on track to deliver the new savings targets ahead the environment has remained stable through the year, rates of schedule.
Our focus on technical and operational excellence is supported Operational excellence by tight management controls.
In underwriting, we have a clearly Against this market backdrop, our strong financial performance defined risk appetite and a system of global licensing to ensure has been driven by our focus on operational excellence and that it is enforced.
We implement a Group wide technical pricing strong management controls.
It covers the work we are doing strategy, backed up by active portfolio management.
We hold on underwriting, pricing, claims and expense management as detailed quarterly reviews with each business and carry out well as the discipline with which we run the business.
regular audits of business won and business lost.
Our underwriting and claims skills are market leading and provide It is why we are confident that were taking on the right business a real source of competitive advantage.
In 2006 we launched putting rate through where it is required and walking away when our Technical Academy to ensure we remain best in class in these we cant get the right price, terms or conditions.
Royal & SunAlliance 8 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Group CEOs business review continued Delivering strong financial performance also means having the Group reorganisation best people on the team.
Last year I talked about how we were Over the last couple of years, we have built a balanced portfolio embedding a performance culture throughout the business.
of high performing businesses with strong market positions.
Our It is about giving people clear accountability and responsibility objective is to target profitable growth across the Group and in as well as opportunities to develop their careers.
2006 we reorganised to give us the right structure to deliver on this objective.
Part of achieving this culture means having differentiated reward based on performance at all levels.
In 2003, only 15% Under the new structure, the Group is organised into three of employees had pay linked to their performance.
We set regions International, Emerging Markets and the UK.
ourselves a target of increasing this to 90% of employees by International continues to be headed by Simon Lee.
It now includes the end of 2006, and I am pleased to report that we have now Scandinavia where weve appointed Rickard Gustafson as the new met this target.
CEO, as well as Canada, Ireland and Italy.
Our objective is to drive Just as we reward superior performance, we take action on the businesses harder and deliver growth ahead of the market.
Of our top 100 management group, weve Emerging Markets comprises the Groups operations in Latin changed out around 10% during the year.
We have appointed America, Asia and the Middle East and the Baltics.
It is headed 12 people from outside the Group into senior roles and we have up by Paul Whittaker who has substantial experience in Eastern continued to promote talent from within the business, with 15 Europe and Asia.
At R&SA, hes been a key part of the Executive of our top managers moving into roles of greater responsibility.
During the year, we have had a real focus on employee Emerging Markets is our fastest growing region and has development.
In addition to the Technical Academy, we have enormous potential.
Weve established good positions in Latin launched a number of new initiatives such as FastTrack, an America, Asia and the Middle East and the Baltics and our plan accelerated scheme for high potential graduates.
Our Executive is to continue to drive growth of around 15% per annum in order Development Programme entered its third year and has been to double premiums by 2010. highly successful, with 70% of participants in the first two programmes now in more senior roles.
Bridget McIntyre continues to lead the UK and is driving the business forward.
In Broker, were expanding in our target trades Part of our culture is about listening to our people and taking and segments such as Marine and Profin.
In Retail, were growing action on their feedback.
We have again completed our annual MORE TH N new business was up nearly 30% in 2006 and global employee survey and on the back of actions taken last we have taken this good momentum into 2007.
In Affinity, we year the overall satisfaction response improved 3%.
entered a major deal with Paymentshield during the year and we We use the results to build clear action plans to address issues are confident well meet our target of over 50% growth by 2010. raised and make improvements in each of our businesses.
One of In each of our businesses, were driving a real customer focus, the areas we continue to focus on is driving further improvement whether its in new product development or customer service.
In in the level of employee engagement across the business in Commercial, were leveraging our global expertise to develop new order to support the Groups strategic and financial objectives.
customer propositions such as our One Stop Cargo offering for Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2006 9 the international marine market.
In Personal lines, were Driving sustainable profitable performance leading the market on new product innovation to meet changing Our overriding commitment is to sustainable profitable customer demands.
During the year we became the first insurer performance.
We will continue to deliver this through the in the UK to offer discounts for drivers of hybrid cars and following discipline and focus with which we run the businesses combined the successful launch of the product, we have now rolled it out in with the balance and strength of our portfolio.
Its a good example of where we are able to take successful In 2007 were confident that each region will again deliver a initiatives from one market to another.
We are committed to providing high levels of customer The strength of the portfolio will be evident as we shift capacity service and are always looking for ways to improve our offering.
to where we see the best opportunities.
We expect International In Canada, our Personal lines business, Johnson has been a to deliver a greater proportion of the Groups underwriting result, market leader in terms of its customer service.
This year, we largely driven by an improved Scandinavian performance.
took their model of personal account managers for every customer and piloted it in the UK with 60,000 MORE TH N Across the Group, our current expectation is that we will deliver customers.
Feedback was so positive, that we have now made a combined ratio of better than 95% for the full year.
the service available to all MORE TH N customers.
Over the past four years, weve built a track record of delivering on our commitments.
And we take this same level of energy, drive Combined operating ratio % and ambition into the next phase of the Companys development.
97.7 97.4 96.0 96.0 95.7 95.5 We have a clear strategy, a strong portfolio of businesses, market 94.2 94.0 93.8 leading underwriting and claims skills, and a team with a real focus 91.8 91.8 91.6 on execution.
It is a powerful combination and its why were confident about the long term sustainability of our performance.
