qxp 15 3 07 15:17 Page 06 Group Chief Executives review 06 RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Group Chief Executives review RBS Review 01-11v2.
qxp 15 3 07 15:17 Page 07 The Group maintained strength and momentum broaden its customer base through the expansion of its credit card, merchant acquiring, small business and midin 2006 with higher earnings growth and an corporate activities.
Our GBM and Wealth Management improved return on equity.
All our growth was businesses are growing rapidly in Asia.
organic and all our divisions contributed to it.
We increased our total income by 10% and held Our shareholders The capital generated by our businesses during 2006 our cost growth to 8%.
Group operating profit has enabled us to invest in profitable organic growth increased by 14% to 9,414 million.
across the Group, carry out a 1 billion share buyback and we propose to raise our payout ratio to 45% through We are building a group whose diversity, scale, distribution a final dividend of 66.4p, making a total of 90.6p for the capacity and operational excellence can deliver superior, year, an increase of 25%.
sustainable income growth, controlled risk and strong returns.
Our 2006 results demonstrate once again the success Our people of this model with particularly strong performances from Our performance is the result of the hard work, energy Global Banking & Markets GBM, UK Corporate Banking, and dedication of our 135,000 employees.
We have made Wealth Management and Ulster Bank.
UK Retail banking, significant progress in recent years in the development Citizens and RBS Insurance made good progress in the of our people, by seeking and then acting upon feedback face of headwinds in their markets.
A record 87% of our employees participated in the 2006 Employee Opinion Survey and we outperformed In 2006, we continued to build our market share in UK the Global Financial Services norm in every category.
retail, commercial and corporate banking, increased our Our people told us, and our results demonstrate, that customer base in Europe and made good progress in the Group provides a rewarding and stimulating working building a platform for sustained growth in North America.
environment for personal and professional development.
We have also laid the foundations for a growing share in We continue to listen to them and invest to maintain our the vibrant financial services markets of the Asia Pacific market-leading position.
The breadth of the Groups businesses is reflected in our results: 42% of our operating profit came from our Bank of China international operations.
We have made good progress in developing our partnership with Bank of China.
Our joint credit card business has Sound control of risk is fundamental to the Groups business.
already issued 1.2 million cards, we are establishing a While we grew average customer lending by 14%, impairment joint private banking business and have together completed losses have increased by just 10%.
Central to this is our a number of significant transactions in shipping, aviation longstanding aversion to sub-prime lending, wherever we and trade finance.
We have also maintained the customer-driven nature of our trading activities, as reflected in trading Outlook income growth of 14%, compared with an increase Our proven business model delivered strong results in of only 9% in our average daily value at risk.
We are expanding our reach and making progress in all the major economies we operate in.
We believe that the Our customers strategic choices we have made, together with the prospects The Group continues to hold the highest market share in for continued growth in the world economy, position us well UK corporate banking and we are now the joint leader in for 2007.
We remain confident in the Groups ability to take the personal current account market.
RBS has once again advantage of the many opportunities to invest profitably in secured top position and NatWest is joint second among sustainable growth.
major High Street banks for extremely satisfied customers, and we continued to invest in the expansion of our branch network in the UK.
Through Ulster Bank we expanded across Sir Fred Goodwin the island of Ireland, and in the US, Citizens continued to Group Chief Executive RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 07
