Chairman and Chief We had a very successful year in our Retail of 2.1 billion.
We have one of the fastest Executives statement business with a resumption of significant net growing joint venture fund management inflows after the hiatus of 2005.
In European companies in China with our partner, Bank of We expected 2006 to be a year of equities, strong performance across a range Communications, which has seen significant consolidation after four years of rapid growth of products and a strengthened investment net inflows not included in our net new in profit and with a programme of investment team resulted in net inflows of 2.0 billion.
business flows because of our minority underway to position the firm for longer-term In the UK, Retail had a record year with net 30 per cent.
It is very pleasing therefore to report inflows of 1.4 billion including sub-advisory open offices in Dubai to serve our expanding another year of significantly higher profit, business, and our market share of net fund base of Middle Eastern clients, and in India a further increase in gross margins as we flows from the independent intermediary to access the rapidly growing funds market.
pursue our strategy of focusing on higher sector was 5 per cent.
up sharply on 2005. margin business, a major step forward We also had net inflows in Retail in continental NewFinance Capital NFC, the funds of in Private Banking and two acquisitions Europe and Asia Pacific and in our first year in hedge funds business we acquired in May which extend our offering in alternative the intermediary business in the US.
Funds 2006, has made good progress.
under management in Retail ended the year our existing funds of hedge funds business into NFC, assets under management now at 42.5 billion 2005: 36.0 billion.
total 1.9 billion, investment performance Group profit before tax at 290.0 million Net outflows in Institutional were 8.0 billion has been strong and we are seeing a good 2005: 250.7 million was up 16 per cent.
and included UK balanced mandates where pipeline of new business opportunities.
with underlying profit up 26 per cent.
the industry continues to restructure.
At the excluding the one-off payment received same time we are seeing good flows into At the end of 2006 we announced the in 2005 for the termination of an new balanced, our diversified growth offering acquisition of Aareal Asset Management, outsourcing contract.
for institutional clients which encompasses a continental European property business alternatives as well as traditional asset classes with1.9 billion under management for Underlying Asset Management profit was up and third party as well as Schroders products.
institutional clients, which was successfully 26 per cent.
to 219.0 million and underlying The largest institutional outflows were in completed at the end of February this year.
Private Banking profit increased more than Japanese equities on the back of recent At a time when institutional clients are seeking four times to 26.9 million.
Private Equity profit weak returns after a long track record of to broaden their exposure in Europe, this was 34.6 million 2005: 40.3 million.
We have taken steps to opportunity represents a good strategic fit under management ended the year up 5 per address these performance issues but in the with our existing Property business which cent.
short term we expect to see further outflows.
has 8.2 billion under management, By contrast, we had net institutional inflows predominantly in the UK.
Asset Management into European equities of 1.1 billion.
Funds Revenues and profit increased in Asset under management in Institutional ended the Private Banking Management as we concentrate on higher year at 77.4 billion 2005: 78.7 billion.
We saw a major advance in the contribution margin products and sales channels.
from our Private Banking business in 2006.
New business won in Institutional came Non-UK clients now account for 56 per cent.
With revenues up 33 per cent.
to 98.5 million in on average fees which were 31 per cent.
of our assets under management, up from and costs only marginally higher than in higher than the fees charged on business 43 per cent.
five years ago, and we see 2005, underlying profit increased sharply to lost, and we returned to growth in the higher further excellent growth opportunities in 26.9 million 2005: 6.0 million.
Revenue margin Retail channel with 3.8 billion of our international business.
We have a highly growth came from good increases in net sales.
Asset Management gross profit profitable and rapidly expanding business in investment management revenues in London margins moved up to 55 basis points 2005: Latin America with assets under management and Switzerland and significantly higher 51 basis points.
Michael Miles, Chairman Michael Dobson, Chief Executive banking fees in London.
We are on target with The majority of the balance was invested Schroders the planned move of our back office operations in private equity 168.2 million and liquid to Zurich, which will lead to important assets 311.8 million.
Chairman and Chief improvements in both client service and cost Executives statement effectiveness from the second half of 2007.
We continue to believe that maintaining a strong financial position is a key competitive Private Banking now accounts for nearly advantage and enables us to take a long-term 10 per cent.
of total profit, a significant view in building our business.
2 3 increase on recent years as a result of a distinctive offering for private clients drawing Dividend on Schroders wide ranging investment In the light of the underlying growth in profit in expertise and banking skills, a clear focus 2006, the Board is recommending an increased on the UK and continental Europe from our final dividend of 17.5 pence per share payable principal private banking offices in London, on 27 April 2007 to shareholders on the Guernsey, Geneva and Zurich, and tight register at 16 March 2007.
This brings the control of costs.
We expect the share of total dividend for the year to 25.0 pence per total profit generated by Private Banking share 2005: 21.5 pence per share.
Net new business in 2006 The Boards policy is to increase the dividend amounted to 0.4 billion and funds under management ended the year at 8.6 billion progressively, in line with growth in profit.
Outlook Group We have now achieved five years of In 2006 we achieved total returns of significant annual increases in profit to a level 107.6 million 2005: 86.8 million on our not seen since the sale of the investment investment capital which totalled 789.0 banking business.
million at the year end, an average return of 14 per cent.
Within Schroders is well placed for further growth, these returns, 75.7 million was reflected in with a broadly diversified business by asset realised profits while the unrealised balance class, by region and by client type.
However, of 31.9 million was added to shareholders we still need to improve in certain areas equity, to be taken to profit as it is realised in and we will continue to focus on these and future years 2005: 84.8 million realised and invest for the future, most particularly in 2.0 million unrealised.
adding to our talented group of people in what is a highly competitive marketplace, Investment capital is deployed in a variety of and in continuing to upgrade our information forms.
At year end, 145.6 million was held technology and operations infrastructure.
in Schroder investment products, as part of our active programme of seeding new funds Long term we see significant further and strategies before taking them to market, opportunities to grow organically in and 120.7 million was invested in a institutional, retail and high net worth diversified, low volatility portfolio of hedge channels, supplemented by complementary funds, managed by NewFinance Capital.
acquisitions which strengthen our business.
