CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 06 Carillion plc Section 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating and Financial Review The acquisition of Mowlem in February 2006 marked a step change in Carillions development as a leading support services and construction company.
Greater than expected benefits from this acquisition, combined with continuing organic growth, enabled us to deliver profit and earnings per share ahead of our original expectations, backed by strong cash flow from operations.
Building opportunity We design, build and manage innovative learning environments for schools and universities.
07 Carillion plc Section 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating and Financial Review More specifically, we have achieved or exceeded each of Carillion is now one of the largest support services businesses the six key objectives we set for 2006, namely to in the UK with enhanced positions in its key market sectors and a greater ability to meet the needs of its customers, whether attract and retain excellent people, by becoming an this involves a single service or fully integrated solution.
employer of choice integrate Carillion and Mowlem successfully Combining the PPP investment activities of Carillion and achieve cost synergy savings at a minimum running rate Mowlem has delivered significant benefits, including a larger, of 10 million per annum by the end of 2006 and be on more valuable portfolio of equity investments, a stronger course to achieve a minimum running rate of 15 million pipeline of new projects and a considerable increase in our per annum by the end of 2007 capacity to win and deliver PPP projects.
reduce net debt to circa 200 million by the end of 2006 and be on course to reduce it to below 100 million by Mowlems strengths in construction, particularly in the regional the end of 2007 building and civil engineering markets where previously Carillion be on track to deliver materially enhanced earnings for had relatively little presence, have broadened our construction the enlarged Group in 2007 base and given us the capability to provide integrated solutions be a recognised leader in the delivery of safety and for customers in these markets.
The good progress we have made with integration resulted Our performance against each of these objectives is discussed in the acquisition being significantly earnings enhancing in in the following sections of this review.
2006, rather than earnings neutral as expected at the time of acquisition.
Furthermore, we remain firmly on track to deliver Acquisition of Mowlem.
When we acquired Mowlem, we materially enhanced earnings in 2007 through both revenue said it was an outstanding strategic fit and that integrating and margin growth.
Carillion and Mowlem would deliver substantial cost savings, create a stronger, more resilient business and accelerate our Business performance.
Total revenue in 2006 increased strategy for growth.
by 57 per cent to 3,593 million 2005: 2,284 million including revenue from joint ventures of 528 million Immediately after acquisition, we restructured the Group to 2005: 259 million.
create 14 business units, each aligned with key growth markets and supported by lean and effective shared central services.
Total operating profit increased by 78 per cent to 117.1 million By the end of 2006, the integration process was substantially 2005: 65.8 million, including profit from joint ventures of complete.
When we acquired Mowlem we announced that we 47.7 million 2005: 20.3 million.
After central costs of expected to deliver integration cost savings at a running rate 20.3 million, a net interest charge of 6.6 million and tax on of 15 million per annum by the end of 2007, for a one-off joint ventures of 8.1 million, profit before tax, non-operating implementation cost of 10 million.
We now expect to achieve items, restructuring costs and amortisation was 82.1 million, cost savings at a running rate of 26 million per annum by an increase of 48 per cent 2005: 55.5 million.
Earnings per the end of 2007, for a one-off cost of up to 28 million.
share on the same measure increased by 15 per cent to 23.5 pence per share 2005: 20.4 pence.
Non-operating items, restructuring costs and amortisation amounted to 14.5 million, leaving profit before tax of 67.6 million 2005: 51.9 million.
Profit after tax was 60.4 million 2005: 40.8 million and basic earnings per share were 21.6 pence 2005: 18.7 pence.
Our pre-tax profit margin was broadly unchanged at 2.3 per cent despite the effect of lower margins in the businesses acquired with Mowlem, as we continue to implement our Group-wide cost reduction and margin improvement programme.
As previously indicated, the potential to drive profit growth through improving margins in the businesses acquired with Mowlem remains a significant opportunity.
Our continuing focus on cash management has again delivered strong cash flow from operations of 91 million.
Average net debt in 2006 post the acquisition of Mowlem was 148 million, including finance leases of 47.9 million.
We continue to report our financial results in three segments Investments, Support Services and Construction Services in which we group together activities of a similar type and risk profile to make it easier to value our earnings on a consistent basis.
The businesses acquired with Mowlem made no contributions to profit in Support Services or Construction Services in the first half.
However, as expected, all these businesses made good second-half contributions in all three reporting segments, as summarised on page 8.
A more detailed analysis of these segments follows in the Finance Directors review.
John McDonough Chief Executive CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 08 Carillion plc Section 04 continued Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating and Financial Review Investments generated revenue of 148 million in 2006.
This, together with our drive to improve margins in the businesses Operating profit increased by over 200 per cent to 26.5 million, acquired with Mowlem, is expected to improve operating due to the addition of Mowlems substantial portfolio of performance in this segment in 2007. investments in Public Private Partnerships PPP, achieving financial close on a number of major new projects during the year and the In Construction Services, revenue including joint ventures effect of projects moving from construction into operation.
increased by 55 per cent to 1,902.4 million, due primarily to the acquisition of Mowlem.
Operating profit almost doubled to In September 2006, we sold equity investments in eight projects 32.4 million and the operating margin increased from 1.4 per with a total book value of 21.1 million.
The net proceeds from cent to 1.7 per cent, as the effect of lower margins in the this sale of 46.7 million generated an exceptional profit of businesses acquired with Mowlem were more than offset by 25.6 million and reflected a net present value of the cash flows margin growth in other businesses, particularly in the Middle East.
from these investments based on a discount rate of less than five per cent.
Given that we target an overall internal rate of return of Order book.
The value of our order book more than doubled 15 per cent from PPP equity investments, an equity sale has once to 16 billion at 31 December 2006 December 2005: 7 billion.
again demonstrated the considerable long-term value we are Mowlems order book at acquisition was approximately 2.5 creating for shareholders through our ability to win and deliver billion, therefore most of this increase is due to new orders won PPP projects successfully.
This outstanding performance reflects the strength of the enlarged Group and our ability to accelerate our strategy The Directors valuation of our equity portfolio at 31 December for growth.
Some 86 per cent of the order book is for Support 2006 was approximately 238 million, based on discounting the Services and PPP concession contracts.
This continues to provide cash flows from investments in financially closed projects at an long-term visibility, with over 70 per cent of our 2007 order book average of 8 per cent December 2005: 89 million, based on for support services already secure.
We have also strengthened our a 10 per cent discount rate.
Construction Services order book, with some 60 per cent of orders for 2007 already secure.
Furthermore, we have maintained a We also have a good pipeline of new PPP projects, including three healthy pipeline of probable new orders worth around 1.6 billion projects for which we are the preferred bidder, in which we expect at 31 December 2006. to invest some 11 million of equity, and eight projects for which we are shortlisted, with a potential equity requirement of up to Our people.
As a services business, our success depends primarily 69 million.
on the quality of our people.
Only through their efforts every day can we meet or exceed the expectations of customers and In Support Services, revenue including joint ventures increased maintain our competitive advantage.
In order to attract, develop by 56 per cent to 1,539.7 million, due to further healthy organic and retain excellent people by becoming an employer of choice, growth and the acquisition of Mowlem.
Operating profit increased we have a wide range of policies and programmes in place by almost 43 per cent to 58.2 million.
across the Group, the success of which rests on how well we communicate with all our people, including listening to what they The operating margin in this segment reduced from 4.1 per cent tell us and acting upon it.
to 3.8 per cent due to lower margins in the businesses acquired with Mowlem and also in rail infrastructure, as expected.
As We have a structured approach to communication, from one-topreviously announced, we took action in the second half of 2006 one individual performance and development reviews to monthly to downsize our rail business to reduce its overheads and focus team talks and an award winning group-wide newspaper.
We also the business on sustainable areas of the rail infrastructure market.
conduct regular surveys through which our people can share their views openly and frankly.
These surveys culminate annually in The Great Debate in which over 2,500 people from across the Group took part in 2006, including around 1,000 people who joined us My values from Mowlem.
This enables us to monitor and measure our Innovation means building a 30-metre progress on a wide range of issues, such as how well we engage bridge off site and floating it into place with our people to recognise and value the contributions they down river.
This enabled us to open make to our business and to help them fulfil their potential.
Gary Bentley, Foreman The acquisition of Mowlem and its integration with Carillion was Carillion Regional Civil Engineering the main focus of internal communications in 2006.
It will naturally take time for the large number of people who joined us from Mowlem to identify fully with Carillion and, in particular, the importance we place upon living our values.
We know we have much to do to build a culture of excellent communication across the enlarged Group, but the results of surveys carried out in 2006 were encouraging and we shall continue to drive this forward in 2007.
Good two-way communication starts with our business leaders and the Power of Engagement workshops, attended by around 2,000 Carillion managers and supervisors in 2005, were extended in 2006 to include some 230 business leaders who joined us from Mowlem.
Our absolute commitment to Health and Safety is being translated into positive results through Target Zero, the initiative we launched throughout Carillion at the end of 2004, aimed at eliminating reportable accidents by 2010.
Target Zero, which is being led by our Board, applies to all our people, those who work with us and those who are affected by Carillions activities.
It requires the continual vigilance and 09 Carillion plc Section 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating and Financial Review commitment of everyone in Carillion to ensure that safe working Responsibility Index and Carillion is also a member of the practices are always used and is supported by regular and rigorous FTSE4Good index.
We say more about our sustainability programme and Target Zero is an extremely ambitious target that will be achieved performance in the Corporate Social Responsibility section of only if we can create a culture of zero tolerance to accidents this report on page 22.
More detailed information will be provided within Carillion, our customers, suppliers and partners.
I am in our 2006 Sustainability Report, which will be published on delighted to report that we have made good further progress our website at www.
com sustainability in April 2007. towards this target.
In 2006, the Groups Accident Frequency Rate AFR reduced by 25 per cent to 0.18 reportable accidents per Risk management.
The rigorous policies and processes we use to 100,000 hours worked, compared with an AFR of 0.24 in 2005, identify, mitigate and manage risk continue to be a cornerstone of itself a 35 per cent reduction on our AFR in 2004 of 0.37.
They enable us to address strategic risks and those performance ranks Carillion among the very best in our industry.
specific to individual businesses and contracts, including social, environmental and ethical risks.
The total number of reportable accidents under RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995 Our risk management processes apply to every aspect of our reduced by 24 per cent to 346, after taking account of the operations, from choosing our market sectors to the contracts increase in our workforce resulting from the acquisition of we bid for and the selection of our suppliers and sub-contractors.
Mowlem, and follows a reduction of 27 per cent in 2005.
They also apply to every stage of a contract from inception to completion, in order to deliver the cash-backed profit we expect 2006 was free of fatal accidents to our own people and to those and a service that delights our customers.
who work on our project sites and contracts.
We were the subject of one prosecution by the Health and Safety Executive, which The more significant areas of risk where our failure to perform well related to an incident in 2005, and one of our subcontractors or changes to macro-economic or market specific environments received an enforcement notice in respect of work being carried would affect our business, are summarised below.
Attracting, developing and retaining excellent people: the In April 2006, around 200 people from across the Group attended success of our business depends primarily on the quality of our first Safety Action Group conference, focused on delivering our people.
Similar events will be held in 2007 to ensure we Managing major contracts: completing contracts on time and maintain this focus and the momentum we have created towards to the required standards avoids financial penalties and damage achieving this challenging target.
to our brand and reputation.
Closing out existing contracts: settling completed contracts In September 2006, Carillion Rail was suspended by Network and collecting the cash we are owed is essential to reducing Rail from bidding for new projects, following an increase in less debt and delivering the earnings growth we expect.
serious workplace accidents over an approximate four-week Winning new work: our ability to remain competitive by period.
We believed this increase was temporary and not adapting our strategy and service offering to the changing representative of our overall performance.
However, we entirely needs of our markets and customers is essential to the share Network Rails objective of improving workforce safety and continuing success of our business.
regard any accident as unacceptable.
Since September 2006, Managing our pension schemes: the cost to Carillion of our AFR has reduced significantly and Network Rail lifted the funding its pension schemes depends on the macro-economic suspension in February 2007. environment, equity market stability and regulatory requirements.
In December 2006, Carillion was the first and only major Process and systems: doubling the size of our business through construction company to submit information on the Health and the acquisition of Mowlem has increased our dependence on Safety performance of all its businesses to the benchmarking having efficient and effective integrated project, financial process sponsored by the Health and Safety Commission.
accounting, internal audit and HR systems.
The Corporate Health and Safety Performance Index resulting from this process will enable us to benchmark our performance 2007 objectives.
In order to build on the substantial against all participating companies and help us to deliver progress made in 2006, we have set the following key continuous improvement.
More detailed information on Health and Safety will be included Attract, develop and retain excellent people by becoming in our 2006 Sustainability Report that will be published on our an employer of choice.
Be a recognised leader in the delivery of safety and sustainability.
Our commitment to becoming a more sustainable Deliver revenue growth of a minimum of 5 per cent business has made Carillion a recognised leader in developing and through exceeding our customers expectations.
adopting socially responsible business practices.
Deliver Mowlem integration cost savings at a running rate of 26 million per annum by the end of 2007.
We continue to believe that this commitment not only creates Generate cash-backed operating profit.
positive impacts on the environment and the communities in Achieve average net debt of around 150 million.
which we operate, but also delivers measurable business benefits.
We systematically quantify the links between our business objectives and our impacts on the environment and society and set specific targets for performance improvement.
The targets we set and our performance against them are externally audited John McDonough and the results published in our annual sustainability report.
Chief Executive 7 March 2007 We also benchmark our performance externally.
For example, we participate in Business in the Communitys annual Corporate
