Group Chief Executives Review Rapid growth, strong financial performance and strategic progress We see opportunities for growth across our markets and we see room for improvement on every aspect of our performance.
Peter Sands Group Chief Executive 2007 Management Agenda Accelerate organic growth Deliver growth from our acquisitions Continuously improve the way we work Building leadership Reinforce the brand 2006: A year of growth and progress Pole position in Pakistan Expansion in Taiwan Standard Chartered successfully Taiwan became Standard Chartereds rebranded all Union Banks 65 fourth-largest market by income branches overnight.
Now with with the acquisition of Hsinchu 115 branches in 22 cities, Standard International Bank.
The acquisition Chartered has strengthened its positions Standard Chartered to position as Pakistans largest capitalise on North East Asian international bank.
8 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Standard Chartered has achieved much over the last five years.
We believe 2007 will be equally exciting.
We plan to incorporate our business, which will enable us to offer renminbi services We have delivered on our promises to customers, to staff and to to Chinese consumers.
We are accelerating investment to shareholders.
2006 was a year of continued rapid growth, strong expand our network, enhance product capabilities and reinforce financial performance and strategic progress.
By the end of the year, subject to regulatory great shape, with good business momentum and a clear strategy.
approval, we would like to have around 40 locations.
Since 2001 our income has almost doubled.
So has the number China Bohai Bank, in which we have a 19.99 per cent stake, of employees, to nearly 60,000.
Then we had fewer than seven is growing fast.
From a greenfield start just 12 months ago, million customers.
Including PT the bank has seven locations and around $1 billion in assets.
Bank Permata in Indonesia, we now have over 1,400 branches compared with fewer than 550 five years ago.
Our normalised Chinas importance for Standard Chartered goes well beyond the earnings per share EPS have grown at a compound annual mainland.
In Hong Kong, where we have our biggest business, growth rate CAGR of 21 per cent.
we reach out across the entire Pearl River Delta, and we also benefit from Hong Kongs increasing role as Chinas international I am proud to have been Group Finance Director during this financial centre.
Through our relationships with Chinas leading period of rapid progress and growth.
companies we are deeply involved in the massive growth The fundamentals of our strategy remain the same.
Our goal is to of Chinas trade and investment flows across our footprint, be the worlds best international bank, leading the way in Asia, Africa for example in Africa.
We have made great progress on our strategic India journey, but there is much more to do.
We see opportunities for growth across our markets.
We see room for improvement on India is equally important to us.
In 2006 we made profits of over every aspect of our performance.
The strategy and immediate $400 million, up 69 per cent on 2005.
In 2007 we will continue management priorities are clear.
My job is to make them happen.
to invest in both businesses.
Our priorities for 2007 In Wholesale Banking we are growing right across India and are Our top priority for 2007 is to accelerate organic growth.
This is also working to partner major Indian corporates as they now look the key to shareholder value creation.
We increased investment to expand outside the country.
In Consumer Banking we continue in 2006 and are doing so again in 2007 to grow our distribution reach and product offer.
We now have 81 branches and 36 consumer finance outlets.
We must continue to deliver growth from our acquisitions.
In 2007 the focus Middle East will be on our most recent acquisitions in Pakistan and Taiwan The Middle East has great organic growth momentum, not just in Dubai, but in Abu Dhabi, Qatar and elsewhere in the region.
We will continuously improve the way we work, enhancing our infrastructure and processes to improve our service to customers We are very well placed to seize the opportunities: our business and to achieve greater productivity in United Arab Emirates UAE grew income by 32 per cent in 2006.
We are leveraging the opportunities in Islamic finance, We must build leadership capacity, turning talented managers we see great potential in the Dubai International Financial Centre into true leaders.
Attracting and developing the next generation and we are building our presence in Abu Dhabi.
of leaders is a critical challenge for me personally China, India and the Middle East are three of our biggest Finally, we will reinforce the brand.
Standard Chartered already opportunities for organic growth.
Yet there are many other has a great brand, but we intend to make it much better known markets in which Standard Chartered is growing rapidly and and much more powerful where we see great potential.
Two examples would be Nigeria China and Vietnam.
2006 was a year of rapid progress for our business in China.
We We drive organic growth not just by geography but also through more than doubled income to almost $300 million, tripled profits, expanded our network to 22 locations in 14 cities and almost innovation in the products and services we offer.
Our new Private doubled our staff numbers.
Bank and our corporate finance business are examples.
Indonesia partnership Servicing Africa The Standard Chartered PT Astra Standard Chartereds 25% stake consortium increased its stake in First Africa boosts the Groups in PT Bank Permata to 89%, capabilities to provide merger and creating a platform to provide acquisition and leveraged finance greater value to customers, staff services to its clients on Africaand shareholders and giving PT related transactions.
Bank Permata a differentiated position in Indonesia.
com 9 Group Chief Executives Review continued Private Bank As a result we anticipate that in 2007 Hsinchus profit contribution In 2007, Consumer Banking will be rolling out our Private Bank will be offset by the costs of integration, investment initiatives and proposition across six markets.
We have already launched reshaping the business.
We remain confident that Hsinchu will be successfully in Korea, with Singapore soon to follow.
EPS accretive and will deliver double-digit return on investment in 2008.
We can make Hsinchu into a powerful engine of income As a new business, our Private Bank requires considerable and earnings growth, capitalising on the opportunities in Taiwan investment in people, systems and infrastructure.
It has the and the rapidly growing trade and investment flows across North potential to deliver sustained, high-quality earnings growth.
Our Private Bank will be different in several ways.
We are Continuous improvement international yet also local.
We offer both offshore and onshore The Group has already begun to become much more efficient banking.
We are innovative, but also have history and cherish and effective.
Now we intend to accelerate progress through deep longstanding relationships.
Our clients will experience a continuous effort to make the way we work simpler, better a new and distinctive blend of capabilities.
Corporate finance In 2003 we launched an initiative called Outserve to improve Within Wholesale Banking, our Global Markets business comprises our service to customers.
We made great progress with this corporate finance, debt capital markets and foreign exchange programme, improving our understanding of customer needs, and derivatives.
Corporate finance includes advisory, private equity, reducing turnaround times and introducing systematic tracking principal finance, project finance and structured finance.
Corporate of customer service metrics across the Group.
Over the last three years, income has grown by nearly 300 per cent and doubled in 2006 alone.
To drive further improvement in our quality of service, we This success is based on the seamless way in which our client recognise that we need to address the fundamental infrastructure relationship model works with our product teams.
As a result, and processes of the Group.
We have therefore launched Outserve the number of Wholesale Banking clients from which we derive Plus, an umbrella for initiatives to enhance our operational more than $1 million of income increased by 27 per cent in 2006. effectiveness.
Our aim is to simultaneously enhance our quality of service, make life easier for staff and customers and improve Organic growth for the Group accounted for over two thirds of productivity.
By doing this, we will create the capacity for income growth in 2006.
Yet acquisitions also play an important accelerated growth.
A good example of the progress we have made is in technology Acquisitions: Pakistan and Taiwan production and operations.
This is the core engine of the Group.
In Pakistan we have had a great start.
The integration of Union Through hubbing, re-engineering and selective outsourcing, Bank is proceeding rapidly: we rebranded 65 Union Bank branches we have managed to improve efficiency, while substantially overnight.
With a strong management team drawn from both upgrading service delivery.
Technology, production and operations institutions, we have continued to grow the business, and now costs have grown by nine per cent CAGR over the last three have 115 branches.
years, against income growth of 22 per cent CAGR over the In Taiwan we are at an earlier stage.
We took direct control of same period.
the Hsinchu International Bank Board in December, fide-listed the Building leadership bank on 18 January 2007 and are preparing to integrate it with A key priority for 2007, and one on which I place great personal our existing business.
To fulfil our ambitions, we must Due to the complexity of legal requirements in Taiwan, the accelerate the development of talented people across the amalgamation of the two entities, upon which the realisation Group, turning good managers into true leaders, people with of synergies depends, is unlikely to occur until the second half the right values and capabilities to drive the business forward.
Hsinchus consumer lending portfolio is more or less as we expected.
The small business SME portfolio is of mixed We already have a highly talented and diverse team of people, and quality.
We will need to reshape both these portfolios to align a culture that combines performance edge with a cooperative style with our customer and product profiles.
and a strong set of shared values.
The Group is an environment Commitment in Middle East Unique sponsorship Standard Chartered was the first bank Standard Chartered launched the in the Dubai International Financial third series of The Greatest Race on Centre to buy its premises and to Earth 2006 2007.
This unique race is obtain a commercial banking licence.
based on teamwork and underlines This reinforces the Groups commitment the Groups core values and its to United Arab Emirates and to Dubai promise to be The Right Partner as the regions business hub.
10 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2006 that stimulates, develops and provides new opportunities.
But we and in extending distribution.
Yet we are also accelerating are not complacent.
We want to develop our existing talent further our drive for improved productivity, with a range of initiatives and faster and attract more potential leaders.
to re-engineer process, increase hubbing and enhance infrastructure.
In the first half of 2007, expenses growth will To make this happen we are expanding and improving our exceed income growth largely due to accelerating investment graduate and MBA recruitment and development, increasing in Consumer Banking, particularly in China and in the Private external hiring and refreshing our approach to training Bank.
However, taking the year as a whole we expect expenses programmes.
We also welcome the management talent that to grow broadly in line with income has come into Standard Chartered with our recent acquisitions.
Continued focus on risk management.
In Wholesale Banking, Reinforce the brand we are not as yet seeing any deterioration in our portfolio, but Standard Chartered is a great brand, one that is well known we do anticipate a reduction in the potential for recoveries as the across our franchise.
We have begun to leverage the brand stock of impaired assets falls.
In Consumer Banking, we expect more effectively over the last few years but believe that there the impairment charge to reflect the improving environment in is much more we can do.
Our goal is that everyone in our Taiwan balanced by the inclusion of our most recent acquisitions markets understands our brand promise to be The Right and the changing mix and maturity of the portfolio, such as the Partner Leading by Example and recognises our trustmark.
growth of the unsecured and SME portfolios We will achieve this partly through external marketing but, Summary equally importantly, through the way we use the brand internally.
2006 has been another very good year for Standard Chartered.
We need the brand to be embedded in everything we do and I would like to thank our customers and shareholders for their to inform every interaction with customers.
support, and the Groups staff for their professionalism, enthusiasm and commitment.
We look forward to another good year.
Our brand is also about the way we act within the communities in which we work.
For example, we are very proud of our achievements with Seeing is Believing, our campaign to address preventable blindness.
Here we have certainly been leading by example and had a huge impact.
In the same way we are now putting a lot of focus on the Peter Sands environment and sustainable development, working out Group Chief Executive what role we should play on issues like climate change.
27 February 2007 These are our priorities for 2007 accelerating organic growth, delivering on acquisitions, continuously improving the way we work, developing leadership and talent and reinforcing our brand.
Outlook We start 2007 in great shape with good momentum.
While there are many potential risks and uncertainties in the world, our businesses are performing strongly and we are clear about our strategy and priorities.
For the Group as a whole, including Korea and our acquisitions, we anticipate: Continued good income momentum with both businesses delivering good double-digit income growth for the full year Accelerated investment and improved productivity.
We are accelerating investment in new products, new capabilities Brand impact Our new corporate brand campaign helped to drive strong performance and had a big impact on our business by driving deeper engagement and emphasising our philosophy of partnership and teamwork across our global network.
