Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Chief Executives Review Financially, the business performed well in a difficult year.
While good progress is being made there is further work to be done to improve the British Gas service levels, reduce our cost base and develop our services, energy efficiency and international businesses.
Delivering our strategy Overview of 2006 cold weather driving higher call outs.
Against a backdrop of unprecedented However the business finished the volatility Centrica produced a solid set of year strongly as the changes we financial results.
During the year the UK made to systems, management and experienced large fluctuations in wholesale processes improved both operational gas costs, particularly in the first quarter and service measures.
when cold weather and fear of shortages Operationally the gas production pushed the wholesale gas price to 250 business performed well but production pence per therm p therm.
The six main volumes were restricted by maintenance energy suppliers struggled to keep up with work during an extended summer outage this rate of rise in commodity costs and at the South Morecambe field and implemented 13 separate tariff increases managements decision not to produce during the first 10 months of the year.
from the field for a large portion of the Sam Laidlaw Supply fears subsided in the second half second half as a result of falling wholesale Chief Executive of the year as good progress was made prices and weak demand due to the with the construction of the Langeled unusually warm weather.
This fall in prices and BBL pipelines, both of which were at the end of the year greatly improved underpinned by British Gas contracts, the ongoing position of the industrial and and wholesale gas prices started to fall.
commercial legacy contracts which were The high wholesale prices in the first half significantly loss-making overall during of the year materially impacted the supply the year.
British Gas Residential made Centrica Storage had a challenging year.
In February 2006 a catastrophic failure a significant loss in the first six months of the year and stubbornly high forward and fire at the Rough storage field halted wholesale prices forced us to follow other operations.
However an exceptional effort We are focusing firmly on suppliers in increasing retail prices for a by the team delivered reliable injection the priority of reducing second time in September.
The quantity in time to refill the field before the start exposure to short-term and magnitude of tariff increases across of the winter production season, enabling all suppliers hit consumer sentiment the asset to deliver another strong movements in the and resulted in high levels of customer financial result.
Despite continuing to launch In North America, Direct Energy innovative products, including the very had another year of record figures with turnover up 15% primarily due to strong successful Fix and Fall offering, British Gas growth in business markets and Texas.
lost 1,029,000 energy accounts during The Texas operation performed particularly the year.
The tariff increase in September well, providing a large portion of the 21% returned the business to profit in the second half of the year.
Once the outlook overall increase in North American profit.
for wholesale prices became clearer This was due particularly to improved British Gas took the lead in announcing results in both the organic business, a price reduction to residential customers as it gained scale, and the incumbent of 17% in gas and 11% in electricity, business, as the competitive market effective from 12 March 2007. structure, combined with our effective British Gas Business delivered further procurement, enabled us to implement customer growth and record profits despite proactive discounted price offerings to the extremely challenging commodity customers.
Despite this strong overall environment in the first half of the year.
growth, as part of a continual review of the British Gas Services suffered a difficult efficiency of the business, decisive action start to the year due to the exceptionally was taken to reduce costs.
This resulted Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 06 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 in 450 job losses during the year, 9% of We made some progress on this agenda We expect to see further growth in British the total, primarily in Canada and in US during the second half of the year.
The Gas Business which is also benefiting from home services.
price increase in British Gas Residential the fall in wholesale prices and is retaining The European business made announced in July was followed later in strong customer renewal and loyalty considerable progress as, overall, it moved levels.
In British Gas Services we expect the year by a softening in wholesale gas firmly into profit.
However the ongoing the investment we have made in new and power prices: this has returned this negotiations between major companies systems, management and processes business to profit and allowed us to be in France, Spain and Holland provided to deliver significantly improved financial the first company to offer customers a evidence of continued support within performance in 2007.
In North America we price reduction, announced in February.
European Union member states for expect to continue to grow both revenue We also launched our Essentials Tariff to consolidation and the formation of national and profit, with further load growth in provide protection to our most vulnerable champions ahead of the existence of business markets focused primarily customers.
The service levels in our British full competition.
in the northeastern United States and Gas Services business have shown a The year ended on a tragic note with a increased profit contribution from our significant improvement and our attention helicopter accident in the Morecambe Bay energy wholesale and trading activities.
is now firmly focused on service levels in area which claimed the lives of six people, Further expansion in continental Europe the residential business.
four of them long-standing and highly remains an important element of our We carried out an initial review of the committed Centrica employees with a growth plans.
However while welcoming costs and processes in our business.
As seventh person still missing, presumed the conclusions of the European a result we took an exceptional non-cash dead.
Our thoughts are with all of their Commissions Energy Review, that market charge of 196 million which reflects the families and friends.
Centrica regards mechanisms need to be put in place to write-down of our IT systems.
We also took safety as a top priority, and is committed encourage greater competition, we remain an exceptional cash charge of 87 million to providing a healthy and safe environment cautious about the potential for making for the initial restructure of parts of the for employees and the communities which further material inroads in the short term.
corporate centre, British Gas Residential it touches.
We have a range of appropriate The recent publication of the Stern and British Gas Services resulting in around controls in place and these are subject to report was significant in the development 1,550 job losses.
Together these charges regular review by the Board.
of climate change policy in the UK.
reduce ongoing costs with around Climate change is probably the most 50 million saved in 2007. Business outlook significant environmental issue facing Our progress to date leaves me Since taking over from Sir Roy Gardner current and future generations.
We will continue to as the Chief Executive of Centrica in July there is clear evidence that slowing or review the structure of our business and of 2006, I have spent a large part of my stabilising global warming is taking on put in place internal operational metrics first six months assessing the strengths greater importance for governments, and weaknesses of the business and which will identify and drive further companies and consumers alike.
While the priorities going forward.
British Gas Residential is Centrica already has the lowest carbon observations are that the core businesses on track to return to a more sustainable intensity profile of the major UK power remain strong and we are in an enviable operating margin and to arrest the decline suppliers we will continue to expand position in most of our chosen markets, in customer numbers assisted by the price our investments in the area of renewable with good growth being achieved reduction, improving customer service and energy and promote the use of , particularly in North America.
ongoing innovation in our product offerings.
We In addition, after a difficult few years, the We are also focusing firmly on the will also capitalise on our unique expertise wholesale pricing environment is starting to priority of reducing the exposure to shortand capability to deliver energy efficiency improve.
However it is clear that the returns term movements in the wholesale gas advice, services and products to both in our residential business in the UK have price.
We continue to expect this to be our business and residential customers.
been low and that we have proven to achieved through a mixture of upstream I expect 2007 to be an important year in be overly exposed to the rapidly rising asset acquisitions and contractual Centricas development.
Although some of wholesale cost of the commodities which arrangements.
We will leverage Centricas our priorities will take longer to deliver fully, we supply to our customers.
We have also unique market position on both sides I anticipate making real progress during suffered dual running costs and delivered of the Atlantic to secure liquefied natural this year and delivering a step up in the less than satisfactory customer service as gas for our customers and offer security performance of the business.
we have moved to a new billing platform of demand for producers.
in British Gas, the efficacy and robustness In Centrica Energy we expect gas of which is still in the proving stage.
production levels to be broadly flat on We will now seek to build on our 2006.
We renegotiated the terms of the strengths, remove the weaknesses and inter-company sales contracts on the overcome the challenges.
To do this South and North Morecambe gas fields, Sam Laidlaw I have set out some clear priorities for with the agreement of HM Revenue and Chief Executive the Company: 22 February 2007 Customs, to establish a direct link to month-ahead gas prices.
We will also Transform British Gas commission the Maria, Thurne and Sharpen up the organisation and Davy East fields.
The industrial and reduce costs commercial contracts are forecast to Reduce risk by adding new sources of including joint ventures and associates stated net of become profitable as a result of lower gas and power interest and taxation, and before exceptional items Build on our multiple growth platforms wholesale prices.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07
