3 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW AFTER MY FIRST YEAR AS CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, I AM DELIGHTED TO INTRODUCE AN ANNUAL REPORT THAT NOT ONLY RECORDS OUR STRONG FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DURING 2006 BUT ALSO DEMONSTRATES OUR COMMITMENT TO OVERCOMING THE CHALLENGES THAT WE AND OUR INDUSTRY FACE IN AN EVER-TOUGHER ENVIRONMENT AND TO CONTINUING TO DELIVER A PERFORMANCE THAT WILL PLACE US AMONG THE BEST IN THE INDUSTRY.
AstraZeneca is a successful, research-based, PATIENTS, PRODUCTS, PEOPLE With sales of $1.5 billion, up 29% from last prescription pharmaceutical business.
AND PERFORMANCE year, Arimidex is now the leading hormonal We bring benefit for patients and add value Our business objectives are focused on four breast cancer therapy in the US, Japan and for our shareholders and wider society through core areas patients, products, people and France.
This continued growth is largely based innovation and the responsible delivery of performance that we believe are core on results from the ATAC study, which showed medicines in important areas of healthcare.
drivers of success in delivering our strategy.
Arimidex to be superior to tamoxifen in the five years after surgery, when the risk of the The demand for healthcare continues to To bring the most benefit for patients and cancer recurring is at its highest.
People are living longer, populations those who treat them, we must continue to following approval through mutual recognition are increasing and the emergence of new understand what makes a difference for for a new use, many patients in Europe economies means that the number of patients them and apply that insight across all of currently receiving tamoxifen can now be who can benefit from medicines is expanding.
our activities to ensure we remain targeted switched to Arimidex.
At the same time, many diseases remain underon their changing needs.
For the future, diagnosed, sub-optimally treated or do not have we recognise that sustainable long-term Crestor, our highly effective treatment for effective therapies.
Alongside these significant success depends on further strengthening managing cholesterol levels, achieved sales opportunities for AstraZeneca to make a the flow of new products whether from our of over $2 billion, an increase of 59% over last difference, we face some tough challenges own laboratories or from outside AstraZeneca.
Data from two clinical studies ORION in including growing pressure on the price of our The continued commitment and energy of 2005 and ASTEROID in 2006 demonstrated marketed products, higher costs and regulatory our people is vital, and we aim to provide the strong potential for Crestor in the treatment hurdles for the development of new ones and leadership and support they need to deliver of atherosclerosis.
The METEOR study has an increasingly competitive marketplace, their best contribution to achieving our also now been completed, and the results will including earlier challenges to our patents.
By keeping our promises in be presented in March 2007.
The METEOR all aspects of our business, and effectively study forms the basis of a submission for an Our strategy for achieving sustained, industrymanaging the associated opportunities and atherosclerosis label made to the Food leading growth within this environment centres risks, we aim to drive a performance that will and Drug Administration FDA and in the on three key priorities: place us among the best in the industry.
EU through the Mutual Recognition Procedure in January 2007.
ASTEROID Strengthening our pipeline of new OUR YEAR IN BRIEF and ORION were included in the submission medicines, from our own research 2006 saw some good progress.
The Company as supportive studies.
laboratories and by accessing scientific delivered excellent financial results, with strong innovation outside AstraZeneca: sales growth of 11%, enhanced by our Nexium, our treatment for acid-related continued commitment to improve productivity diseases, achieved sales of $5.2 billion.
Delivering the full potential of all our across the business.
During the year, we gained approval for the marketed medicines, through rigorous additional use of Nexium in children aged life-cycle management, excellent customer Product performance 12-17 years with gastro-oesophageal reflux support: and In the short to medium term, our growth is disease, and for a new use in treating patients expected to continue to be driven by five with the rare gastric acid disorder, Zollinger Challenging our cost structure to make key products, launched over the last 12 years Ellison Syndrome.
room for further investment in R&D and Arimidex, Crestor, Nexium, Seroquel and externalisation, while increasing access Symbicort.
In 2006, these five key growth Seroquel, with sales of $3.4 billion, further to our medicines.
products together delivered sales of strengthened its position as the market-leading $13.3 billion, up 23% from last year, and atypical anti-psychotic therapy in the US and overall sales of all our products, including our continued to grow strongly elsewhere.
Already successful mature brands such as Casodex, used for the treatment of schizophrenia and Zoladex, Seloken Toprol-XL, Zomig, Diprivan bipolar mania, we gained approval during the and Merrem, totalled $26.5 billion.
year in the US for its use in bipolar depression.
Seroquel is the first and only single-agent medication approved for both mania and depression in bipolar disorder.
4 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2006 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW CONTINUED In December, the European Patent Office As we continue to focus on managing such for cardiovascular disease.
You can read ruled that one of the European substance challenges and building on our leading more about these and the other compounds patents for Nexium would be rejected.
Both positions in established markets, we are also in the therapy area review pages 16 to 32 Nexium and Seroquel continue to be the increasing our strength in fast-developing and in our development pipeline table on subject of patent litigation in the US following markets, such as China.
During the year, pages 40 to 42. the filing of Abbreviated New Drug Applications we announced a $100 million R&D investment in 2005 and 2006.
AstraZeneca continues to over the next three years in China, which Accessing external innovation have confidence in the intellectual property reflects our commitment to building our Our commitment to keeping up the pace portfolio protecting Nexium and Seroquel presence in this important market.
As part of externalisation to further strengthen our and will defend and enforce its intellectual of this, I was pleased to hold in 2006 the first pipeline is reflected in our establishment of property rights protecting both products.
AstraZeneca Senior Executive Team meeting a new Strategic Planning and Business in that country.
Development function, dedicated to finding Symbicort achieved global sales of $1.2 billion the best opportunities available and delivering in 2006, up 18%.
During the year, it was Strengthening our pipeline high quality deal execution and alliance approved in the US in a pressurised Metered There are three linchpins in our strategy to management capabilities.
In January 2007, Dose Inhaler for maintenance treatment of strengthen the pipeline.
First, improve the we made a significant step in strengthening asthma in patients aged 12 years and above.
productivity of our own in-house discovery our late-stage pipeline when we announced We continue to plan for a US launch for and development efforts.
Second, continue a collaboration with Bristol-Myers Squibb Symbicort around the middle of 2007, although to increase the pace with which we evaluate Company BMS to develop and commercialise achieving this launch timeline is dependent and acquire promising projects from external two late-stage compounds, discovered by upon successful transfer of technology from sources.
This is not a short-term stopgap BMS, being studied for the treatment of Type development to manufacturing and completion to backfill the pipeline.
It represents an 2 diabetes an area of high unmet medical of validation batches.
In addition, Symbicort important change in mindset.
Together with other recent successes, SMART was approved for use in adults a long-term commitment to step up our such as the alliance with Schering AG to through the EU Mutual Recognition Procedure.
access to the world of scientific innovation co-develop and jointly commercialise a that resides outside AstraZeneca.
The third novel breast cancer treatment and the You can read more about our product element is our commitment to establishing collaboration with Abbott to co-develop and performance in other sections of this report.
AstraZeneca as a major international market a combination treatment for mixed presence in biopharmaceuticals.
dyslipidaemia, it also indicates the progress In our markets we have already made towards becoming The growing demand for healthcare means Enhancing in-house discovery a preferred partner.
increasing pressure on the budgets of and development governments and others who pay for it.
During 2006, we continued our drive to Building our biopharmaceuticals presence We must manage the associated downward improve the efficiency of our internal R&D Biopharmaceuticals medicines derived from pressure on the price of our products, whilst processes and the effectiveness of our biological molecules have been the fastestcontinuing to invest in providing medicines decision-making so that we can quickly growing segment of the pharmaceuticals that make a difference.
During 2006, pricing eliminate weaker drug candidates and market in recent years.
While AstraZenecas pressure was particularly strong in Europe, concentrate on the robust, rapid progress of science base already possessed some where governments continue to introduce the ones most likely to succeed as significant discovery and development capabilities for cost-containment measures such as jumbo advances in healthcare.
We also reviewed our new biological medicines, our historic strength reference pricing in Germany.
In the US, still disease target areas and re-focused our has been centred on small molecules.
We need the worlds largest pharmaceutical market, effort to ensure our scientific resources are to strengthen our capacity to attack new the Democratic gains in the mid-term election prioritised on those areas where we believe disease targets with small molecules and may signal further changes to the pricing our skills can make the most difference and biologicals in an integrated fashion, across environment in that country.
You can read where the largest opportunities lie.
Our acquisition of more about this in the Geographic Review Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc and Price Regulation sections pages 33 The results of our drive to improve productivity CAT was a significant step towards achieving and 50. are reflected in the sustained size of the this aim.
CATs skills in biopharmaceuticals early development portfolio.
During 2006, complement our own expertise in small 21 candidate drugs were selected for molecule science, and provide a foundation development compared with 25 in 2005 and for building a future pipeline of new products 18 in 2004.
We have a number of compounds from both areas of research.
We anticipate that in the later stages of development including from 2010 onwards, one in four AstraZeneca Zactima and Recentin formerly AZD2171 for candidate drugs eligible for full development treating cancer, and AGI-1067 and AZD6140 will be biologicals.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW 5 These efforts will strengthen our long-term Strengthening the pipeline remains our top sustainability and help us to withstand the priority.
However, we will also continue to impact of some of the setbacks that we challenge all elements of our business to drive experienced with our pipeline this year.
In productivity and provide for the increased February 2006, we withdrew our antiinvestment to support achievement of our coagulant, Exanta, from the market and strategic objectives.
As part of this, in halted its development on patient safety February 2007, we announced further plans grounds.
We also stopped late-stage to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of development of Galida, our potential our supply organisation, which will involve diabetes therapy, and NXY-059, a potential reductions to the workforce.
Decisions such treatment for stroke, because they were not as these are not taken lightly and I am very demonstrating sufficient patient benefit.
aware of the impact this will have on the Whilst such decisions are disappointing to people affected and the communities in make, they are an indication of the challenges which we operate.
The reductions will be associated with delivering a new medicine the subject of a full consultation process and reflect our commitment to patient safety with works councils, trade unions and other and to maintaining a portfolio of only the employee representatives, and in accordance highest quality, highest potential candidates.
with local labour laws, to ensure the process is fair and transparent.
Throughout all of these activities, maintaining our fundamental commitment to corporate I am confident that, with strong leadership, responsibility CR remains a top priority.
More clear direction and a sense of urgency information about our CR commitment, policies around delivery, we have a sound platform and performance in this area is available in for continued success.
Above all, my aim is our separate Corporate Responsibility to deliver sustained, profitable and responsibly Summary Report 2006 or on our website.
managed growth while ensuring that AstraZeneca continues to make a valuable THE PEOPLE OF ASTRAZENECA contribution to global healthcare.
In my first year as CEO, I have visited many areas of AstraZeneca and have been consistently impressed with the skills, creativity and professionalism of our people around the world.
They are our most valuable asset, and without their continued commitment to DAVID R BRENNAN achieving our goals we would not succeed.
Chief Executive Officer I would like to take this opportunity to thank them for their hard work and contribution to driving the continued success of the Company.
LOOKING FORWARD The pharmaceutical industry operates in an increasingly tough environment.
We know that, to continue to be successful in this environment, we must recognise and manage the challenges and actively exploit the many opportunities that rising demand for healthcare and advances in science and technology offer.
