Filename: 824560 01.3d Time: 14:32:47 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: -1161971776 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Your company is ambitious.
We are much more than a lines and calls business.
Our aim is to make life easier, simpler, cheaper and more fullling for all our customers.
We will continue to do this by providing our business customers, large and small, with productivity improvements and competitive edge in their markets.
We will ensure consumers enjoy a joined-up communications experience, enabling them to communicate anywhere, anytime, using whatever device they choose.
HELPING CUSTOMERS THRIVE IN A CHANGING WORLD A big part of meeting these Undertakings was the creation of We enjoy the fantastic privilege of serving around 20 million Openreach.
This line of business manages our access and customers in 170 countries around the world.
Their needs and backhaul networks and the associated portfolio of products and expectations are constantly changing, so too is the market in services.
We have established an Equality of Access Board with which we operate and the technology at our disposal.
Thats a majority of independent members to oversee compliance.
why an ability to embrace, and thrive on, change developing Service providers are benefiting from lower prices for both new products and services, new ways of working and new ways connection and rental thanks to the success of products such as of interacting with our customers is essential to what we do wholesale line rental and local loop unbundling.
BT is committed to meeting its obligations, and we have When so much is changing, companies have to be crystal made good progress so far though much remains to be done.
clear about what they stand for.
BT has a strong and trusted brand, widely recognised around the world by shareholders, OUR STRATEGY customers, suppliers and employees.
The brand captures the Like our brand, our strategy for profitable growth and essence of BT and tells existing and new customers what they transformation is subject to continuous review.
There are four can expect from us.
We have summed this up in a new vision parts to our strategy: and mission.
s to pursue profitable growth in new wave markets Our vision is to be dedicated to helping customers thrive s to maximise the return from our traditional business in a changing world.
And theres not a wasted word in there.
s to transform our networks, systems and services for the Dedication to our customers is what will differentiate us in an twenty-first century intensely competitive environment.
Helping these customers to s to create long-term partnerships with our customers.
thrive means enabling them to do the things they want to do, when they want to do them and at the right price.
It means NEW WAVE GROWTH helping them to recognise that a changing world is a world of Around one third of BTs revenue in the 2006 financial year was opportunity and new experiences.
And it means helping them to from new wave activities thats up from effectively nothing a seize those opportunities.
Our mission is to be the leader in delivering converged By new wave activities we mean networked IT services, networked services.
Thats the yardstick by which well broadband and mobility.
Convergence is at the heart of everything In short order, BT has established itself as a key player in the we do for customers.
global networked IT services market with a strong track record We believe that this combination of absolute commitment to of winning and delivering big, complex contracts for large understanding our customers and to exploring the possibilities corporations and other organisations.
Major wins such as the of convergence blurring the distinctions between networks and contract with Fiat in Italy and the revised agreement with the services, IT and communications, xed and mobile, Department for Work and Pensions in the UK confirmed our telecommunications and visual services is extremely powerful.
The total value of our networked IT services order Of course, customers are not interested in vision and mission intake in the year was 5.4 billion.
What they are interested in, however, are services Having hit our target of five million broadband lines in April that get the job done and that are hassle-free.
2005 a year ahead of schedule, weve boosted that number by more than 50% in the past financial year.
For the majority of THE RIGHT REGULATORY CLIMATE customers, access to broadband is now a given.
We operate in a regulated industry and the right regulatory But broadband is more than just another technology, it climate is also essential if our customers are to thrive.
The enables broader, richer, more compelling experiences.
Our regulatory climate is not, however, just something that happens focus is increasingly on what customers can do with it.
We are to us: we are helping to shape regulatory thinking.
delivering speeds of up to 8Mbit s and launching innovative In response to Ofcoms strategic review of consumer broadband products and services.
One of these, BT telecommunications in the UK, we proposed a series of Vision, scheduled for launch in the autumn, is broadband TV Undertakings which we believe will result in a fair and exible and will bring a new dimension to home entertainment as regulatory regime, deregulation where possible and the growth customers choose from a huge range of on-demand lm, music of competition through equivalence.
Above all, they bring and TV programming as well as interactive services.
These Undertakings, which Ofcom BT is a mobile virtual network operator in both the business accepted, are in our view fundamental to meeting customers and consumer markets, with more than 340,000 connections.
needs and to enabling us and other service providers to invest In a convergent world, we aim to offer customers the best of in the future with confidence.
xed and the best of mobile.
We launched BT Fusion, the worlds first service enabling customers to switch seamlessly 4 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 Chief Executives statement Filename: 824560 01.3d Time: 14:32:50 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: 202525795 between xed and mobile lines depending on where they are.
OUR PEOPLE And in the wholesale market, we are one of the first companies BT is a people business, not a technology business.
in Europe to offer a broadcast digital TV and radio service via Recruiting, developing, rewarding and retaining the right mobile handsets, BT Movio.
Another must do is celebrating the power of diversity, ensuring that our people reect the customers we MAXIMISE THE RETURN FROM OUR TRADITIONAL BUSINESS serve.
The number of xed-voice calls is no longer the best guide to A people business only really res on all cylinders when its the success of a telecommunications company as we encourage top team is on top of its game, which is why we have rigorously our customers to take up non-voice and subscription-based dened the capabilities we expect of leaders in this business packages.
At 31 March 2006, 67% of call revenue in the and developed programmes to help them become even more consumer market was under contract.
We continue to develop customer focused.
and enhance our traditional services to make them more Achieving our ambitions depends as much on the quality and attractive to customers, as the success of BT Together and BT commitment of our people as on world-class products and Privacy has demonstrated.
services, on technology and on a clear strategy.
People In our traditional markets, as in the rest of our business, we understand how technology can add value to their customers are committed to working smarter avoiding the costs of failure lives and people deliver strategies.
People not only know what a and duplication and ever more cost effectively through using business stands for, but they also embody its values.
For example, over two million customers now thank BT people for their commitment, imagination and receive e-bills.
In my view, they are truly inspirational.
TRANSFORM OUR NETWORKS, SYSTEMS AND SERVICES FOR THE TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY Our twenty-first century network 21CN programme is further evidence of our ambitions.
It is a massive investment in the UKs infrastructure and in the UKs continued competitiveness in world markets.
Based on IP technology, it is designed to ensure that the delivery of the next generation of converged services is rapid and cost efficient.
Ben Verwaayen Chief Executive CREATE LONG-TERM PARTNERSHIPS WITH OUR CUSTOMERS 17 May 2006 We never take our customers for granted.
Nothing is more important than building successful, innovative, mutuallyrewarding relationships with them.
In recent years, we have focused in particular on driving down levels of customer dissatisfaction.
The emphasis now is increasingly on improving customer satisfaction.
In the 2006 financial year, we achieved a 3% increase in the number of customers reporting that they are very satisfied or extremely satisfied with the services they receive from BT.
Because the quality of service we offer customers is key to their satisfaction levels, much of our investment in training and development is directed towards developing a truly customercentric culture in BT.
Chief Executives statement BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 5
