CHEMRING GR OUP PLC Review by the Chief Executive Operating profit rose dramatically by 65% to 37.8 million Group Results The focus on operational cash flow remained strong The Group performed strongly throughout the year and throughout the year and all the newly acquired businesses revenue from the core businesses increased by 55% to demonstrated good cash management.
This was an excellent result, with 23% of the inflow was 45.6 million, equivalent to a cash conversion growth achieved organically and 32% from the first rate of 121%.
Investment in research and development contribution of our new acquisitions.
Good growth was R&D and capital expenditure increased 40% to achieved by all the businesses but it was particularly pleasing 15.3 million, which represents only 8% of Group revenue.
to see Kilgore meet all of its targets and increase its turnover The Board has decided to increase this level of investment to by 19% during the year.
over 23 million in 2007, with planned increases in both the R&D and capital expenditure.
Operating margins for the Group continued to improve and by the year end reached 20%.
Margins were considerably The order intake in the year was 268.8 million, up 119% enhanced by the second half contributions of the newly on 2005, with only 40.0 million attributable to the acquired businesses in the Energetics division.
Consequently, the order book at the year improvements, through enhanced automation, process end was 214.6 million, which was 75% higher than the efficiencies as well as manufacturing rationalisation, were previous year.
This record level of order cover underpins the achieved across the Group.
Consequently, operating profit expected growth in 2007.
I am also delighted to report that rose dramatically by 65% to 37.8 million, with 38% of this the final order book for the Countermeasures division was growth generated by the new acquisitions.
Since many of the 45% higher than in 2005, providing a strong foundation for newly acquired businesses did not contribute for the full further growth in this sector over the year to come.
twelve months, it is expected that similar levels of operating margin to the second half of the year will be achieved in 2007.
10.5m 9.1m Revenue by Destination 19.5m USA UK 101.0m Europe Australia 47.6m Rest of the World P 6 FIN ANCIAL ST A TEMENTS 2006 production lots has just been achieved.
Qualification testing Countermeasures of the ALA-17 is still underway, but the first production order Orders: 173.7 million up 87% was received earlier in the year.
Production of both flares will Revenue: 118.4 million up 30% ramp-up during the second half of 2007.
Operating profit: 33.9 million up 37% Operating margin: 29% 2005: 27% The US Air Force also awarded Kilgore a first production contract for the MJU-53A B flare for the protection of the The global expendable countermeasures market continued to C-17 transport aircraft.
Production will begin in 2007, after grow in 2006 and now stands at about 215 million, an qualification and first article acceptance has been achieved.
increase over the year of nearly 20%.
The turnover of the The capture of this programme, in the face of strong Countermeasures division grew by 30% year-on-year, competition, was an important success.
increasing our market share to over 55%.
However, our order intake during the year increased significantly more up 87% during the year, with sales limited by the speed with which increased production capacity and new products could be safely introduced.
The strong demand for our decoys has continued to be driven principally by the threat from shoulder-launched missiles to the helicopters and transport aircraft used in peacekeeping operations by the US, UK and other coalition forces in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Alloy Surfaces had another excellent year, generating $114.6 million of sales, with strong demand for its special material decoys, particularly for the protection of US Army helicopters.
The ramp-up of production capacity, by 2 extending plant two by 18,000 ft and building a third 2 production facility of 40,000 ft, was delivered to schedule.
The monthly production target of 60,000 M211 decoys was achieved in September, in line with the customers requirements.
With a total of $108 million of orders for the M211 decoy from the US Army alone, order cover is already in place for production at this rate throughout 2007 and 2008.
Kilgore performed exceptionally well in 2006, achieving consistent high volume production with daily production rates regularly 100% above that achieved in the previous year.
Record volumes of nearly 1.9 million M206 and MJU-7A B decoy flares were produced and delivered to the US Air Force customer.
A strong focus was also placed on process improvements during the year and this provided a considerable improvement in the margin achieved.
A significant enhancement to our production capability at Kilgore was achieved with the completion of the new Large Flare Facility, built with a capital investment of $2.7 million.
This automated facility was designed to manufacture two new decoy products, the MJU-10 flare for the F-15 aircraft and the ALA-17 flare for the B-52 aircraft.
A three year production contract for MJU-10s was received from the US Air Force during the year, and acceptance of the first P 7 Lacroix CHEMRING GR OUP PLC Review by the Chief Executive - continued The first production order for the F-22 Raptor aircraft Portsmouth chaff manufacturing facility after forty years of advanced flare suite was also awarded to Kilgore by the continuous production.
Manufacturing was successfully US Air Force.
The suite consists of two flares, designed to transferred to our Salisbury facility, and the consolidation defeat air-to-air guided missiles.
The total contract, which is onto a single site has reduced our overhead costs and worth $18.5 million, covers the final qualification of the significantly improved the operational efficiency.
flares and the first production lots for delivery in June 2008.
A new advanced material facility, to manufacture these flares The first production contract for the flares to protect the and those required for the Joint Strike Fighter programme, Typhoon aircraft was also received from the UK Ministry of will be built during 2007.
These flares are to a proprietary design and initial production is sole source to the Group.
Chemring Countermeasures, our UK business, also had an Substantial production orders from the UK and its European excellent year, with strong demand for its latest airborne partners are expected over the next few years, and early decoy products to support UK operations in Afghanistan.
A deployment of the Typhoon to peacekeeping roles is likely to series of orders for aerodynamic and dual spectral flares have accelerate the demand.
Similarly, the recent confirmation by been placed by the UK Ministry of Defence over the last Saudi Arabia of its intention to purchase up to seventy two twelve months.
Production start-up of the aerodynamic flares Typhoon aircraft should lead to considerable export potential was achieved rapidly and consistent volume production from 2008 onwards.
Development and qualification of the spectral flare took place during the first half of the year and The UK requirement for decoys to support both its production ramp-up towards 20,000 units per month is helicopter and fixed wing aircraft deployments in Iraq and underway.
A new spectral flare production facility is nearing Afghanistan is placing increasing demands on our completion, to provide the additional production capacity manufacturing capability and making it harder to fully needed to meet the rapid growth in volumes demanded by support all our export customers.
Consequently, the Group the customer.
intends to construct a new flexible flare facility in Salisbury The global market in anti-radar decoys has become extremely during 2007 to provide a 100% increase in our maximum competitive, and a decision was therefore taken to close our production capacity.
1 2 Global Market for Countermeasures m Countermeasures Market Shares 2006 US Army US Navy US Air Force UK Rest of the World 350.0 Market growth rate of Other 12% per year to 2009 300.0 Alloy Thiokol 250.0 Surfaces Wallop 200.0 150.0 Armtec Kilgore 100.0 Chemring Countermeasures 50.0 0.0 2004 2006 2008 2010 Total Market 215m 1 2 All figures based on program funding plans and estimates of key export markets Management estimates P 8 FIN ANCIAL ST A TEMENTS 2006 Energetics Orders: 95.2 million up 222% Revenue: 69.3 million up 129% Operating profit: 10.4 million up 352% Operating margin: 15% 2005: 8% During 2006, the Group successfully acquired four new companies in the Energetics sector.
All of these companies have made a positive start and, together with Nobel Energetics, acquired in September 2005, contributed excellent profits and cash flow.
The revenue of our Energetics division grew by 129% year-on-year, principally driven by our newly acquired businesses.
Organic growth became more significant in the latter half of the year, and our order intake in the continuing operations increased by over 100% compared with 2005.
Most of these orders were received too late in the year to transition into sales but will generate further growth in 2007.
The profitability of the enlarged Energetics division grew to 10.4 million, a very satisfying result, which represents a 15% location marker was completed, with successful flight operating margin for the year.
However, the second half of qualification trials on both helicopter and F A-18 platforms.
the year, bolstered by the presence of the new higher margin The US Air Force placed a record production order and acquisitions, generated an impressive operating margin of volume production of nearly 19,000 markers worth 20%, and provided a better insight into the future profitability $6 million is now underway.
The development of a new expected from this division.
air-launched illumination flare was also completed during the year.
A new ignition train is now being fitted to improve PW Defence had a strong year and continued to develop its its insensitive munitions IM performance and qualification product range to meet the current market conditions.
A on several aircraft platforms will take place in early 2007. multi-spectral hand thrown screening smoke for use in urban environments was developed during the year, and a Comet also had a good year, with strong interest shown in substantial order for the product was received from a NATO both its mine clearance and battlefield simulation products.
A novel composition for IR illumination France, Spain and Australia placed orders for the PEMBS blacklight was also developed, and this is now being used mine clearance system, and the UK Ministry of Defence by another NATO country.
The business also had a major selected the system for its next generation Dismounted international success by securing a substantial prime contract Counter-Mine Capability DCMC.
The US Army placed a from a Middle Eastern country to supply an extensive range five year contract for the MECS battlefield simulation of third party military products over the next three years.
ammunition, and strategic partnerships have been signed with several US European training prime contractors for the Record sales levels were achieved at Nobel Energetics, driven supply of micro macro pyrotechnic devices for urban warfare by strong demand for metron actuators, detonators, and IED training systems.
Sales of actuators grew by 35%, driven by demand from fire suppression systems, cash Technical Ordnance performed extremely well during its first security and automotive bonnet release systems.
There was seven months under our new ownership.
Over 7.7 million also strong demand up 20% for ejector seat propellant from impulse cartridges were manufactured for the US Air Force, Martin Baker.
The business completed development of the its principal customer.
Detonator and booster pellets were rocket motor for the NLAW missile and started to build-up also manufactured in very large quantities for assembly into volume production.
munition fuzing systems manufactured by ATK, KDI and Kaman Aerospace.
Access to the Groups global sales network Kilgore made good progress on several of its key energetic also brought a major success, with the award of an important product programmes.
The redesign of the Mk58 marine prime contract from another substantial Middle East customer.
P 9 CHEMRING GR OUP PLC Review by the Chief Executive - continued In September, we announced the acquisition of We will focus on becoming a key supplier of energetic B. D. L. Systems Limited, an explosive ordnance disposal materials to the major prime contractors for munitions.
We EOD company located in Poole, UK.
BDL is a world leader intend to build on our expertise in explosive ordnance in RF initiation products, and has just completed a number disposal and develop the capability to become a specialist of upgrades to its mini-RABS system used globally for prime contractor.
We also plan to invest in new products to military engineering demolition purposes.
New secure expand our pyrotechnic business and develop clear leadership coding techniques and secure firing mechanisms have been in both the detonator and cartridge activated device markets.
BDL has also secured a number of key prime contracts for EOD equipment, including the supply and Our geographic strategy also remains unchanged.
We intend support of a wide range of equipment for both the Iraqi to manufacture in the US for the US market and in Europe forces through the US programme office and an important for the European market.
We will then use our excellent customer in the Far East.
worldwide sales network to export from both the US and Europe.
We will also develop our capabilities to bundle third The integration of the newly acquired businesses has been an party products and offer a broader supply chain management important priority.
New processes, investment in automation service to our export customers.
and rationalisation of manufacturing have been implemented to improve efficiency.
During the year, we transferred the manufacture of all marine pyrotechnic products to Geographic Strategy Bremerhaven, Germany, and instigated a rolling programme of automation to upgrade the manufacturing facilities to Make in the EU, cope with increased volumes.
We have completed the transfer for the EU market to Nobel Energetics of the manufacture of all explosive Make in primers used in the ceremonial ammunition supplied to the the US, for the UK Ministry of Defence by Leafield Engineering.
Other US market high explosive cutting charges used by Leafield Engineering in break-up units for European munitions are also now being transferred.
Consolidation of European pyrotechnics has also started to take place, with the gradual establishment of a Export Marketing from both presence in centre-of-excellence for pyrotechnic flare products in US and EU Middle and Germany and another one for smoke products in the UK.
Far East To improve efficiency further, we have also successfully Bundled exports of 3rd party products to transferred the manufacture of some of our lower technology, both Middle and Far East markets labour-intensive products to a partner in Estonia and worked with them to successfully deliver the first production contract to a NATO customer.
Corporate Strategy 10000 Strategy The Group strategy remains focussed on our two core sectors 1000 of operations, Countermeasures and Energetics.
Partnering and acquisitions in 100 The core strategy for the Countermeasures business is to large energetics markets maintain and improve our market share, and carefully exploit 10 the continuing market growth over the next few years.
We intend to increase our investment in new products and to 1 Market Growth Ammunition EOD Pyro Marine build on our leadership in both special material and spectral & Missiles Pyro decoys.
We also intend to invest in new automated production facilities, to drive further manufacturing efficiencies and to maintain our lead role in the development Disposal of new products for the next generation of fixed wing and rotary aircraft.
CounterEnergetics Potential Marine measures New Electronics We intend to continue the expansion of our Energetics Sectors division, with new acquisitions in both the US and Europe.
P 10 Market size million Log scale FIN ANCIAL ST A TEMENTS 2006 Shoulder-launched missiles continue to be a major threat to Future Prospects low level helicopter and transport aircraft missions.
New Countermeasures helicopters, such as the Tiger and NH90 platforms, have The market outlook for our Countermeasures businesses Defence Aids Suites DAS fitted as standard, and DAS continues to be positive.
Over the next three years, we systems are now being fitted as upgrades to most Apache believe that the global market will expand by around 12% fleets.
These DAS systems contain sophisticated missile each year.
The short term growth is driven by a number of approach detectors and programmable decoy dispensers to major factors.
The peacekeeping activities in Afghanistan have cope with the myriad of threats.
Demand for decoys will grown in importance over the last twelve months and senior expand as growing numbers of these platforms become UK and US military have consistently indicated the long operational and are deployed in peacekeeping roles.
term nature of the deployment.
Both the US and the UK are considering further increases in the number of troops A number of important aircraft will enter into service over deployed.
The UK has recently increased the number of the next five to ten years.
The Typhoon and Raptor decoy helicopters used in operations and its demand for decoys has suites have entered production this year, and the decoy continued to grow strongly.
requirements will increase steadily as the production numbers increase and the aircraft start to be deployed in combat or UN peacekeeping activities outside Iraq and Afghanistan are peacekeeping operations.
Similarly, the Joint Strike Fighter expected to involve in excess of 140,000 troops during 2007. is now undergoing qualification and is expected to enter This represents significant growth over the last few years, and service with the US Air Force in the next six to eight years.
although many of these troops are involved in small scale Chemring is responsible for the development of the advanced operations, most will also involve helicopter or transport technology flares for all three next generation aircraft and is well placed to secure all the initial production contracts.
P 11 CHEMRING GR OUP PLC Review by the Chief Executive - continued Energetics Energetics can be sub-divided into munitions, EOD and The pyrotechnic market is an order of magnitude smaller at pyrotechnic segments.
The global market for energetic about 300 million and remains fragmented with many small materials used in munitions is substantial, amounting to some players.
We have developed an excellent relationship with 2 billion each year.
At present, our activities amount to Martin Baker on ejector seat propellant, pyromechanisms and only 15 million of sales per annum, and there are significant canopy cutting charges.
We have also made good progress in opportunities to expand our product range of primers, the development of battlefield simulation, mine clearance and detonators, propellants, tracers and pyrotechnic payloads.
In these areas, there remains good combined capabilities of our two acquired businesses, Nobel scope for improving our market share in both the US and Energetics and Leafield Engineering, have significantly Europe.
enhanced our capabilities in this area, and our planned product investment will extend our range of products and At the year end, the Group had a strong order book of provide opportunities to penetrate the market further.
In 214.6 million, up 75% since the previous year.
This has addition, the combined capabilities of Technical Ordnance grown a further 15%, and today stands at a record level of and Kilgore have given us a similar capability in the US and 246 million.
We are confident that the market outlook tremendous opportunity for the cross-transfer of products and over the next few years will remain strong and the prospects technology.
for the Group in 2007 continue to be excellent..
The formation of  for the production of energetic materials has generated considerable interest from the major prime contractors in both the US and Europe, who are looking for strategic partners.
Discussions on the manufacture of primers, detonators and fuze components are Dr David Price at an advanced stage, and we believe that there is considerable Chief Executive scope for further collaboration over the next few years.
23 January 2007 The global ordnance disposal market is also large at just over 2 billion per annum.
This market is quite fragmented and involves a broad range of technologies, including detection systems, robots, protective clothing and explosives.
The acquisition of BDL has enhanced our profile in this market and our developing ability to offer a one-stop EOD supply service should offer good opportunities for growth.
