Statement by the Chief Executive Stephen Hester British Land is in great shape.
We are reporting record financial results as the outcome Delivering on our promises of both intense and effective business activity.
We have A year ago we presented British Lands focused strategy also made substantial progress to reposition the for the future.
This builds on the bedrock of our Retail and Company, building on strong foundations and delivering Office expertise, our bias to prime property, focus on on our promises made a year ago.
This means we are secure, income led growth and disciplined risk well placed to welcome the advent of UK REITs as an management.
We also set forth some important areas of industry leader and look forward to the challenge of change to equip the Company to outperform for outperformance for shareholders in this new guise.
shareholders in years to come.
I am pleased to report that we have delivered on these The 2005 6 results promises.
Headline pre-tax profits are up 117% to 1.7 billion while underlying profits rose 26% to 228 million.
EPRA net Intensified portfolio reshaping asset value was 1486p per share up 32%.
EPRA net In just 12 months we have bought or sold 4.8 billion assets are 7.8 billion.
This is the result of a disciplined plan to Our underlying profit growth was driven by three reshape our property holdings with tighter focus on areas factors: rental growth, ahead of the market overall: strong of probable outperformance and to work shareholders gains in fee and other income from the acquisition of Pillar capital harder in the process.
While the pace of asset and its subsequent outperformance and dividends from turnover is likely to slow, this process discipline will remain Songbird: and a lower average interest rate reflecting the in place.
Not only will the reshaping benefit future Broadgate debt refinancing in 2004 5. performance, in practically every case we have reported Our growth in asset value was primarily driven by significant profit on both sales and purchases.
property valuation gains and realised profits on disposals.
Continuing yield shift in the market benefited all property.
Pro-active asset management Company specific actions on sector weighting, asset An important source of value growth comes from working management, development pipeline and gearing were assets harder whilst under our stewardship.
Success is responsible for outperformance, despite the yield ultimately shown by rental growth above market at compression that penalised prime property.
A wide range of lettings, tenancy changes, lease restructurings and premises enhancement lie behind Market conditions these figures.
So too does the enhancement of our Real Estate markets offered another year of strong gains property development activity, which we believe is well driven by yield shift.
Overall markets now fairly reflect the timed to capture value for shareholders.
value of propertys rental growth prospects and strong, bond-like, downside protection compared to alternative Management and culture renewal financial market trade-offs from bonds to equities.
This The success of our strategy is measured by long-term means that we expect growth rates to reduce, whilst outperformance for shareholders.
Its key enabler is the remaining both positive and competitive with other asset expertise, resourcing and application of our people, from classes on a risk-adjusted basis.
The property market is whom more is being demanded.
Here too we have made also more vulnerable than in recent years to setbacks good progress.
Our new executive team is in place and should interest rates go higher.
We have doubled the The economys prospects with modest inflation professionals in our Asset Management and Development should support both rental and occupancy growth from teams.
Succession plans are in place and happening current levels, which remain affordable in historic terms.
We are implementing a performance However, without yield shift drowning out real culture with explicit and demanding targets, greater performance, we see greater differentiation in relative individual responsibility and more variable performance results likely in coming years.
Success will come more linked pay to match.
We also expect to move to a new clearly from correct portfolio positioning, intense asset head office in the current financial year.
management and effective risk-reward assessments.
8 The British Land Company PLC Investor friendly positioning While making sure that near and medium-term execution On top of our tangible value creation strategies, we have is our main focus, we will continue to grow longer-term sought to establish British Land at the forefront of investor capabilities.
This includes overseas, as our European outfriendly behaviour to help improve translation of the of-town retail interests expand, or in other UK sectors or economic value we create into value in the hands of our property types such as the fixed uplift and indexed rental shareholders.
We will stay disciplined to areas of competitive We aim to be a leader in frequency and quality of advantage, but be willing to exploit our scale and expertise reporting and disclosure with high levels of transparency to add value within, across and between sectors.
and thereby trust from our investors.
The record shows that our scale and breadth can bring Clarity of strategy, primacy of shareholder value, focus opportunity, without sacrifice of manoeuvrability or on competitive advantage all underpin this approach.
Above all the acid test is long-term, As do strong Corporate Governance arrangements and tangible value creation for shareholders.
This will drive our Corporate Social Responsibility.
size, our strategies and our behaviour.
In closing, tribute is due to the efforts of our people Pillar who throughout the business have risen to the The acquisition of Pillar in July last year was a major event performance challenge.
Change brings opportunity and for the Company and one which has turned out well.
uncertainty it is gratifying to see our talented people Pillars Hercules Unit Trust HUT produced total welcoming the former and prevailing over the latter.
returns of 35.5% in 2005 demonstrating the value of As the Chairman has noted, we have a number of BLs leadership in Open A1 consented retail warehouse retirements this year.
We are immensely grateful for their parks which we cemented with the 1.3 billion of these contribution to British Land, we will miss them individually assets acquired with Pillar.
HUT also produced record and we wish them all the best for the future.
outperformance for its investors further benefiting British Land: fee income from third parties of some 40 million was earned in the calendar year.
The ability of the Fund Management model to generate strategic options as well as fees was subsequently illustrated with the sale of BLs residential interests in February 2006 whilst retaining their asset management.
The integration success of Pillar is not Stephen Hester only financial but has also been a contributor to the Chief Executive Companys management and culture renewal described 1 June 2006 above.
The future The course we set last year remains valid.
Our sector focus, asset management and development potential and financial strength should provide a platform for superior results in coming years, though there is plenty of work still to do to embed the progress to date.
The advent of REITs facilitates our strategy.
It will allow the right property decisions to prevail with less fiscal distortions.
It is positive to stated and future net assets as contingent tax based on past success is substantially eliminated in exchange for the entry charge.
However, our basic job making money from efficiently financed real estate is unchanged.
Total returns will continue to be the yardstick, with income certainty an important part of the mix.
The British Land Company PLC 9 There are only two styles of portrait painting the serious and the smirk.
