Chief Executives Review These results endorse our decision to divest of more than 560m of property during the year, to capitalise on the success of the Industrious purchase by creating 70m worth of surplus value in 15 months, and to reinvest in our core markets where the fundamental drivers are stronger.
We have committed to spend over 130m on new acquisitions in these market areas at Heathrow, Park Royal and Manchester.
We are positive about our development programme not least given the levels of rental growth outperformance that we continue to show.
Outlook The location preference of Brixtons portfolio remains strong.
London and the South East have 26% of the UK population and produce 33% of the Countrys output from less than 9% of the land area.
Londons population is forecast to grow by more than 10% over the next 10 years.
Service sector actively dominates with the demand pull of Londons economy strengthening.
Supply is constrained and there is a shortage of new developments.
Industrial provides less volatility of returns, less obsolescence and has a constrained supply in our chosen areas of operation.
This particularly contrasts with Europe and the majority of the rest of the World where greater general supply leads to lower income returns: witness the rental deflation in the industrial and warehouse markets in Central Europe of c. 30% in the last 6 years.
Downward yield shift is likely to conclude shortly ending an extraordinary period of growth in commercial property values in the UK which has generally benefited all property owners.
Over the last 5 years the IPD Annual All Property equivalent yield has reduced by 252bp from 7.9% to 5.4% and the Industrial equivalent yield by 246bp from 8.7% to 6.2%.
The ability to continue to demonstrate rental growth outperformance will be paramount.
Brixtons business model, combining attentive and customer focused management with astute and timely investment decisions, has been to concentrate on this and we have a proven track record in this regard.
We have been at the forefront of innovation in our sector, for instance by looking at multi-storey in areas where land is particularly scarce, and also now exploring mixed use opportunities.
The evidence is clear from the US and Australia, where established Real Estate Investment Trust markets exist, that specialism and focus, by product type and geography, are likely to be favoured going forward.
Our shareholder base is likely to expand further reflecting interest from both global specialist and domestic retail investors.
Our deliberately chosen lower gearing level and our unsecured funding strategy gives us the financial flexibility to react quickly to new development and investment opportunities.
With the benefit of reducing market yields likely to be removed Brixton is well placed to look to use its balance sheet capacity when appropriate, and to continue to capitalise on its market-leading position.
