JohnRichards Hammersons objective new developments, in our approach to managing and improving our Our objective is to build an outstanding real estate business, providing existing assets, and in the relationships we have with those affected by investors with a tax-efficient real estate vehicle which consistently or involved in our business.
Further details of our approach to Corporate achieves financial returns above its cost of capital.
Responsibility are set out on pages 49 to 51.
How we run our business We recognise the importance of attracting and retaining the skilled Our strategy is to invest in, develop and manage prime real estate assets staff necessary to run the business.
We endeavour to provide an in the retail and office sectors in two key markets, the UK and France.
attractive working environment, an appropriate remuneration Today the group has an investment portfolio of the highest quality, which structure and opportunities for our people to maximise their potential is valued at over 6.7 billion and which provides a secure and rising for career progression.
We place emphasis on good communication income stream.
We refresh the portfolio by developing new properties, within the Company to ensure that employees understand our by acquiring income-producing assets and by appropriate disposals.
We encourage all employees to become shareholders in Hammerson both through share-based remuneration The groups strategy is established by the Board and set out in the and savings schemes.
groups annual business plan covering the following three years.
The groups real estate strategy is supported by operational and financial Pages 21 to 48 provide details of the properties we own and a review strategies implemented within a risk management framework designed of our performance in 2006. to identify and manage risk.
A summary of the principal risks faced by Hammerson and how these are managed is set out on page 18.
Our management reporting systems provide financial and operational performance measures.
The Key Performance Indicators KPIs which we believe are most important to the groups performance are shown on page 19.
The decisions we make affect how people live, work and spend their leisure time.
What we build and how we build it have a lasting impact John Richards, Chief Executive on the environment.
We take these responsibilities seriously in planning 9 March 2007 AnnualReport2006 1 Section 03 [ ]
