06 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Chief Executives statement Our objective is to maximise shareholder value through delivering profitable and 03 sustainable growth in our chosen markets.
Thinking and acting like one business Richard Cousins Chief Executive First impressions In my first three months I visited 15 of our largest countries and received presentations on a further 30 key markets.
It is clear to me that our customer service is excellent and that our people are committed and passionate about what they do.
We have strong client relationships and market leading positions in our core markets.
We also have a global footprint that should enable us to leverage our scale and expertise to develop growth for the future.
Hence my conclusion is that fundamentally this is a good business with a sound strategy.
However, the model has been a little overstretched and in some parts of the world governance and control have been lacking.
We therefore need to create a more intensive performance culture.
This implies the need to support customers locally but asking our managers across the world to operate within simple global frameworks.
We seek intelligent top-line growth and a more disciplined approach to reducing our global cost base.
Very simply we need to build on our strengths and correct our weaknesses.
We have to create a management and performance culture that has at its core the delivery of profitable growth to maximise shareholder value.
Aligning the business around this single unifying objective is the priority for me and my management team.
Business strategy To be successful we must deliver the highest quality and performance, whilst relentlessly Profit drivers Revenue growth driving to be the lowest cost, most efficient Client sales and Consumer sales provider.
Our focus going forward will be We are focused on two elements marketing and marketing on the creation of real shareholder value of the income and expenditure delivered in a disciplined and sustainable way.
account revenue growth and At the moment we trade in too many countries cost efficiencies.
where future growth prospects do not offer adequate returns.
Over the next 12 months we Greater financial performance drives shareholder value will reduce the number of countries we operate in to 60-65.
Our core business will remain contract Cost efficiencies foodservice.
We are focused on it and excited Food costs Unit costs Above unit by the opportunity.
The market is some overheads 150 billion in size and, with outsourced penetration still at around 50%, our market grows at about 5% a year.
07 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2006 There is clearly a growing trend amongst some Consumer sales and marketing: we will seek There are three simple questions that managers clients to source catering and other support a more innovative approach to our consumers at all levels in the business are beginning to use services, such as cleaning, from a single provider.
improving the quality of our offer, restaurant in their decision making.
Does it fit with our This market, including catering, has a value designs and point of sale displays.
What are the risks and rewards?
of around 700 billion, and with circa 35% like volume growth will be an important key Does it create value for shareholders?
outsourced, growing at around 10% a year.
performance indicator and where we face Support services already account for around inflationary cost pressures we will seek Through creating a performance-driven culture 10% of our revenue and we are ideally placed reasonable price increases.
we are increasing the focus and intensity with to leverage our existing client relationships to which we manage the business to deliver value offer them integrated food and support services.
Food cost: we spend over 3.5 billion a year for shareholders.
We will only do this, though, where it makes on food.
Our objective must be to procure the sense and enhances value for shareholders.
optimal quality and range of food to meet Conclusion the needs of our customers at the lowest cost.
2006 has been a transitional year for Offering clients an integrated foodservice and This means having an efficient supply chain Compass against which we can benchmark vending solution has been a key competitive that leverages our scale whilst being much more our performance.
Our European disciplined about rationalising our supplier and vending business, Selecta, though highly product base.
Driving in-unit compliance with By stepping up the intensity with which we profitable, only has 9% of its revenues with our approved purchasing lists through a much more manage the performance of the business, contract foodservice clients.
We have decided systematic approach to menu planning and and with a disciplined focus on the key profit that this business is not a core part of our portion control will be critical.
drivers, we are well placed to create and deliver operations and will be sold.
We will continue to sustainable shareholder value.
offer European clients an appropriate vending Unit costs: we spend nearly 6 billion a year on solution when they require it.
We will work closely with clients and employees to improve labour scheduling and The sale of Selecta following other disposals efficiency and to reduce unit overheads.
such as SSP, Moto and Au Bon Pain and the gradual withdrawal from a number of small Above unit overheads: we lose too much of Richard Cousins countries will mark the end of a phase for our unit profit to overheads.
We need a simpler Group Chief Executive Compass.
From this new, tighter core Compass model with fewer layers of management and 29 November 2006 will be able to grow in a sustainable way.
This year we have achieved expenditure, which three years ago exceeded our target of 50 million of overhead savings 300 million a year will, for the next two-three and are seeking a similar reduction once again years be held at circa 2% of revenue a year.
Thereafter, the drive for overhead efficiency will continue.
Profit drivers Our objective over the next two-three years will Focus on management and be to drive disciplined profitable growth with the performance MAP focus more on organic growth and much less I have dismantled the divisional structure so on acquisitions.
Within that philosophy we will that we have greater visibility of the underlying drive performance by concentrating upon five performance of local businesses.
New monthly simple profit drivers: reporting processes and regular business reviews with country management teams will ensure Client sales and marketing: winning new that all of us are constantly focused on the same Effective decision making business is, and will continue to be, a clear things.
As part of this process the five profit strength for Compass.
However, as we improve drivers outlined previously are being To help us make the right operational decisions, discipline and focus on unit margins, organic orchestrated into a global performance we use a simple process that confirms value growth rates may, for a period, slow a little framework called MAP.
before increasing back to trend rates.
We will directors are empowered to run their business work closely with clients to deliver like-for-like within clearly defined corporate governance Does it fit with our strategy?
revenue growth seeking to balance the needs rules and MAP.
of value for money, efficiency and a fair reward for a job well done.
In the medium-long term, The actions that have already been taken to Does it create value for shareholders?
we will work harder to demonstrate to potential improve financial discipline and governance clients the benefits of outsourcing.
are focusing management on value creation.
