Chief Executives review In 1999, I wrote a strategy paper for the Board outlining how we should We are delighted with the Mike Humphrey change Croda by increasing focus on our core oleochemical speciality Group Chief Executive acquisition, which gives business.
Once that was achieved we would then make a transforming us some great people and transaction by buying one of a very short list of companies.
assets, some very good The refocusing continues to be an outstanding The specialities business of Uniqema consists of success, as evidenced by the excellent Croda results the seven factories in Wilton UK, Mevisa Spain, technologies and a much for 2006.
On our short list of targets was Uniqema, Chocques France, Atlas Point USA, Thane India, part of ICI.
We finally managed to acquire Uniqema in Cikarang Indonesia and Woobang South Korea, more balanced geography.
We have bought a good company that, as part and the sales offices around the world.
These of Croda, will become a great company.
The transition factories have been integrated into our regional phase is almost complete and the new organisation specialities structure and the offices have been was in place on 1 January 2007.
All people who are rationalised into the Croda marketing network, leaving the new Company have either already left or resulting in a number of office closures.
The more know the timing of their departure.
We thank them all commodity oleochemicals business is now a separate for their past contributions.
unit encompassing the factories in Gouda Holland, Bromborough UK, Emmerich Germany, Cremona We are now beginning the process of repositioning Italy, Chicago USA and Klang Malaysia.
This retains the acquired business using the same tools we the Uniqema name and will operate as a cohesive Situated next to the Ijssel river, the adopted in 1999.
Croda is a brand new company, global business.
Uniqemas leadership in fatty acid Gouda site was originally established combining the market facing approach of Croda production technology is complemented by its growing in 1858 as a candle factory.
Gouda is with the site based operational skills of Uniqema.
business in derivative polymerised fatty acids.
now the key production site for a wide The new structure is already a reality, with the range of polymerised fatty acids and their Croda now has excellent manufacturing facilities in specialities part of Uniqema integrated into derivatives.
The site is also home to the fourteen countries across Europe, the Americas and Crodas existing structure.
The more commodity marketing, sales and R&D functions Asia compared to six countries prior to the acquisition.
oleochemicals business based around fatty acids, of Croda's Uniqema business.
Our global marketing network has increased from glycerine and polymerised fatty acids has been operations in twenty-six countries to thirty-five.
This is separated into a new organisation operating globally a welcome increase in our powerful global marketing under the Uniqema name.
We will improve the quality network, especially in fast growing, developing markets.
of both businesses by emphasising innovation, customer service and rigorous cost control.
So far we are delighted with the acquisition, which gives us some great people and assets, some very good technologies and a much more balanced geography.
We are ready and fit for the challenge of delivering a leaner, more profitable company with solid growth prospects in our chosen business sectors.
4 Chief Executives review Chief Executives review 5 Chief Executives review Group Chief Executive, Mike Humphrey, pictured on a recent visit to the Groups site in Thane, India.
The Thane site specialises in the manufacture The relative performances of Croda and the acquired We had mixed success with our ongoing disposals of nonionic and anionic surfactants and business in 2006 graphically emphasise the success programme for non core businesses.
We sold the has been integrated into the Groups of the market facing Croda model, in contrast to the Application Chemicals business in mid year and will regional specialities structure, where it more internalised, process driven structure of Uniqema dispose of the site in Doncaster separately in early is expected to play a prominent role.
Old Croda produced excellent results for 2007.
In the year, Chemtura, the majority shareholder the year, in spite of rising raw material costs, enormous of Baxenden Chemicals, attempted to sell the energy price rises and unfavourable currency company.
As such we reported Baxenden last year movements.
Operating profits before exceptional as discontinued.
However, this business has now items rose 9% to another record level of 57.2 million.
been withdrawn from sale and together we are Sales were up 2.7% to 313.9 million in constant reviewing our options.
We again reduced The full roll out of SAP to our major units is now our volumes, especially in the low margin traded oils Good progress was made in most regions, with the We start 2007 with a clear picture of the business and complete, with the USA fully on-stream and Japan business.
Excluding this, volumes of our core products exception of the USA where flat sales, but increased a very committed team.
The disruptions of restructuring implemented in January 2007.
The real strength of Crodas product and profits, reflected the difficulties of the overall market are effectively behind us and the increased focus on capacity at a number of sites, most notably with a new technology franchise was demonstrated in the sales in the second half of 2006.
There are strong signs direct customer contact should yield the expected ester plant in Brazil and new facilities at Sederma in increase of nearly 7% attributable to price and product that this period of destocking is coming to an end.
The reorganisation has resulted in a large France, to satisfy demand for our speciality products.
We continued to launch new products and number of people leaving the Company and by 2008 increased sales in Consumer Care by almost 4%, Industrial Specialities In spite of the continuing consolidation of our customer we expect a reduction of approximately 7% in the whilst increasing operating profits by over 9%.
Personal Sales in this sector were flat, with all units performing as base, I am pleased to report that no one customer original combined headcount.
We are well on the Care was again the driving force behind this excellent well as could be expected in tough market conditions.
represents more than 3.4% of our global turnover.
way to finalising all the other major synergy projects performance.
Enterprise Technologies successfully Profits were up 7% as we improved the quality of the The top ten customers still represent only 19% of as part of our objective to achieve 20 million of launched two new product ranges inorganic business by exiting lower margin products.
The acquisition of Uniqema will annualised synergy benefit by the end of 2008. sunscreens and the nascent range of polymers, not change these ratios to any significant degree.
both for the growing global market in Personal Care.
Application Chemicals has been sold from this sector, Summary whereas Baxenden Chemicals profits reappear, as it Consumer Care 2006 was a year of terrific progress in the core Strong cash generation underpinned the strong has ceased to be classified as discontinued.
This sector again performed strongly in 2006, with business in spite of the potential distractions of the trading, helped by a well directed level of capital sales growth of 4% and an increase in operating largest transaction in the history of Croda.
Forty years expenditure, which has again improved the quality Uniqema profit of over 9% with a pleasing increase in margins.
ago, Croda bought two companies that were bigger of our global assets.
As anticipated, the performance of the Uniqema In 2006, this sector represented 69% of Group turnover than itself and created the platform for what Croda is businesses in the last quarter of 2006 was lower than pre Uniqema and 84% of operating profit.
I am proud of the teams from both Croda and UK sales were flat, as our customer base continues the previous year.
In stark contrast to Crodas existing true speciality business with excellent margins driven Uniqema who have worked amazingly hard to to shrink, but sales in mainland Europe were well business, there were almost no real price increases by innovation and growing markets.
These gains were implement the transition and integration phases ahead of 2005, with good growth in France, Germany in 2006.
With strong cost pressures from energy and achieved in spite of a very unfavourable raw material with speed and efficiency.
We are confident we can and Holland.
In North America, sales were generally raw materials and unhelpful currency shifts, it is not cost environment and unwelcome currency shifts.
achieve the business and profit improvement we flat, mainly due to customer destocking in the second surprising profits were falling.
Sales were robust in outlined at the time of the transaction.
I have visited half, which now seems to have run its course.
In Latin quarter four, but profits fell.
We have a strong belief There were a record number of new product launches all of the major sites we acquired and am encouraged America, sales growth was again excellent, with that Uniqemas high quality products have been in all units in this sector.
All units look well set to by the quality and enthusiasm of the people and the particularly good performances in Brazil, Argentina underpriced and steps have already been taken to continue to progress in the future, with particularly strength of the asset and technology base.
Asian sales were ahead, with further increase selling prices to more fully reflect the cost good prospects for the Sederma actives business strong growth in China.
and the Crodarom range of plant extracts.
2007 will be an even more exciting year.
Mike Humphrey Group Chief Executive 6 Chief Executives review Chief Executives review 7 Financial review In a year dominated by the acquisition of Uniqema it is pleasing to report such strong progress in the existing business.
Operating profits before exceptional items were up 9.0% with improved margins A selection of the products now utilising Croda speciality ingredients.
The despite start up costs of Enterprise Technologies and our new office in acquisition of Uniqema has introduced Shenzhen, adverse currency translation and higher raw material prices.
a number of exciting new products and technologies into the Groups portfolio.
Operating profit growth was driven by Consumer Restructuring Care up 9.3% to 48.0m.
Industrial Specialities saw All commercial, customer facing, restructuring of 7.0% growth despite the modest decline in the Uniqema was completed for 1 January 2007 in line reclassified Baxenden business.
with our pre acquisition timetable.
Distribution, back office and system changes will take place throughout Uniqema contributed 4.3m operating profit in 2007.
290 redundancies have been announced the four months since acquisition with sales growth across the Group as part of this programme.
ahead of our expectations but lower margins, due in the main to un-recovered input cost rises.
Interest Interest costs rose significantly as a result of the The 33.0m operating exceptional item, of which acquisition of Uniqema which masked the benefit Acquisition the cash cost is 28.8m, arises as a result of the post of the strong underlying cash generation in the year, Croda acquired Uniqema from ICI on 1 September acquisition restructuring we have already announced though IAS19 pension financing income partially 2006 for an initial consideration of 370m.
We raised and begun to implement in Uniqema.
The main reduced the charge.
61m through a share placement on 5 September elements are redundancy, charges for onerous lease 2006, the balance financed by debt.
The provisional and supply agreements and costs in relation to the Taxation total consideration of 381.8m referred to in note 28 termination of distribution arrangements.
The bulk of In 2006 the effective tax rate before exceptional items includes fees and payments for inherited cash and the cash cost of the restructuring will occur in 2007. has fallen to 33% from 34.8%.
The mix of overseas higher working capital less a deduction for pensions earnings in countries with higher tax rates than the based on the September 2006 valuation.
UK has not changed materially as a result of the Uniqema acquisition.
Discontinued operations We sold our metal treatments business, Croda Application Chemicals, to Shell in March 2006 for an initial consideration of 3.9m.
The sale of our associate, Baxenden Chemicals Limited, did not complete and Baxenden has therefore been re-classified as a continuing business within Industrial Specialities.
The prior year comparatives have been Sean Christie adjusted accordingly.
Group Finance Director 8 Financial review Financial review 9 14.5 30 Financial 28 14.0 26 review 13.5 24 22 13.0 20 pence pence 12.5 18 12.0 Dividends We hedge up to three months ahead on known 16 We are again able to increase the dividend ahead of currency transaction exposures using forward 14 11.5 the rate of inflation and improve our dividend cover.
contracts and foreign currency bank accounts.
We 12 11.0 We propose to raise the final dividend 7.2% to 9.65p do not hedge translation exposure but reduce the 10 making a total of 14.30p 2005: 13.35p.
Pre exceptional risk by matching currency assets with borrowings 10.5 8 continuing dividend cover increases to 2 times where it is possible and tax efficient to do so.
To this 02 03 04 05 06 02 03 04 05 06 compared to 1.9 times in 2005. end we borrowed US$130m and f145m within the Dividends per share Earnings per share new facility.
pre-exceptional Cash We also fixed interest rates on 100m of our debt in We generated over 70m of cash from our operations line with our policy to fix interest rates on up to half in 2006.
This was after making a 6m additional our borrowings.
payment into the Croda pension fund in December.
The strong EBITDA was boosted by a small working Following our 61m share placement in September capital inflow.
Capital expenditure across the enlarged 2006, we cancelled 8.7m treasury shares, leaving group was 22.6m, close to the level of depreciation.
Overall there was an increase in net debt of 305.7m due largely to the acquisition of Uniqema.
Pensions Croda International, Croda Inc Croda has a number of pension funds across its Treasury and Croda Uniqema Inc employees global operations as does Uniqema.
During 2007 all The Groups treasury policies are approved by the pictured during a recent workshop held Uniqemas ongoing pension arrangements will transfer Board and subject to regular reporting and review.
in the USA to plan the integration of to Croda.
We made a one off payment to the Croda The main financial risks faced by the Group relate SAP across all US speciality operations UK pension fund of 6m in December 2006 and a to currency, interest rates and availability of capital.
and thus maximise the benefits of further 14m was paid into the fund in January 2007. the common platform.
Major changes in our funding structures have taken The pension deficit under IAS19 increased to 140.5m place as a result of the Uniqema acquisition.
The 40m arranged a 450m syndicated term loan and revolving unfunded Uniqema liabilities taken on as part of the credit line and this together with our US$55m fixed acquisition less the 6m additional contribution from loan note forms the core of our borrowing facilities.
Croda were the main factors behind this movement.
Information technology Croda and Uniqema both use SAP as their core software application.
We have separated all Uniqema systems from ICI and will make the necessary changes to combine systems across the enlarged Group during 2007.
Sean Christie Group Finance Director 10 Financial review Financial review 11
