Changing the way the world connects CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW 2006 was a mixed year for CSR.
Clearly our share price performance was disappointing.
As previously reported, we experienced lower than anticipated demand for our headset chips starting in the third quarter.
In the fourth quarter we saw the effects of a shift in mix to lower end phones at our customers which further reduced demand below the level we expected.
This was a challenging change for the Company to deal with.
Importantly, these were not losses of share, or even the rate of design-wins both of which remained generally strong throughout the period rather they were shifts John Scarisbrick Chief Executive Officer in end-consumer demand to which we had to respond.
Im pleased to say that CSRs management team rose to these short term challenges well, quickly reducing hiring, expenses and the orders on our foundry and assembly partners to slow inventory growth.
This effective, disciplined approach when the going gets tough served us well and is an important organisational capability in the competitive and dynamic global markets we serve.
As well as responding to these shifts in our customers demand, CSR continued to make real progress elsewhere.
The Company grew diluted EPS by 32%, revenues by 45%, while winning more than 500 new Bluetooth designs world-wide around 60% of the total holding more than half the unit market and shipping over 250 million Bluetooth chips.
08 | 09 WE CONTINUED TO BUILD A DIVERSIFIED CHIP BUSINESS AT CSR IN 2006.
ON A COMMON FOUNDATION OF SUPERIOR RADIO, CHIP, SOFTWARE AND PACKAGING TECHNOLOGIES, WE CONTINUE TO EXPAND THE DEPTH AND BREADTH OF THE MARKETS WE SERVE Our design-win market share CSRs vision is to change the way The mobile phone market is the was around three times that of the world connects.
We see a largest we serve and, not surprisingly, the nearest competitor and over specific opportunity here.
For some the most competitive.
We won nearly ten times that of the number three considerable time the last mile the half of the GSM Bluetooth handset player.
We maintained a strong new last connection between, originally, design-wins in 2006 down slightly product pipeline, starting extensive the traditional phone system and a on 2005.
The percentage of mobile sampling and design-in of our 5th customers premises was the focus of phones attaching Bluetooth grew to Generation Bluetooth devices and innovation and market growth.
Digital over 35% for the year.
In this market began customer shipments of UniFi, connections proliferated through we work with our customers to our first Wi-Fi solution.
cable-modems,  our devices to the right price lines DSL, wireless telephony and point to drive volume and attach rate, We continued to build a strong wireless local loop technologies.
Now especially into lower end phones.
diversified chip business at CSR in we see that much of the growth and This involves using the smallest chip 2006.
On a common foundation of opportunity, much of the value, in the size, with lowest raw silicon cost superior radio, chip, software and last mile is now behind us.
Where the technology and using our least packaging technologies, we continued real excitement, the real value expensive packaging Wafer Level to expand the depth and breadth of opportunity lies, is in the last 25 Chip-Scale Packaging WLCSP the markets we serve.
This model metres inside homes and offices.
a technology in which CSR leads the has strong operational leverage.
This is about connecting the last mile world.
CSRs Bluetooth chips have So, for example, the technologies we broadband internet connection to a the highest performance radios, with develop for the mobile phone market multiplicity of devices for audio, video the smallest packages and are keenly also form the basis of the Bluetooth and control.
It might be a Bluetooth priced.
Together with a strong new chips we use for our class-leading headset allowing hands-free product flow we expect a strong headset devices as well as those connection to a mobile phone, or an performance in the handset market found in game console controllers Internet Radio classically styled as a in 2007 with attach rates reaching like Sonys PlayStation 3, automotive consumer friendly table top appliance between 40% 50%.
applications and music players etc.
tuning into an unlimited number of streaming audio sources.
It could Our new product pipeline focusing This model, of foundation technologies include Bluetooth equipped TVs: on the mobile phone opportunity serving multiple product market sensibly muting when an incoming was strengthened in 2006 by the spaces, allows us to tailor our offering mobile phone call is detected, or long introduction of our 5th Generation in each of these markets for lasting VoIP Voice over Internet BlueCore5 FM part, a state of the art instance to encourage attach rates Protocol phones using the low cost Bluetooth chip integrated with a high in the competitive space of lower tariffs of the next generation of phone performance stereo radio.
Multiple end mobile phones and to develop service providers.
These will be design-ins are underway.
We also the lowest cost system solutions for demanding markets to create, developed UniVox Mobile a solution high performance headsets while needing the highest quality radios, to add VoIP into the GSM mobile effectively re-using much of our with ultra-long battery life, extensive phone space.
This will allow foundation technology investment.
software and systems support and subscribers using phones with this This forms a strong combination of all delivered on low cost platforms technology to make low cost calls via businesses serving diverse markets.
VoIP operators like Vonage or Skype when near a supported Wi-Fi access Changing the way the world connects CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW point.
In January 2007 we acquired a headset.
In this we have a distinct continued NordNav Technologies AB and advantage since we are able to Cambridge Positioning Systems include important functions like the Limited to add more products to this battery charger circuits right on the pipeline.
The software based eGPS same chip as the Bluetooth device.
technology which CSR now has will allow the addition of the highest Again, new product introductions performance location capability on characterised our efforts in this any CSR Bluetooth equipped phone market with the introduction of our for less than one dollar.
This is truly 5th Generation Bluetooth technology a breakthrough in price performance in a headset variant adding a and will herald an era of ubiquitous powerful Digital Signal Processor location awareness in the coming DSP to the Bluetooth radio chip.
The flow of compelling new In premium headsets, this DSP can CSR wireless devices for the handset be used to run special CSR software market will continue beyond these to reduce echo and background technologies.
To further differentiate CSRs support for Wi-Fi in combination with product offering, we also built a Bluetooth to be in a future variant network of third party DSP software most likely when the uptake of suppliers to add further noise Wi-Fi in phones moves from its cancellation, text to speech and current low levels.
Well also add other functions to CSRs headset Wibree over time.
We are also introducing complementary to our Bluetooth products to support the low cost technology and will extend the mono headset market, specifically pervasion of wireless connectivity BlueVox QFN a complete reference into completely new areas.
Ultra design that supports the highest Wideband UWB is also on our audio quality levels that can be built roadmap for the mobile phone by OEMs with an electronic bill of market.
UWB will allow the transfer materials of less than $6.
We expect of photos, videos or music files at entry level Bluetooth headsets to the highest speeds ever achieved thrive in 2007 at the resultant over a metre or so distance and attractive resale price points.
open up new business opportunities for CSR in this space.
Nowhere exemplifies the pervasion of wireless connectivity, however, CSRs business model is to take more than our non-cellular business these foundation technologies and PC, Automotive and Consumer.
In re-use them across a diverse range 2006, the range of CSR Bluetooth of other markets adding substantial enabled products in these markets revenue opportunities in the process.
was quite remarkable ranging from This diversity is already very evident the controllers in Sonys PlayStation 3 with around 55% of CSRs 2006 game console, to TomTom, Garmin revenue being beyond the mobile and other Personal Navigation phone market in the headset, PC, Devices, Samsungs world-first Automotive and Consumer spaces.
Bluetooth enabled Yepp T9 MP3 music player and a myriad of other Beyond the handset market, devices.
The revenue contribution we continued to make progress in from these and other design-wins the Bluetooth headset marketplace in 2006 was significant and will where we won more than four times grow considerably in 2007.
The pace the design-wins of all our competitors of pervasion is exciting with new combined.
In this market we engineer and novel applications frequently complete solutions based on our announced.
Recently the first TV foundation Bluetooth technology with integrated Bluetooth was ensuring that the headset qualified by Samsung, and the manufacturer has the lowest possible leaders in the Voice-over-Wi-Fi cost for all the parts required to make and DECT cordless phone spaces: 10 | 11 Accton and SunCorp announced FUTURE PROSPECTS adoption of CSRs UniVox VoIP In 2007 we expect the Bluetooth technology for their product market to continue to grow driven ranges opening completely new by increasing attach rates in mobile markets for CSR.
phones, pull through of headsets and the strong growth of Bluetooth CREATING THE RIGHT beyond the mobile phone in WORKING ENVIRONMENT computing, automotive, gaming As you can see from the map on and music devices.
Building upon pages 4 and 5, we now operate its investments for the mobile phone in ten countries.
However, segment, CSR will continue to although our locations are diverse, diversify into associated markets.
CSR adopts a truly global approach to business and its customers.
As a result of the extraordinary You will often find engineers from talent in CSR throughout the world, labs in one geography working we continue to develop technologies to help a customer in a completely that are changing the way the different location, as it is routine to world connects.
Leveraging these have complete solution development leadership foundation technologies spread across a world-wide team into diverse products and markets, collaborating together.
we are developing the products and solutions to help our customers At the end of 2006, CSRs headcount create the wireless products that had increased to 923 from 688 a year consumers want.
About 70% of our employees to do this in 2007, growing and have technical qualifications and diversifying CSRs business.
some 60% are employed in new product research and development.
John Scarisbrick We focus on attracting the most Chief Executive Officer talented people and then on creating an environment where the best people can do their best work.
Committed, motivated and given the flexibility to perform, our teams act quickly and execute at speed.
Above all else, the results outlined in this report bear testament to the dedication and expertise of our people.
I would also like to take this opportunity to extend my thanks to John Whybrow, our Chairman, who will be stepping down at our forthcoming AGM.
John has been an excellent leader of the Board and has successfully overseen a sustained period of growth for the Company.
Ron Mackintosh, who has served as a non-executive director of CSR since 2004, will succeed John as Chairman.
Ron is also hugely experienced and I am confident will continue the high quality leadership of the Board to which we have become accustomed.
