qxd 7 6 06 11:37 am Page 4 4 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2006 Chief Executives review We expect our brand portfolio, supported by marketing investment and further new product development, to continue to make good progress Drummond Hall Chief Executive Overview The Group has delivered results in line million of exceptional items, 1.0 million of advance and St. Ivel Gold.
Both with expectations despite the challenging acquired intangible amortisation and 3.0 Cathedral City and Country Life have trading environment and high oil-related million of tax on joint ventures, profit performed particularly strongly, benefiting costs.
In particular, after a difficult first before tax was down 41% at 41.3 from this support, and both continue to half, we performed well in the second million 2005: 70.2 million.
Exceptional provide good growth opportunities for half of the year with profits up on the items include a 9.3 million non-cash the Group within their respective second half of last year as well as impairment charge on the assets and markets.
Cathedral City is now worth significantly up on the first half of this goodwill of our Stilton and speciality 106 million at retail value, strengthening year.
The focus of the Groups strategy cheese business.
Adjusted earnings per its position as the UKs biggest cheddar continues to be on growing the added share decreased to 40.3 pence per share brand.
This strong brand presence in value and branded side of the business, 2005: 43.9 pence.
cheese will help to offset any downward which we have supported with increased Group net debt as at 31 March 2006 pressure on market pricing in 2006 07 levels of marketing expenditure partly was 52.7 million higher at 280.2 million that may arise from higher industry funded through increases in operational 2005: 227.5 million reflecting, in cheese stocks.
We have also been active in particular, the acquisitions in the Dairies During the year, there has been new product development, with an division during the year.
continued focus on our new product emphasis on the functional food area development activity.
Much of this effort including the launch of St. Ivel advance Continued development of brands has been on moving into the high-value and St. Ivel Gold with Omega 3.
Over the last few years the Group has functional foods area within the dairy significantly increased the level of category, with particular emphasis on Financial results marketing support for its portfolio of Omega 3.
In May 2005 we launched St. Group revenue including our share of brands and is now one of the leading Ivel advance, a branded fresh milk joint ventures revenue was 1,424.2 advertisers in the UK food sector.
While it is still at million 2005: 1,348.8 million.
Adjusted marketing investment is expected to an early stage of development, volumes profit before tax including share of joint grow at a reduced rate with additional and sales are encouraging and the brand ventures and before exceptional items investment primarily being targeted at has now achieved high levels of trade and amortisation of acquired intangibles supporting our active programme of new distribution in the major retailers.
In was 67.7 million 2005: 75.7 million, product development.
During the year, January 2006, we launched St. Ivel Gold mainly reflecting reduced profits in our we invested in new television advertising spread with Omega 3 together with new Dairies division.
After deducting 22.4 for Cathedral City, Country Life, St. Ivel packaging and new television advertising.
qxd 7 6 06 11:37 am Page 5 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2006 5 St. Ivel Gold, despite having a more Midlands Co-op Birmingham dairy was enabled us to integrate the businesses difficult year, will continue to be our closed at the end of February 2006 with smoothly and to schedule.
platform for further new product volume transferred to Foston as well as Our training and development development in the Health sector of the other Dairy Crest sites.
All our dairies are programmes were further enhanced this Butter and Spreads market.
now operating at good levels of capacity year with the introduction of our Leading Other products launched during the utilisation.
4 Change programme aimed at first-line year included Country Life Lightly Salted The Dairies division has again managers across the business.
This and Over the Moon, a speciality benefited from the strong performance programme complements our existing blended cheese brand.
More recently, in of the household business, which management and employee training May 2006, we have launched Cathedral continues to be profitable and cash schemes.
City Mild to capitalise further on the generative.
The acquisitions of both exceptional performance from the Midlands Co-op Dairies and Arlas Pensions Cathedral City brand and help grow this London Foodservice business have In July 2005 the Group announced that brand across the wider cheddar strengthened the business in both the it would be closing its final salary pension category.
Yoplait Dairy Crest has again doorstep operations and in the middle scheme to new employees joining after launched new products within its brand ground.
There are still good opportunities 1 April 2006.
Following discussions with portfolio including Petits Filous Plus, a for rationalisation within the household employees representatives, this date has probiotic drinking yogurt for children.
sector and we are expecting another been delayed to 1 July 2006.
The gross Since the Group floated ten years good performance in 2006 07 following pension deficit under International ago, we have consistently focused on a last years acquisitions.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRS at strategy of building profitable brands There is now a better balance of 31 March 2006 has reduced to 62.0m both organically and through acquisition.
supply and demand in retail fresh milk compared to 102.7m at 31 March 2005.
As a result, our brands now represent a after several site closures across the This reduced deficit reflects the strong significant proportion of Group industry, although some uncertainty performance from the funds investments profitability.
In 2005 06 the percentage of has been created by the reduction and the additional cash contribution of Group contribution profit on operations in supermarket retail milk prices in 6 million made in the year, offset by the before indirect overhead allocation March 2006. impact of a reduction in the AA corporate derived from brands including joint Whilst margins in our liquid products bond yield.
This position will result in an ventures was 56%.
business have been unsatisfactory, they increase in the net financial income on are starting to improve.
In January 2006 the pension fund in 2006 07.
The pension Dairies position strengthened the Group achieved price increases on deficit is extremely sensitive to changes This years performance of the Dairies fresh milk with the major retailers to in the underlying assumptions and division reflects the impact of industry offset higher oil-related input costs.
More movements in the financial markets and supply changes in 2004 and 2005.
In recently, we have reduced the raw milk is likely to be volatile from year to year.
particular, the major retail fresh milk price going into our liquid dairies to reflect business was impacted by the loss of lower commodity cream prices.
At the Outlook the Tesco fresh milk supply position from same time, the Group has been pursuing Whilst markets for own label and April 2005.
During the year, the Group a continuous programme of cost commodity products continue to be has been focusing on improving reduction with particular projects focused challenging, trading at the start of the profitability and developing a robust and on distribution and energy saving.
new financial year is on track.
We expect sustainable future for this division.
our brand portfolio, supported by Notably, we were pleased to win People marketing investment and further new additional fresh milk volumes for We continue to be supported by a product development, to continue to Morrisons, which we began to supply at talented, dedicated and loyal workforce make good progress.
The Group should the end of October 2005.
In May 2005 whose skills and efforts have been also benefit from the actions we have the Group made the strategic instrumental in achieving our results taken to strengthen the Dairies division.
acquisitions of Midlands Co-op Dairies during another challenging year.
and the Foston dairy Starcross Foods Through our acquisitions of the to strengthen the Dairies business and Midlands Co-op Dairies, Starcross Foods extend its distribution capabilities and Arlas London Foodservice business, northwards.
These acquisitions have we welcomed several hundred new now been fully integrated into our employees into the business.
Their Drummond Hall, Chief Executive business on time and to plan.
The co-operation and enthusiasm have 23 May 2006
