Business Review 10 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OUR STRATEGY OF INVESTING FOR THE LONG-TERM FUTURE TO GENERATE A PREMIUM RETURN FOR SHAREHOLDERS HAS RESULTED IN ANOTHER RECORD YEAR.
CHARLES SINCLAIR CHIEF EXECUTIVE OUR STRATEGY FOR FUTURE SUCCESS FOCUSES ON THREE KEY AREAS: 1.
INVESTING IN OUR NEWSPAPER AND PURE PLAY DIGITAL BUSINESSES 2.
CONTINUING TO GROW OUR OTHER MEDIA BUSINESSES WITH STRONG LEADERSHIP POSITIONS 3.
RUNNING OUR BUSINESSES FASTER Introduction progressing well, meeting milestones This Business Review is addressed to the and creating value.
It is framed, having in mind the principles and Nature of the business guidelines for Operating and Financial DMGT is a multiple media business, as Reviews published by the UK Accounting illustrated at the front of this Annual Report, Standards Board in January 2006.
It operating in different markets, each within describes the main operational and its particular competitive and regulatory financial factors underpinning the environments.
Operational responsibility is development, performance and position devolved to our six divisions, whose boards of the Group as well as those likely to the executive Directors chair.
We operate affect performance over the coming year.
with a light touch from the centre, relieving line management of overhead activities This Chief Executives Review sets out the that do not contribute at the operating level.
nature, objectives and strategy of the DMGTs objectives are embedded into Group, together with the principal risks the thinking of each of our divisional and uncertainties we face.
It is followed management teams.
on pages 16 to 27 by a business review of the development and performance of each Strategy of our operating divisions.
A Financial and The Groups objective is to be the owner of Treasury Review is given on pages 28 to 31. high quality sustainable media properties, reflected in premium commercial DMGTs philosophy positions, thereby generating a premium DMGTs practice over many years has return for shareholders.
Over the past been to take advantage of its shareholding decade the strategy has been to extend the structure to invest for the long term in order Groups media activities so as to reduce its to generate value for its shareholders.
dependence on UK newspapers, which Control by a founding family is a model are heavily dependent on advertising and, which has been demonstrated to serve due to their strong market positions, the media industry well over time.
are prepared to have a long timeframe to investment maturity and realisation, The Groups newspapers remain highly provided the business in question is profitable and we have continued to invest in Daily Mail and General Trust plc 11 them in order to maintain their marketrange that will be unequalled in its local leading positions.
The stability of these markets.
Northcliffe has been restructured businesses has underpinned the manner into six regional divisions, each headed in which we have built a re-balanced Group: by a regional managing director, with local by deployment of capital most successfully managing directors focused on raising in DMG Information, recently in Euromoney revenues in local markets.
The size of Institutional Investor through its acquisition the central support functions has been of Metal Bulletin and in dmg world media reduced.
A joint digital division, Associated and DMG Radio.
As a consequence, an Northcliffe Digital AND, has been increased percentage of the Groups established to drive digital revenue.
revenues is generated from streams other THE RECENT ACQUISITION OF METAL than advertising, principally subscriptions Management of the printing operations BULLETIN BY EUROMONEY WILL STEP UP and events.
A significant part of the asset of Associated and Northcliffe has been ITS PERFORMANCE.
base is now outside the UK: the Groups integrated and other shared services exposure to regulation has been greatly including accounting, procurement, reduced: and it is close to passing a marketing, fleet and human resources significant milestone of a half of operating are being investigated.
We do not intend profits being derived other than to combine the editorial, sales or from newspapers.
Over the last few years, it has become clear Northcliffe has demonstrated its ability that the Group needs to be run faster as to reduce costs and is well placed to the pace of change in business has grown, achieve an annual cost reduction target particularly the threat to traditional media of 45 million by the end of September 2007. forms from new technologies.
This has Over the next year, it will concentrate on been evidenced by the loss of classified revenue growth and defending its advertising at the Evening Standard and newspaper circulations.
by the decline of profits at Teletext due to structural changes in its market.
The continuing underlying value of our regional newspapers was demonstrated Last year we undertook a review of in April with the sale of Aberdeen Journals Northcliffe Newspapers which identified at a multiple significantly higher than that the potential for further restructuring of implied by offers received for the whole its UK business in addition to that already of Northcliffe.
being undertaken as part of its Aim Higher programme.
The powerful market position At Associated Newspapers, we have occupied by Northcliffes businesses in continued to invest in editorial quality and their regional locations meant that they the graph on page 17 demonstrates the were unlikely to grow faster than their local extent to which the Mail titles maintained economies.
Since we saw the prospect their circulations and continued to increase of limited long-term revenue growth, a their market share, aided by successful choice lay between retaining and running promotions.
In Ireland, we are now Northcliffe harder for profit and selling it.
focused on extending the circulation for Hence the strategic review was announced both Mail titles.
in November 2005 when we invited third party offers for the business, while A strategic challenge to be addressed is continuing to develop our own plans for Associateds relatively low margins which it, in order to establish whether greater have a material impact on the Groups shareholder value could be achieved from overall margins.
Costs are being reduced a sale than from a transformation of the through the creation of shared services with THE DAILY MAIL HAS CONTINUED TO business within DMGT.
Northcliffe and, over time, the cost base INCREASE ITS MARKET SHARE.
of our national newspapers is adjusting Our view of the future for Northcliffe to a lower level of revenue growth due to improved during the review, while a number the likely migration online of display and of factors, not least trading at the time, classified revenues at varying speeds.
conspired against obtaining a full sale price.
Our objective is to meet this challenge In February the Board committed itself to without losing the powerful advertising retaining the business since we believe that response from an engaged readership, Northcliffe has an excellent future as an given that the Mail titles have a most integrated provider of local media services.
envied position in the UK market and that It is positioned to provide its local and Associated are efficient producers of high national customers with the information quality publications, not low cost producers and advertising they seek through a like some others.
Online, companion range of media channels and brands.
In websites to the newspapers have been built particular, the combination of print and and are being re-integrated into the Adjusted profit before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of intangible assets.
online will provide a differentiated product editorial process.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Business Review 12 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED In London, the objective is to restore the It has suffered this year from a decline in Evening Standard to profitability in the revenues from its consumer shows in the medium term and we have launched a new UK, US and Australasia, which comprise free newspaper, London Lite, aimed at a just over a third of the business.
As a different consumer market, as explained consequence, our strategy is to grow the on page 16.
Associateds track record of business through aggregating acquisitions thinking freshly about its titles, and creating and launches in the stronger business new titles, as with Metro some years ago, to business sectors and faster growing or adapting old ones in response to market markets.
Recent acquisitions have been developments, remains undiminished.
concentrated on the higher growth oil and gas portfolio and technology sectors.
ONE ELEMENT OF THE GROUPS STRATEGY We intend to defend the Groups advertising IS TO DEFEND AND EXTEND ITS ADVERTISING base and to extend it, regardless of format.
Net investment in DMG Radio Australia BASE THROUGH THE ONLINE MARKET.
Accordingly our strategy at Associated since its creation in 1996 has totalled Northcliffe Digital AND has involved 200 million.
The business was established making investments to increase its with a plan to build a national metropolitan exposure to areas of the online advertising FM broadcasting network through the market pertinent to Associated Australian governments licence auction Newspapers, being jobs, property, personal process with the intention of delivering finance, motors and dating.
Building a an above average return on investment.
presence in the online travel advertising This last year has been difficult due to the market is being addressed by Teletext.
In simultaneous launch and subsequent total, Associated has invested 155 million relaunch of the new Vega stations in pure play digital businesses since 2004 and completion of the Nova network.
with the objective of being the number one Nevertheless, our Australian radio or two player in each chosen market.
AND management remain highly concentrated now has annualised revenues approaching on the task before them.
155m 90 million and we look forward to strong profit growth from this new division.
Its Having acquired Metal Bulletin the Groups initial development is now largely complete net debt has risen since the year end to THE AMOUNT INVESTED and further acquisitions are likely to be of a around 900 million.
This will preclude BY ASSOCIATED IN smaller in-fill nature.
major acquisitions in the short term until that acquisition has been successfully PURE PLAY DIGITAL Our other divisions, built over the years, integrated, and our prudent debt ratios BUSINESSES.
have also undergone an internal review.
At DMG Information we have invested approximately 420 million since 1996 net Resources of disposals.
This year the business made The Groups main resources are its brands, a record 68 million operating profit and its people, its reputation and the marketthe growth in its profits from a standing leading position of its major businesses.
start in 1998, illustrated on page 23, is a credit to its tried and tested management Principal risks and uncertainties team in the US.
They intend to grow the The principal risks and uncertainties the business further both by increasing revenue Group faces vary across the different expenditure on product development over businesses and are the focus of the Risk the coming year and by re-investment of Committee which I chair.
These risks are its cash flow in acquisitions over the next identified in a Group Risk Register.
materiality of each risk is assessed against 68m a framework to determine its significance Euromoney Institutional Investors and likelihood of occurrence.
The Risk  Register is used to determine the agenda PROFIT MADE BY DMG  and activity of the Risk Committee.
being driven by the motivating impact most material risks identified in the Risk of its Capital Appreciation Plan on senior Register, together with the steps taken management.
We expect above average to mitigate them, are described below.
growth over the immediate future, provided The operation of the Risk Committee financial markets remain benign.
The is described on page 39. acquisition was funded partly by the issue of new shares by Euromoney such that The geographic spread and diverse portfolio DMGTs interest has been diluted from 69% of businesses within the Group helps to to 61%.
We regard Euromoney as a core reduce the impact of many of the risks business and do not intend our holding to identified below.
Certain of these risks be reduced further.
are interdependent and should not be considered in isolation.
We have invested approximately 400 Adjusted profit before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of intangible assets.
million in dmg world media since 1995.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc 13 The impact of technological and market Impact of a major disaster or outbreak changes on our competitive advantage of disease Our businesses operate in highly Any disaster, such as a geopolitical event competitive environments that can be or a pandemic, such as avian flu, which subject to rapid change.
Our products and significantly affects the wider environment services, and their means of delivery, are or infrastructure in a sector where the affected by technological innovations, Group has material operations could changing legislation, competitor activity or adversely affect the Group.
Although plans changing customer behaviour.
A structural and procedures are in place to manage change in the advertising market, resulting the impact of such risks, the event might in significant advertising moving away from affect our ability to produce and deliver our traditional products to the internet, our products, or reduce the demand for could significantly affect our results.
The importance of travel to many of our event businesses increases the We have developed an internet strategy sensitivity of our results to such incidents for each of our main segments of that may affect confidence in travel to advertising revenue.
decentralised autonomous culture that encourages an entrepreneurial approach Acquisition risk to the development of new opportunities As well as launching and building new in response to these threats and we must businesses, an integral part of our success continue to invest and adapt to remain has, and will continue to be, the acquisition competitive.
Our strategy of diversification of businesses that complement our existing and willingness to take a long-term view products or expand the scope of our helps us to react to these challenges expertise into new markets.
risks are inherent within any strategy to acquire.
The Group generally acquires Pension scheme shortfalls businesses with a high potential for growth We operate defined benefit schemes for in related markets.
This results in the our newspaper divisions and certain senior majority of acquisitions considered being executives.
Reported earnings may be smaller add-on acquisitions, which reduces adversely affected by changes in our the size of the risk of each acquisition to the pension costs and funding requirements Group.
The Metal Bulletin acquisition is the due to lower than expected investment Groups first acquisition over 100 million LIKE THE DAILY MAIL, THE MAIL ON SUNDAY returns, changes in demographics and since 1988.
HAS MAINTAINED ITS CIRCULATION THROUGH higher life expectancy.
These risks are ITS HIGH QUALITY.
being worked on with the scheme trustees Exposure to changes in the economy to agree an appropriate funding approach and customer spending patterns and an asset allocation strategy designed to General economic conditions and the reduce and diversify the risk inherent in the financial health of our customers affect investment portfolios.
These measures are the performance of all of our businesses in addition to the introduction last year of to some degree.
A significant proportion a two-tier benefit structure in the defined of our revenue is derived from advertising benefit schemes, providing greater spending which has historically been employee choice with increased member cyclical, with companies spending less on contributions in the top tier.
These actions, advertising in times of economic slowdown.
together with the operation of defined Our commitment to investment in our core contribution pension plans in all other brands and products helps us to reduce divisions and overseas, have helped the effect of these fluctuations by to reduce pension liabilities and control maintaining the strength of our products the pension costs incurred by the Group.
Currency risk Dependence on information technology Currency exchange rate fluctuations have and the integrity of data an impact on the Groups reported earnings.
All of our businesses are dependent on Over 40% of the Groups operating profits technology to some degree.
Disruption to are generated from revenues invoiced in our information technology infrastructure US dollars.
The impact of currency rate or breaches in our data security systems fluctuations is partly offset by the levels of could adversely affect our businesses and US dollar debt incurred.
The policies and damage our reputation.
This could arise procedures in place to manage these risks from loss of service from third parties, are discussed in the Financial and Treasury operational failures, or sabotage including Review on page 30. virus and hacker attacks.
The information security and business continuity risks and mitigating controls vary for our different businesses and so responsibility rests with Daily Mail and General Trust plc Business Review 14 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED each of the divisional management over the last ten years is 10% in teams.
Both of these risks were a focus nominal terms.
of the Risk Committee during the year.
Assessments were completed to In March, we announced our intention, understand the effectiveness of the following the disposal of Aberdeen mitigating controls in each area and to Journals, an expected reduction in capital highlight any areas for improvement.
expenditure and the significant cost reductions being achieved at Northcliffe, Price volatility of newsprint to start a share buy-back programme of Newsprint represents a significant A shares under the general authority  approved at the AGM in February 2006. divisions.
Newsprint prices are subject to In the first twelve months, the Boards volatility arising from variations in supply intention is to return approximately and demand.
Whilst generally these 50 million to shareholders.
So far we have variations are not large and therefore not acquired 3.5 million shares for a total of significant to the Group, there have been 21.5 million which are held as Treasury periods historically where the impact to the shares.
DMGT is effectively giving a 4% Group was material and a repeat of such yield to its shareholders by a combination events cannot be ruled out.
of this buy-back and its annual dividend.
Reliance on key management and staff Relationships with stakeholders, In order to pursue our strategy, we are other than shareholders reliant on key management and staff Environmental, employee, social and across all our businesses.
We cannot community issues are taken seriously by predict with certainty that we will enjoy the Company, as set out in the Corporate continued success in our recruitment Responsibility Report on pages 32 to 34. and retention of high quality management DMGT also has a dedicated Corporate and creative talent.
Responsibility section on its website which is updated regularly.
The Board has Share price performance policies on the environment and on equal Over time our strong historic operating opportunities for employees, as well as on performance has been recognised by the whistleblowing and health and safety.
All of market, as can be seen from the graphs on these policies are established and set out pages 15 and 48.
The price of our widely on the DMGT extranet.
traded A Ordinary Non-Voting shares is CO EFFICIENCY 2 now higher than five years ago, during DMGT and the environment NEWSPRINT OUTPUT TONNES CO 2 which period it has experienced a turbulent We recognise that our businesses have EMISSIONS FROM ENERGY time due largely to the weakness of UK an impact on the environment through advertising markets.
We still appear to be our printing operations, offices, transport 12 valued mainly as a UK newspaper stock, and other business activities.
We are despite only half of our profits coming committed to ensuring that where practical 10 from that source.
Over the last year, the any adverse impact on the environment 8 share price received a temporary hike on from our activities will be minimised.
6 market expectations of the sale of The major environmental impacts arise Northcliffe at a premium price and it fell in our printing operations where we focus 4 over the summer as the market fled from on newsprint, energy, CO, water and ink 2 2 traditional media.
As a result DMGT came efficiencies.
We have gathered the data 0 out of the FTSE 100 share index.
In recent over each of the last five years in order to months it has risen on market perceptions monitor each of these impacts, and graphs of an improvement in UK advertising illustrating them are set out on our website.
Share performance remains The overall trend is positive.
For example, important to us as a measure that our as shown in the graph left, CO efficiency 2 CO EFFICIENCY HAS IMPROVED AGAIN, 2 strategy and balance are understood and improved again this year due in part to the REFLECTING FURTHER PROGRESS FROM recognised by the market.
closure of a number of less efficient print THE CLOSURE OF A NUMBER OF LESS 10 centres, but also to our continued EFFICIENT PRINT CENTRES AND Capital structure efforts to reduce energy consumption CONTINUED EFFORTS TO REDUCE The Company has not made a capital call through measures implemented at a ENERGY CONSUMPTION.
on its shareholders for over seventy years.
8 Capital growth is provided by long-term debt and by retained earnings.
DMGTs DMGT and our employees policy is to seek to increase the dividend Our record on retention of staff remains 6 each year by 5% to 7% in real terms, within good, aided by our autonomous culture and reason regardless of the results, as long as by our provision of the appropriate form of we continue to have confidence in the pension provision to all our employees.
In strength of our businesses.
As shown on this regard, DMGT has kept open its final 4 page 15, the compound dividend growth salary pension schemes in the UK Daily Mail and General Trust plc 2 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 CO efficiency tonnes CO 2 2 tonnes of newsprint output 15 newspaper divisions where people tend to seeing much improvement in advertising stay with us for a long time and where the conditions, continued falls in revenues are average age is higher.
In the other divisions, being offset by cost reductions.
We expect which are more international and where DMG Information to maintain its strong employees are generally younger, we underlying revenue growth, albeit with profit believe defined contribution pension plans growth possibly tempered a little this year are more appropriate.
by investment in new products, and for AND to have another growth year.
Pre-tax profits The number of employees has fallen from should also benefit from Euromoneys 18,214 at the beginning of the year to 16,033 continuing organic growth and from its at the end, a reduction of 12%.
Of this acquisition of Metal Bulletin.
reduction, 2,050 was due to the sale of - 12% Study Group and of Aberdeen Journals.
Overall the Board is cautiously optimistic The number of employees within Northcliffe of achieving another year of progress.
fell by a further 900 14% as a consequence THE NUMBER OF of its reorganisation programme.
CHARLES SINCLAIR CHIEF EXECUTIVE EMPLOYEES FELL Trends and factors likely to affect BY 12% DUE TO the outlook The new financial year has started well DISPOSALS AND with signs of a gentle recovery in some NORTHCLIFFES sectors of the national advertising market, with our national titles producing strong REORGANISATION.
circulation results in an ever competitive market.
Whilst Northcliffe is not yet PERFORMANCE OF DMGT A PRICE SINCE 30TH SEPTEMBER, 1988 AND OF FT ALL-SHARE INDEX RELATIVE TO ITS VALUE AT THAT DATE DMGT A MONTHLY CLOSING PRICE FT ALL-SHARE INDEX 169% 14 12 OUR RELATIVE SHARE 10 PRICE PERFORMANCE 8 SINCE 1988.
6 4 2 0 DMGT DIVIDEND HISTORY FOR THE PERIOD 1988 2006 PENCE 14 12 10 8 10% 6 4 2 COMPOUND DIVIDEND 0 GROWTH OVER THE LAST TEN YEARS.
