Chairman and Chief Executives Review Tom Cross, Chief Executive and Colin Goodall, Chairman 2 Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report Dana has developed into a substantial and well balanced independent oil and gas producer with exceptional upside in its portfolio of assets.
The Company is now poised for a major growth step and the next 12 months will be the most exciting in its development to date INTRODUCTION Alongside these production growth activities, Dana continued to pursue an ambitious exploration and appraisal programme.
We are pleased to report on another excellent year of The 2006 drilling campaign delivered a number of successes progress for the Company, with significant advances being in the North Sea and the Aigrette light oil discovery offshore made in all key areas.
Good progress was also made in building the portfolio of future exploration drilling opportunities.
Following 2006 saw the delivery of new record highs in oil and gas a comprehensive review of future exploration potential reserves, production, revenue and cash flow.
Dana has worldwide, the Company reached agreements to gain important developed a strong and balanced asset base combining new exploration areas offshore Morocco and Egypt and achieved healthy cash reserves, a robust production portfolio outstanding results in its bids in the UKCS 24th Licensing delivering strong cashflow, a wide range of field Round, being awarded 16 new blocks.
In addition, Dana development opportunities and an exciting exploration accelerated the acquisition of extensive new 3D seismic surveys and appraisal drilling programme with the potential to on existing acreage.
deliver major upside over the next two years.
Looking ahead, 2007 production is expected to move well Throughout 2006, Danas active development programme and ahead of 2006 levels and the Company remains on target to asset trading activities allowed the Company to continue its increase production capacity to 40,000 boepd by the end of delivery of year-on-year production growth.
Twelve exploration and appraisal wells are now completed the acquisition of interests in the Johnston and Anglia planned for 2007, with up to a further 20 being considered gas fields, both delivered through its asset swapping strategy, for 2008.
This forward programme includes wells which will and agreed to acquire, on very attractive terms, new or target large prospects offshore Egypt, the UK, Morocco and incremental stakes in four new areas in Egypt and Morocco to Mauritania, each of which have significant upside.
Therefore be explored over the next few years.
This commercial activity overall, a total of up to 32 wells are now being planned for was complemented by significant progress on existing assets, the next two year period, targeting potential reserves of with the Goosander field brought on stream, new developments around one billion barrels net to Dana.
sanctioned and underway and further infill drilling within already producing fields.
Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report 3 Chairman and Chief Executives Review continued RESULTS Reported net profit for the year was 41.6 million 2005: 64.2 million with earnings per share of 48.24p 2005: 80.13p.
With average daily oil and gas production growing to 22,285 boepd 2005: 19,683 boepd and an increased average realised Having recently committed to the major acquisition of Devon price of $48.78 per boe during 2006 2005: $42.24 per boe, Energys Egyptian business to secure the next growth phase for revenue for the year increased by 30% to 215.3 million the Company, the Directors do not recommend payment of a 2005: 165.6 million.
This will be reviewed once the anticipated upside opportunities within the acquired assets are assessed and In both 2006 and 2005, the Groups profit before tax was the integrated exploration and development programme has generated after certain one-off items relating to gains on been planned.
exploration and evaluation asset exchanges and investment disposals, as well as foreign exchange gains and losses arising 2006 was a very successful year for Dana in terms of oil from fluctuations in the US Dollar to Sterling exchange rates.
and gas reserves additions, with an increase in proven and The table below facilitates comparison of the underlying probable reserves to a new record level for the Group at the performance between the years.
Changes in reserves arose in three areas: firstly, there were 2006 2005 a number of upward revisions in producing fields, particularly Profit before taxation before any adjustments in the Greater Kittiwake Area GKA : secondly, there were these figures are the most representative additions due to acquisitions, related principally to the Gaz of underlying operating performance 106.8 m 84.1 m fide France transaction and the acquisition of the Christian Gain on exploration and evaluation asset exchange 15.6 m discovery in the GKA: and thirdly, the discoveries of Gain on sale of available-for-sale investment 3.5 m additional oil in the Causeway field and more gas in the Foreign exchange loss gain 9.7 m 4.6 m Babbage field.
Further reserves growth is being targeted through the 32 well drilling programme.
Adjustments 9.7 m 23.7 m Profit before taxation as reported 97.1m 107.8 m Overall, some 27.2 mmboe of proven and probable reserves were added during 2006 due to the net effect of discoveries, 2006 profit before tax and any adjustments of 106.8 million acquisitions, disposals and field revisions.
This increase compares to an equivalent of 84.1 million in 2005, which more than three-fold offset Group production of 8.1 mmboe.
This demonstrates good Net additions replaced 336% of production over the calendar underlying performance of Danas oil and gas operations.
Overall Group proven and probable oil and gas reserves at Overall, after all adjustments, the final reported pre-tax profit 31 December 2006 reached a new high of 130.6 mmboe, of for the year was 97.1 million 2005: 107.8 million.
which 87% are now held in the North Sea.
The Groups best estimate of its end 2006 contingent resources technically Cash generated from Group operations grew 31% to recoverable hydrocarbons not yet determined to be commercial 139.9 million 2005: 107.1 million and net funds increased was a further 101.8 mmboe.
Therefore the total recoverable by 18.1 million during the year, leaving the Company with a hydrocarbon resources available to the Company at end 2006 strong net funds position of 109.9 million at the end of 2006 were 232.4 mmboe, of which just 56% are currently booked as 2005: 91.8 million.
4 Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report The Enoch oil field and Cavendish gas field developments are progressing well with first production from both fields scheduled in Q2 2007.
Alan Walker, Asset Manager, North Sea OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS removes exposure to any cost pressures in the construction project, and protects against any future field underperformance.
PRODUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT This pipeline will also underpin future development decisions During 2006, the Goosander oil field was brought on-stream and and improve the economic return for new tie-backs in the area, Dana completed the acquisition of stakes in the Johnston and including the Grouse oil field where development studies are Anglia gas fields.
The Company closed the year producing from well advanced.
a total of 13 North Sea fields which delivered an annualised average output of 20,709 boepd.
Together with a contribution of The Enoch oil field and Cavendish gas field developments are 1,576 boepd from the South Vat Yoganskoye oil field in Russia, progressing well with first production from both fields scheduled average Group production in 2006, grew 13.2% to a new record in Q2 2007.
At Enoch, the focus of remaining work is on the high of 22,285 boepd.
Brae platform topsides, where the field will tie-in.
At Cavendish, the first well has been drilled and completed with excellent flow As a result of the addition of new fields, infill drilling and workover rates, and the second well is currently drilling.
The platform is activity on existing fields, Group production capacity increased installed, the export pipeline completed, the sub-sea pigging skid strongly during 2006 to reach approximately 30,000 boepd by commissioned and work is almost complete on the host year end.
A good performance was achieved in particular at the Murdoch platform.
A third well will commence drilling following Hudson field, where Dana, as operator, has driven forward a field start-up.
In addition, infill drilling on fields already in programme of improvements.
Production capacity at Hudson is production will again be an important factor in 2007, with drilling now at levels significantly above those being delivered when activity currently scheduled or being considered on the Otter, Dana increased its interest and took over operatorship in 2005.
Hudson, Banff, Johnston, Anglia, Claymore and F16-E fields.
There was also increased production in the GKA with peak This programme continues Dana's drive to maximise reserves production rates reaching record levels of over 32,000 boepd in and cash flow from its existing portfolio.
In the early months of 2007, production from GKA was impacted by severe weather affecting the tanker based offloading system and earlier this month an incident following tanker operations resulted in a shutdown of GKA.
Although repairs are underway, the ongoing downtime caused by poor weather affecting tanker operations will be solved permanently by the construction of a new 10 inch oil export pipeline linking GKA to BP's Forties Pipeline System.
Uptime in the GKA should increase significantly, with the new pipeline offtake also leading to an extended life for the GKA fields, resulting in additional oil reserves of approximately 2 million barrels net to Dana.
The new pipeline is currently being manufactured and is scheduled to be operational by the fourth quarter of 2007.
Dana has agreed to the construction of this pipeline, but is not exposed to any of the capital costs.
Instead, Dana will pay a tariff to export oil through the pipeline, which reduces the Company's capital requirements, Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report 5 Chairman and Chief Executives Review continued As a result of this intense offshore activity, Dana remains on EXPLORATION AND APPRAISAL target to increase its production capacity to 40,000 boepd Continuing an active and balanced programme of drilling for new by the end of 2007.
It is currently estimated that Group reserves is central to Dana's business strategy.
During 2006, the production for 2007 will average between 31,000 and 34,000 Company participated in six exploration and appraisal wells and boepd.
The actual production out-turn for 2007 will depend on successfully operated and completed two challenging deepwater existing field performance and uptime, the precise timing of wells offshore West Africa.
Most importantly, through extensive production start-up of the new fields under development, and seismic acquisitions and commercial activity, the Dana Group the UK gas price which affects the economics of gas production has positioned itself with a substantial portfolio of drilling targets and therefore export nominations and production levels.
Development planning, including detailed geoscience and Offshore Mauritania, the Aigrette-1 exploration well in Block 7 engineering work, is underway on a number of fields which discovered oil in the targeted Cretaceous sandstones, will come on-stream after 2007.
At the Barbara gas field in approximately 43 km northwest of the Pelican-1 gas discovery.
the Central North Sea, Dana is acting as operator for the Significant sands were also encountered in a deeper section, development studies which should allow the field owners to however these were not found to be oil bearing at this location.
reach a project sanction decision later in 2007.
Significant The Flamant-1 exploration well in Block 8 offshore Mauritania progress has been made in the last six months on aligning the targeted extensive carbonate section, but did not encounter five Barbara equity owners and agreeing a high level strategy commercial quantities of hydrocarbons.
However, there were for a potential combined development with the neighbouring indications of gas whilst drilling the approximately 1,150 m Phyllis gas field.
A Barbara Phyllis combined project would thick primary target.
In addition, gas bearing intervals were become one of the most substantial remaining gas encountered during the drilling of a shallower section of the developments in the UK North Sea.
well, which indicates that there are hydrocarbons present in this area.
Prior to drilling Flamant-1, Dana increased its interest Additional gas was discovered in the Babbage field in 2006, flow in Block 8 by 5% and hence now owns a 26% stake in this vast testing at 10.7 million cubic feet of gas per day.
positive well result, the Group is now pursuing fast-track development plans.
A number of development scenarios and Dana has therefore discovered hydrocarbons in each of the first evacuation routes are currently being considered.
Also in the four wells it has drilled offshore Mauritania, in Blocks 1, 7 and 8.
Southern North Sea, a production licence application has been This provides encouragement for further drilling and Dana is made in respect of the gas discovered to date on Block A15 in currently undertaking detailed technical analysis to determine the the Netherlands.
Future offshore activities will include a well in the Woodside operated Block 2 and the potential for seismic acquisition to examine a large structure which spans the border of Dana operated Block 1 and the neighbouring St. Louis block, offshore Senegal, where Dana also holds an interest.
6 Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report Continuing an active and balanced programme of drilling for new reserves is central to Danas business strategy.
John Downey, Manager, International Business & New Ventures Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report 7 Chairman and Chief Executives Review continued 8 Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report A total of up to 32 wells are now planned for the next two year period targeting potential reserves of around 1 billion barrels net to Dana.
Colin Percival, UK Exploration Manager In Egypt, an aggressive work programme is being pursued by licensing round, where positive electro-magnetic survey Dana and Gaz fide France in the West El Burullus concession, results have recently been obtained, and Danas strategic offshore Nile Delta.
There is outstanding prospectivity across this position as the largest shareholder in Faroe Petroleum plc.
region, with major fields on-stream and BP and RWE Dea In addition, Dana was awarded a 50% interest and operatorship recently making a significant gas discovery in the neighbouring in Block 21 17a in the GKA, which includes the Wagtail and block.
The West El Burullus co-venturers have entered into a rig Whinchat oil discoveries.
The UK 24th Round also saw Dana contract to drill late 2007 or early 2008. awarded 100% of Block 16 18c in the eastern part of the Central North Sea, adjacent to the Enoch oil field.
Faroe In the North Sea, Dana drilled three exploration and appraisal Petroleum has also recently been highly successful in licensing wells in 2006, all of which were successful.
Additional gas was rounds, with the award of five licences in the UK 24th Round proved in the Babbage field and oil was discovered in the East and a further six licence interests in the recent APA 2006 Round, Causeway well, which flowed at the highly encouraging rate of offshore Norway.
The E18-6 exploration well in the Dutch sector discovered a new gas accumulation, close to Dana has committed to two drilling slots on the Ensco-100 Dana's producing F16-E field, and has resulted in a follow-up heavy duty jack-up rig.
These are for drilling Dana operated well E18-7, which began drilling in April.
exploration prospects in the Cleeton area of the UK Southern North Sea during the second half of 2007 and first half of 2008.
Drilling on the Pomboo structure offshore Kenya was completed in January 2007.
Significant reservoir quality sands were The Company has also committed to four drilling slots on the encountered, however there were no indications of hydrocarbons.
semi-submersible Sedco-704 rig between late 2007 and mid The joint venture group therefore decided not to drill the Sokwe 2008.
The targets are yet to be finalised but currently being South prospect immediately, but to take the necessary time to considered for drilling are the Kerloch and Rinnes oil prospects, fully interpret the results of Pomboo before deciding on the most both in the Northern North Sea, a Hudson field infill well and the appropriate forward plan for the area.
Wagtail prospect in the GKA.
In addition, Dana expects to participate in a further six North Sea exploration and appraisal In February 2007, Dana was awarded 16 offshore blocks in the wells in 2007.
In the UK, there are three wells in the Causeway UK Government's 24th Offshore Licensing Round.
This was an area of the Northern North Sea and a Grouse field appraisal well excellent result following many months of technical work, with in the GKA.
Also in the North Sea, there will be a further well in fourteen of these blocks situated in the prospective West of Block E18a in the Netherlands following the success in that area Shetland region.
These new licences complement the in 2006, and an exploration well is planned offshore Norway, Company's substantial awards in the UK's previous offshore close to the Troll field.
Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report 9 Chairman and Chief Executives Review continued COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY In the last year Dana also agreed a number of multi-asset Dana continues to undertake a high level of commercial activity deals with Gaz fide France.
These have increased Dana's interest in line with its strategy of adding value through its front-end in the Johnston gas field to 49%, delivered a 25% interest in exploration work and then accelerating cash flow wherever the Anglia gas field and an initial 30% equity in the West El possible through both development and asset trading.
Burullus concession, offshore Nile delta, Egypt.
This activity has also covered most of Dana's drilling costs for its last three Earlier this month, Dana announced the acquisition of deep-water wells offshore Mauritania, where Dana has retained Devon Energy Corporations entire upstream petroleum operatorship.
In addition, Dana has recently completed the business interests in Egypt, spanning eight concessions.
acquisition of an additional 25% interest in the Cavendish gas This is Danas single biggest deal to date and represents development in the UK taking Dana up to 50% resulting in a significant growth step for the Company.
The businesses an expected near term production increase of approximately are an excellent strategic fit with Danas existing properties 4,300 boepd.
The acquisition of a further 20% interest in in the Nile Delta and Gulf of Suez.
The purchase price at the West El Burullus taking Dana up to 50% and interests in two effective date of 1 January 2007 is $375 million.
In addition exploration licences offshore Norway are also progressing to receiving the oil and gas production and exploration towards completion.
assets, Dana will also gain approximately $67 million of working capital in Devon Egypt as at the effective date.
Dana has made a strategic entry into Norway, having carefully Dana will pay the net consideration of approximately considered how it could apply its exploration led business model $308 million in cash as adjusted at completion for to the significant remaining potential in the country.
As part ongoing 2007 production income and expenditure via of the Gaz fide France transactions, Dana secured interests in the a newly arranged banking facility with ABN Amro Bank.
PL311 licence in the mature Norwegian North Sea, and in a During 2006, Devon Egypt had working interest production higher risk frontier licence PL329 in the Norwegian Sea off mid of approximately 12,300 barrels per day, and USGAAP Norway, subject to standard regulatory approval.
A wildcat well operating profits of approximately $53 million.
in PL329 recently completed drilling and did not encounter hydrocarbons, however drilling is planned on the more attractive, The portfolio of assets comprises interests in eight lower risk structure in PL311 later in the year.
Further Production Sharing Contracts PSCs, with 13 fields opportunities to grow Dana's interests in Norway are actively currently producing.
Upon completion, the acquisition will under evaluation.
add production of approximately 12,500 barrels of oil per day to Dana and add approximately 30 million barrels of Dana has increased its interests in the GKA through the proven and probable reserves, all on a working interest acquisition of a 50% interest in Block 21 20b, which includes basis.
The portfolio contains significant upside potential the Christian discovery, and a 25% interest in Block 21 20a, within the producing fields through identified infill drilling which includes the Bligh discovery.
Dana will now work with its and well workover opportunities.
There are also a co-venturers in these blocks to progress development.
Subject to substantial number of new targets to exploit through drilling third party approval, Dana has agreed terms to increase its in the largely unexplored Production Sharing Contract areas.
interest in the Melville oil discovery and surrounding exploration The acquisition is subject to the normal regulatory and acreage in the Northern North Sea, which is adjacent to the Dana partner approvals and is expected to be completed during operated Hudson field.
Dana has put itself forward to become the second half of 2007. operator of Melville and will be in a strong position to actively 10 Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report Dana continues to undertake a high level of commercial activity in line with its strategy of adding value through its front-end exploration work, then accelerating cash flow wherever possible through both development and asset trading Stuart Paton, Technical and Commercial Director progress exploration and development of this area alongside delivered a significant increase in net reserves at end 2006, from Hudson.
Dana has also agreed a farm-in with Wham and Ithaca 111.5 million barrels of oil equivalent to 130.6 million barrels of oil Energy to acquire a 25% interest in Blocks 48 3a and 48 4, equivalent.
On the basis of 2006 production, this represents a which are adjacent to the Babbage discovery and Johnston field, reserves replacement ratio of 336%.
by carrying 33% of the costs through a seismic programme and exploration well.
Tullow Oil has also entered these blocks through Dana continues to operate prudently and maintain a healthy this transaction and will be operator going forward.
Strong cash flows are augmented by the careful management of capital expenditure, which has been In Morocco, Dana has signed two deals to acquire new interests.
demonstrated by the Company's disciplined farming-out of Firstly, Dana agreed to exchange a 3% interest in Blocks L5 and expenditure on deep-water exploration wells.
At 2006 year end, L7, offshore Kenya, for a 15% interest in the Tanger-Larache the Group had net funds of approximately 110 million and zero concession, offshore Morocco.
This exchange deal remains gearing.
During 2007, Dana expects to invest some 140 million subject to Kenyan government approval.
Secondly, subject to within its existing fields and exploration licences.
Approximately the approval of the Moroccan authorities, Dana acquired a 50% 65 million of this will be spent on North Sea development interest and operatorship in the Bouanane block, onshore activity and around 75 million on Dana's exploration and eastern Morocco, adjacent to the border with Algeria.
A further 260 million will be applied to seismic has already been acquired and drilling could take place completing and driving forward the immediate work on the new in both these areas as early as 2008. acquisitions such as the Devon Egypt assets, the Cavendish gas field in the UK, the West El Burullus concession in Egypt and In Egypt, Dana completed a transaction with Compania Dana's new assets in Norway.
A newly arranged debt facility with Espanola fide Petroleos S. A. CEPSA to acquire a 20% interest ABN Amro Bank will provide funding for the Devon Egypt in the South Feiran Concession, located offshore in the Gulf of acquisition as well as Danas ongoing exploration and Suez.
A 3D seismic survey has already been shot and the development work programme.
current plan is to drill a well late 2007 or early 2008.
Dana has also signed an agreement with BP Exploration Delta Limited to acquire a 25% interest in the exploration Contract Area A in the North Ghara Concession, located in the Gulf of Suez, close to existing production infrastructure and with new 3D seismic currently being acquired.
During the last two years, Dana has built a significant position in both Morocco and Egypt through a number of low cost transactions.
Each of these countries is delivering attractive exploration opportunities.
Following the Devon acquisition, the commercial activity is likely to continue with a number of further deals already under discussion.
As a result of exploration and appraisal wells, ongoing activity in existing fields and commercial transactions, the Group has Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report 11 Chairman and Chief Executives Review continued OUTLOOK In addition to its intense drilling and development programme, Over recent years, Dana has built a substantial oil and gas asset Dana is confident of maintaining a high level of commercial asset portfolio.
As a result of earlier successes, the Company now has trading activity.
The recent Devon Egypt acquisition has a stream of developments which will ensure its continued growth.
demonstrated Danas ability to conclude deals at attractive prices even in the prevailing tight market conditions.
The Company will By the middle of 2007, Dana expects to be producing from continue to pursue its proven strategy of using exploration 16 fields, with 15 of these in the North Sea, providing a strong success as leverage in commercial transactions to strengthen and well balanced cash flow engine.
Completion of the Devon the asset base and accelerate returns.
Egypt acquisition will add a further 13 fields, taking the total portfolio to 29 producing fields.
The Company remains on In summary, Dana has developed into a substantial and course to meet its two-year target to double its 2005 production well balanced independent oil and gas producer, with levels by the end of 2007.
Dana's strong balance sheet has to exceptional upside in its portfolio of assets.
The Company date allowed it to remain completely unhedged with respect is now poised for a major growth step and the next to oil price, thus maximising the benefits to the Company from 12 months will be the most exciting in its development to continuing commodity price strength.
The significant progress and strategic positioning achieved by the Group is testimony to the hard work and Over and above Dana's production growth, the Group is currently valuable contributions from the talented team in Dana.
planning the drilling of up to 32 exploration and appraisal wells On behalf of the Board and Shareholders, we would like to over the next two years, targeting on an unrisked basis a total recognise and thank all staff for their continuing enthusiasm reserves potential of over one billion barrels net to Dana.
Colin Goodall Chairman Tom Cross Chief Executive 30 April 2007 12 Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report
