Chief Executives review Jean-Noel Labroue, Chief Executive Trading conditions have been tough in nearly all our core markets.
Working with a local partner we have identified an Sales growth has been led by increasing consumer demand for new opportunity to become the first European multi-category specialist technologies, particularly flat-screen televisions, MP3 players and electricals retailer in a market that already shows signs of consolidation.
White goods sales have remained weak, but strong actions taken on cost control and margin management reduced the In France, there has been very fast development of broadband internet impact of this on profits.
and ADSL technology which has created a new customer demand for combined telephone, TV and internet access packages.
Darty will In 2006 we again expect sales to be led by digital products, with the respond to this demand with the launch of its own triple play World Cup accelerating the fast-growing sales of flat-screen televisions.
We do not anticipate any upturn in the white goods market, however this is an area that we expect to improve with time.
We will continue On a different note I would like to join the Chairman in welcoming to focus on cost control and margin management whilst moving ahead Simon Fox as he takes up his new position.
I am very much looking with investment in our existing businesses and developing the Darty forward to working with Simon and I am sure that his experience and brand in new markets.
abilities will enable him to make a very positive contribution to the future of the Kesa Group.
In keeping with our strategy of seeking long-term organic growth we have developed the Darty brand in new markets, Italy and Switzerland.
We are now turning our attention towards Turkey, a country that is currently experiencing strong economic growth, including a fast-growing Global sourcing The supply chain model we are creating is one of the fundamental strengths of our combined strategy as the Kesa Group.
Our Hong Kong office is sourcing exciting and innovative new products and is working with qualitycontrol engineers based in Shenzhen to ensure that they are reliable and safe and are manufactured under conditions that respect human rights and environmental concerns.
8 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 Around the Group better reflect BUTs actual customer base.
The store relay programme Sales demand across the Group has been led by the continuing started in the third quarter for the smallto mid-sized stores showed very popularity of digital technologies, which is to a great extent being encouraging results and will be accelerated during 2006 and beyond.
All our electrical businesses saw strong year-on-year growth in products such as flat-screen televisions, MP3 Total turnover at the other businesses, BCC, Vanden Borre, Datart, players and DVD recorders.
Sales of white goods were consistently Darty Italy and Darty Switzerland, grew by 16.9 per cent in local weak across Europe, particularly in the UK.
currency, a rise of 3.8 per cent on a like-for-like basis.
This encouraging performance was helped by continuing like-for-like sales growth at In a French electricals market which is estimated to have grown by Vanden Borre and strong sales at BCC in the second half.
Retail profit 2 per cent, Darty increased its market share in all categories except in the more established businesses increased by 64.7 per cent to mobile phones.
Total sales growth at Darty was up by 3.3 per cent in c8.3 million.
Start up losses for Darty Italy and Darty Switzerland local currency, a rise of 1.5 per cent on a like-for-like basis.
sales growth of new technologies had a negative effect on the gross margin mix.
Darty partially offset this decline in retail profits by making productivity gains.
In the very tough trading conditions in the UK, Comets turnover fell by just 0.5 per cent, a drop of 3.6 per cent on a like-for-like basis.
Nevertheless, Comet still managed to maintain its overall market share.
The decline in profits was limited by swift action taken on the cost base in the first half of the year.
Average selling price also improved in all of Comets key categories, reflecting the success of the companys ongoing repositioning and the total store re-branding programme launched during the second half of the year.
Comet lost a small share of the price entry end of the market to the mass merchandisers.
BUTs total store sales grew by just 1.9 per cent in local currency against a very difficult trading climate in the second half of the year.
This represents a fall of 2.2 per cent on a like-for-like basis.
Turnover for the in-house wholesale business grew by 15.0 per cent in local currency, diluting BUTs profitability overall.
Progress has been made on the action plan we established to improve profitability at BUT.
The more contemporary furniture ranges have been rolled out and a revised electrical offer is now being finalised.
This will Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 9 Chief Executives review Darty In a French market which is estimated to have grown by 2 per cent during the period, Darty achieved market share gains in every category except mobile phones.
Total turnover grew by 3.3 per cent in local currency with like-for-like sales increasing by 1.5 per cent.
This was helped by strong sales of new technologies, particularly flat-screen televisions, MP3 players and DVD recorders.
Price deflation continued to drive consumer demand for new technologies, creating a negative effect on gross margin.
Darty managed to limit the fall in retail profits by achieving productivity gains.
The warehouse rationalisation was successfully completed with the opening of the new warehouse in Lyon and closure of the three existing warehouses in Metz, Marseilles and Lyon.
The national after-sales service call centre network was also completed when the sixth and final centre opened in the first half of the year.
Darty continued to invest in its store modernisation programme with the opening of 18 new format stores and the closure of four old ones.
Of these, six were new, five were relocations and seven were refurbished extended stores.
This brings the total number of new format stores to 42.
Those trading in their second and third years since opening continue to outperform the rest of the portfolio on a like-for-like basis.
During 2006, Darty will open a further 17 new format stores including two new ones.
Of the remainder, three will be relocations and 12 will be refurbished extended stores.
The Darty website showed a year-on-year sales growth of 44 per cent.
Sales accelerated sharply during the second half following the launch of the re-vamped site.
Darty Box The success of digital product convergence, and the very fast development of broadband internet and ADSL technology in Television France, has created a new customer demand for combined telephone, TV and internet access packages.
The complexity of this technology requires a high level of customer service and advice.
With its strong reputation for service, Darty is ideally positioned to address these new customer needs Darty Box Voice on IP and will launch its own triple play proposition in the third quarter of the year in association with a leading broadband network operator.
Broadband internet 10 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 Comet In very difficult market conditions Comet delivered a turnover of 1,529.8 million.
This was down by 0.5 per cent on the previous year and by 3.6 per cent on a like-for like-basis.
Sales were driven by strong growth in flat-screen televisions, MP3 players and multimedia, particularly laptops.
Sales in white goods declined in line with the general market trend.
E-comet sales continued to grow and increased by 20 per cent year on year.
In all its key categories Comets average selling price improved.
This reflects the success of the ongoing repositioning and the total store re-branding programme which was launched during the second half of the year.
Comet quickly reacted to a downturn in the market in the early part of the year with a focused approach on cost control and margin management.
The integration of after-sales service and home delivery continued.
The National Customer Support Centre opened in Clevedon in July and the fourth combined delivery and repair centre opened in Wolverhampton in May.
The store modernisation programme saw the opening of one new store, three relocations and seven refurbishments.
Four of these are now trading with a mezzanine floor.
This brings the current total of new format stores to 73.
These stores generated 40 per cent of Comets overall turnover.
During the year two older stores were closed.
Store development To limit the impact of rising rents and rates, Comet accelerated its store modernisation programme with specific emphasis on rightsizing and mezzanine trading floors.
Of the 12 new refurbished and relocated stores to be completed during 2006, most will include a trading mezzanine floor.
A further two stores will close.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 11 Chief Executives review BUT BUTs total store turnover grew by 1.9 per cent in local currency but was down by 2.2 per cent on a like-for-like basis.
Turnover at the lower-margin in-house wholesale business grew by 15.0 per cent in local currency, reducing overall profitability.
Following an encouraging first half, BUTs store sales declined as a result of tough market conditions and an aggressive competitive environment.
This was combined with a drop in margin also due to competitive pressures and inflationary costs.
These factors led to a profit decline of 18.1 per cent.
The action plan put in place at the beginning of 2005 has progressed.
More efficient financial processes are now in place and the centralisation of logistics will be completed when the fourth and final platform is opened in 2006.
The new more contemporary furniture ranges have been rolled out to all the stores.
A revised electricals offer which better reflects BUTs customers needs is also being finalised.
Store relay programme Five of the smallto mid-size stores which trade from 2,500 to 4,000 square metres of selling space, representing 80 per cent of the portfolio, have already shown a promising increase in sales.
BUT will now focus its investment on these formats.
Fifteen stores will be relayed by the end of 2006 and this process is set to continue at an average of 15 a year from then on.
12 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 All three of our existing businesses made significant gains in market share.
Overall sales growth was helped by a good like-for-like performance at Vanden Borre and particularly strong sales at BCC in the second half of the year, which reflected an upturn in Dutch consumer confidence.
During the year, the two new ventures, Darty Italy and Darty Switzerland, opened and received positive customer response and we now have five stores in Italy and three in Switzerland.
During 2006 four more Darty stores will open in Italy and two in Switzerland.
We expect to break even on these projects in 2008 09 when both operations will become self funding for future development.
New developments Following this encouraging progress Kesa now intends to open stores in Turkey using the Darty model and brand.
Turkey has significant economic growth potential and is at the very early stages of market consolidation.
We will be working with an experienced local partner and will open a cluster of five stores around Istanbul by the end of 2007.
Start-up losses for the coming year are expected to be c3.0 million.
As always I would like to thank everyone in the Kesa Group for their dedication and hard work over the past year.
It is the efforts of all our 29,000 colleagues across the Group that makes the difference and on behalf of the Board I express my thanks to all of them.
Other businesses The total turnover at our other businesses grew by 16.9 per cent in local currency.
This represents 3.8 per cent on a like-for-like basis.
Jean-Noel Labroue Chief Executive For the more established businesses, BCC, Vanden Borre and Datart, retail profit increased by 64.7 per cent to c8.3 million.
Startup losses for Darty Italy and Darty Switzerland totalled c16.2 million.
Store modernisation The store modernisation programme for the three established businesses: Vanden Borre, BCC and Datart, continued with the opening of nine new stores, two relocations and five refurbished extended stores.
In 2006, eight new stores, three relocations and seven refurbishments extensions will be completed while two old stores will be closed.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 13
