CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW AS WE ENTER THE NEW FINANCIAL YEAR OUR STRATEGY REMAINS FIRMLY ON TRACK One of Debenhams key strengths is our multicategory product strategy which enables us to differentiate ourselves from traditional singlebrand high street retailers and widens our appeal to a larger consumer audience.
We have a strong presence in key product categories such as womenswear, menswear, accessories, lingerie, childrenswear and homewares.
The continued development of our exclusive own-brand Rob Templeman products such as Red Herring, Maine New England, Debut and Thomas Nash alongside our exclusive The year under review has been a period Designers at Debenhams ranges has resulted in of both transformation and expansion for our own-bought sales continuing to increase Debenhams.
The Company re-listed its shares market share and become a greater proportion on the London Stock Exchange in May 2006, of our overall sales.
completed the conversion of the eight former Allders stores that were purchased in the Performance last year previous year and agreed to acquire nine For the year to 2 September 2006 gross department stores from Roches Stores in transaction value increased by 106.1 million the Republic of Ireland.
As a result of these sales increases, together with margin gains and a firm Expansion of our store portfolio continued with focus on our cost base, our underlying operating the opening of five new department stores in profit before exceptional items for the year Hemel Hempstead, Ayr, Newbridge, Doncaster increased by 21.2 per cent to 267.4 million.
We also opened three new Desire by Debenhams stores, our exciting small Group profit before tax and exceptional store format, in South Shields, Orpington and charges rose by 67.9 per cent to 112.8 million.
Falkirk along with 11 new international franchise stores in five countries which helped extend Like-for-like sales increased by 0.5 per cent for the global reach of the Debenhams brand.
the year, compared to a 2.8 per cent increase in the previous year.
Sales were adversely Our new distribution centre in Peterborough is affected during June, this was predominantly now fully operational which positions us well in caused by a combination of a delay in the launch terms of our store expansion programme.
of our summer sale due to the unfavourable weather, the World Cup and the lack of a At the time of the IPO in May 2006, we outlined strong fashion trend across the summer.
our strategy for growth which revolved around Sales progressively improved during the latter three main growth drivers: space expansion, months of the year.
supply chain and store portfolio initiatives as well as new routes to market.
As we enter the new financial year, our strategy remains firmly on track and our space expansion programme has been accelerated with the recent acquisition of nine department stores from Roches Stores in the Republic of Ireland, a further department store in Llandudno and a Desire by Debenhams store in Birmingham Fort.
7 7 Debenhams Debenhams Annual r Annual repor eport t and accounts 2006 and accounts 2006 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Products and supply chain We are extremely proud of our products and Our exclusive Designers at Debenhams ranges are brands and during the year Debenhams was a key differentiator for our Company.
Consumers pleased to receive the Department Store of the today are more stylish and design conscious than Year Award, voted by 6,000 readers of Company ever before.
Our strategy of working closely with Magazine and the following Prima High Street the designers who create leading collections Awards: enables us to bring exciting and stylish products with designer branding straight from the catwalk Retailer of the Year to a wider audience at affordable prices.
During the year, we have continued to extend our Best Evening Wear exclusive designer ranges into more stores and into new product areas.
New ranges have been John Rocha Best Designer developed with a number of our established designers such as the J by Jasper Conran Ten Year A key objective is to shorten the lead time for Limited Collection which showcases some of the our products.
This is being achieved by improved finest fabrics and designs in limited quantities.
product development, more efficient logistics The arrival of these new limited collections allows and merchandising processes and increased us to stretch our pricing architecture and to test frequency of our buying cycles.
We believe that new boundaries for Debenhams.
these initiatives will help Debenhams continue to improve stock availability, reduce markdowns and drive faster stock-turns.
The 27 million investment in a new 700,000 sq ft distribution centre in Peterborough has also improved our logistics operations and will underpin the growth of the Company as new stores open over the next few years.
Store portfolio Jasmine Guinness models latest designs from the J by New department stores Jasper Conran Ten Year Limited Collection Although Debenhams is a well established and We continue to extend our Designers at respected brand, we only have 132 stores in the Debenhams collection with a new accessory UK and Republic of Ireland, which is substantially and home range from Betty Jackson, a childrens less than some of our competitors.
We believe range from Julien McDonald and an exciting new that there is the potential to increase the number menswear range from Jeff Banks.
of our department stores up to 240.
Since 4 September 2005, in addition to the Roche Our focus on developing our own exclusive acquisition see below, we have opened six new brands alongside our Designers at Debenhams department stores.
Currently we have 24 contracts ranges has led to a stronger sales participation signed for new department stores which will from our own-bought merchandise which in increase our trading space by 17.5 per cent to turn has had a positive impact on our margins 11.8 million sq ft. for the year.
Our property team continues to focus on The strengthening of our internal design office developing new opportunities for our expansion and our buying teams, together with the opening programme and negotiations are progressing on of a new sourcing office in Turkey, will allow us a strong pipeline of new sites.
to continue to build on our existing own-brand collections.
We will source more of our own product direct from suppliers improving both our speed to market and stock availability.
8 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 Acquisition from Roches stores Our store portfolio now consists of: Since the year end, Debenhams has completed the acquisition of nine department stores in the 132 department stores Republic of Ireland.
These leasehold stores were bought from Roches Stores for a consideration 5 Desire by Debenhams of 129.0 million, payable in three instalments over a two-year period.
We also purchased the trading 30 international stores stock.
Refurbishment programme This acquisition, alongside our existing stores in During the year we completed the refurbishment the Republic of Ireland, gives us a strong presence of 14 stores.
The programme is designed to in the country.
Over the next year we will convert improve both the linear conversion and visual these stores into the Debenhams trading format.
merchandising across the store as well as establishing strong delineation of our brands.
Desire by Debenhams Results achieved from these refits and the Debenhams opened its first Desire by Debenhams customer feedback have been very positive.
This is a new smaller We plan to continue to invest in our store concept store featuring a mix of womens fashion, portfolio and at least another ten stores will accessories, lingerie and cosmetics which offers be refurbished during this financial year.
a differentiated proposition in locations which would not sustain a full department store.
Other sales revenue channels During the year, we have invested in a 7 million Five Desire by Debenhams stores are now trading upgrade of our website.
We believe that this in Falkirk, Orpington, South Shields, Truro and investment will enable Debenhams to make Birmingham Fort.
They have been tested in significant improvements compared to our challenging markets and are delivering higher existing site and allow us to capture a greater margins and sales densities than the main chain.
share of this ever-growing market.
Our Contracts for an additional four stores have also development programme for multi-channel been signed and ultimately Debenhams believes retailing will extend the availability of our ranges there is potential for up to 100 of these stores to a wider audience and provide the necessary across the UK.
platform for the development of niche micro-sites for our products.
International Debenhams is expanding internationally with Debenhams already has one of the UKs leading a franchise model and has 30 stores in 14 different wedding gift services, which can be further countries.
A further 16 stores are contracted to enhanced by the developments being made open by the end of the 2009 financial year.
Outlook Debenhams has over the past ten years consistently grown its profits, sales and market share.
These results demonstrate that, even in a challenging market, our Company can continue to grow.
We have an excellent business, have invested in our infrastructure and, with our store opening Kuwait Souk Sharq.
One of our inernational franchise stores programme and other growth initiatives, remain in Kuwait confident about the outlook for our Company.
Debenhams has business plans with franchisees for a large number of additional stores, 12 of Rob Templeman which are in an advanced stage of negotiation.
Chief Executive By 2010 we anticipate that we will have 70 international franchise stores, with the further 24 October 2006 potential to develop the Debenhams and Desire by Debenhams concept overseas.
9 9 Debenhams Debenhams Annual r Annual repor eport t and accounts 2006 and accounts 2006 Celebrity model Jade Jagger was chosen to promote the new Adore Moi lingerie collection launched in September 2006 Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet consectetuer adipiscing elit.
Duis vitae mi vitae enim aliquam blandit.
Ut risus nunc, ullamcorper id, commodo at, eleifen 10 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006
