Chief executives review Understanding consumer demand to drive performance.......................................................................... Diageos enviable collection of premium brands offers customers and consumers choice for all occasions.
This annual report demonstrates the ability of our business to deliver consistent organic growth.
With net sales, after deducting excise duties, up 6%, volume up 6% and operating profit up 7%, Diageo has demonstrated that it is a solid business that can deliver strong performance year on year.
Our strength is in our brands, our people and our regions, coming together in Diageo, the worlds leading premium drinks business.
Diageos enviable collection of premium brands offers customers and consumers choice for all occasions.
Smirnoff, the worlds number one international spirit brand, and Johnnie Walker were our two best performers.
On the pages which follow, youll see many other brands that have importance in local markets such as Crown Royal, Sterling Wines, Cacique, Blossom Hill, Benmore and Red Stripe.
We look constantly for new consumer opportunities, which help us find new outlets and occasions for our brands.
Some of the exciting innovations weve launched in the past year include Baileys Flavours, Quinns and Guinness Brewhouse Series.
The Reserve Brands Group,.................................... which places our super premium brands in style bars around the Were delighted with our continued sponsorship of Team McLaren world, has now been introduced in 40 cities.
Todays consumers Mercedes Formula One racing, which gives Johnnie Walker great are seeking opportunities for affordable luxury.
A super premium exposure around the world.
Weve also continued to apply the martini made with a Reserve Brand such as Tanqueray No.
TEN principles of our sports sponsorship strategy through local initiatives allows them to add that luxury with confidence.
such as NASCAR auto racing in the United States, rugby in Great Britain, golf in Asia and cricket in Australia.
And while we look at global opportunities, we also look for local market variations.
It is critical for our business to have a Were proud to see the recognition weve received for the comprehensive strategy, but also to allow for the flexibility to create different aspects of our performance.
Whether its one of our local market adaptations.
Youll see that in brands like Smirnoff customers naming us as a preferred supplier or Management Today Caipiroska and Buchanans Red Seal, where our understanding of honouring us as Britains most admired consumer products the consumer has allowed us to adapt our offerings to create new company, these are important indicators of success from other products that are already being well received by the local market.
Benefits of the regional structure Our regional structure has been operational for two years and With another year of strong performance, we plan to deliver similar the business is benefiting from it.
North America continued organic operating profit growth in the next fiscal year.
to deliver strong performance: Europe is focused on driving margin improvement in a lower topline growth environment Our operating and financial review begins on page 23: in the and International benefited from investment as we see growth review you will find highlights of our activities and performance opportunities in the region.
While each region is unique, we are over the past year discussed by region.
constantly seeking to share knowledge about our business, around our business.
This has been a strong year for Diageo.
We continue to measure ourselves against the worlds greatest companies.
A critical part The regional structure also allows us to look for new business of that is our engagement with those who have invested in our opportunities in markets around the world.
This year we announced business.
We recognise that you have a choice to do so.
We thank the acquisition of the Smirnov brand in Russia through a company you for that investment, for placing your trust in Diageo and for in which Diageo holds a 75% stake and a major Russian consortium, your continued support.
the Alfa Group, holds a 25% stake.
This company will be the exclusive distributor of Diageo spirits and the Smirnov vodka brand in Russia.
Investing in our brands We continue to believe that the key to growing our brands is investment.
Our strong advertising campaigns have delivered great things for our business.
In addition, we reach out to consumers in more and varied ways with our sports sponsorship programme.
Paul S Walsh, Chief executive Diageo Annual Report 2006 | 3
