OVERVIEW OF PERFORMANCE The 2006 financial year has been another year of considerable progress and growth for Dimension Data.
2006 revenue reached a record level, increasing 16% to $3.1 billion.
Our revenue growth was largely organic, driven by market share 1 gains in our lines of business.
Operating profit accelerated to 1 $85 million, a 50% increase, while earnings per share increased to 2.0 cents per share from 0.8 cents in 2005.
Over the past three years, Dimension Data has pursued a focused strategy to improve the CEOS REVIEW quality of our revenue by investing in high growth market segments such as Converged Communications and Security.
We have successfully extended our value proposition to take BRETT DAWSON advantage of anticipated market trends, grown at rates better [ ] than the market and improved our competitive positioning.
We also created new, annuity-based IT services to support increasing client need to outsource IT maintenance, monitoring and and other media onto a single, robust IP-based platform helped management.
We rationalised and consolidated multiple drive the strong growth in our Converged Communications line offerings into six focused lines of business LoBs.
In addition to supporting our clients need to make e-procurement solutions to reduce our cost of sales.
Our improvements in the core network to support convergence, we investments over the past three years to ensure growth are paying have also helped them to enable their telephony environment.
Our successes have built Dimension Data into a healthier FY2006 marked a milestone for Dimension Data in that we have business with stronger margins, increased revenue streams and now deployed half a million IP phones around the world.
During FY2006, recognition of our IP capabilities and leadership Our success in 2006 was more than solely financial.
The came in the form of the Cisco Global Internet Protocol 33 industry awards we received in 2006 recognise our success Communications IPC partner of the year award.
We expect at partnering with leading IT manufacturers.
Our clients the trends we have benefited from in Security and Converged continue to look to our understanding of emerging technology Communications to continue into FY2007.
trends to help them plan their architecture and assess the Dimension Datas business is broken down into five regions best technology solution.
Maintaining and growing strong Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe and the US.
All the regions, other partnerships with leading IT manufacturers ensures our clients than Europe, had strong performances in FY2006.
In Africa, have the best access to technology and technical support.
To growth in the public sector and continued strength in Network this end, we expanded our relationship with Microsoft in 2006 Integration, Converged Communications and Security helped and signed a global three year alliance agreement.
We also drive a terrific performance.
Asias operating profit increased by expanded our global service alliance with Cisco Systems to all a significant 69% following aggressive expansion of gross and our geographies.
We had an exceptional performance from Several growth drivers supported our success in FY2006.
Residing in the largest and most mature IT security market remained a strong opportunity for Dimension market in the world, the US is an important part of the Data.
Continued corporate concerns over security breaches, Dimension Data strategy and global footprint.
Dimension Data computer viruses and data theft directed our clients to improve experienced record growth in the US of over 30% year on year their security posture by making security-related investments in far outpacing the market.
Growth drivers included exceptional their IT infrastructure.
The convergence of voice, video, data growth in Product revenue, strong demand for Security and Note: 1 Excluding exceptional items.
Operating profit is reconciled to adjusted operating profit in Note 8 to the annual financial statements.
PAGE 11 DIMENSION DATA ANNUAL REPORT 2006 CEOS REVIEW continued Converged Communications solutions, and solid Professional fix and monitoring services, to strategic technology and business Services growth.
In addition to revenue growth, US operating partner.
Our aim is to provide our clients with a full lifecycle of profit increased by 34%.
services and become our clients trusted IT adviser.
To this end, we are developing more services led offerings such as assessment, consulting and design services which pull through SERVICES STRATEGY EVOLUTION both product sales and managed services engagements.
Over the past 12 months, Dimension Data has evolved its services strategy to meet client needs for a full lifecycle of IT The services alliance that Dimension Data signed with Cisco in services that help IT management deliver better business value.
the US in FY2005 was expanded to include all regions.
This We have invested in aligning our services offerings to the IT alliance allows us to offer clients a streamlined and simplified Infrastructure Library framework, an industry best practice for engagement process for maintenance and monitoring services.
While a majority of the focus Our mutual clients benefit from Dimension Data's capabilities was on helping clients build and support their IT infrastructure, such as local language help desk support, restoration service Dimension Data also developed new services to help clients level agreements and service delivery management.
Within the improve business processes and create business innovation US, our services partnership with Cisco has helped accelerate through IT.
Our services strategy now extends from our our Services growth and helped the Group develop new client traditional model of helping clients plan, build and support relationships with large global corporations.
their IT infrastructure to include manage, improve and innovate services which help them improve their return on IT ACQUISITIONS AND OTHER EXPANSION investment and maximise the business impact of on-going Whilst our primary growth strategy is organic, we have looked to improvements and innovations.
The evolution in our services complement our footprint through selected acquisitions.
strategy positions us well to capitalise on the market trends Opportunities and market growth rates in the emerging markets toward multisourcing and the outsourcing of smaller, more of Africa justified further expansion during FY2006.
In the first specialised IT services.
Evidence of early success around half, we acquired the remaining 20% stake in Internet Solutions.
multisourcing was the $40 million, three year multisourcing Internet Solutions is an important asset to the Group and having contract we signed in March with the South Australia 100% of a leading communications service provider in Africa is a Government.
We also purchased the remaining 51% of Plessey, a leading supplier of telecommunications Dimension Data invested in the development of several new solutions to the African continent.
We established an East African Managed Service offerings across our lines of business, including regional presence by acquiring a 51% stake in ICL East Africa.
Managed Contact Centres, Managed IP Telephony, Managed Backup and Managed Desktop.
To gain improved flexibility in IT Outside of acquisitions we expanded by opening additional sourcing options, clients are demanding more specialised IT offices.
In the US we expanded west into Chicago, Seattle, management services.
Dimension Data is developing Managed Phoenix and northern California.
In Africa, we opened two Services which relieve our clients from IT support tasks including additional regional offices in Nigeria.
Additionally, to gain a activities such as release management, change management, foothold and position ourselves for future growth in Eastern problem resolution, and incident and configuration Europe, we expanded into Prague, Czech Republic.
As CIOs strive to deliver improved business value, expansion strategy is supported by growth in our client base Dimension Data is increasingly called on to provide services that particularly large global and multinational clients whose the IT department previously provided in-house.
business requirements justify an expanded Dimension Data footprint.
Dimension Data believes that the required core network rearchitecture to ready the network for supporting the market trends in security, IP telephony and convergence provide strong OPPORTUNITIES FOR IMPROVEMENTS professional services opportunities.
Development of the While we are excited about our overall performance as a Group professional services business has been an important area of and the continued validation of our operational strategy, we focus as we pursue an evolutionary path from IT infrastructure experienced some challenges in FY2006 notably the supplier, implementing technology solutions and providing break performances of Europe and the Merchants Group.
PAGE 12 Although Europes revenue growth of 9% excluding border client engagement and overall client relationship Merchants was satisfactory, the regions operating result was management.
Our clients see our local expertise and delivery disappointing.
Following the appointment of a new capabilities as a clear differentiator.
The consistency and quality of management team in Europe, encouraging progress has been this delivery experience sets us apart from our competition.
made in certain areas, notably in Germany, Spain and Italy, but Excellent, high quality delivery is all about excellent, high quality performance was negatively affected by disappointing results employees.
Ultimately, the quality of our technology specialists, from the UK and from the Merchants Group.
Steps have been our passion, and the fact that we just get the job done keeps taken to address both these underperforming businesses.
UK and Irish operations of the Merchants Group have been In FY2007 we will focus on operational excellence.
create or enhance processes to bring more precision to our execution.
Several important areas are targeted.
In our Services AN OPERATIONAL STRATEGY business, we need to increase the services we attach to Product, THAT WORKS execute on the Cisco Service Alliance, and improve our Our FY2006 performance was achieved through focus on three Professional Services operations.
We must continuously enhance operational strategies: Profitable Growth, Client Experience, and our value propositions, gain maturity across our global LoBs and People and Culture.
In FY2007, we have added one additional substantially enhance our go-to-market capability.
These four strategies give our global organisation a clear road map and set of performance With employees who are passionate and aligned to our Group expectations.
We are also incorporating a balanced scorecard strategy, we are hard to beat in the marketplace.
To help better approach to how we manage execution and results.
Increasing align employees to our strategy, our people and culture initiatives organisational discipline is part of the Groups on-going will focus on the introduction of new tools to map our regional development of a high performance culture.
and functional executions to the achievement of Group strategy.
Our performance management, and recognition and reward Our goal of driving long term shareholder value can only be programmes, will be aligned to support the execution of our attained through profitable growth.
In FY2007, we have four main strategic objectives.
Our Group values will continue to guide how drivers of profitable growth our LoBs, services business, growth we engage with each other, clients and partners.
We will also be from targeted clients and productivity improvements.
Firstly, we looking to develop more career development opportunities are poised to gain more share in our key markets.
The investments including on-the-job knowledge and skills expansion in addition to we have made in our LoBs have been on target.
growth is not dependent on the development of any new LoBs, but rather focuses on investment and execution within our existing LoBs.
By applying our strengths in networking, security, IP telephony and other technology areas, we have the opportunity to Brett Dawson gain greater market share within our existing markets.
In FY2007, Chief Executive Officer we will have a particular emphasis on growth from services both Managed and Professional services.
We will also improve our focus on account penetration to strengthen client relationships and services adoption within our client base.
Lastly, we will enhance our productivity through increased efficiency, effectiveness and the adoption of consistent, quality processes across the business.
Client relationships are what drive our business.
The client experience when engaging with Dimension Data will determine client satisfaction, spend levels with Dimension Data and, ultimately, whether a given client becomes a life-long client.
Client management has always been a strength of the Group.
However, we have opportunities to improve our account planning, crossPAGE 13 DIMENSION DATA ANNUAL REPORT 2006 RISING FROM BANGALORE, INDIA Dimension Datas Asia clients are supported by the Bangalore-based Global Service Centre.
Clients are serviced in multiple Asian languages.
In Asia we experienced a steady flow of large regional, multi-year annuity contracts during FY2006.
Clients continued to recognise the value of entrusting us with the management and support of their IT infrastructure.
Korea, India, Indonesia and New Zealand all contributed to the robust growth in Managed Services revenue within Asia.
The Bangalore Global Service Centre benefited from FY2006 efforts to increase utilisation, efficiency and services quality.
Benchmarking showed that we compare favourably with the top-tier managed IT service competitors in terms of service delivery costs.
Monitoring and managing over 15,000 devices and over 40,000 elements.
