14 Chief Executives review Key achievements in 2006 We have delivered strong and improved revenue and earnings compared with 2005 against a backdrop of volatile power prices, increasing fuel costs and erratic prices for CO2 emissions allowances.
We returned 342 million to shareholders in October 2006 and intend to return a further 155 million in respect of 2006, bringing the total to 497 million.
Our continued focus on safety has delivered record improvements and a leading performance.
We have delivered improved reliability and high availability, placing us as the industry leader for coal-fired plant by a clear margin.
Good progress has been made in diversifying our coal procurement strategy to increase our fuel flexibility and choice.
Through the Governments Energy Review we were able to make our voice heard and received important recognition of the continuing role for coal-fired generation in the UK energy mix and the contribution that co-firing renewable biomass materials can make to delivering significant reductions in CO2 emissions.
We continued to recruit specialists to populate our workforce with the experience, skills and foresight to take our business forward.
Strategic priorities for 2007 Our overriding aim will be to continue to create added value and to deliver on our promises to shareholders.
We shall continue with our progressive hedging strategy targeting market or better dark green spreads and expand the areas in which our trading function adds value.
We shall execute our investment decisions to upgrade our turbines and grow our renewable biomass co-firing activities, and diligently pursue other economic routes to reduce our CO2 emissions.
Our commitment to delivering excellence in safety performance will underpin our approach to the management of our operations and, in particular, the two major outages planned for the year.
We shall continue our drive to deliver operational improvements and consolidate recent improvements in reliability and availability.
We have a forward-looking strategy for the business founded on the effective alignment of production, trading and investment strategies.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 15 Introduction We pride ourselves on our environmental leadership We entered 2006 as a newly refinanced and listed company position within the sector and are pleased to report that, with the credit strength to implement a forward-looking through focused effort on our operations, 2006 was the third strategy for the business founded on the effective consecutive year in which we recorded zero environmental alignment of production, trading and investment strategies.
breaches of our operating licence as issued by the Our achievements in 2006 are borne out by our strong Environment Agency.
financial results and demonstrate well the value of having a sound capital base.
They also reflect the benefit derived Trading strategy from our strategy of: delivering excellence in plant operations Our credit rating and strong market presence have enabled and trading performance: enhancing and diversifying us to deliver our progressive hedging strategy targeting the business, with a focus on fuel optionality and carbon market or better dark green spreads through making abatement: and ensuring we have the appropriate financial full use of the good liquidity available to us in the forward and human resources.
We are a power generation business operating in commodity During 2006, value was significantly enhanced through markets.
Against a backdrop of volatile power prices, a substantial growth in our forward sales portfolio, which increasing fuel costs and erratic prices for carbon dioxide more than doubled.
In April, we were particularly pleased CO emissions allowances we have delivered strong to announce our contract with Centrica, through which 2 and improved revenue and earnings compared with 2005. we were able to secure power sales into the term market Key to the delivery of these results is the seamless interaction for the five-and-a-quarter year period to December 2012. between our production and trading functions which work In addition, we have continued to contract power through together to exploit opportunities as they arise.
The resulting smaller structured deals and the liquid traded market, strong cash flow has allowed us to make significant which now extends through to Winter 2010. distributions to our shareholders, fully in line with the During the course of 2006, we diversified our coal commitments we made at Listing.
Details of our key financial procurement strategy to increase our fuel flexibility measures are given in our Business and financial review on and choice.
We expanded our access to port capacity pages 18 to 27. and we also worked with our rail freight suppliers to improve logistics between Drax and the ports and the Production strategy mines from which our coal is delivered.
Above all, the principal foundation for our operating philosophy is that we must ensure safe, high integrity operations before Our revenue during the year was enhanced through the we consider anything else.
Improvements in our safety sale of by-products, National Grid support, or ancillary record have taken us to leading performance levels helping services, and other products details are given in our us to collect, for the second year running, the Royal Society Business and financial review on pages 18 to 27.
We moved for the Prevention of Accidents Gold Award.
closer to our target of zero ash landfill through selling some 80% of our ash to the construction industry.
We are We continue to operate our Spotlight on Safety working on reducing further this figure through an agreement behaviour-based safety programme for employees with Lafarge Cement, under which we will construct an ash and contractors and we have strengthened the safety rail loading facility to improve our ash export capability and communication and feedback process, as we report in our allow greater and more efficient access to construction Corporate and social responsibility review on pages 28 to 35. markets, particularly in the South East of England.
In addition, Our production strategy for the year focused on two during the year we signed a new gypsum supply contract key areas: securing the targeted improvements in the with British Gypsum to continue to sell all of the gypsum fundamentals of plant operation, a programme that was we produce, as a by-product of our flue gas desulphurisation initiated in 2004: and developing and executing projects process, to the plasterboard and related products market.
that will improve the operating efficiency and environmental performance of the Drax plant and equipment.
Investment strategy Through continuing investment, Drax has maintained its Our Forced Outage Rate performance has improved for the position as the most efficient coal-fired generator in the second year running, both for the full year and during the UK with the lowest amount of CO emissions per unit 2 critical Winter quarters, when reliability of the plant is of output.
However, we are not complacent and economic an essential contributor to the security of supply of the UK carbon abatement is a key driver for our forward electricity system.
This improved operating performance has led to the high availability of all six units at the Drax Power Station and places us as the industry leader for coal-fired plant by a clear margin we achieved 90% compared to an average of 71% for the remainder of the sector confirming the competitiveness and reliability of our operations.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 16 Chief Executives review continued In December, we announced our decision to proceed with Coal-fired generation generally meets around one-third a major, 100 million turbine upgrade the largest steam of the electricity needs of the UK, but, during the Winter turbine modernisation in UK history.
Once complete, of 2005 2006 it met around half of the demand: a timely it will improve the overall efficiency of the plant taking it reminder of its importance in the UK energy mix.
close to 40%, and strengthen further our position as the Through the Energy Review we were able to make our voice UKs most efficient coal-fired generator.
The efficiency heard on the continuing role for coal-fired generation and the improvement feeds through to environmental improvement prospects for clean coal technology.
Existing coal-fired power and will result in a saving of one million tonnes of CO2 stations have considerable scope to make a real difference each year.
to their environmental performance through significant The 2006 Energy Review and the expected changes in the reductions in emissions of CO. We have long advocated the 2 co-ring regime have resulted in us formalising our target to role of co-firing renewable biomass materials with coal in produce 10% of our output from burning biomass by 2009. the fight against global warming.
At Drax, we have pioneered Achievement of this target will result in a saving of over two co-firing technology and it has emerged as a cost effective million tonnes of CO each year.
During 2006, our biomass and credible renewable technology with huge potential.
2 co-ring activities were constrained by the regulatory regime.
We were delighted when the Governments report on the However, towards the end of the year and in the light of Energy Review, published in July, reported their findings encouraging regulatory developments, we started work on of a broad consensus that co-firing should be encouraged the growth of our biomass handling and co-ring facilities to play a long-term role in reducing CO2 emissions.
and plan to invest up to 47 million in an expansion project The report went on to present proposals that, once commencing in 2007. implemented, will enable us to develop fully the co-firing Biomass material can be purchased in various forms, potential of Drax.
We stand ready to invest in this technology from untreated to pre-processed.
We are considering and to deliver considerable savings in our CO2 emissions.
supplementing our existing and already sizeable biomass Through the Energy Review the Government identified programme, through which we have entered into energy the need for, and has now convened, the Coal Forum.
crop supply contracts with local farmers, with an on-site Working together, Government, coal-fired generators, rape seed crushing plant, at a cost of up to 20 million, coal producers and suppliers, power plant suppliers, which will deliver processed biomass material.
infrastructure owners and operators, trade unions and Where appropriate we will consider further investments other parties are aiming to secure the long-term contribution depending on the make-or-buy economics.
of coal-fired power generation and optimise the use of Final implementation of these projects is reliant on the economic coal reserves in the UK.
Drax is wholly supportive Government delivering against its proposals for regulatory of this approach and is participating fully in the process.
change to the co-ring regime through the Energy Review.
We are, however, constantly reminded that regulatory change in the UK is increasingly being driven by EU legislation.
Environmental and regulatory landscape During 2006, there were several developments with The major challenge facing Drax, and the coal-fired implications for the UK electricity industry.
The key ones generation sector, is environmental and carbon is the involved further clarification on the future control of single biggest constraint.
We firmly believe that we have an emissions of pollutants such as sulphur dioxide SO2, important part to play in the UKs transition towards a low oxides of nitrogen NOX, and CO2.
carbon economy, whilst, at the same time, delivering reliable supplies of electricity.
It is for this reason that our primary The UK Government made its final decisions on the environmental goal is to reduce our emissions of CO. implementation of the LCPD.
At Drax, we have decided 2 to implement the Directive through the National The year started with the launch of a timely Energy Review Emission Reduction Plan NERP option, which involves by the Government.
Today, the UK is served well by a diverse compliance with annual limits for SO, NO and particulates 2 X and well proportioned energy mix: a circumstance that is dust.
We anticipate that these limits will be incorporated widely recognised as making a valuable contribution to within the sites Pollution Prevention and Control PPC security of supply.
Environmental legislation, in particular the permit, which will replace the existing Integrated Pollution Large Combustion Plant Directive LCPD, is hastening the Control IPC authorisations in 2007. closure of some fossil-fuelled power stations, that combined with the decommissioning of nuclear plant will, over the next In addition, the UK Government determined, and the ten to 15 years, have a dramatic effect on the energy mix, European Commission approved, the level of CO2 emissions the capacity margin and, without early and significant allowances for the National Allocation Plan NAP for new build, security of supply.
A certain and predictable Phase II 2008 to 2012 of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme energy policy framework is essential to encouraging the EU ETS.
Under the new benchmarked methodology, level of investment needed to ensure long-term, reliable it is anticipated that Drax will be allocated around 9.5 million electricity supplies.
tonnes of allowances each year over the Phase II period.
This allocation will be supplemented by allowances already purchased for Phase II as part of our forward hedging strategy, including the 4.7 million tonnes to be delivered each year through the Centrica contract.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 17 Going forward, the EU ETS is pivotal to providing the We believe that it is important to identify economic routes much needed certainty to instil investor confidence.
We saw to reduce the CO2 emissions from our operations at Drax.
a precipitous fall in the price of CO2 emissions allowances for We are confident that the turbine upgrade project will deliver Phase I when it became apparent, from 2005 emissions significant CO2 savings and we are equally confident that data, that EU Member State governments had allocated the Government will implement changes to the regulatory more allowances to participants than they needed to cover framework for renewables that will enable the economic their actual emissions.
However, we were pleased to see the co-firing of biomass at Drax.
With this in mind, we will work European Commission EC taking a much firmer stance towards developing and implementing projects to deliver on allocations for Phase II.
our target of 10% of renewable energy through Drax by the end of 2009.
Market outlook We will continue to be active in the regulatory debate Throughout most of 2006, gas-fired power stations were we strongly believe coal-fired generation is critical to the the price-setting plant in the power market, with marginal UK energy mix going forward if the Government is to achieve costs of production above the equivalent cost for coal-fired its objectives of delivering security of supply, affordability generation and nuclear generation.
As a result, power prices and tackling climate change, where co-firing biomass with were principally driven by gas prices and CO2 emissions coal has much to contribute.
allowances prices the two key input costs of gas-fired power generation.
Excellence in safety and operations performance will continue to be an important driver for the business and, It is expected that in the coming years power prices in particular, the two major outages planned for this year.
will continue to be strongly influenced by gas prices and Much management focus will be devoted to delivering CO emissions allowances prices, but, it is also to be expected 2 solid results across the production function through that power plant capacity issues will become an increasingly operational improvements to consolidate our recent important driver due to the emerging capacity gap.
advances in reliability and availability.
Addressing regulatory uncertainty is key to creating the investor confidence to bridge this gap.
Our people Last, but, by no means least, a mention of the real asset Looking ahead of our business our people.
The employees of Drax are the In 2007, our overriding aim will be to continue to create backbone of our business and their drive and enthusiasm are added value and to deliver on our promises to shareholders.
fundamental to delivering against our strategy and delivering We fully expect that we will continue to have good access value to shareholders.
Throughout 2006, we continued to across relevant commodity markets as a result of our recruit specialists to populate our workforce with the experience, credit strength.
skills and foresight to take our business forward.
During the We expect the markets in which we trade to continue to year, around 50 people were recruited to Drax across all display high levels of volatility.
We are fortunate in that disciplines from training, through trading to craftsmen our capital structure takes account of this volatility and and engineers.
In September, for the fourth year running, fully recognise the desirability of maintaining an investment we welcomed engineering apprentices and saw our 2003 grade rating in support of our operational and trading intake enter into their final year.
However, we will continue to keep our capital Throughout 2007, we intend to place particular emphasis structure under active review and, when appropriate, we will on the development of the staff at Drax with implementation consider raising additional debt to ensure we maintain an of a new approach to training and development.
We will efficient structure which is compatible with our trading needs.
also place additional emphasis on building the engineering We plan to continue with our progressive hedging strategy capability within Drax, both to deliver the projects already targeting market or better dark green spreads and to identified and to inform our strategic options going forward.
expand the areas in which our trading function adds value We will continue to invest in trading, recognising the to the business.
importance of improving and growing our trading capability across all the commodities we trade, and of particular note Given current trading expectations and the continued is the growth in our biomass trading function to support development of our hedge position coupled with effective the corporate strategy.
cash management, we expect to continue to deliver Dorothy Thompson on our commitment to return substantial excess cash Chief Executive to our shareholders.
As always, we will remain alert to 7 March 2007 sector opportunities and be consistent in our drive to build shareholder value through good operational strategies and judicious investment.
During 2007, as well as commencing the major turbine upgrade project, we will continue to identify projects to enhance the value of the plant through improved performance in reliability, fuel optionality and efficiency.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006
