6 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 Chief Executives Review 2005 06 but the segment exited the year on a much improved trend.
Spicers results were 8.9 million down on the previous year.
Its continental operations performed well, turning in higher profits compared with the previous year, but the UK business saw a dramatic drop in profits, the result of both a substantial reduction in sales margins, in the face of We accelerated our profit stronger competition, and an increase in costs.
Cash performance across the Group was good, improvement efforts while highlighting the strong attention our managers give to cash management.
continuing with our strategy to strengthen the Group.
Q Given the challenging trading environment, was 2005 06 a year when the development of the Group was put on hold?
We have put a lot of emphasis on raising short-term performance, principally through a drive on cost recovery, through increasing prices and raising productivity.
Tony Thorne Group Chief Executive In 2005 06, DS Smith faced a difficult trading While we concentrated on accelerating our environment and results were well down on profit improvement efforts, we continued with the prior year.
In an interview for the Annual our strategy to strengthen the Group.
We sold Report, Group Chief Executive, Tony Thorne, two non-core businesses: the John Dickinson sets out his responses to questions about the office products manufacturing business and events of the year and how the Group is the plastic film lamination operation, BSK.
We addressing the challenges it faces.
closed loss-making paper capacity that could not be competitive in the long term and also Q In what has been a tough exited some small loss-making corrugated year for DS Smith, how do you packaging operations.
In the UK, we captured see the trading performance of the expected benefits from our major the different parts of the Group?
corrugated packaging acquisition in 2004 A We report our results under four and expanded plasterboard liner paper segment headings: UK Paper and Corrugated sales substantially.
We grew our continental Packaging: Continental European Corrugated European corrugated packaging business and Packaging: Plastic Packaging: and Office opened a new corrugating plant in Poland.
Our two Paper finished the year with a much stronger order and Corrugated segments account for 56% book in Plastic Packaging, thanks to a number of sales and 72% of the capital employed.
In Spicers, Adjusted operating profit in UK Paper and we grew our start-up businesses in Spain and Corrugated Packaging, where increased energy Italy strongly and acquired Timmermans, costs of approximately 18 million were the leading office products wholesaler in the incurred, was down by 11.1 million on the Benelux region.
These moves, which strengthen prior year.
Although underlying performance our business base, should all contribute to in this segment has improved, we must now the Groups performance going forward.
recover a greater proportion of the increase in energy costs for us to earn acceptable returns.
Q What were the key issues that you faced in Paper and Continental European Corrugated Packaging produced a good result: profits were broadly Corrugated Packaging and how are you dealing with them?
unchanged from the previous year, despite higher energy costs, and we continued our A During most of calendar year 2005, the growth in eastern Europe.
In Plastic Packaging, paper industry suffered from weak demand, our profits started to fall away some 18 months overcapacity particularly in corrugated case ago.
Our results were down 2.1 million in material CCM, high waste paper prices and DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 7 greatly increased energy costs.
As a result of of Jean-Paul Loison at the end of September we have competitive energy costs and exiting the overcapacity, selling prices of CCM and 2006.
Jean has been a key member of the those units where energy costs cannot be corrugated packaging boxes fell significantly team which has grown the sales and profits recovered in their product markets.
over a large part of the year.
This downward of our continental corrugated packaging pricing trend, coupled with rising input costs, business in recent years.
Q What level of profits can you expect to achieve in your UK Paper led to industry profits being hit hard.
The severe and Corrugated Packaging segment?
industry conditions applied right across Europe Q But havent there been price A Our immediate aim is to rebuild the but were worst in the UK, where demand was rises in recent months?
Arent you returns from our substantial existing market particularly weak and both the energy cost rises benefiting from these?
To achieve this improvement we will A The business environment improved during and the energy price spikes were higher than be focusing on: Severnside Recycling: those on the continent: the latter were most marked the second half of our financial year: better paper mills which we believe can be long-term growth on the continent, the impact of CCM during the 2005 06 winter months.
competitive at the likely future level of energy capacity closures and the sustained cost Our response to these external pressures costs: our network of conventional box plants: pressure within the industry, led to CCM price has been to concentrate on supporting our and a selected number of speciality businesses.
In DS Smith, we stronger businesses, pushing for price increases, We have set ourselves a two-year objective achieved CCM price increases of approximately improving the product mix and cutting costs.
In to make significant progress towards this 20%.
The Group is broadly balanced between the UK, we achieved the expected 14.5 million goal.
The degree of progress will be, in part, the quantity of CCM produced and the quantity of synergies following the restructuring we dependent on good operational performance of CCM used in our box converting operations: initiated after our 2004 corrugated packaging but particularly upon us achieving an therefore, we need these higher CCM prices to acquisition.
We now have a more competitive improvement in selling prices.
In addition be passed through to our external customers by conventional corrugated plant network and are to the UK improvement plan, we are also means of higher box prices if the Group is to concentrating on running it hard.
In our UK looking to develop our corrugated packaging derive any benefit.
We are achieving box price Paper business, our CCM raw material supply operations further on the continent, where we increases, but they are coming through slower position was helped by the previous expansion achieved a 12.4% return on average capital than we had anticipated and at a level that does in 2004 of our Severnside Recycling operations, employed even in this past difficult year.
not fully recover the input cost increases: this and we further enriched the product mix by will have to be addressed in 2006 07. growing sales of plasterboard liner.
We are Q Results in Plastic Packaging seeking to mitigate the effect of the sustained have fallen substantially.
What Q What are you doing to reduce high energy costs as far as possible through a are your expectations and plans the effect of higher energy costs broad programme of actions, but the prospect for this segment now?
A The Group has built good market positions of energy cost levels continuing to be higher A The Groups energy costs have increased than historical levels has led us to close paper in its two principal sectors of liquid packaging from 64 million in 2003 04 to 95 million in capacity at two of our most energy-intensive and dispensing and returnable transit packaging 2005 06, despite our consumption in 2005 06 RTP.
Profits in both sectors were eroded mills.
On the continent, our results benefited being 6% less than in the previous year.
Based during the second half of 2004 05 and in from our concentration on higher added-value on forward energy market prices, we now the first half of 2005 06 by a combination products.
Our speciality paper mill in France expect the increase in our underlying energy of increased competition and sharply higher had a good year, benefiting from recent costs in 2006 07 to be somewhat higher than the polymer costs: the latter we were unable investment, and our expanded operations in 10 million that we indicated at the time of our to pass on in full to our customers.
We have Poland showed good sales and profit growth.
We are benefiting from further focused the division by selling one In the Ukraine, our associate business had earlier investments made in on-site combined of its smaller businesses, BSK, and we are another good year and we are supporting heat and power generation plants at our two currently concentrating on rebuilding profits its expansion plans.
largest paper mills and in a waste-to-energy in both sectors towards the levels we achieved Our programme of actions to raise returns plant at our biggest mill.
It is our smaller mills previously.
In liquid packaging and dispensing, in our UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging that have been most severely affected by the we have strengthened our product development operations is being led by Huub van Beijeren, steep rise in costs.
Our purchasing teams in the and sales functions and are winning new whom we appointed as Chief Operating UK and France are hedging part of their forward business both in Europe and the USA.
In Officer, Packaging in May 2006.
Huub has energy requirements, but the rise in energy RTP, we are rebuilding sales volumes.
We held a number of senior management positions prices has been so substantial and sustained have a number of promising new product in manufacturing industry, most recently as that we have only been able to mitigate a small developments and are extending into eastern a Main Board Director of British Vita Plc.
In proportion of the increase.
Our business plans Europe, where we are growing sales in tandem continental Europe, Jean Lienhardt, currently are based on the assumption that energy prices with our Corrugated Packaging operations in Finance Director of DS Smith Kaysersberg, will remain at higher than historical levels.
Our immediate objective is to will take over as Chief Executive of that Consequently, in our energy-intensive paper maintain the improving profit trend established division following the planned retirement business we are concentrating investment where in the second half of 2005 06.
8 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 Chief Executives Review continued confident that in the coming year we can that certain types of corporate activity may Q Why have Spicers results start to rebuild profits in the UK and continue result in us having to put additional funds deteriorated so greatly and why progress on the continent.
did this only become apparent late in the year?
Q You are currently confronted Q How do you see the outlook A The deterioration in Spicers result for the Group?
with a large number of major was all in the UK.
We made good progress issues across your various A We operate in markets that are expected on the continent: we moved into the Benelux to remain relatively tough.
Wouldnt it be better region through acquisition and our existing if the Group was more focused?
confident that the actions we have already businesses in France, Germany, Spain and A We recognise that Packaging manufacturing taken and the strategy that we are pursuing Italy performed in line with our plans.
Profits and Office Products Wholesaling are quite will enable the Group to make satisfactory at Spicers UK were markedly down as a result different types of activity, but I believe DS returns and to grow.
of both a severe reduction in sales margin, Smith is able to add value to both these core in the face of tough competition, and higher activities.
Additionally, our spread of business costs.
The fall in margin was the result of a types helps the consistent generation of cash to number of factors.
Selling prices were under support the dividend.
We have a clear strategy pressure from general price deflation in the for each of our segments and are confident we office products market.
In addition, the can provide the resources required for their competitive environment in the wholesaling development.
We will streamline the portfolio sector has intensified, which has resulted further while retaining the current broad shape Tony Thorne Group Chief Executive in lower prices and led to higher levels of of the Group.
retrospective rebates being paid to customers.
Higher costs were incurred in overcoming Q Are you going to have to carry service shortcomings at a limited number of out more restructuring?
Some of these A Throughout the Group we will continue factors were apparent in the first half of the to look at our overhead cost base to ensure year but the extent of the increased customer that it is appropriate for the particular markets rebates did not become fully apparent until we supply.
In UK Paper and Corrugated close to the year-end: the higher costs were Packaging, there are a small number of very much weighted towards the final months operations where we are assessing their ability of our financial year.
We are giving significant to compete in the longer-term, taking into attention to getting the Spicers UK business account the trends in the market for their back to healthy profitability.
Despite the poor products and the likely future cost of energy.
UK performance and the fact that two of the We also recognise the need to lower the continental businesses are still in a development structural cost base of Spicers UK business as phase, Spicers as a whole generated a good part of the process of restoring sales margins.
cash flow and its return on capital employed exceeded the Groups cost of capital.
Q What is your dividend policy?
A The Board recognises the importance of Q What are you doing to rebuild the dividend to our investors.
The Company profits at Spicers UK and what has an unblemished record of maintaining or are your profit expectations for increasing its dividend and the Executive is Spicers now?
mindful of the dividend when setting its plans.
A The 2005 06 result represents a major setback and in the coming year we have to reverse Q How significant is the issue the trend.
In February 2006, we appointed Rob of your pension scheme deficit?
Vale as Chief Executive, Spicers, following the A The pension scheme deficit, as at retirement of his predecessor.
Rob, who has 30 April 2006, was 35 million after tax extensive experience in office products, has and we believe we can manage this obligation carried out a comprehensive review of the within the Group as a whole.
We have worked Spicers business.
In the UK, he has made a in conjunction with the Scheme Trustee to number of management changes, strengthened minimise the future obligations by lowering the sales and operations functions, tightened the costs of the scheme and by increasing the financial disciplines and accelerated the contributions to the scheme by both the members and the Group.
We are conscious programme to reduce the cost base.
