plc Low cost with care convenience Chairman and Chief Executives review easyJet has delivered profitable growth during 2006 with profit before tax rising 56% to a record 129 million.
This has been driven by our winning combination of low fares with care and convenience, which in 2006 was chosen by 33 million passengers across 21 different European countries.
This performance is aligned with our targets Network and underpins the delivery of improved 2006 saw the increased presence of easyJet Basic earnings per share returns to shareholders.
We remain focused in Italy with the successful launch of our pence on improving our return on equity as 16th base at Milan Malpensa in March, and outlined in the long-term incentive plan for the addition of ten new routes bringing lowmanagement put in place last year.
During cost travel to Milan.
From Milan we now fly 23.2 2006 we improved the return on equity by domestically to Naples and Palermo: offer 3 percentage points to 10.1% and increased key city destinations including Berlin, London, our net profit by 59% to 94 million, thus Madrid and Paris: serve beach and leisure providing confidence that the targets we destinations: and have further expansion have set, while challenging and demanding, planned for the coming year.
12.7 Building on the addition of our second Swiss Key business highlights for the year base in Basel during 2005, we increased our were as follows: Swiss operations considerably in the year with 16 new routes launched in the Swiss market Record profit before tax of 129 million, and increased frequencies offered in the up 56% from 83 million in 2005. winter season.
Our successful expansion since Passenger numbers rose by 11.5% launching the Geneva base in 1999 has seen to 33 million.
easyJet become the largest airline in both Passenger revenues increased by 5.9% Geneva and Basel.
02 03 04 05 06 or 2.13 per seat, driven by strong summer trading.
During the summer, we expanded into new Ancillary revenues improved significantly markets with the introduction of flights to in all areas, rising by 34% or 0.86 per seat.
As a proportion Unit costs excluding fuel fell by 1.5% of our network these flights are not significant, Return on equity or 0.42 per seat from 28.78 to 28.36. but they indicate the continuing opportunities % Unit fuel costs increased by 33% available both inside and outside the EU.
58 new routes and 11 new destinations Overall, our highest rate of growth has been 10.1 were launched, expanding the network to on intra-European non-UK flying, where 9.4 262 routes and 74 airports in 21 countries.
we have seen revenues grow by 62% year The fleet grew to 122 aircraft with an on year.
While we continue to see and take average age of 2.2 years, making it one opportunities in the UK, we expect the higher 7.1 of the most modern and environmentally rate of growth in Europe to continue.
This has friendly fleets in Europe.
been reflected in our base selections in recent The balance sheet remains strong with years, and the announcement of our next 5.3 cash of 861 million and gearing at 31%.
base in Madrid, opening in February 2007, 4.4 continues this trend.
In May, we highlighted network development, revenue enhancement, cost reduction and development of our people as our main areas of focus.
02 03 04 05 06 4 Annual report and accounts 2006 This years performance is aligned with our targets and underpins the delivery of improved returns to shareholders.
We remain focused on improving our return on equity.
Sir Colin Chandler, Chairman Annual report and accounts 2006 5 plc Low cost with care convenience Chairman and Chief Executives review continued Additional Airbus order by the timing of Easter, but also reflected Ground handling improvements have come To sustain the continued growth of easyJet, buoyant market conditions and good with dedication and persistence which we will be asking shareholders to approve the revenue management across the network.
As a result, conversion of 52 Airbus purchase rights into we are now either self-handling or have firm orders.
In combination with our original Detailed route performance reviews and renegotiated our agreements with existing order for 120 Airbus and our conversion a strengthened yield management team suppliers in seven airports in Spain which of 20 purchase rights into firm orders in helped ensure that suitable interventions were among the most expensive in our December 2005, this takes our number were made in the revenue system to optimise network.
This has resulted in more of firm Airbus A319 orders to 192 aircraft, contribution on flights.
High-impact marketing competitive costs in this area, ensuring 87 of which had been delivered at the end also helped increase awareness and stimulate the future growth of these destinations.
The spring saw the launch of our orders, with a value of $2.3 billion at list price, objects marketing campaign, featuring iconic Overall, we have seen a reduction in unit are for A319 aircraft to be delivered mainly images associated with destinations on our costs excluding fuel of 1.5% for the year.
during 2009 and 2010, and supports our network and the low fares we offer to fly to The improvements in unit costs were largely planned growth.
In conjunction with this, we them reinforcing our simple message of low accomplished in the first half, with the impact have agreed with Airbus 75 further purchase fares with care and convenience.
We also of wet leasing and disruption impacting the rights, additional to the 120 purchase rights launched a business traveller campaign raising second half.
Set against this, the effect of agreed in 2002.
The terms of the additional awareness of the frequency and flexibility of increasing fuel costs has continued, and purchase rights are substantially the same our services and the quality of our schedule including fuel, total costs per available seat as on the original Airbus order.
This order on primary routes in specific markets.
As we go into the 2007 ensures that easyJet will continue to operate financial year, we have hedged 59% of our a young fleet of modern aircraft secured Improvements to the easyJet.
com website fuel requirements, 28% is hedged using at very competitive rates.
and a continued focus on non-ticket revenues forwards with an average rate of $659 per allowed easyJet to deliver another year of high metric tonne and 31% is hedged using collars Environment growth in ancillary revenues.
Simple and direct with average floor and ceiling rates of $687 We take seriously our duty to ensure that delivery of insurance and car hire has helped and $753 per metric tonne respectively.
we are operating and developing in a increase conversion rates and income from responsible manner.
We have explained partner revenues.
Improved consistent The August 10th security alert caused easyJet our environmental policy in detail in the application of charges has also driven increases to cancel nearly 500 flights and resulted in separate report on corporate and social across the other areas of ancillary revenue.
additional costs of approximately 4 million.
responsibility, however the fundamentals The introduction of greater restrictions to can be summarised here.
The easyJet model Costs and operational carry-on items, and the inadequate resources is low cost, based on maximising operating performance of airports to cope with additional security efficiencies, achieving high asset utilisation and Our focus on the cost base has continued procedures, resulted in pressures on passengers providing point-to-point services between throughout the year with particular progress and operations.
This led to reduced punctuality, convenient locations, operating in established coming from lower maintenance, improved and the proportion of our flights arriving markets whilst avoiding the largest, most ownership costs, and reduced ground within 15 minutes of scheduled arrival fell congested hub airports.
We use a modern handling rates in Spain.
from 80.2% in 2005 to 75.6% in 2006. fleet of young, fuel efficient, quiet aircraft, In addition, easyJet experienced some with a high seat density configuration and Maintenance costs benefited from lower rates crew shortages in the summer resulting achieve consistently high load factors.
Each as a result of our contract for Airbus airframe in low levels of standby crew.
To minimise of these factors helps make easyJet the maintenance with SR Technics.
The fleet mix disruption to passengers, easyJet wet leased environmentally friendly way to fly.
has improved with the retirement of the approximately three and a half lines of flying Boeing 737-300s, only three of which remained during the summer to help deliver the We have set ourselves the target of being in the fleet at 30 September, all of which scheduled network flights.
Disappointingly a leading environmentally efficient and are due for return by December 2006. for all concerned, some disruption to the responsible airline, striving to be efficient in Ownership costs have improved as our schedule was still experienced.
At easyJet the air, efficient on the ground, and to lead the financing margin has reduced, we have saved we are committed to delivering an excellent way in shaping a greener future for aviation.
money through better management of endservice and we can assure our passengers of-lease aircraft returns, and we have increased that recruitment and planning measures are Revenue the proportion of owned aircraft.
The effect now in place to ensure that the Company Passenger revenue per seat was down by of increasing US interest rates during the year, delivers the highest standard of service with 1.5% in the first half of the year, but rose however, offset these improvements, so that care and convenience.
The very strong total ownership costs have remained largely performance in the second half was helped flat on a per seat basis compared with 2005.
6 Annual report and accounts 2006 We have set ourselves the target of being a leading environmentally efficient and responsible airline, striving to be efficient in the air, efficient on the ground, and to lead the way in shaping a greener future for aviation.
Andrew Harrison, Chief Executive Annual report and accounts 2006 7 plc Low cost with care convenience Chairman and Chief Executives review continued People Board our expectations and we see yields for winter In November 2005, we opened the easyJet Andrew Harrison joined easyJet as Chief broadly in line with last year.
Based in a low-cost building close Executive in December 2005.
During the year further forward we anticipate more pressure to our Luton headquarters, the Academy David Bennett and Professor Rigas Doganis on yields in the summer due to continued provides first-class training facilities were also appointed to the Board as aggressive competition.
We remain focused including a cabin simulator and aircraft slides.
Non-Executive Directors, and Sir David Michels on improving execution and delivery of It provides the location for pilot, cabin crew was appointed as the Senior Independent results by revenue enhancement, network and call centre training as well as housing Non-Executive Director.
The appointments development and cost reduction.
This year the recruitment and training departments.
in the year have brought a good balance of has seen an encouraging step towards Meanwhile, we are preparing to move our expertise and experience to the Board and improved return on equity.
The Board remains easyLand headquarters, taking up low-cost these will be invaluable as easyJet continues confident that the business will make good office space inside our new maintenance to grow.
We thank all the members of the progress in the coming years.
This move should Board for their commitment and contributions take place in early 2007. in the year.
We recognise and appreciate the extra effort Outlook many of our people have made this year and Todays Airbus order underpins our future extend our thanks to all our people for their growth and we expect to increase capacity Sir Colin Chandler continued dedication and hard work.
Current trading is in line with Chairman Andrew Harrison Chief Executive Officer 13 November 2006 Revenues Within the UK Between the UK and the rest of Europe million Within the rest of Europe 1,619.7 415.9 1,341.4 247.0 1,0191.0 138.4 931.8 79.4 974.5 68% 869.9 551.8 728.5 42.5 646.1 Revenues from intra- 388.8 European flights grew 224.5 229.3 224.1 206.3 120.5 02 03 04 05 06 again in 2006 8 Annual report and accounts 2006 Continued network expansion in 2006 Annual report and accounts 2006 9
