Chief Executives review The achievements over the last 12 generate low risk revenues.
Over the source Charttrack August 2006. months demonstrate our commitment next three years we will sell these The largest contributions to to growing shareholder value.
In May products into a market that is revenues and profitability were from 2005 we acquired Eidos setting out a predicted to grow rapidly as a result of Tomb Raider: Legend, Hitman: Blood strategy to transform the Eidos the growth of Next Generation console Money and the distribution of Lego Star business and restore the value of its platforms and the spread of interactive Wars.
The strong performances of intellectual property.
We have entertainment on mobile phones and these products was the principal successfully implemented that internet platforms.
reason why the Group exceeded its strategy.
The results to 30 June 2006 are profit targets for the year.
As a result SCi is the only UK the Groups first full set of results to The largest contributor to revenue company in the small group of be reported under International and profitability was Tomb Raider: international publishers with a global Financial Reporting Standards Legend.
This product was launched on presence in this fast growing segment IFRS.
Xbox 360, Xbox, Sony PlayStation 2 of the entertainment industry.
Our PS2 and PC in April 2006 and on global presence enables us to sell Results to 30 June 2006 PlayStation Portable PSP in June directly to retailers in the worlds major Total revenues for the year were 2006.
During the financial year we territories, thereby maximising 179.1 million.
This was approximately sold over 2.9 million units of Tomb revenues.
We also own some of the 12 million 7% higher than upgraded Raider: Legend to retailers and most highly regarded development market expectations.
This performance was studios in the world and have the exceptional items and share based higher than the Groups original scale to build and share advanced compensation for the 12 months to forecast and, at the time of release, technologies.
This made Tomb Raider: Legend the highest SCi has built a sustainable product is 25% higher than our original target selling game in the UK in 2006 pipeline which is not dependent on any of 23 million.
Unadjusted EBITDA for source Charttrack August 2006.
We single title or platform.
These products the year was 22.6 million.
Both expect Tomb Raider: Legend to cover the 2007, 2008 and 2009 revenues and earnings were higher contribute further sales during the financial years.
The pipeline than in the previous financial period 2007 financial year.
recognises the broadening age range because of our acquisition and The second major contributor to and interests of games consumers.
Our strong level of revenue and profitability was Hitman: We are also balancing the exploitation revenues has given us nearly 5% share Blood Money.
This product was of established brands and the creation of the UK market in 2006, which launched on Xbox 360, Xbox, PS2 and of new franchises.
We have a strong compares favourably to companies PC in May 2006.
By the end of the back catalogue and additionally such as Sony and Nintendo with a 6% financial year we had sold to retailers distribute third-party products that share of the games publisher market and distributors over 1.4 million units Revenue m 02 17.7 03 28.5 04 31.0 05 18.0 06 179.1 0 30 60 90 120 150 180 9 months 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02 11.4 03 17.2 04 20.2 05 5.0 06 103.8 Gross profit m 9 months SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 9 Chief Executives review continued of Hitman: Blood Money.
This level of the year the Group entered into a covaluation of the Eidos brands and sales was in line with the Groups publishing agreement for Bionicle technology under IFRS.
We expect Hitman: Blood Money Heroes which will be released in the The quality of the Groups products to contribute further sales during the 2007 financial year.
has been illustrated by a number of 2007 financial year.
One of the Groups other major industry awards.
Six of our 2006 Sales of Tomb Raider: Legend and brands, Championship Manager, also releases were nominated for a total of Hitman: Blood Money have already performed well during the year.
12 BAFTAs and the Group also exceeded the previous versions of Championship Manager 2006 was received an MCV Industry Excellence these games Tomb Raider: Angel of released on PS2, Xbox, PSP and PC Award.
In addition we commercial success was combined released a very successful mobile Outlook for 2007 financial year with extremely strong reviews from the phone version.
Total sales across all The Group invested significantly in its specialist games press and a high platforms excluding mobile phones product portfolio in 2006.
Accordingly, degree of media coverage.
All of these was 0.5 million units, an increase from the Group plans to release 19 new factors support the Boards view that the previous version.
This level of products in the 2007 financial year Tomb Raider and Hitman are high sales makes Championship Manager a compared to 9 new releases in 2006. profile brands with long-term value.
profitable franchise, particularly as the The breadth of our product portfolio The status of Tomb Raider was annual development costs are lower reflects the strength of the Group and illustrated in 2005 when Lara Croft than for many other products.
the broadening demographics of was voted by BBC viewers as one of During the year the Group released games consumers.
the Top Ten Design Icons of the last six other new products, Total Overdose, We will continue to exploit 100 years.
We will continue to build Conflict: Global Storm, 25 to Life North established brands.
During the 2007 the quality and breadth of the Tomb America only, Commandos: Strike financial year we will release Tomb Raider and Hitman franchises.
Force, Rogue Trooper and Urban Chaos: Raider: Legend on the Nintendo The third major contributor to Riot Response.
In addition we received Gamecube, DS and Nintendo Game revenue and profit in the year was the back catalogue revenues from Boy Advance GBA platforms.
In the distribution of Lego Star Wars.
The products first released in previous second half of the financial year we Group exclusively distributes the Lego financial years.
Together these plan to launch an Anniversary edition Star Wars game, first released by Eidos products sold 4.6 million units in the of Tomb Raider, celebrating over ten in April 2005.
During the year the financial year.
years of the legendary Lara Croft.
We Group sold 2.5 million units of Lego Profit before tax for the year was will launch a new version of Star Wars and has now sold 8.1 million.
This figure represents Championship Manager, fully updated approximately 4.2 million units of this profit after amortisation charges of for the 2006 7 football season, product since its first release.
During 10.6 million arising from the achieving our objective of moving this 16:01:06 Julien Merceron joins Eidos as Chief Technology Officer.
Juliens responsibilities include integrating technology across our worldwide studios.
01:01:06 Ian Livingstone awarded OBE Product Acquisitions Director Ian Livingstone is awarded OBE for services to the computer games industry in New Year Honours.
10 SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Chief Executives review continued franchise to an annual release early in Diner Dash designed to appeal to the We have not planned any releases the football season.
growing audience for casual games.
on the Sony PlayStation 3 PS3 We will continue to introduce new The distribution of third-party titles platform in the 2007 financial year.
brands including Just Cause, will continue to provide us with low risk This is consistent with our policy to Battlestations: Midway and Kane & revenues.
Our global distribution titles launch titles on a new platform when Lynch, a new franchise from Io will include the Warner Bros. products the platform reaches a commercially Interactive, the developers of Hitman.
Justice League Heroes featuring viable installed base.
Therefore we are We believe that at least one of these Batman, Superman and Wonder not adversely affected by Sonys recent titles has the potential to add to our Woman, Tom and Jerry Tales and 300 announcement that the European portfolio of million unit selling March to Glory.
In North America we release of the PS3 has been franchises.
Just Cause was released on are distributing the Empire Interactive rescheduled to 2007.
Our PS3 22 September 2006 and immediately titles Ford Bold Moves and Carol products in development are planned entered the UK charts at No.
for release from the 2008 financial Xbox 360 charts and No.
2 in the All Finally, we expect a continuing level year onwards.
This is a very of strong back catalogue income.
This successful result for a new franchise.
includes continued sales of Tomb 2008 and future product pipeline Some of our new products are Raider: Legend and Hitman: Blood We have invested significantly in the based on licences with high consumer Money which were released in the 2008 and future pipeline.
These include Reservoir latter part of the 2006 financial year.
the market to grow strongly during this Dogs, Who Wants to be a Millionaire?
Both products have already achieved period particularly as a result of the and Bionicle Heroes.
Reservoir Dogs, Sony Platinum status and will be impact of the PS3 and Nintendo Wii based on the classic Quentin Tarantino released as Platinum products at an launches together with the continued movie, was released in Europe in appropriate point during 2007. growth of the Xbox 360 platform.
2 Our 2008 products will include new position in the UK PlayStation 2 charts Platform strategy versions of Tomb Raider including a and was released in North America in Our 2007 line up illustrates the PS3 version and many of our other October.
breadth of our products and our key franchises.
We also plan new There is a growing market for spread across hardware platforms.
We franchises, including completely new games that appeal to a wider have 19 new releases planned products from both Crystal Dynamics audience.
Our 2007 portfolio therefore including versions on PC, Sony PS2, developers of Tomb Raider and Io includes Pony Friends, on the Nintendo Sony PSP, Microsoft Xbox 360, Interactive developers of Hitman and DS platform, aimed at children who Microsoft Xbox, Nintendo DS, Nintendo Kane & Lynch.
want to look after a pet pony.
It also GBA, Nintendo Gamecube and includes games such as Zendoku and Nintendo Wii.
27:03:06 Championship Manager on mobiles Mobile version of Championship Manager 2006 released in UK shows strong performance in ELSPA mobile game charts.
17:03:06 First online distribution Commandos: Strike Force becomes the first Eidos title to ship simultaneously via retail and online distribution in major territories worldwide.
SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 11 Chief Executives review continued Development strategy considerable industry experience, was bonds with Film Finance Inc who SCi has a good record of delivering recruited from Ubisoft.
He is working guarantee that a game will be high quality products on time.
We have with our development team, headed by delivered on time, on budget and to taken a number of steps to ensure Development Director Darren Barnett, specification.
Two games were that these disciplines are maintained to enable our studios to share their delivered under these arrangements in in the enlarged Group, as well as technology more effectively.
This 2006 and a further title is in developing for Next Generation focuses our worldwide development development.
We expect to continue to platforms.
These steps included: resources on the shared use of a use this style of arrangement to 1.
Focusing internal studios around a limited number of very high quality ensure the successful delivery of key owned franchise for example Tomb technologies, maximising the certain products.
Raider at Crystal Dynamics and Hitman effectiveness of our development In 2006 we entered into two at Io Interactive.
These franchises resources and increasing our speed to agreements with the Ingenious Games provide a base to studio profitability market.
We expect to see significant Fund to provide direct financial which will be supplemented with new benefits from this initiative from 2008 investment in two of our products.
franchises as the studios develop.
Under this agreement, the Fund shares 2.
Each internal studio is focused on 5.
We continue to open development in the commercial risks and reward of profitability and has a three year plan studios in cost-effective locations.
As the Group continues to in which the profitability of each During 2006 we opened a grow its product portfolio we expect individual product is separately development studio in Budapest and further arrangements of this nature.
Incentive plans for studios expect this trend to continue.
are built around the on-time delivery of Our fully owned development Publishing and distribution strategy profitable products.
studios are Crystal Dynamics San The Group has publishing and 3.
Those studios that did not fit into Francisco, Io Interactive Copenhagen, distribution offices in London, the Groups long-term plans have been Beautiful Game Studios London, San Francisco, Paris, Hamburg and sold.
In June 2006 we sold certain Pivotal Games Bath, Eidos Sweden Madrid.
Through this structure we sell trade and physical assets although Helsingborg and Eidos Hungary directly to the retail sector in all key not the name of Core Design and in Budapest.
We also own 25.1% of Western territories.
This increases July 2006 we sold our minority Rocksteady Studios London.
In our sales revenue per unit, particularly shareholding in Pyro Studios.
The addition we continue to work with a in North America where we had financial impact of these transactions number of high quality third-party previously licensed our products to was not material.
In January 2006 we appointed We continue to seek areas to During the year we closed the Julien Merceron as our Chief manage delivery and commercial risks.
former Eidos distribution offices in Technology Officer.
Julien, who has In 2005 we entered into completion Japan and Australia as the volume of 03:05:06 Justice League Heroes distribution Distribution agreement signed with Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment.
31:03:06 Half year results to 31 December Integration on track and targeted cost savings achieved in the first six month period of the combined Group.
12 SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Chief Executives review continued products sold in those countries was 750,000 gamers downloaded either the growth in Next Generation not sufficient to justify the cost of an the demo or trailer of Just Cause in the consoles and the growing demand for office.
Given the different nature of the period just before its release.
mobile, on-line and downloadable Japanese market we believe it is content.
currently more cost-effective to license New media our products to local publishers.
Our New Media division, which During 2006 we licensed three of our principally publishes titles on mobile products, including Tomb Raider: phones, successfully grew its revenues Legend, to Spike Co. a Japanese in 2006 and generated a positive publisher and developer, to produce for contribution to the Groups results.
New Media division published five Jane Cavanagh As part of the acquisition of Eidos, titles during the year, including Chief Executive SCi acquired a 75% shareholding in Championship Manager Solo and Crash 16 November 2006 Eidos Spanish distributor, Proein.
Proein is a profitable business with a In 2007 we plan to publish ten strong presence in the Spanish titles including new versions of Tomb market.
I am pleased to say that in Raider: Legend and Hitman: Blood July 2006 we completed the Money.
acquisition of the remaining 25% of Proein, such that this operation is now Other matters wholly owned.
Our staff are fundamental to the We believe that our customers will success of the business and I would increasingly download games digitally like to take this opportunity to thank rather than purchase physical copies all our employees for their from a retailer.
As a content owner this contributions and commitment during is a very positive trend leading to the period, particularly through the closer customer relationships and integration of the two groups.
In 2006 we started to Board would also like to congratulate offer North American consumers the our Product Acquisitions Director, Ian opportunity to download PC games and Livingstone, on the OBE awarded to expect to offer this globally during him in 2006 for services to the games 2007.
In addition we are selling industry.
content and offering product demos The Group is financially robust and through Microsoft Xbox Live.
Over ideally positioned to take advantage of 19:05:06 Trading update With Tomb Raider the UKs fastest selling computer game of the year so far, Hitman: Blood Money imminent, plus further planned launches in 2006, SCi is on track to exceed target profitability.
11:05:06 Tom & Jerry Tales Agreement signed with Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment to distribute the game for Nintendo DS and Game Boy Advance based on hijinks of the classic cartoon characters.
SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 13
