During the year, good progress has been made on the implementation of the 3 year plan, with the EBS go-live in the UK being a major milestone.
CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW N Ian M ame ason T Gir tl oe up Chief Executive PROGRESS ON 3 YEAR PLAN MAINTENANCE, REPAIR & OPERATIONS MRO The 3 year plan announced in May 2005 comprised The primary focus of the strategy in the MRO sector three key elements which together will substantially is to simplify the offer to meet customer needs more improve the financial performance of the Group.
This will involve better management of These were cost through product and supplier rationalisation and Focus separately on two distinct customer increased own branded products.
Where we have groups EEM and MRO particular strength in a range, we will promote that Implement the Enterprise Business System range in a similar way to the EEM strategy.
The first Create a lower cost infrastructure of these has been the successful trial of an improved Process Control and Automation PCA offer in During the year, good progress has been made on Germany aimed specically at maintenance engineers the implementation of this plan, with the EBS go-live in all industries.
Following the positive response from The 3 year plan announced in May 2005 in the UK being a major milestone.
In addition, we comprised three key elements which our customers, we plan to roll out this offer to the rest have seen an improvement in sales within our together will substantially improve the of the Group.
financial performance of the Group.
ENTERPRISE BUSINESS SYSTEM EBS ELECTRONIC AND ELECTROMECHANICAL EEM The Group now plans to roll out EBS to the The Enterprise Business System went live in the UK To improve our competitiveness in this sector, we have remainder of its European subsidiaries with in December and has successfully supported the UK the roll out being largely completed by the increased our stocked product range across Europe, business and the International supply activities since end of 2006 07. extended our range by an additional 90,000 products then with more than one million customer orders from our US company Allied Electronics and our significant steps have been taken towards processed to date.
The Group now plans to roll out EBS existing suppliers for sale in our larger European creating a lower cost infrastructure.
to the remainder of its European subsidiaries with the markets, and have reorganised our Product roll out being largely completed by the end of 2006 07.
Management process to align more closely to the In Asia, the EBS system will be rolled out to China during EEM strategy.
We have also increased the proportion 2006 07.
This system will then provide the platform for of our overall marketing expenditure on EEM marketing.
growth for our UK, European and Asian operations.
The initial results show a substantial increase in sales growth rate for these products which provides INFRASTRUCTURE confidence in the strategy.
The next steps will include significant steps have been taken towards creating further increasing the size of the EEM range, with a lower cost infrastructure.
Reorganisations within the the inclusion of new technologies e. g. wireless and Group Processes and the businesses have led to the displays, and additional customer driven packaging removal of around 110 roles including the closure of options, making all EEM products available to every the telemarketing department in the UK.
Reorganisation business around the world and further improving costs of 3.7m have been incurred this year leading to EEM customer service through enhanced web based annualised benets of 4.4m.
Further cost reductions search and information facilities.
will be announced in the next financial year.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 7
