06 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Business Review Chief Executives Review Mark Harper Filtrona Values Our style We will be open, honest and enthusiastic, celebrating our successes and learning from our experiences We will be passionate in our pursuit of excellence and dedicate ourselves to the very best of quality in everything we do We will work as a team, valuing everyones contribution and minimising bureaucracy We will treat each other in a consistent and fair manner Our responsibilities We will share our company strategy, and ensure we understand the part we play in it We will all have clear goals, the necessary resources and freedoms to achieve them, and honest assessment of our performance We will always conduct ourselves with integrity and respect for our fellows and for our environment We will aim to advance our knowledge, skills and professionalism in all we do We will do our best and accept accountability for our actions Our goals We will strive to delight our customers and hold the respect of our suppliers We will work together to grow our business for the benefit of our stakeholders Tobacco Toiletries Writing Instruments Transport 0 07 7 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Oil & Gas Point of Purchase Lighting Construction Fence Other Miscellaneous Revenue by destination 132.9m Rest of World 24.4% 191.7m Europe 35.2% 219.6m North America 40.4% Overview As the Company moves into new regions Strategy Filtrona is an international, market leading, for manufacture and supply it seeks to Filtronas strategy is to continue to grow speciality plastic and fibre products supplier maximise the opportunities across all of its profitably through investing organically and with activities segmented into Plastic lines of business.
It is expected that the by acquisition in selected niche international Technologies and Fibre Technologies.
expansion of the Ningbo, China factory, markets within Plastic Technologies and which was opened in 2004 by the Bonded Fibre Technologies.
The Company Plastic Technologies produces, sources Fibre Components business, will facilitate endeavours to strengthen its competitive and distributes protection and finishing the introduction of both Protection and position through product innovation, products, self-adhesive tear tape and Finishing Products and Plastic Profile and sourcing and distribution expansion, supply security products as well as proprietary Sheet activities into the Chinese market chain improvement and cost reduction.
In and customised plastic extrusions and during 2007. addition, investments in people, systems packaging items for consumer products.
and infrastructure, combined with the Performance acquisition of selected value enhancing Fibre Technologies focuses on the Last year Filtrona reported that it had made businesses, will also drive the future production and supply of special filters a promising start as an independent listed performance of Filtrona.
for cigarettes and bonded fibre products company.
In its first full financial year since such as reservoirs and wicks for writing the June 2005 demerger, the Company instruments and printers, household continued to perform well with revenue products and medical devices.
up 5.9% to 544.2m 2005: 513.7m and operating profit before intangible Filtrona derives strength from serving amortisation and demerger expense up a diverse group of customers across a 6.6% to 61.6m 2005: 57.8m.
Underlying selected range of niche markets.
Filtrona operating profit growth was 9.0% after is a supplier throughout the world to taking account of the impact of foreign many international, blue chip, market currency translation and a full year of central leading customers.
The net cash inflow from operating activities was strong at 61.1m In 2006, the geographic destination of the 2005: 56.9m up 7.4%.
The return on Companys revenue was as shown above.
average operating capital excluding The Rest of World segment includes many intangibles improved from 23.7% to 23.8% of the lower cost manufacturing regions in 2006 and adjusted earnings per share and has grown from 22.5% of revenue in grew by 6.7% from 15.0p to 16.0p.
08 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Business Review Chief Executives Review Protection and Finishing Products has grown to become the largest profit contributing line of business Plastic Technologies Protection and Finishing Products again In China, the headcount within the sourcing Plastic Technologies had another very performed particularly well.
It has now organisation in Ningbo was further increased successful year with revenue up 5.9% to grown to become Filtronas largest profit and reliable, high quality sources for both 289.5m 2005: 273.3m and operating contributing line of business and is finished products and tooling have now profit before intangible amortisation expected to continue in this position.
key strategic drivers behind its progress improved as a result of investment in larger The operating margin improved again remain geographic development, product machines and tooling, and a new tool to 14.3% 2005: 13.8% reflecting the range expansion and investment in handling and storage system was completed stronger performance of the higher margin marketing programmes.
in the second half of the year at the businesses.
During 2006, polymer input Oxfordshire facility.
The disposal of a small costs rose progressively throughout the Moss, the pan-European plastic parts non-core plastic promotional products year in Europe but showed some easing supplier, continued to gain market share business was completed in March 2006. during the final quarter in the Americas in Continental Europe and maintained its after three consecutive quarters of market leading position in the UK where Skiffy, the European specialist small nylon increases.
These increases were fully the ongoing decline of manufacturing parts producer, achieved strong sales recovered, through selective pricing action, industry is generating tough trading growth and continued to perform well thereby underlining the strength of conditions.
The mix of proprietary and ahead of the forecasts set at the time of its Filtronas niche market positions.
Revenue custom lines strengthened further in favour acquisition in 2004.
All locations benefited per employee increased by 2.4% to of proprietary products.
The expansion of from further investment in marketing 94,763 2005: 92,550 and operating the Moss North European distribution hub programmes which, combined with profit before intangible amortisation per in Germany was completed in April 2006 improved productivity, increased margins.
employee increased by 6.4% to 13,552 and this will yield important service benefits Internet ordering via the website, 2005: 12,733. to the Continental European operations.
com, is an important component The Company intends to continue the of the business model and usage again development of the distribution network and increased to account for 22.0% of Skiffys the opening of the next unit in Hungary is 2006 revenues.
The new Skiffy distribution planned for the first half of 2007. facility in Poland is now fully operational.
0 09 9 F Fiillt tr ro on na a p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 00 06 6 www.
com Plastic Technologies Protection and Finishing Products ACC caps These caps are used to protect the charge ports on residential and automotive air conditioning systems.
Alliance has the capacity to produce in excess of 40 million caps each year 10 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Business Review Chief Executives Review Coated and Security Products sustained its world leadership position in the self-adhesive tear tape market In the Americas, Alliance, the US-based Preparations were made for a new Alliance Coated and Security Products continued plastic parts supplier, continued to Express location in Chicago, US which is to pursue its strategy of developing new progress as planned with good growth now open.
security technologies and applications, despite the weakness in the automotive whilst sustaining its world leadership sector.
During 2006 substantial internal Performance at MSI, the oil country tubular position in the self-adhesive tear tape resources were dedicated to the goods thread protector business, was again market.
A modest revenue increase was implementation programme for a new strong, resulting from favourable trading achieved, with the good growth in security computer system which will streamline conditions, market share gains and products and FractureCode partly offset operations and improve customer service.
by reductions in tear tape.
The new system went live successfully over At the end of the year, trial orders were placed the year end period without business by an important new international customer The tear tape business suffered from disruption and benefits from the and the benefit from this new account should continued weakness in demand for improvements to overall efficiency are feed through in 2007.
Additional investments promotional tapes as some important already being seen.
in new production machinery and tooling customers in the tobacco sector reduced were made at Houston, Texas and Vera Cruz, promotional activity.
Sales into other fastThe new manufacturing operation in Sa Mexico and the purchase of land adjacent to moving consumer goods FMCG sectors Paulo started up on schedule and the the Houston facility was completed to secure were strong.
The facility in Richmond, US improved competitiveness from space for the future growth of that operation.
was upgraded to enable the printing of manufacturing locally is already having a security products and, during the second positive impact on revenue growth rates in Protection and Finishing Products has a half of the year, new slitting lines were Brazil.
The configuration of the Erie, clear strategy and good momentum behind installed in the UK and US to enhance both Pennsylvania central warehouse was it.
Looking ahead to 2007, it is expected productivity and quality.
In January 2007, modified to improve stocking density by again to perform well.
a labour cost reduction programme was 35%.
Unit production costs continued to fall announced within the tear tape business.
at the Erie facility as a result of further investment in new machinery and high cavitation tooling.
11 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Plastic Technologies Coated and Security Products FractureCode 50 With more than 2.7x10 unique combinations possible, every tax stamp in the world could be individually coded for the next 100 years 12 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com 13 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Business Review Chief Executives Review Good market demand and reduced costs delivered a record year for Plastic Profile and Sheet Supplies of the laminate for the new A new Managing Director has been Further factory rationalisation has been generation UK passport were strong recruited with relevant experience in the announced involving the consolidation in throughout 2006 and a new label placing IT industry.
the US of the two Massachusetts facilities line for this project was commissioned into one at Athol, where a significant in the first half of the year.
In May the The increasing investment in the development redevelopment is being undertaken, acquisition of the CORGI identity card of new security technologies, and the focus including the construction of a new clean printing operation was announced on reducing cost are anticipated to result in room for medical products.
The Monterrey and production was successfully relocated a satisfactory performance for the Coated facility has been expanded to support to the Payne facility in North Wales where a and Security Products business in 2007 business growth and the addition of a new major upgrade programme was completed.
despite the ongoing weak demand for clean room for medical products is planned Machinery for the production of security promotional tapes.
for 2007. labels was ordered and this, combined with the development of proprietary security Plastic Profile and Sheet achieved During 2006 the North American technologies for use across the business, strong growth in the year, resulting from organisation has been restructured with is anticipated to stimulate sales within the combination of good market demand a reduction from three to two operating Payne during 2007. and significant restructuring to reduce cost regions and the establishment of a central and enhance organisational effectiveness.
marketing and sales function for the key In August 2006, the first FractureCode Sales in the North American facilities were product groups.
Sector specialist sales licence for its patented track and trace particularly encouraging and performance groups have been formed to sharpen technology was agreed with a major FMCG was assisted by the closure of the small focus and to facilitate improved market company and the roll out is progressing Phoenix, Arizona facility at the start of 2006 penetration.
Sales into the key aerospace well.
The losses incurred in the first half of and the transfer of production to the facilities and point of purchase markets in North the year were substantially reversed in the at Chicago and Tacoma in the US and America have been very strong with point second half and the business incurred a Monterrey in Mexico.
of purchase revenue in 2006 being more small deficit for the year.
Since the launch than double the level of circa US$12m in May at the Intergraf Symposium, a major achieved in 2004. international industry event, the FractureCode organisation has been strengthened progressively to facilitate growth as new prospects are developed.
12 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Plastic Technologies Plastic Profile and Sheet Cable trunking This hinged cable trunking profile is typical of the value adding products supplied to customers by Filtronas Profile and Sheet businesses which use in excess of 40 million kg of polymer each year 14 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com 15 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Business Review Chief Executives Review Despite tough trading conditions Consumer Packaging delivered a much improved performance in the second half of the year Further investment in machinery took place The Globalpack Consumer Packaging A minor expansion at one of the two across the network of facilities which, in business in Brazil experienced very tough Globalpack locations will facilitate a conjunction with continuous improvement trading conditions in the first half as partial plant re-layout and an increase in activities, assisted in reducing conversion performance was held back by market warehouse space to drive the programme costs.
Good revenue growth continued at overcapacity, particularly in tubes, and of productivity and service improvement.
the Enitor business in the Netherlands and rising raw material prices.
The improved a major factory expansion was completed performance in the second half, which was Globalpacks recovery is expected to in the summer.
consistently ahead of the comparable period continue into 2007. in 2005, was driven by the combination With the benefits accruing from the of greater demand, recovery of rising strengthened management team, the raw material costs through pricing and new structure and the streamlined plant improvements in manufacturing efficiencies.
configuration, it is anticipated that the US Plastic Profile and Sheet business will have The third deodorant roll-on ball line came another good year in 2007, subject to on stream successfully at the end of the underlying activity in the US economy first quarter of 2006 and ball volumes remaining healthy.
The European Plastic continue to grow satisfactorily.
The Profile and Sheet business should continue investment programme continued to experience good growth.
throughout the year and important new machinery for tube production and decoration has been ordered for delivery in the first half of 2007.
14 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com 1 15 5 F Fiillt tr ro on na a p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 00 06 6 w ww ww w.. fi fillt tr ro on na a.. c co om m Plastic Technologies Consumer Packaging G Gllo ob ba allp pa ac ck k G Gllo ob ba allp pa ac ck ks s fl fle ex xiib blle e t tu ub be es s a an nd d c cllo os su ur re es s a ar re e u us se ed d ffo or r m ma an ny y B Br ra az ziilliia an n t to oiille et tr riie es s a an nd d c co os sm me et tiic c b br ra an nd ds s a an nd d G Gllo ob ba allp pa ac ck k h ha as s t th he e c ca ap pa ac ciit ty y t to o p pr ro od du uc ce e 1 13 35 5 m miilllliio on n t tu ub be es s e ea ac ch h y ye ea ar r 16 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com 17 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Business Review Chief Executives Review Increased investment is planned in 2007 to strengthen Cigarette Filters research and development capability Fibre Technologies In the Americas, overall revenue was flat The market conditions for the Cigarette Fibre Technologies achieved good revenue as growth in North America was offset by Filters business in 2007 will remain growth in the year of 5.9% to 254.7m a decline in South America.
The losses challenging as customers respond to 2005: 240.4m.
Operating profit before incurred by the Monterrey facility in the first mature and declining Western markets intangible amortisation which was flat at the half of the year were substantially reversed with significant capacity reconfiguration.
half year, improved in the second half in the second half due to productivity gains.
to deliver a full year increase of 4.5% to Although the full year position remained loss Customer discussions have confirmed 28.1m 2005: 26.9m.
The operating making, the operation moved into profit in that Filtrona will experience a reduction in margin reduced to 11.0% 2005: 11.2%.
volumes of conventional carbon dual filters Revenue per employee increased by 0.8% during 2007 which will impact the to 106,792 2005: 105,903 whilst Revenue and operating profit grew in Europe Companys facilities in both North America operating profit before intangible as performance at the UK facility improved and Europe.
Significant plant restructuring amortisation per employee decreased by with productivity gains derived from the is under way to reduce costs and improve 0.6% to 11,782 2005: 11,850. development of manufacturing expertise in productivity.
These actions, together with the products formerly manufactured in increased volumes in Asia, will mitigate In Cigarette Filters, total volumes reduced Switzerland.
An important European the impact from the reduction in activity.
by 1.6% or 1.1 billion filter rods with the customer launched a new brand into The plant restructuring will result in an increase of 14.1% in special filters volumes the Polish market featuring Filtronas anticipated charge of 5m in 2007. offset by a reduction of 19.0% in proprietary Active Patch technology monoacetate filters.
In response to changing as the product differentiator.
Filtrona remains confident in the future customer demands, the strategy for the prospects for the Cigarette Filters business business has evolved with an increased In Asia, strong revenue and profit growth due to the growing demand for innovative focus on the research and development of was achieved.
The transfer of the Indonesian filters for PREPs potentially reduced innovative and more complex filter solutions business to a new and larger facility was exposure products and other differentiated to complement the core manufacturing successfully completed in the early part of tobacco smoking products and for capability.
Much progress was made during the year and volumes produced in Indonesia research and development services.
To this 2006 in strengthening the management were up 94.2% from 2005. end, increased investment is planned in team, including the recruitment of two 2007 to strengthen the research and senior level operations specialists to drive development capability and to continue the improvement in factory performance.
progressive movement of production to lower cost regions.
16 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Fibre Technologies Cigarette Filters Carbon filters Carbon filters are becoming increasingly popular in a number of markets around the world.
Filtrona uses circa 5 million kg of granular carbon each year 18 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com 19 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Business Review Chief Executives Review Fibertec has been selected as the exclusive supplier of fibre inkjet printer reservoirs by a major US corporation Bonded Fibre Components continued A key customer in the pregnancy test kit Since the demerger in June 2005, the to make important progress.
Fibertec market signed a long term contract with Company has increased its management strengthened its position in its core markets Fibertec for the supply of wicks.
During training programmes and has introduced through the development of new products 2007 it is expected that the business will a structured approach to succession and technologies and also experienced benefit from important new product planning together with a revised personal good growth in Asia.
introductions both in the medical and fibre development review for performance inkjet printer reservoirs product sectors.
The Company operates a The Ningbo facility moved into profit as Filtrona has been selected as the exclusive formalised graduate recruitment and productivity and quality improved and supplier of fibre reservoirs by a major US training programme which runs over a 24 ISO 9000:2000 accreditation was achieved corporation for its entry into the inkjet month period and is designed to provide during the year.
Volumes in China printer market.
participants with core management skills.
continued to grow following production These programmes will develop high potential transfers and the development of new People individuals who will be part of the future business won in the region.
The pace of Filtrona has 5,600 employees operating management team within Filtrona.
progress at Ningbo has generated the need from 37 manufacturing facilities and 32 for a plant expansion and construction of distribution units in 23 countries around The Company remains fully committed a factory extension began late in the year the world.
During 2006, revenue per to improving its health, safety and for completion in the third quarter of 2007. employee improved by 1.7% to 99,434 environmental performance and it and operating profit before intangible is intended that all principal Filtrona The recovery of volumes in household amortisation per employee improved manufacturing locations will be accredited products continued throughout the year by 2.3% to 11,255. to OSHAS 18001 by the end of 2008.
This and was assisted by customer requirements is in addition to the ISO 9000 and 14000 for multiple wicking devices in air fresheners In support of the Companys strategic standard accreditations already held.
which provide a selection of fragrances in objectives, Filtrona is committed to the More information on the Companys one unit.
The writing instrument product recruitment, retention and development health, safety and environmental policies segment progressed well and important of the very best people commensurate is contained in the Corporate Social business was won in Europe and Asia with the Companys scale and resources.
Responsibility Statement on pages from a principal competitor.
The Reinbek, The Company believes that a cultural 46 to 48.
Germany facility performed strongly due environment, based on a clear set of to improved activity levels and the impact Filtrona values, where employees are of the cost reduction programme which committed, involved and recognised Mark Harper commenced in 2005.
A plant upgrade for their achievements, is conducive Chief Executive programme at Reinbek has now begun.
1 March 2007 The research and development centre in Richmond continued to develop potentially valuable technologies for the medical device market and eleven patents were filed during the year.
18 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Fibre Technologies Bonded Fibre Components Medicine dispensing straw This patented drug delivery system, which is dependent on fibre components for its correct functioning, provides an effective method for delivering drugs.
Each fibre is approximately one quarter of the thickness of a human hair
