FOUR The Expro Group Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement Throughout the first half of 2005, the results been excellent.
We have seen further improvement from the implementation of Expros growth in our key performance indicators KPIs, which strategy began to deliver strong financial we believe make Expro best in class for Europe FSU performance.
The momentum witnessed in the safety performance.
The groups worldwide first half of the financial year has continued, performance over the last five years has been This region includes assisted by ever improving market conditions.
recognised by Expro being named as winner of the North Sea and The well publicised increase in RoSPAs Oil and Gas and Water Industry Sector markets in Kazahkstan global demand for energy has placed heavy Award for 2006, beating off strong competition and Russia.
Operations are spread across our pressure on supply, supporting high oil and gas from major players in the oil, gas and utilities full product portfolio.
Strong industry momentum has been sectors.
established, dominated by these conditions.
The combination of elevated commodity prices and a Expro has a significant amount of US dollar positive outlook for global energy demand has revenues which create a material exposure resulted in a stable investment environment to the effects of currency movements for oil and gas operators.
These market when translating into the groups functional conditions have led to strong demand for the currency, sterling.
The year on year effect of products and services provided to the global currency movements has been smaller than oil and gas industry by companies such previous years as the value of the US dollar as Expro.
As a late cycle upstream services has been consistent for a sustained 24 provider, Expro is well positioned to month period.
benefit from the increased customer spend, In trading terms, turnover increased to 300.7m, which is forecast to remain at elevated levels for compared to 211.3m in the prior year representing several years to come.
Our customers are heavily growth of 42%.
Headline operating profit increased focused on maximising cash flows from their a to 34.1m, a 79% increase over the prior year producing assets, aggressively developing new result of 19.0m.
Headline operating margin at producing fields and adding replacement 11.3% is well ahead of prior years 9.0% and, reserves through increased exploration.
All of despite record levels of re-investment, free cash these activities play to Expros technology b flow was positive at 10.4m.
Net cash was further strengths.
enhanced by the proceeds of a very well supported cash placing of shares and payment Trading in the second half of the year continued to received from Baker Hughes Inc. in consideration gain momentum in strong market conditions.
The for the groups share of QuantX.
strategy published 30 months ago has positioned the group to take advantage of current market conditions, resulting in a record order backlog, an Dividend statement outstanding technology position and profitable The Board is recommending maintaining the progress in all our operating areas.
In addition, the final dividend of 7.1p per ordinary share, bringing second half saw our exit from the permanent the total dividend for the year to 10.9p, unchanged monitoring business through the sale of our 50% from last year.
This recommendation reflects the holding in the QuantX joint venture to Baker Boards continued confidence in the groups Hughes Inc. future performance.
a Based on continuing operations before special items, Given the increase in activity around the group The dividend will be paid on 31 July 2006 to as extracted from the consolidated income statement b As calculated in the financial review on page 15 over the prior year, our safety performance has shareholders on the register on 30 June 2006.
Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 The Expro Group FIVE Implementation of the groups strategy has led to greatly improved performance and outlook for Expro.
To support the strategy in rapidly improving Board changes market conditions, several key structural and After 24 years of service, Colin Ainger, Executive organisational changes were made.
Additional Corporate Development Director, will retire from management with the appropriate specialisation the group at the Annual General Meeting on were introduced to manage distinct aspects of 6 July 2006.
His position on the Board will be Expros business.
Emphasis was placed on taken by John McAlister who joins Expro as separating the geographically dependent Cased Executive Group General Counsel in June 2006.
Hole Services CHS and Surface and The Board wishes to welcome John to Expro, Environmental Systems SES from the project where his blend of skills will bring additional driven Subsurface Systems SSS and value to the Executive team, and wish Colin Production Solutions business.
well in his retirement, following his years of outstanding service.
Expro is now structured and managed under two distinct segments Regional businesses and Group strategy Global businesses.
Implementation of the groups strategy published by management late in 2003 has Regional businesses comprise the technologies led to greatly improved performance and and services which are predominantly local, outlook for Expro.
The initial strategic objective infrastructure dependent and driven by client was aimed at setting new growth targets operating expenditure.
This encompasses our for the business.
The results to date are previously reported CHS business stream and very encouraging.
There were three key areas identified for strategic Global businesses comprise those products and focus.
Firstly, management were required to reservices which are driven by global customer engineer a loss-making Americas business.
capital expenditure and where Expro is a leading Secondly, a far greater degree of client technology provider.
They are, in the main, highly interaction was required which led to additional technically differentiated and require strong project investment in people, professional training and a management skills.
This encompasses our fully integrated sales network to improve the previously reported SSS business stream, overall efficiency of Expros customer care including Subsea Safety Tools SST and our capability.
Finally, the importance of technology market leading global subsurface brand of development was emphasised and appropriately Tronic-Matre, as well as our Production Top to bottom: resourced.
Technology enhancement took shape Solutions business, the latter previously reported Finite element analysis schematic, in two ways, firstly through organic projects such group engineering Aberdeen under SES.
as the Joint Industry Partnership JIP for rigless Wireline truck, Broussard, USA intervention, and secondly through the These key structural and management changes Bergen facilities, Norway identification and acquisition of synergistic allowed specialisation and differentiation to growth technologies.
support the sales, contractual and technology SIX The Expro Group Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement continued strategies.
Overall the results to date are Global businesses encouraging with record order backlogs Our Global businesses primarily consist of our established in the period.
Production Solutions business, which provides Early Production Facilities EPFs, along with Business segment overview SSTs and the leading global subsurface brand of As previously described, Expro now operates in Tronic-Matre.
Our Production Solutions business provides and Regional businesses operates small plant, topside processing Through our Regional businesses, we offer our equipment for temporary, semi-permanent and clients a wide range of well performance occasionally permanent field development.
This technologies for the maintenance of existing business is seeing the benefit of a sustained high wells and the installation of new producing wells.
oil price, late cycle deepwater field developments Steady progress has been made in the Former and a need to increase appraisal testing.
All of Soviet Union FSU, existing contracts have this has been assisted by our improved been extended and the client base increased organisational structure and sales efforts.
The market for the Regional businesses is driven by a combination of client Increasingly, customers see our small, fast-track capital expenditure for new well construction, production solutions as a viable way to gain early and operating expenditure for existing wells.
cash flow from major projects, as well as increasing Virtually all wells require cased hole products their reservoir knowledge and reserves position.
and services throughout their economic life.
Our reputation in this segment is very strong.
Early Our technology offering varies according to in the year we assisted Exxon Neftegaz Ltd ENL geography.
In the majority of our locations, we to achieve first production from their Sakhalin provide services closely aligned to our clients Island development on schedule.
Our Regional businesses project has given Expro the opportunity to display deliver a high degree of stable and relatively exceptional value in the harshest of environments.
predictable earnings, this is particularly true of This flagship contract will continue throughout mature provinces such as the North Sea, a market most of the 2006 calendar year.
which continues to offer us opportunity.
In this Tronic-Matre and our SST business have been area we have increased our market share and the largest beneficiaries of the increased late increased the contractual opportunity base to cycle activity.
Momentum in this segment has introduce new high value technologies such as continued at a pace.
Our market leading products our Cableless Telemetry System CaTS are all closely aligned to our clients deep water wireless well products.
These late cycle businesses We continue to invest in additional high value are dependent on sanctioned projects which are technologies to enhance our earnings capability operationally underway.
Although cyclical in Top to bottom: through our fixed global infrastructure and nature, market conditions for our subsurface TM CATS schematic, abandoned extensive client contract base.
development of the Down Hole Video product combined with our organisational focus, have Down Hole Video employees, line, both technically and geographically, is an continued to drive positive momentum, producing Oxnard, California.
G Coutts CEO at Chayvo, Sakhalin Island.
Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 The Expro Group SEVEN AFRICA MIDDLE EAST This region includes the markets of West Africa and North Africa.
In West Africa, the activity is a combination of well test and production related activity largely supporting offshore development.
In North Africa, the activity is a mix of cased hole and well test largely supporting onshore field development and maintenance activities.
Africa Middle East Africa ME Geographic segment overview Africa ME was separated out as a managed Expro provides products and services to global region for the first time during the year.
A key markets through an extensive network of focus for management has been to establish operational areas.
These geographic operating operational areas of critical mass.
This has been areas are managed and report within four distinct achieved in Africa.
Performance in the year has regional groupings.
been very good, particularly given the challenges of setting up extensive operating capability to Europe Former Soviet Union Europe FSU serve the deep water subsea field developments Europe FSU performance in the year, particularly off the West African continental shelf.
The region in the UK North Sea, has been outstanding.
The also covers operations in North Africa, particularly characteristics of this ageing oil and gas province in Libya and Algeria, down the West African continue to provide the type of market opportunity coast, where we provide Production Solutions ideally suited to Expro, where we provide our facilities and deep water technologies offshore most comprehensive offering of technologies.
Nigeria, and on to the deep water developments Demand for our cased hole products has been off Mauritania, Angola and South Africa.
These technologies form the region has the largest portion of Expros order basis of production enhancement for all wells, backlog.
Significant contracts have been particularly those in heavy decline.
We enjoyed performed for numerous customers including bp, the benefit of the market share gains made in the Total and Woodside.
prior year, mainly from the pan-European contract for Shell.
An equally compelling market driver in a Asia late cycle offshore province is subsea tie-back Asia was also separated out as part of the activity.
This is an industry recognised technique restructuring exercise performed by management to access numerous stranded pockets of during the period.
Formerly managed as a single hydrocarbons in a cost effective manner.
These region together with Africa, the separation was subsea wells, when connected back to the North necessary to cater for the growth characteristics Seas ageing fixed infrastructure, provide of both regions.
In this region we have multiple additional cash for operators for relatively small operating countries but the main focus of our investment.
In this area, Expro provides market strategy is to capture high value projects, such as leading products and services.
Our subsea safety Chayvo on Sakhalin Island, and create key tools are required to provide safe operational operational hubs where critical mass can be connectivity between the drilling rig and Subsea workshop, Aberdeen.
Our surface well test the period has been good.
The absolute highlight spreads are also in high demand, handling, has to be the aforementioned Chayvo production processing and disposing of hydrocarbons from facility, installed and operational on schedule for new subsea wells.
Overall the North Sea, ENL in the difficult environment of Sakhalin Island.
including Norway, continues to offer good This achievement was recognised by our prospects for Expro.
EIGHT The Expro Group Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement continued The ability to attract and retain quality staff will have a high degree of influence over the success of our strategy in these strong market conditions.
Asia remains an interesting and challenging region for Expro.
Enquiry levels for subsea activity have risen, indicative of the changing nature of this market.
Americas The Americas region has been subject to an ongoing strategic re-engineering exercise which commenced in the year to March 2004.
The challenge has been to establish stronger market positions for Expro, reducing our historic dependence on lower tier land and Gulf of Mexico shelf markets, in favour of higher margin, technology based positions such as the deep water Gulf of Mexico.
During the year, the continuing implementation of this strategy delivered positive results.
Significant market share has been established in the rapidly developing deep water Gulf of Mexico, and several high value orders have been taken for specialist subsea tools from customers with extensive deep water programmes, such as Chevron and BHP.
The Americas also benefited from stable market conditions and good demand for our cased hole services products throughout the region.
Of note has to be the renewed interest in some of our unique cased hole perforating technologies, which are particularly well suited to operations in areas such as the Barnett Shale in Texas.
Our employees Expro has established a reputation within the upstream services industry as an employer of choice.
The ability to attract and retain quality StimGun crew in the Arctic staff will have a high degree of influence over the Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 The Expro Group NINE AFRICA The ability to attract and retain quality staff will have a high degree of influence over the success of our strategy in these strong market conditions.
success of our strategy in these strong market growth.
Recruitment and retention of personnel, conditions.
Our ability to deliver our strategy, and together with resource and cost management are to continue to develop the business, is greatly particularly challenging issues given the buoyant assisted by the professional attitude and nature of the global industry.
Over the period, Expro has added approximately 300 staff, many We remain focused on our strategy, including the of them graduates and trainees.
The Board further development of our customer care wishes to place on record its recognition of the capability and, very importantly, the development achievements and contribution made by all of our future technology portfolio.
Encouraged by employees to the safe and successful our customers and early results, investment levels implementation of our strategy.
in the latter will increase as we strive for technical breakthroughs.
Globally, our levels of tendering Outlook and enquiry remain high, in part driven by The general outlook for the oil and gas services enhanced client interaction.
Our order book and sector remains very positive, driven by client market outlook are sufficiently robust to give us confidence and stable commodity prices, confidence that we remain well set to continue to resulting in a strong uplift in client capital and deliver our strategic goals.
As a late cycle player, Expro is enjoying the benefit of these market conditions.
This positive environment is providing good impetus to Expros strategy, resulting in a positive trading outlook.
Key markets such as the United Kingdom Continental Shelf UKCS have performed well for the group and offer continued good prospects.
West Africa and a revitalised Chris Fay, CBE Graeme Coutts Americas business are poised to provide further Chairman Chief Executive Officer EXCAPE schematic.
