Chief Executives review This year saw the Group build on its successful rail portfolio with the award of two new enlarged rail franchises, First Great Western and First Capital Connect.
We were delighted to win both these new franchises as a result of extensive and comprehensive research and the expertise of our bidding team.
Through these new franchises we have secured additional revenue of over 1.0 billion per annum for up to ten years.
profit plus depreciation of 351.7m 2005: Overview Revenue 322.4m enabling us to continue to invest Safety UK Bus 1,031.2m in the business as well as increasing the The safety and security of our passengers and UK Rail 1,164.9m dividend by 10% and returning 23.0m to staff is at the forefront of everything we do and North America 826.3m shareholders through further repurchase of we actively endorse a culture of Safety First Excluding other turnover 8.5m equity during the year.
We continually assess our working practices and procedures to ensure that we are doing everything we can to Operating profit UK Rail meet the highest possible standards of safety UK Bus 108.6m The UK Rail division operates passenger and for our passengers and our staff.
We have UK Rail 79.6m freight services in the UK.
Passenger rail launched the Injury Prevention Programme North America 67.1m franchises consist of First Great Western, across the Group and established the First Excluding central items of 15.4m First Capital Connect, First TransPennine Safety Principles to clearly set out the principles and financing element of leases 10.2m.
Operating profit in UK Rail is Express and First ScotRail.
We also operate of safe working practices throughout the stated after charging the finance costs of assets, which is implicit in the Hull Trains, a non-franchised open access business.
The simple message to all employees operating lease rentals, whereas UK and US Bus operating profits are intercity passenger train operator, and is if you cannot do it safely, dont do it.
Finance costs, as disclosed in we provide rail freight services through note 9 to the accounts, were 61.8m and interest income as disclosed in GB Railfreight.
We are now the UKs largest Results note 8 to the accounts was 8.5m.
rail operator carrying more than 250 million I am pleased to report another successful passengers per annum.
year of growth in our businesses in the US and UK with record results.
Group revenue Results increased by 12.5% to 3,030.9m 2005: I am very pleased with the excellent 2,693.4m.
Adjusted operating profit was performance of our rail division during the 229.7m 2005: 214.8m.
Our current operations, excluding the pleased with this creditable performance new franchises which commenced operation given the strong headwinds we faced during after the year end, performed strongly the year, most notably the significant rise in delivering record revenue and profits.
Operating profit was impacted by 31m by additional fuel costs as a result of the rise in global oil prices.
The Group generated record EBITDA adjusted operating 4 million passengers per annum are carried across our rail operations making us the UKs largest rail operator.
We provide services from the north east of Scotland down to the south west of England.
We are the only operator to run every type of overground rail service in the UK, from high-speed intercity trains and overnight sleepers 250 to local branch lines, regional and commuter services and open access, light rail and freight operations.
We continue to build on our strong reputation of innovation, investment and customer service.
Revenue in the Groups rail division increased complement our existing rail portfolio.
We are new CCTV and help points and an additional to 1,164.9m 2005: 1,059.7m and encouraged by the good start-up of both 1,700 car parking spaces, representing an operating profit increased by 23% to 79.6m franchises and are experiencing strong increase of 25% on the current mainline 2005: 64.5m.
The operating margin revenue growth ahead of the projections availability, and more cycle park facilities.
This is a made at the time of the bids.
We are now the In addition we will work together with particularly strong performance, given the only operator to run every type of overground Network Rail, the infrastructure provider, to effect of the July terrorist attacks on London rail service in the UK, from high speed tackle the deep-rooted performance issues which had an estimated adverse impact of intercity trains and overnight sleepers to local on the Great Western network.
We have just 9.0m on our rail franchises during the first branch lines, regional and commuter services completed our most comprehensive and half of the year.
We took a number of actions and open access, light rail and freight widespread consultation in advance of the to encourage and promote rail travel and operations.
We will continue to build on our introduction of the December 2006 timetable subsequently saw passenger journeys strong reputation of innovation, investment and have already responded to feedback return to normal levels as public confidence and customer service.
received with the provision of service recovered.
These results demonstrate the revisions, and where appropriate, additional The Great Western franchise, which strength of all our rail franchises which have services.
We are delighted that Sir Chay Blyth combines First Great Western, First Great continued to deliver strong passenger volume has joined us to head the new Board of Western Link and Wessex Trains, operates growth.
We have now secured additional Directors at First Great Western.
Sir Chay is services across the South and West of longer-term revenue for up to ten years a regular user of our services in the region England and South Wales.
We have across our UK rail portfolio with the award and we look forward to drawing on his vision committed to a 200m investment of two new enlarged rail franchises.
and inspiration as we continue to grow and programme, the vast majority of which will be develop this important franchise.
spent in the first two years.
This investment New franchises will deliver significant improvements across First Capital Connect operates across We were delighted to be awarded both the franchise and customer benefits including London and the South East.
We have First Great Western and First Capital Connect improved capacity, safety and service.
We delivered a successful start-up of this new franchises, worth over 1.0bn of revenue per are upgrading the train fleet to provide a step franchise and worked hard to ensure that annum.
We commenced operation of both change in passenger comfort and facilities customers saw improvements to the service franchises on 1 April with a smooth handover and to provide over 30% more seats during right from the outset.
We are investing 52m, reflecting the considerable effort made by the the morning and evening peak.
We are also the majority in the first three years of the rail teams during the rigorous mobilisation making a number of station improvements franchise term, to improve the service offered process.
Both of these franchises present across the network including new ticket to passengers.
We will be introducing a a significant opportunity for the Group and machines, improved facilities for customers, number of improvements from cleaner, 5 Chief Executives review new 100mph trains are being introduced across our First TransPennine Express network.
The first continued train entered passenger service in March bringing a step change in quality for passengers.
The new modern, high-performance intercity fleet has 51 many new features such as air conditioning, improved seating, advanced passenger information systems, on-board CCTV security cameras and improved access for all.
smarter trains to enhanced station standards of operation across the network.
across the First ScotRail network are being facilities including upgraded waiting areas We have continued to focus on minimising fitted with CCTV, help points and improved car and passenger information systems.
delays caused by train performance failures park lighting.
The winter timetable we launched Improvements to the timetable will and as a result have seen delays for which we in December provided improved commuter substantially increase capacity at peak times, are responsible fall by 26%.
This excellent services into Glasgow and Inverness and providing more seats for passengers in the result far exceeds the franchise commitment enhancements to services in Aberdeenshire, morning and evening peak.
Safety and of 2% reduction per annum.
We are also the Highlands and Strathclyde.
security at our stations is key and we have pleased to see a marked improvement in the First TransPennine Express continues to already conducted a major review of all performance of the infrastructure.
We are very outperform with passenger volumes across stations and as a result a number of pleased that reliability and punctuality is now the network increasing by 6.5% during the significant enhancements will be introduced.
more than 90%, the best performance in five period, bringing the total passenger volume We are recruiting additional frontline staff, years.
Passenger volumes have increased by growth to 11% since the start of the franchise investing in new CCTV equipment, help 11% since the start of the franchise in October in February 2004.
We continue to benefit from points and a new control centre to monitor 2004 and we were delighted to achieve the increased road congestion on the commuter security camera footage from a single central highest levels of customer satisfaction recorded corridor between Leeds and Manchester location.
Revenue protection is one of our for some time.
Since we took over the with an estimated 5 million journeys a year key priorities for this new franchise and we franchise we have focused on improving now made on this part of the rail network.
will be providing customers with improved customer service across all areas.
We opened Substantial volume growth of 30% has been ticketing facilities and will reduce revenue a new customer service centre in Fort William, achieved on services to and from Manchester leakage through further ticket checks, creating 50 new jobs in rural Scotland, to Airport, we now carry 1.2 million passengers additional revenue protection staff and the provide general travel information, ticket sales, per annum on this key route.
We were installation of automatic ticket gates at a customer relations and assistance for disabled delighted to expand our First TransPennine number of key stations across the network.
We also introduced an innovative network with the transfer of Manchester These initiatives aim to improve security, free text alert service for passengers to provide International Airport Blackpool North reduce ticketless travel and lessen vandalism.
advance warning if their train is expected to services from Northern Rail with effect from be delayed.
We have improved training and June 2006.
Passengers will benefit from the Current operations development for employees and increased the transfer of these services with the opportunity First ScotRail continues to deliver a strong number of frontline staff across the network.
to travel on new rolling stock.
This year a fleet performance, reflecting the dedication to The personal safety of our passengers and of 51 new 100mph Siemens trains will be providing service enhancements for staff is our main priority.
As part of our introduced on the network and the first of passengers and ensuring the highest possible commitment to safety more than 100 stations these new trains entered passenger service 6 GB Railfreight has built a reputation of a high level of service combined with a flexible business model.
We were delighted to win a long-term contract to move mail by rail, carrying over 1 million letters per day between London and Scotland on behalf of Royal Mail.
Our flexible and reliable business means we can tailor services to meet demand.
At times of peak volumes, like Christmas, we provide more services to help move some of the 120 million pieces of mail to be delivered each day.
Nothing is more important to us than the safety and security of our passengers and staff.
Across our rail operations we have introduced a range of safety and security enhancements such as CCTV, help points and improved lighting at car parks.
We are pleased that our efforts have been recognised with further stations across our network achieving Secure Station status during the year.
Passengers in the region will benefit between different modes of transport using station following the accreditation of a from the step change in quality and the many only one ticket.
As a result we are encouraged number of our other First Great Western Link new features including air conditioning, that sales of PlusBus tickets have more than stations in the Thames Valley.
improved seating, advanced passenger trebled during 2005.
During the year we were Hull Trains, our non-franchised, open access information systems, a first-class section, onpleased to receive Secure Station status for a intercity train company operating between board CCTV security cameras and improved number of stations including Slough, Newbury, London Kings Cross and Hull, performed well access for all.
In May the Secretary of State Newton Abbott, Cholsey, Exeter St Davids, during the year and delivered strong revenue for Transport, Douglas Alexander, opened Plymouth, Totnes, Thatcham and Pangbourne and passenger growth.
We now operate six a 28m train-care depot in Manchester to bringing the total number of accredited weekday services and have recently service the new trains.
This state-of-the-art stations in the region to 27. introduced new 125mph trains on to the facility is designed to deliver optimum train At First Great Western Link, passenger network.
In response to demand we are performance and standards of cleanliness.
income increased by 9% demonstrating the currently expanding the First Class seating At First Great Western, growth has continued strong underlying performance of this railway capacity offered on our services.
Passenger income grew by 7.5% despite the impact of the terrorist attacks in delighted to win the Rolling Stock Excellence despite the impact of the London bombings in London last July.
We invested in a of the Year Award and come runner up in July.
Passenger income growth has exceeded refurbishment programme to improve the the Rail Business of the Year category at the 8% over the last four years and this travel experience for passengers.
A number recent Rail Business Awards.
We also won encouraging trend provides us with a strong of stations across the First Great Western the National Fleet Reliability Improvement platform for further growth in the new Link network benefited from newly Programme award for Reliability of Rolling franchise.
During the period we have worked refurbished passenger facilities such as Stock.
hard with Network Rail and our industry waiting rooms and booking halls and partners through the Joint Performance improved customer information boards.
GB Railfreight Improvement Plan to prioritise and tackle the We also launched a package of security GB Railfreight GBRf, our freight company, issues which impede performance.
We have and safety improvements, in partnership had another successful year building on reduced the operator delays for which we with Transport for London, helping to make its reputation for a high level of service are responsible by 30% in the last five years.
rail travel safer across the capital.
The combined with a flexible business model.
As part of our commitment to integrated 400,000 investment programme delivered A number of new contracts were won during transport, and to ensure that public transport improvements including new CCTV, help the year for clients including Royal Mail, is even more convenient and better value, points and new anti-vandal shelters at Petrochem Carless, Knights Rail and Network further PlusBus schemes were introduced stations.
In March we were pleased to Rail.
In August GBRf will commence a during the year enabling passengers to switch achieve Secure Station status at Oxford significant ten-year contract with Metronet 7 Chief Executives review In North America our Services Division provides a range of outsourced vehicle maintenance continued operations and support services in the private and public sectors.
This fast growing business had another successful year increasing its dollar operating profit by nearly 40%.
The services business we acquired last year is now successfully integrated and provides us entry into the large US Federal market.
In North America, as part of our strategy to expand in the fast growing light transit market, we now operate call centres in eight cities across the US including New York, Chicago and Denver.
The call centres, operated by First Transit, employ over 630 people who handle 5.5 million transport related calls and schedule some 7 million passenger journeys per annum.
to transport infrastructure materials as part Outlook UK Rail $1,476.0m 2005: 665.8m or $1,230.2m, of the programme to renew the London The strong performance of our rail operations an increase in dollar terms of 20.0%.
In January we reflects our expertise, innovation and the Operating profit was 67.1m or $120.2m launched a new daily multi-modal service investment we have made in the businesses.
Operating profit from the Port of Felixstowe to Exel at We aim to deliver a high level of service and was impacted by $10.0m as a result of Doncaster, providing a turn up and go performance to our existing customers and increased fuel costs due to the rise in global service giving customers the flexibility to attract new passengers on to the railways.
oil prices and by $8.4m as a result of use it when they need to.
A number of new This year has been particularly successful increasing our insurance reserves.
This was rolling stock orders such as locomotives with the award of two major rail franchises to partially offset by the recovery of the lost and wagons were placed to support the the Group and we look forward to building on operational days from 2004 05 in First new contracts.
The growth of GBRf and its that success in forthcoming franchise rounds.
successful tender for these contracts has We remain confident about the Groups future Since we acquired our North American taken thousands of heavy vehicles off already opportunities in UK railways.
business we have delivered consistent congested roads as it transports goods and returns with EBITDA growth of approximately equipment by rail.
We are pleased with the 13% per annum since 2000.
The three development of GBRf and confident that North America businesses generate excellent returns with there is scope to further expand our rail In North America the Group is the second EBITDA of 122.0m or $218.4m 2005: freight operations through this innovative and largest operator of student transportation 109.3m or $202.1m and remain  business.
with over 21,000 yellow school buses carrying financing in terms of maintenance capital nearly 2 million students every day across the expenditure, organic growth through new Franchise bidding US and Canada.
We operate the largest contract wins and acquisitions.
All investment We are delighted to be shortlisted for the South transit contracting and management business for growth, whether it be contract bids or Western franchise.
We have an excellent track in North America and we have a growing acquisitions, must meet the Groups rigorous record of innovation and investment and a services division providing fleet maintenance internal rate of return targets.
We look and ancillary services to public and private forward to consulting widely and working with sector clients.
First Student all of the stakeholders to develop exciting This year we are pleased to have continued proposals for this franchise.
We will be seeking Results the growth of our yellow school bus business to pre-qualify for the North London Lines Our North American division has performed despite ongoing fuel cost pressures.
Strong concession which will be tendered by well during the year.
Revenue from our three contract retention remains a feature of this Transport for London later in the summer.
businesses increased to 826.3m or business and we were pleased to retain over 8 yellow school buses are now operated by First Student making it the second largest operator of student transportation in North America.
During the year we continued to expand and now carry nearly 2 million students every day across the USA and 21,000 Canada.
Our strategy is to win new business combined with organic growth of existing contracts and in-fill acquisitions at our target margins.
90% of our contracts that came up for are confident that we will be able to continue Indianapolis bringing our call centre renewal during the period.
US Dollar revenue to grow our yellow school bus business operations to a total of eight in cities such increased by 19.6% but operating profit was through our strategy to win new business as New York, Portland, Chicago, Denver down by 3.2% as a result of higher fuel costs combined with the organic growth of and Hartford.
and the cost of increasing our insurance existing contracts and in-fill acquisitions We are confident that our Transit operation reserves.
During the period we successfully at our target margins.
continues to provide opportunities for further integrated Cardinal, the business we acquired growth in the fast growing areas of call last year, and this continues to provide us First Transit centre management, paratransit, logistics with a good base for growth and synergies US Dollar revenue increased by 13.5% and consultancy and private shuttle buses.
We continue to We will continue to develop our management continued to grow our market share through focus on margin enhancement and during expertise in these areas to exploit future a combination of new business wins, organic the period have implemented a programme opportunities to grow our presence in growth and acquisitions.
In addition to the of efficiencies which will also deliver further these markets.
new business won in the first half of the year, benefit in the new trading year.
During the we were pleased to win a new contract in year we continued to grow with the First Services Saskatchewan, Canada, and to make our commencement of new contracts including Our Services division, which provides a first entry into Arizona.
We will be seeking to the provision of shuttle bus services at the range of outsourced vehicle maintenance, expand our presence in this new market.
In University of Texas, additional transit operations and support services in the private addition we were pleased to retain a number management and contracting services in and public sectors, performed well during the of important contracts including Washington Washington D. C. and additional paratransit year.
US Dollar revenue increased by 35.3% and Massachusetts and we made four in-fill business in Philadelphia.
We were pleased and operating profit by 39.6%, reflecting a full acquisitions in Wisconsin, New Jersey, Ohio to retain a number of important contracts year of strong trading performance from our and Vermont.
that came up for renewal including transit services acquisition and also an improved management and contracting business in Looking ahead we had a successful bidding operating margin.
We continued to season and have renewed contracts and implement our strategy to increase our share Our fleet maintenance business continued won new business on terms which better of the light transit market and we are now to grow with new business to provide reflect the cost pressures we face.
We are one of the largest operators of airport shuttle vehicle maintenance services to the State focused on delivering margin enhancement services in the US, providing bus services at of Oklahoma and the Commonwealth of in the business and will continue to drive a number of major airports.
We recently won Pennsylvania and a number of private sector efficiencies where appropriate and re-profile a contract to operate a further call centre in customers.
We also won new contracts to contracts as they come up for re-tender.
We 9 Chief Executives review We believe the bus is the natural solution to the increasing problem of traffic congestion affecting our continued towns and cities.
We continue to promote and develop a partnership approach to meet passengers requirements for punctual and reliable services.
We have seen good growth in the towns and cities where we are able to work with Local Authorities to deliver improved services and provide a successful, modern public transport system.
Quality partnerships ahead provide specialist mobile communications Results our UK Bus division this year.
We aim to equipment for both Florida and Tennessee During the year on-bus revenue growth was meet customers travel needs by providing State Highway Patrol.
Our Services business, strong, particularly in the second half of the a quality service that is sustainable, profitable which operates in the large federal market, year where it increased by 7.7% year on and of which we are proud.
Our continued continued to grow through new business and year in the last quarter.
We have seen an focus on service quality together with actions the securing of further contracted work from encouraging trend of increased passenger taken by management have delivered existing customers.
In October, First Services journeys for the bus division overall.
Total improved vehicle reliability, increased mileage successfully commenced operation of a revenue increased to 1,031.2m 2005: operated to its highest level in four years and substantial contract to provide land-based 960.7m as a result of revenue and eliminated driver shortages.
We are making support services to the US Navy.
passenger growth initiatives, improved tender significant investment in our maintenance and results and pricing.
Operating profit before engineering functions and have rolled out We are encouraged by the growth of our lease financing costs was 108.6m 2005: improved processes and best practice across Services business and believe we are well 115.2m.
Significant cost increases, in the division through Standard Operating placed to develop further opportunities in particular, fuel, continue to pressure margins Procedures.
I am pleased to report that the growing US Federal market.
Our aim is to drive down unit we are beginning to see the benefit of this costs through operational efficiencies and increased investment and expect this Outlook North America higher productivity.
We are carrying out a to continue.
Our North American division continues to detailed review of route profitability to ensure deliver excellent returns for shareholders.
that we closely match service provision with London We are confident that we can continue to demand and manage our resources as In London our overall punctuality and grow and exploit opportunities in this large efficiently as possible.
While margins in reliability performance has improved over the and fragmented market through our proven UK Bus remain under pressure, principally year.
We are committed to improving our strategy of combining contract wins with well through increased fuel costs, our priority is service quality and investing in additional matched acquisitions at our target margins.
to achieve sustainable growth in profits focused supervision of specific routes.
We through high-quality customer service and were delighted to be awarded the contract to increased patronage.
operate one of the two Heritage Bus Routes UK Bus on behalf of Transport for London.
The routes The Group is the largest bus operator in the The new management team has been commenced operation in November and we UK with a fleet of some 9,000 buses, and a successful in driving a number of key are proud to be entrusted with operating this market share of approximately 23%.
We initiatives through the business.
carry over 2.8 million passengers every day.
with Pride has been a core objective within 10 In May 2006 we launched our first ftr scheme in York.
ftr our premium urban travel concept introduces state of the art vehicles that look like trams but have the flexibility of a conventional bus and use normal roads.
As part of the ftr partnership, City of York Council is introducing improvements to bus stops, shelters and traffic lights that will enable ftr vehicles to move people around the city in comfort and without delay.
We are always looking for ways to improve our services and enable our buses to get through the traffic on time.
We developed a Punctuality Improvement Partnership PIP with Greater Manchester Transport Authority to deliver improved bus services for passengers.
Through the PIP process we have drawn up prioritised action plans to tackle key problem areas on the network.
Weve seen encouraging increases in customer satisfaction and are working with Local Authorities to introduce PIPs around the UK.
The Mayor of London has now approved operation won Public Transport Operator of In Glasgow our partnership with the City plans to extend the Congestion Charging the Year at the National Transport Awards.
Council, Strathclyde Passenger Transport zone westward in 2007.
We are well placed We are particularly proud that City of York and the Scottish Executive delivered the first with depot location and additional capacity Council nominated us for the award.
Statutory Quality Partnership in the UK.
to provide further services should they The Statutory Quality Partnership, known In May this year we launched ftr our be required in order to meet the needs as Streamline, will deliver improved bus premium urban travel concept in York.
information and signalling systems, together The ftr scheme introduces state-of-the-art with traffic management measures on key As a major British company, we are delighted articulated vehicles that look like trams but corridors.
Journey times on the first that London has been selected to host the have the flexibility of a conventional bus and Streamline route have been reduced by 2012 Olympic Games.
We have extensive use normal roads.
As part of the partnership, almost 10%, and the system is enabling experience of working with Local Authorities City of York Council is introducing a improvements in reliability.
Early indications to deliver a successful public transport programme of improvements to traffic lights, are that there is an encouraging increase in system for the Commonwealth Games in bus stops and shelters that will enable the ftr passenger volumes in the initial months of Manchester in 2002, and we look forward to vehicles to move people around the city in this partnership scheme.
working with the Olympic Transport Authority comfort and without delay.
The second ftr and others on the development of innovative service will begin in Leeds later this year and We continue to develop Punctuality and comprehensive plans to deliver a first we are evaluating plans for further schemes Improvement Partnerships PIPs with Local class transport system for the Games.
in cities such as Sheffield, Swansea, Authorities.
Our first PIP, in partnership with Reading, Bath and Glasgow.
Greater Manchester Passenger Transport Outside London Executive GMPTE, continues to deliver We are pleased to see continued passenger We continue to promote and develop a improved bus services for passengers with growth on the first Showcase route partnership approach to tackle the growing further benefits to come.
In the Greater launched in partnership with the City Council problem of traffic congestion affecting our Manchester area the PIP process has been in Bristol.
The second Showcase route, towns and cities.
We have seen good growth used on a number of routes as part of a supported by South Gloucestershire Council, where we are able to work with Local rolling programme to cover all services.
The is due to be launched shortly.
We are now Authorities to meet passengers requirements services have been intensively monitored and, working with the four Local Authorities in for punctual and reliable services.
Our bus working in partnership with GMPTE, we have the area to deliver the Greater Bristol Bus operations in York continue to lead the drawn up prioritised action plans to tackle Network, a comprehensive system to provide industrys efforts to deliver improved services key issues.
We have revised timetables and fast and reliable bus journey times along ten for passengers through effective partnerships implemented other operational changes major corridors to compete effectively with with Local Authorities.
In June 2005 our York to address issues within our direct control.
11 Chief Executives review bus investment continued during the year with over 95m invested in new low floor, easy continued access vehicles to deliver a high-quality, comfortable travelling experience for customers.
new Not only do they look good these new buses also reduce the environmental impact of our operations, improve reliability and make bus travel attractive to more people.
We are encouraged that this has contributed three out of the top five runners up are the schemes are working well and that to higher levels of customer satisfaction.
drivers employed within our UK Bus division.
concessionary fare passengers are making On many issues, however, we require help Our Aberdeen team won the award for additional journeys.
Our experience in Wales from our partners, for example, to enable innovation at this years UK Bus Awards for and Scotland indicates that free travel prioritised highway solutions to be pursued.
a project aimed at changing young peoples schemes offer substantial benefits to We are working with Local Authorities to attitudes towards bus travel helping to make concessionary fare passengers.
In some introduce PIPs around the country.
it a safer and more pleasant experience for cases the schemes have helped to turn all passengers.
around a long-term decline in the number Aircoach, which operates express coaches of bus passenger journeys, resulting in an between Dublin city centre and the airport Investment extension to existing services and the and contracted services for airport car parks, Our ongoing programme of investment and introduction of new ones.
We welcome the performed well during the year.
On-bus fleet renewal continued with capital Governments announcement that free local revenue growth was strong, particularly expenditure of 95.4m in the period on new bus travel will be extended to a nationwide in Dublin where we have seen increased vehicles.
In Glasgow we have made scheme in 2008 which means those entitled patronage on the airport route.
A new yield significant investment in new vehicles to will be able to use local bus services management system for fares and a focus support the UKs first Statutory Quality anywhere in England.
on sales and marketing helped to raise Partnership.
In Manchester, during the period, awareness and contributed to increased The new Scotland-wide free bus scheme for we have invested in 158 new buses where patronage numbers on our services from senior citizens and disabled people came into we can maximise passenger growth.
Further Dublin to Cork and Belfast.
We were pleased effect on 1 April 2006 and, we believe, this investment has been targeted in towns and to be awarded the contract to operate park will benefit concessionaires.
In March 2006 cities with potential for passenger growth and ride services at Belfast International the Welsh Assembly Government launched including Aberdeen, Bath, Bristol, Edinburgh Airport and continue to explore further a pilot for a half-fare bus travel scheme for and the Borders, Halifax, Huddersfield, opportunities in this marketplace.
16 to 18 year olds in Bridgend, Wrexham, Norwich and Stoke-on-Trent.
As a major bus We are delighted that Brent Humphries, one operator in Bridgend and across South Wales of our drivers at First Cymru, won the Bus Concessionary fares we are delighted to be participating in this Driver of the Year award last year, coming The Governments new concessionary fares innovative scheme and are working with the first out of 120 entrants selected from the schemes offering free travel on local bus Welsh Assembly Government and other very best bus and coach drivers across the services for people over 60 and disabled partners to ensure the success of the country.
In addition, we are pleased that people in England was launched on two-year pilot.
Early indications show that 12 The recruitment and retention of high-quality staff is a key issue within our industry.
We were the first in the industry to recruit drivers and engineers from Europe.
In our UK Bus division we have recruited over 1,000 European drivers from Poland, the Czech Republic, Portugal, Malta and Slovakia.
We are pleased with the success of this initiative which has eliminated our driver shortage.
We continue to work with the CarbonNeutral Company to raise awareness of climate change issues.
During the year we worked with a number of schools to help students understand their carbon footprint and develop ways to reduce it.
We support tree planting initiatives in the UK and reforestation programmes in the cities where we operate in North America to help offset CO2 emissions and protect, restore and enhance the natural capital of trees and forests.
new trees Outlook UK Bus essential if we are to reduce the growing This year we have been working on a major Our UK Bus business continues to be a negative social impacts associated with safety initiative, the Injury Prevention robust generator of cash, despite increased societys continuing reliance on the private Programme, that will drive a significant cost pressures.
Revenue growth has been car.
We are working hard to reduce these cultural change in safety across the Group.
strong and we continue to demonstrate the impacts by providing the safest, most reliable To support this initiative we have launched effectiveness of partnerships with Local service that we can to encourage more the First Safety Principles.
These set out in Authorities to deliver improved services and people to use public transport.
We recognise clear, concise terms the principles of safe passenger growth.
Our focus on reliability the significant contribution we make to the working practices and have been and punctuality and our investment in service communities we serve in providing important communicated and endorsed throughout quality has already delivered benefits and we social and transport links.
We also have an the business.
We are optimistic impact on the economy by providing an The bombings in London on 7 July 2005 about the opportunities to continue to important and necessary public service, demonstrated that public transport remains grow this business with the introduction of being a major employer both in the UK and a target for terrorist attack and reinforced the innovative new products, improved service North America and influencing the movement need for vigilance and awareness.
Within quality and reliability while retaining a tight of people and goods through the services our business we have, where appropriate, control on costs.
We believe that we have a undertaken independent reviews by security responsibility to influence the views of policy experts to identify where we could implement makers by promoting partnerships, policies further measures to improve overall security.
Corporate Social Responsibility and initiatives that benefit public transport.
We have enhanced our security function Corporate Social Responsibility is at the core Full details of our activities and progress through the appointment of a Group Head of of our business.
It is reflected in our vision during the year can be found in our Security who will lead the development of our and values and our aim to transform the way Corporate Social Responsibility Report which security strategy.
In particular, we are looking people travel and how they feel about public can be downloaded at www.
com at the use of new technology to provide transport.
How we manage key issues such greater security on vehicles and at sites.
In as safety, environment, our relationships with Safety our rail operations we are working to improve customers and our employees is key to Safety is our highest priority.
We are security for our passengers and staff.
continuously developing and improving our As a public transport operator we recognise processes to ensure that a Safety First Employees the vital role we play in supporting the needs culture is embedded throughout the Group.
Our staff are the public face of our business of society to achieve more sustainable travel.
We strive to make our services as safe as and ambassadors for the Group.
I would like The development of public transport is possible for our passengers and our staff.
to thank all our employees for their continued 13 Chief Executives review continued Our pioneering Workplace Learning initiative, in partnership with the Transport and General Workers Union, has been a great success.
We now have 40 learning centres reaching around 60% of our UK bus employees with plans under way to further increase the coverage so that more of our employees have access to flexible, effective and valuable learning opportunities.
Workplace learning commitment to the Group.
We aim to be the skills for school bus drivers to perform their We participate in a number of trials to employer of choice in our industry and offer duties safely in all traffic conditions.
promote and develop the use of alternative our staff opportunities to develop and grow fuels in public transport.
In London we The recruitment and retention of high-quality to reach their full potential.
We believe it is operate fuel cell buses as part of a Europeanstaff is a key issue within our industry.
We vital to engage with staff and promote an wide trial and are pleased that the reliability continue to implement a range of initiatives ongoing dialogue to better understand of the technology has exceeded initial within our businesses to address this their views and concerns.
We also operate a number important issue.
We were the first in the continuously engage with our staff through of gas buses and have been trialling hybrid industry to recruit drivers and engineers a range of activities including informal vehicles.
We will be working with BP, our fuel from Europe.
We have recruited some meetings at depot level to a more formal supplier, to introduce, where appropriate, 1,000 employees, mainly drivers and some staff satisfaction survey.
We make significant biofuels to the business to further reduce engineers, from Poland, the Czech Republic, investment in the training and development carbon dioxide emissions.
Portugal, Malta and Slovakia which of our employees across the Group.
We were We continue to work with The We have ongoing programmes for employees pleased that our initiative has been selected CarbonNeutral Company and this year we working towards recognised training in the as an example of best practice in have been working with a number of schools form of vocational qualifications in the UK demonstrating in practical terms how job to support them in understanding their including our pioneering Workplace Learning mobility can support the broader aims of carbon footprint and developing ways to initiative, in partnership with the Transport the European Employment Strategy.
In North America we recently joined and General Workers Union.
We now have American Forest an organisation that works 40 learning centres reaching around 60% of to protect, restore and enhance the natural our UK Bus employees with plans to further Environment and community capital of trees and forests.
increase the coverage so that more of our We are pleased that our hard work has We are proud to be supporters of the UK employees can gain access to flexible, established an environmental management Outward Bound Trust, an educational charity effective and valuable learning opportunities.
This year we that encourages young people to fulfil their In North America employees can participate have achieved significant reductions in energy potential through challenging outdoor in the Automotive Service Excellence usage in the UK Rail division and in water experiences.
Over the past ten years we Programme designed to train and test usage in the UK Bus division.
In North have funded over 1,000 young people, technicians.
First Student has continued to America we have made significant progress between the ages of 11-18 years, to take promote the Smith System of Defensive in developing our environmental reporting part in an Outward Bound experience.
This specialist training provides the framework and this year are able to report on As well as donations to support various emissions and waste arising for the first time.
14 young people between the ages of 11-18 years have taken part in challenging outdoor experiences as a result of our continued support of Outward Bound.
We are proud to have been associated with this educational charity for the past ten years and, 1,000 through financial support and the provision of facilities, to have contributed to the development of thousands of young people in the UK.
The safety and security of our passengers and staff is our highest priority and we actively endorse a culture of Safety First throughout our business.
This year we launched the Injury Prevention Programme that will drive a significant cultural change in safety across the Group.
We also established the First Safety Principles to clearly set out the principles of safe working practices.
The simple message is if you cannot do it safely, dont do it.
fundraiser events for the charity we have Western franchise in this current round.
In UK increasing shareholder value by growing our also provided workplace accommodation Bus we are encouraged by strong revenue core businesses, developing opportunities in at our facility in Glasgow for the Outward growth and increased passenger journeys.
new markets and dividend growth of 10% Bound Metro team.
The cost of equivalent We have seen the benefits of our increased per annum for the foreseeable future, at least facilities in the city would otherwise be focus on operational performance, service until 2008.
This will be supported, where prohibitive and this support has contributed quality and driver recruitment.
The first ftr appropriate, by share repurchases while to the development of over 2,000 young service was launched in York in May 2006 maintaining a strong balance sheet.
and we continue to promote and develop a in the new financial year has started well and partnership approach with Local Authorities is in line with our expectations.
During the year the Group and its staff in who are committed to reducing traffic the UK and North America have continued congestion to support successful, modern to support a number of local and national public transport systems to meet the needs charities and initiatives to benefit their of passengers.
We continue to grow our communities.
All of our operating companies North American Division and believe that support local events either through the market continues to offer substantial Moir Lockhead donations, sponsorship or use of resources opportunities for the Group.
We are pleased Chief Executive and facilities made available to them by to have delivered consistent returns for the Group.
shareholders and more than doubled EBITDA since we made our first entry into the North American market in 1999.
During the year Group outlook we have continued to explore and develop We remain confident about our future opportunities in Europe.
Our UK Rail division continues to a team to identify and bid for businesses, deliver strong passenger volume and income which represent the right opportunity for growth.
Through the award of two new entry for us.
major franchises First Great Western and First Capital Connect we have secured The Group is well placed for further growth.
additional revenue of over 1.0bn per annum It has strong and predictable cash flows with for up to ten years.
We look forward to some 50% of our revenues coming from building on our success in UK Railways and contracted business in the UK and North are delighted to be shortlisted for the South America.
The Board is committed to 15
