2 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 Chairman and Group Chief Executives Report 2006 was a challenging year which nonetheless produced a good financial Property result.
The quality of our assets was demonstrated by the significant The property team has been strengthened further with two new senior increase in the value of our investment properties.
We sold our Baltic appointments in planning and marketing.
The Bellhouse Joseph investment, Multi-Link Terminals Limited MLT, realising an excellent management agreement was ended by mutual consent, with Bellhouse return.
The property division made good progress with our plans for the Joseph Leith Limited BJL remaining as a 10% minority shareholder development of the Edinburgh Waterfront and an increase in the annual in Forth Property Holdings Limited.
independent valuation of our development assets.
During the year we sold development sites at Grangemouth and Western Financial Harbour, Leith to Asda.
There is still a significant amount of infrastructure Group revenue increased to 154m 2005 151m.
The profit before work required at Western Harbour and Granton over the next few years tax decreased by 5% to 55.6m 2005 58.3m after taking account of to improve the quality of the sites and their environment.
With this in mind, an adverse movement in the valuation of Ocean Terminal.
Basic earnings we are unlikely to offer any plots for sale over the course of the next few per share amounted to 90.5p 2005 97.6p.
years, other than for affordable housing.
Dividend The revised Granton masterplan was submitted to the City of Edinburgh The Directors propose a final dividend of 30.2p per share giving a total Council CEC in September.
We hope this will be approved in the first dividend for the year of 45.2p per share.
This is an increase of 5% over the half of 2007.
RTKL were appointed as masterplanners for the Hub at Leith.
prior year and is in line with the Boards policy of pursuing real levels of With the setting up of the Waterfront Development Partnership Board dividend per share growth.
If approved by the shareholders at the Annual WDPB with CEC, further progress is being made in developing the General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 11th May 2007 to all policy for the longer term regeneration of Edinburghs Waterfront.
shareholders on the register as at 13th April 2007.
The annual independent valuation of our property assets by DTZ Debenham Ports Tie Leung Limited DTZ produced a Market Value of 277m, an increase 1 of 6% on a like for like basis.
The Calculation of Worth increased by 11% The ports business produced an underlying operating profit of 37.3m 2005 37.3m.
Tilbury improved its underlying financial performance.
to 402m reecting the long-term value of these assets.
As indicated in the Interim Statement, the Scottish Ports were affected People by several adverse factors during the second half of the year which resulted in a lower operating profit in 2006 as against 2005.
Marine We are extremely grateful to all who work for Forth Ports for their efforts and contributions over the last year.
Three people at our Long Service activities benefited from a good result in towage which was offset Awards in Scotland had each served forty years with the Company and by lower volumes at Hound Point and Braefoot Bay.
eleven retired at Tilbury after over forty years service.
Progress continued at the Enterprise Distribution Centre, although, in the Bill Harkness will retire at the Annual General Meeting in May after nine first full year of operation to June 2006, the minimum guaranteed tonnage years with the Company and after three years as Senior Independent was not met.
Unfortunately, no agreement has been reached so far with Stora Enso on the top up payment required under the contract and so Director.
The Board is extremely grateful to him for his considerable contribution to the Company over that period.
legal proceedings have been initiated.
Despite this, there is excellent co-operation on the ground between the Tilbury and Stora Enso staff.
Prospects We aim to deliver growth in our ports business through improved A new thirty five year lease has been signed with Cemex to enable it to returns from existing investments, further operating efficiencies and invest 40m in a new cement milling and grinding facility at Tilbury.
This agreement has increased the value of the investment properties at Tilbury the implementation of new projects from our large and varied pipeline of opportunities.
and is an example of our strategy to identify long-term opportunities to grow the value of our port assets.
In Property, our strengthened team is working to achieve further growth In 2006, we substantially completed the major redevelopment of the in the value and potential of our property assets by seeking to close the value gap with established areas of the City.
It is laying the foundations for Grangemouth Container Terminal which has increased capacity to around future planning consents, improving Ocean Terminals long-term prospects 200,000 boxes.
A new straddle carrier eet has been commissioned which will increase efficiency at the Terminal.
Service levels to our container and the Waterfront environment.
customers were maintained throughout the redevelopment with volumes Trading for the first two months is in line with our expectations.
Forth Ports exceeding 12,000 boxes per month on several occasions.
is well placed to grow both port income and overall value for shareholders.
At the end of the year, we sold our 50% shareholding in MLT which produced a gain of 4.2m on an investment of 15m two years ago.
We realised a good return for shareholders from this investment.
We will continue to look at other opportunities in the Baltic.
Christopher Collins Charles Hammond The value of our investment properties has increased to 164m from Chairman Group Chief Executive 137m last year.
This reects increases in rentals, additional value created 19th March 2007 by the Cemex deal and a reduction in property yields over the last year.
1 See page 24 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 3 value We balance the use of and investment in our assets between our ports and property businesses to maximise value for our shareholders.
The significant investment which we have made in our ports over the last few years has brought increasing efficiencies and cost savings to those businesses which use our ports as part of the logistics chain.
We tell the story of our business activities that are the result of our investment and long-term thinking.
