Ralph Bernard answers some of the tough questions the Group has faced over the last year Looking back over the last year, do for the Group: investing in our core analogue you believe the merger was the right stations, delivering a complementary portfolio move for both companies?
of stations in key commercially attractive markets and developing non-traditional Unquestionably, the merger was the right revenues.
In each of these areas we have move.
Consolidation was something that had made significant progress as detailed further been anticipated and championed by both in this report.
We are also grasping the companies and was right for the industry.
The opportunities that digital radio offers us with merger has delivered the scale to offer a better the potential of our national stations and the proposition for advertisers and importantly, to BT Movio service which will deliver TV and challenge the BBC for audience share.
radio content to mobile phones and handsets using DAB digital spectrum.
We are operating You recently spoke about the effects much more efficiently and effectively and of post merger disruption to the have identified a total of 27 million of cost business.
Has this period now ended?
synergies achievable in the coming year.
Ralph Bernard There is no doubt that we faced a number The market conditions are very difficult for all Chief Executive of difficulties following the merger but I believe media and it might be easier to take the less that this period of disruption has ended and tough options on decisions in the short-term.
that the business is now in good shape However, we are committed to long-term operationally and culturally.
In commercial sales, growth and that requires a steady hand and we have built a new and effective team with a a clear strategic plan which we have started common aim.
We have combined the national implementing.
ad planning system making it easier for our customers and we expect to complete our The turnaround of Capital Radio in traffic and local sales systems later this year.
London is an important part of your strategy.
Its worth noting that we recently won a Sony Gold award for our coverage of last Julys Weve made it very clear that we see Capital terrorist attacks in London.
On such a terrible Radio as our priority and our plans are day, I was immensely proud of the way the absolutely on track.
In fact, cost reductions at teams at all of our London stations worked Capital Radio have been greater than the loss together to produce programming that of revenue attributable to the ad reduction Londoners were depending on.
Since the implementation of the first showed that we can achieve great things phase of our four stage plan, weve already as a Group when we work together.
The new advertising policy has been welcomed by advertisers, we have held Are you confident that you can pricing levels and independent research has deliver on the strategy you outlined shown the two in a row policy improves in November?
Early listener feedback from our own research is extremely I am absolutely confident in our ability to encouraging.
However, there is still much to achieve long-term growth.
In November we do in order to attract new listeners.
With the highlighted the importance of three key areas appointment of Scott Muller as Programme GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 05 Chief Executives Q&As Chief Executives Q&As continued 55% Commercial radio dominates listening among the most commercially important 15-44 age group.
In this demographic, it is commercial which takes the 55% share against the BBCs 43% Director, we are gaining a world class What about the rest of the business?
world we will present a formidable challenge programmer with the specific skills and to the BBC.
Early evidence of this can be seen experience to help us take the station to the Its important to remember that Capital Radio in the performance of Planet Rock, which, next level.
The next stage will be to match a only accounts for around 12% of Group with no money yet spent on advertising or great product with a targeted and effective revenues and that the rest of the business is promotion, has a weekly audience of almost marketing campaign.
In fact, the second half a million listeners.
Imagine what we will be strand of our strategy announcement in able to achieve when we start to advertise the What timescales are you looking at November focused on the growth of our brand and really get behind it with investment for audience growth at Capital Radio?
portfolio of stations across the UK to challenge as we do with our analogue stations!
the BBC and we are already seeing some early The long-term decline experienced by Capital positive results.
In the last RAJAR figures we As part of your interim statement, Radio requires a long-term fix.
We will make saw some really encouraging results for brands you also said that you would be further refinements to the output before including the Xfm Network which topped the disposing of nine of your local committing to marketing and as such we 1 million listener mark for the first time.
Why did this not happen dont expect to see any immediate audience Choice FM and the digital only station Planet and does this affect the overall increases.
However, what we do know is that Rock enjoyed record audiences, the Century strategy?
marketing Capital Radios relaunch is a job FM Network continued its recent growth trend made easier by the bold nature of the product while Classic FM continues to be the UKs We received several offers for these stations improvements, especially the two in a row leading commercial radio station, seeing its but not at the level some of the bidders policy and the stations heritage.
Were on track originally indicated.
The Board did not feel to deliver on the strategy we outlined in that it would be in the best interests of So, whilst I cant give an audience forecast November and we are in the best place to take shareholders to sell at the level of offers into the future, I am confident that we will be advantage of the growth of DAB digital radio received having taken into account the likely on track to see clear improvement in 2007 08. with four of the national commercial stations on post tax proceeds and the dilution to earnings the premier national commercial multiplex.
per share of the disposal.
Accordingly, the sale Why is this part of the strategy process was terminated and the stations were so important?
Can you really challenge the BBC?
retained as an integral part of the Group.
This does not affect our ability to deliver the overall Our heritage stations are at the centre of our Weve made competing with the BBC central strategy as these remain attractive assets portfolio strategy and have significant potential to our strategy and as the industry leaders we which are now being managed as part of the to achieve audience and revenue growth.
The believe we are best placed to do this.
most recent RAJAR results show that, in key heritage stations such as Birminghams BRMB Already, commercial radio dominates listening Will you continue your investment and Cardiffs Red Dragon, we are already among the most commercially important in DAB digital radio and when do seeing a growth trend as a result of increased 15-44 age group.
In this demographic, it is you expect to break even?
focus on improving the on-air product.
Capital commercial radio which takes the 55% share Radio has the greatest potential of these against the BBCs 43% and in terms of reach, With three million DAB sets now in the stations as it is in our most commercially commercial radio reach is 71% against BBC market place and forecasts of 40% household attractive market and at the centre of our Radios 60%.
penetration by 2009, we see the development London portfolio strategy.
of digital radio as integral to our success and With more national and quasi-national are already seeing the early benefits of commercial stations than national BBC investing in talent at Planet Rock.
The break stations, the digital world will present a more even point for our digital investment depends level playing field to compete with the BBC significantly on the penetration of digital radio and this is key to our strategy.
In the digital and also the success of the BT Movio project: GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 06 Chief Executives Q&As GCap continued 40% Media There are three GCap Media will million DAB sets continue its leading now in the market role at the forefront place and forecasts of the development of 40% household of digital radio in penetration by 2009 the UK however we are currently forecasting breakeven You recently decided not to pursue interviews with artists including some new in around 2010.
Digital investment peaked in legal action against Ofcoms decision bands in partnership with record companies.
Last year was the first time since we to award a second national Classic FM launched a Guest List podcast began investing in digital radio, that net costs multiplex.
providing extra interview content from the of digital have reduced.
Sponsorship of We considered the option of legal action podcasts will provide a growing revenue Is digital radio enough to see off because under the previous regulator, the stream for GCap Media and already a series challenges from other media and Radio Authority, the existing national multiplex including topics such as fishing, movies, soap platforms including internet, had been awarded to Digital One 63% owned gossip, comedy and media news is being podcasting and downloading?
by GCap Media under terms which had been sponsored by mobile phone operator Orange.
announced by the Authority as the first and In addition.
Capital Radio podcasts are being In the UK, an impressive 90% of the population only national licence.
sponsored by online bank smile.
Compared to figures from just New podcasts featuring on-air and new 10 years ago, this represents an increase of Following discussions with Ofcom, the GCap content are planned for all GCap Media 10%, with an additional 3.7 million listeners Media Board decided against pursuing legal brands across 2006. tuning in each week.
People are listening an action because we felt assured that the additional 2.2 hours too with an average of regulators intention is to broaden lasting In the coming year, how will you 24 hours listening per week.
Recent platform consumer choice and to create an measure success?
studies show that digital listeners tune in environment for complementary and not even longer with averages closer to 25 hours competitive services to those currently The coming year is about delivering positive per week.
So, an encouraging picture of broadcasting on Digital One.
We have already started to deliver on radios health.
will continue its leading role at the forefront of the strategy we outlined in November including the development of digital radio in the UK by the protection of the Capital Radio price In terms of other media, there is tremendous actively participating in applying for the second premium, the creation of a national Xfm potential for radio from new media and at GCap licence as part of an industry consortium.
Network and the early delivery of cost Media we are already involved in the area of synergies.
The advertising environment is very music downloads, podcasting and a range of What about other growth areas?
tough at present for all commercial media but hugely interactive websites connected to our Where are you on developing we have a clear agenda for growth when the radio stations.
The beauty of radio too, is that non-traditional revenues?
We continue to focus you can listen to your favourite stations while on maintaining a robust control on costs, on engaging in other activities including surfing the This is a relatively small part of the business rolling out the improvements at Capital Radio, net.
The proliferation of downloading and MP3 today but one which is increasingly important.
on developing our national radio offerings and players has only encouraged more listening to Our priority is to focus investment on areas our success will be measured by audience music and there is no evidence to suggest that which will make a significant difference to the growth and improved financial performance.
this has negatively impacted on radio since business.
Classic FM is a good example of the most people listen to downloaded music during opportunities that we can develop see case activities where they would not previously have study on page 25.
However, one area where listened to radio: such exercising or travelling we are seeing a good deal of activity is in on public transport.
Digital radio presents more podcasting: Capital Radio has launched the choice for listeners, greater interactivity and is best of Breakfast and Drivetime as well as its shown to encourage longer periods of listening.
popular Flirty strand from the mid-morning show, the One Network stations now provide a weekly best of from their Breakfast Shows and Xfm launched sessions and X Rated podcasts, featuring snippets of tracks and GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 07
