Other commercial Rail National roads Industrials E d u c Housing & a t i property o n Leisure Aviation Retail ALFRED McALPINE PLC 06 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES BUSINESS REVIEW Our three core businesses made substantial CONTENTS We strive to progress in 2006, delivering further good 06 Business strategy growth in underlying profits.
This excellent 08 Business review performance was achieved through the be our clients 13 Group financial results dedication and commitment of our people 13 Sustainable business and again re-emphasises the robustness of our 14 People partner of choice strategy.
However, the discovery of extensive 17 Principal risks and uncertainties fraud within our slate business, which is 17 Outlook in the built covered later in this Business Review, has clearly overshadowed what would otherwise environment, have been another successful year for Alfred McAlpine.
where we offer The principal operational achievements of 2006 have been the mobilisation of three integrated major new facilities management contracts, including our largest ever with Mapeley, solutions to meet and the continued implementation of the planned programme of investment in our core clients needs.
businesses which is key to our future success.
We invested over 20m, including 10m in the implementation of two major new IT systems which will enhance operational efficiency.
After this investment, we generated a free cash flow of 25.1m before one-off costs.
Business strategy Alfred McAlpine is committed to building A well balanced business Our services span many value for investors through sustained, controlled Type of customer by industry sector growth.
This will be driven by our continued sectors and we have no % focus on delivering services and solutions over dependence on any in the built environment, by developing one sector or client.
a balanced business, without over dependence on one client or market, and by providing outstanding service which is the basis of the long-term relationships that we look to build with our clients.
Private Regulated Public operating cash flow less net capital expenditure, interest and tax Electricity Technology Financial & professional Gas services 9 Water Health Defence Local & other government T e l e c o m s 9 ALFRED McALPINE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200607 1 20bn p. a.
Total projected annual value of the addressable market for Alfred McAlpine in outsourcing and investment in the UKs infrastructure.
Alfred McAlpine today is positioned in large Our reputation and the foundation on which people who will fulfil our commitment to growth markets driven by the continuing our future growth and success rely, are based excellent customer service and innovation trend to outsource the maintenance and on our people.
We believe that a positive which differentiates Alfred McAlpine from management of buildings and by the high culture, based on robust values, is essential its competitors.
This investment in people level of investment required to renew the UKs to both high quality customer service and development is mirrored by continued health, leisure and education facilities and continuous improvement.
investment in our business infrastructure its transport and utility infrastructure.
We to ensure that it is fit for purpose and can estimate the size of our addressable UK From 2004 we have measured employee support the growth that we are targeting.
market to be 120bn p. a. which allows satisfaction with and commitment to Alfred us to continue to take a selective approach to McAlpine using the MORI employee advocacy We are also committed to providing a safe new business and ensure that the risk reward model.
Our rating has improved year-on-year environment for our employees, customers, is acceptable.
and, most encouragingly, our key employee supply chain partners and the public.
Over the satisfaction is now at Top 10 level for the UK last six years we have reduced our accident We strive to be our clients partner of choice private sector.
Our performance is explained frequency rate significantly from 0.35 in 2000 in the built environment, where we offer in more detail in the People section of this to 0.14 in 2006, and we now have a sectorintegrated solutions to meet clients needs.
Business Review starting on page 14. leading Accident Frequency Rate.
We remain We can design, finance, build, operate and Our medium-term objective remains the on track to deliver our objective of achieving maintain buildings and infrastructure, or apply achievement of engagement and advocacy an Accident Frequency Rate of 0.10 or less by our expertise in one or several of these areas levels that are in the top 10% for UK private 2010, which equates to less than one accident to deliver solutions that meet our clients sector organisations.
This will ensure that we per million hours worked.
Our ultimate ambition specific requirements.
are able to recruit, retain and motivate the is to work in a zero accident environment.
To build the long-term, lower risk visible earnings streams that we have targeted, we aim to generate at least 70% of our revenues from activities that are undertaken under long-term contracts or framework agreements, based on service excellence and the breadth of our offer.
Over 75% of our order book Long-term visible earnings Secured order book is made up of these types of long-term m partnership agreements.
as at 31 December 2006 1,200 As a Group, our primary financial targets are to generate strong profit and earnings growth 1,000 and to maximise our cash balances.
These will drive increases in shareholder value.
To do this 800 we have to improve our business continuously by investing in the development of our people 600 and operational efficiency.
400 200 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 source: Mintel, DEFRA, MOD, DTLR, Department of Health, DfES, HM Treasury, OFWAT, OFGEM, DTI, Company Estimates ALFRED McALPINE PLC 08 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED 60bn p. a. Outsourced UK facilities management market.
Business review Major client wins in the year included Mapeley, Project Services Good progress has been made in each of our which is worth more than 800m over its Project Services enjoyed another successful core businesses.
15-year term, under which Alfred McAlpine year in 2006.
Underlying profit before tax provides facilities management services across increased by 5% to 17.4m 2005: 16.5m Business Services Her Majestys Revenue & Customs estate.
from revenues that increased by 8% to Business Services continued to make excellent Other major new contracts were secured in the 402.1m 2005: 372.9m.
Of the profit progress and delivered another strong year year in the financial services sector with Bank before tax generated by Project Services, of organic revenue and profit growth.
Profit of Ireland and Royal Bank of Scotland.
These, our PFI interests contributed 1.9m.
before tax increased 10% to 23.6m 2005: combined with the extension of our long-term 21.4m on revenues which grew by 19% contract with Halifax Bank of Scotland for Project Services comprises our construction to 430.8m 2005: 361.1m.
a further five years, confirm our position services and investment and land-led as a leading provider of FM services to the development businesses.
It provides building Business Services is a leading provider of facilities financial sector.
and civil engineering services to local and management services.
We work with our clients national government, to commercial developers to develop, manage and deliver solutions that This performance has enabled us to maintain and to the health, education and leisure improve the performance and quality of their a strong order book in this business, with sectors.
It also manages the development, built environment assets and reduce operating typical contract lengths of between three financing, construction and maintenance of costs.
Founded on our engineering and project and seven years.
long-term assets, including Alfred McAlpines management expertise, we provide business PFI investments.
critical support, with an emphasis on proBusiness Services entered 2007 with a strong active and preventative facilities and asset pipeline of new opportunities.
Since the start We take a very selective approach to the management through our service helpdesks of the year, a further 50m of new business work that we bid for, ensuring that it matches and engineering service centres.
These services has been won.
We further strengthened our our skillset and provides an acceptable risk are complemented by hard FM services, offering through the acquisition of Enviros reward.
Reflecting this, the business is now such as mechanical and electrical engineering on 1 February 2007.
This acquisition allows focused on longer-term, lower-risk earnings and fabric maintenance, and by consultancy us to meet current and prospective clients streams based on framework and Early services, such as environmental, energy and needs for environmental consultancy and Contractor Involvement ECI schemes waste management consultancy and health solutions across their property portfolios.
and on development and investment led and safety compliance, management.
This It also offers us significant cross-selling opportunities, where we can capitalise on our range of added value services enables Alfred opportunities both to existing Business Services project management and financing expertise.
McAlpine to offer total facilities management clients and to clients across other parts of the solutions for the built environment.
Enviros, which in 2006 generated During the year, we added 330m of new operating profit of 2.0m from revenues business to the order book, including two The outsourced element of the UK facilities of 29.5m, will continue to trade under new ECI schemes, taking our total number management market is estimated to be worth its own brand name.
We also extended our approximately 60bn p. a..
Overall, including earthworks and structures framework contract the element currently serviced in-house, the With our ability to offer total facilities with Network Rail for the Great Western UK facilities management market is estimated management solutions across all sectors and the Region and won a series of new development to be worth around 200bn p. a..
The trend continuing trend to outsource these services, and construction contracts.
These included to outsource facilities management is being the business is well set for sustained long-term contracts to build one of the UKs first new maintained and these markets continue growth.
We will remain focused on delivering generation primary healthcare centres at to grow as organisations continue to seek this strong organic growth, whilst continuing Aldershot and to design and build Bluestone, to secure shortand long-term cost savings to look to enhance our service offering the first of a new generation of eco-friendly by leveraging the experience and skills through bolt-on acquisitions.
destination holiday villages, in Pembrokeshire.
provided by expert facilities management service providers.
source: Mintel, DEFRA, MOD, DTLR, Department of Health, DfES, HM Treasury, OFWAT, OFGEM, DTI, Company Estimates ALFRED McALPINE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200609 In just two years, Alfred McAlpine has helped the world renowned Addenbrookes Hospital in 190m 74m Cambridge to become a major total contract value.
centre for treatment and research on a European scale as well as to provide twenty-first century healthcare to the fast growing population of East Anglia.
30years 128 contract length for extra beds and six new facilities management.
The 190m 30-year project to deliver a new Biomedical Campus for the Cambridge University Hospital NHS Foundation Trust is managed by Key Health Services, a joint venture between Alfred McAlpine and NIB Capital Bank NV, which was awarded the contract to design, build, finance and maintain three new buildings on the site.
The new six-storey hospital extension, a research building, new entrance and atrium to link the new facilities to the rest of the hospital has provided Addenbrookes with 128 extra beds and six new operating theatres.
The new facilities are vital to the hospital in its capacity as a national and regional centre for cancer services, liver transplants, organ transplantation, neurosciences and genetics, as well as a local district hospital serving the growing local population.
In what was a very complex project, Alfred McAlpines construction team completed the 74m construction phase on schedule in February 2007, when responsibility for the building passed to Alfred McAlpines facilities management team.
The team will maintain the facility for the next 30 years.
To keep the fast pace of the build on track, the two teams worked closely, with teams of specialists following each other through the three buildings, fitting out section by section.
This needed careful planning and control but it was all in a days work for the construction team.
The slower but more traditional way would have been to wait until a whole building was ready for fitting-out.
Rex Holmes is the project director for Alfred McAlpine.
Working in such close partnerships demands a lot of trust, he says.
Good planning and communication between us, Key Health and the Trust is vital.
We have a very good relationship with the hospital that gives us space to operate.
There are no petty arguments: were all working for the same goal.
Wyn Hughes is the NHS Trusts Project Manager.
He is pleased with progress and agrees that the relationship the Trust has with Key Health Services and Alfred McAlpine is very good, This is the Trusts first PFI and its been an education for us, especially the tender process, says Wyn.
Weve had to get to grips with a new way of working but were very pleased with progress and how the project is being managed.
There is a good atmosphere and Key Health and Alfred McAlpine have been very amenable and fair.
Theyre easy people to work with.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC 10 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED 280m of new business won by Infrastructure Services in 2006.
Major ECI projects that entered the construction can move into construction phase following cash cost 2.7m.
As a consequence of these phase during 2006 included Phase II of the two years of scheme evaluation and design.
actions and following significant investment Leeds Inner Ring Road, the first of the schools As previously announced, this contract is in systems and processes, the underlying being built under the Dorset Schools framework worth over 65m to Alfred McAlpine.
performance of the ongoing business is now and the Highways Agency contract for considerably improved.
improvements to Junction 14 of the M1 The strength of our order book and the motorway near Milton Keynes.
Construction continuing positive conditions in construction During the year, the utilities business secured also started on the contract to design and markets give us confidence that this business a series of new business wins, particularly build a new bridge under the QE2 bridge on is well placed to deliver another good in the electricity and water sectors as approved the M25 to link Dartford, Kent with Prologis performance in 2007. regulatory spend increased.
These wins include Developments Crossways Business Park.
the renewal and extension of existing longInfrastructure Services term contracts with E. ON Central Networks, Our Project Services team also manages Following the sale of Alfred McAlpines interest Scottish Power and Scottish Water Solutions our land-led and PFI investment portfolios.
in Core Utility Solutions Limited in October and a contract to deliver the protection and We invested 12.4m in these during the year.
2005, the comparative underlying profit before diversion of electricity, water, gas and telecoms Following the sale of our 10% equity interests tax numbers for 2005 for Infrastructure Services services required ahead of the construction in the Stoke Mandeville Hospital, Exeter Courts in the following section exclude the 1.1m of the Edinburgh tram network.
Our highways and Conwy Schools PFIs in 2006, our PFI profit contribution delivered by that joint maintenance business again delivered another portfolio now comprises six financially closed venture business in 2005.
This provides greater good performance.
Overall, Infrastructure concessions, representing an initial investment visibility of comparable underlying performance.
Services won in excess of 280m of new of 22.2m, all of which are operational.
The Arden Partnership, our 50:50 joint venture Infrastructure Services delivered an encouraging with Costain, reached financial close on the improvement in comparable profit  Services entered 2007 with 30m Lincolnshire project, the first of three year as the benefits of the restructuring of the a strong order book and over 83% of its phases of the 76.5m Three Shires batched business and increase in regulated investment targeted revenues for the year secured.
It has mental health PFI scheme on 3 May 2007. spend in the electricity and water sectors started secured 265m of new work so far in 2007.
The remaining two projects in the scheme are to have a positive impact on our results.
This includes an additional four-year contract due to reach financial close in the summer of Underlying profit before tax increased by worth at least 40m with EDF Energy Networks 2007.
We are committed to investing a further 32% to 4.1m 2005: 3.1m from revenues for the installation and upgrade of high voltage 3.8m in our PFI portfolio before the end of 315.2m 2005 restated: 364.1m.
underground cabling as part of the capital of 2008 and will continue to invest selectively programme supporting its electricity network in new PFI schemes that match our capabilities Our Infrastructure Services business is focused in East of England, building on the 40m and dispose of existing PFI investments, if and on providing maintenance and renewal services sub-station design and build contract with EDF when appropriate opportunities arise.
to the utilities and highways maintenance Energy Networks announced in January 2007. sectors, where clients continue to seek to In addition, we have now secured a new six Project Services entered 2007 with a strong reduce costs and improve delivery through year 160m contract covering the replacement order book and over 82% of its target outsourcing.
of Victorian mains across south west London revenues for the year secured.
Finally, we have secured also won a further 100m of new business Following the restructuring in 2005, the a two year extension, worth 25m, to our since the start of 2007, including contracts business now operates through three units existing highways maintenance contract to design and build a new leisure centre Gas and Water: Electricity and Telecoms: with Suffolk County Council.
This contract at Ashfield and to construct a new dual and Government Services, from five will now run until March 2009. carriageway at the A421 A6 junction and previously.
The targeted exits, highlighted associated infrastructure works at St Neots, in 2005, from the stand-alone Streetlighting The strong momentum in this business gives Cambridgeshire.
In addition, it has been and Rail Telecoms businesses and one nonus confidence that it will maintain the positive confirmed that our ECI scheme covering performing contract were finalised in the year, progress in 2007. the widening of junctions 29-32 of the M4 resulting in additional one-off costs of 4.3m ALFRED McALPINE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200611 When electricity supplies to homes and workplaces are interrupted due to bad weather, 80m 132kv Alfred McAlpine works to carry total contract value.
out emergency repair work and re-instate supplies for customers of E. ON Central Networks.
Under an 80m contract, Alfred McAlpine 6counties 10,800kms provides key support services with over 4.7m customers.
Alfred McAlpine provides a complete solution from the connection of low voltage electrical services, design and project management through to delivering engineering services at high voltage.
The service encompasses all types of works at voltages up to 132,000 volts.
The team works across the six counties Gloucestershire, Herefordshire, Leicestershire, Northamptonshire, Warwickshire and Worcestershire that comprise the southern part of the region covered by Central Networks, the electricity distribution business of E. ON.
Over the past year we have installed 150kms of medium and high voltage cable, refurbished or installed 420kms of overhead lines and nearly 200 sub-stations.
In addition, the team constantly patrols 10,800kms of overhead lines and provides twenty-four hour reactive support to client network problems and the maintenance of 1,200 sub-stations across the region.
The team has been working with Central Networks for four years and the contract was renewed in 2006 for a further four years, with the potential to extend the work for another five years after that.
This is the only outsourced contract of its kind in the industry.
Central Networks awarded Alfred McAlpine an all encompassing contract.
Instead of the contract being broken into packages of work such as cable laying or being tendered as individual projects, the contract covers the full spectrum of operational delivery.
This means that Alfred McAlpine is responsible for asset inspections sub-stations, telegraph poles etc, maintenance and replacement as well as managing new connections for the 4,769,190 customers everything to do with medium and high voltage power supply across the six counties.
One reason for the Alfred McAlpine teams success to date has been having the right operational structure which includes new offices in Nuneaton, placing the team at the heart of the Central Networks region.
Alfred McAlpine has adopted a proactive approach with the customer on all reporting aspects and development of common reporting procedures.
This means that the team works much more closely with the customer: helping improve safety, quality, delivery and service levels.
This vital work, ensuring the supply of electricity to thousands of homes and businesses, goes largely unseen and unnoticed by the domestic and business users who rely upon their supply.
Alfred McAlpine ensures that E. ON gives its customers the best possible service.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC 12 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED 2004 Slate m and prior 2005 2006 Total The impact of the accounting irregularities Underlying PBT n a 37.4 43.0 n a in the slate business on the Groups Income Sales fraud 6.1 7.7 9.1 22.9 Statement for the year to 31 December 2006 Other current asset impairment 7.0 3.7 6.9 17.6 and on its Balance Sheet as at 31 December Restated: Underlying PBT n a 26.0 27.0 n a 2006 is summarised in the table and was Non-recurring costs as follows: Fixed asset impairment and write-offs 6.1 1.6 1.8 9.5 Professional fees and other costs 0.00.0 6.0 6.0 i a reduction in reported Group revenue and pre-tax profit in relation to the sales fraud Slate impact 19.2 13.0 23.8 56.0 in the years up to and including 2006 Tax 5.03.7 6.9 15.6 of 22.9m, of which 5.4m represents Net Slate impact 14.2 9.3 16.9 40.4 deferred income which will be recognised in 2007 in line with the guidance given 2006 Underlying PBT as per the Groups management accounts.
in the statement on 26 February 2007. ii a reduction of 17.6m in the current assets The investigation concluded that personal Going forward, the Slate recovery plan of the Group, as reflected in the Group gain was not the underlying motivation for reflects reduced revenues and a reduced Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2006, the fraud.
Ashurst have advised the Board that cost structure.
After the fulfilment of pre-paid in respect of the write down impairment there is little prospect of any material financial deeply discounted orders accepted by the of the value of stock and work in progress recovery being obtained through civil former management team in late 2006, in the slate business.
proceedings against those who instigated it is expected that the business will make an the fraud.
The Board has asked North Wales operating loss in 2007 of around 5m from iii a reduction of 9.5m in the fixed assets police to investigate the matter and take such targeted sales of 21m.
With the fulfilment of the Group, as reflected in the Group further action as they deem appropriate.
of these orders, the business is projected Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2006, The Group will co-operate fully with North to return to at least break even in 2008. principally in respect of the overstatement Wales police as required.
Thereafter, the business will be working of quarry development costs in the towards operating margins of 15% on slate business.
In addition to the investigation, the Board has annual revenues of approximately 30m.
undertaken a number of actions to return Slate iv a one-off cost of 6.0m reflecting the to profitability.
These include: costs of the independent investigation and the costs of completing the arrangement the appointment of a new senior of new banking facilities with the management team led by Alan Smith, Groups bankers.
formerly a senior director with Aggregate Industries The cash impact on the Group of the accounting the establishment and implementation irregularities and the non-recurring costs referred of a comprehensive recovery plan to above is expected to be 30m in 2007. the immediate moth-balling of operations at the Cwt Y Bugail quarry Having taken advice from an independent the moth-balling of Slates architectural expert geologist, the Board is satisfied that business at Ffestiniog quarry the value of the mineral reserves at Slate the extensive restructuring of the business remains prudent and appropriate.
In addition, cost base, resulting in a headcount reduction independent review has confirmed that the of 166. value of the investment in the new sawn plant at Slate remains appropriate.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200613 Group financial results At 31 December 2006, the Group had a series 2006: 6.6m of which 4m was Group revenues in the year rose to 1,123m of committed bi-lateral facilities totalling 135m.
contributed during 2006 restated 2005: 1,072m, an increase of 5%.
In March 2007, we successfully completed the 2007: 6.6m process of refinancing these facilities, which 2008: 8.5m Group underlying profit was 27.0m commenced in January 2007 in the lead 2009: 9.2m, plus the increase restated 2005: 26.0m, reflecting a PBT up to the Enviros acquisition.
We now have in RPI over 2008 margin of 2.4% in line with 2005.
Reported 180m of committed funds available to us 2010-15: Prior year contribution plus the profit before tax was 18.7m restated through a syndicated revolving credit facility.
increase in RPI over the preceding 2005: 24.7m.
This syndicated revolving credit facility will 12 months mature in February 2011.
In aggregate Underlying earnings per share were 22.8p this facility is available to support general The 1.0m reduction in the gross deficit restated 2005: 23.7p per share.
as at 31 December 2006 reflects the 6.9m cover is 1.5x restated 2005: 1.7x based reduction in liabilities secured by our liability on underlying profit after tax and calculated We continue to review our Corporate Centre management programme and increases in using the interim dividend for 2006 paid costs to ensure that these remain appropriate.
the discount rate used to calculate the defined and the proposed final dividend for 2006.
In 2006, centre costs, excluding the nonbenefit obligation as a result of increases recurring costs associated with our pension to corporate bond yields over the year.
Basic earnings per share were 16.8p.
Diluted liability management programme, amounted This was countered by the strengthening of earnings per share were 16.3p.
the mortality assumption applied for IAS 19 are stated after a number of non-recurring purposes.
This assumption is now based on items including a net settlement gain of Shareholders funds total 263.2m 2005 PA92 medium cohort projections, and is the 3.8m generated by the reduction in liabilities restated: 259.2m.
same as the assumption applied by the Plan resulting from our pension liability management actuary in completing his most recent formal programme, 7.8m of impairment and cost During the year, our original investments actuarial valuation of the Plan for the Plan provisions in respect of the slate business and in PFI joint ventures increased by 3.5m Trustee as at 31 December 2005.
Whilst some 4.3m cash cost 2.7m of additional nonto 22.2m following our investment in the scaling has been applied for current pensioners recurring costs relating to the completion A1 Darrington to Dishforth and the sale to reflect actual experience in the Plan, of the previously announced exit from the of our 10% equity interests in the Enterprise no scaling has been applied for members stand-alone Streetlighting and Rail Telecoms PFIs Stoke Mandeville Hospital, Exeter Courts pre-retirement.
This change in the mortality businesses and discontinued contracts in our and Conwy Schools.
assumption increased the obligation by Infrastructure Services business.
over 10%, as we anticipated in 2005.
In As at 31 December 2006, there was an IAS19 combination, these changes ensure that Free cash flow improved by 9.4m after deficit on our four defined benefit pension the assumptions remain in line with current funding organic growth in our core business schemes totalling 29.6m, net of tax credit market best estimates.
Further disclosures and the investment of 10m in new systems 2005: 33.8m.
Of this, the deficit in the of the assumptions used including mortality to support our people and our future growth main Alfred McAlpine Pension Plan was assumptions are provided in note 20 of the as described in the section on Sustainable 25.2m net of tax credit 2005: 25.8m.
The Company and the Trustee of the Alfred Our tax charge continues to benefit from Average net borrowings through the year McAlpine Pension Plan recently agreed the prudent planning and brought forward losses.
valuation of the Plan as at 31 December 2005, Our effective underlying tax rate was 17% and, as required by the Pensions Act 2004, during 2006 2005: 15%.
We expect that we After the one-off costs of 5.5m, including concluded a funding recovery plan to meet the will return to a normalised 28% rate by 2009. payments made under the pension liability Plans Statutory Funding Objective.
This recovery management programme amounting to plan is designed to remove the deficit in funding Sustainable business 2.8m, our year end net cash position was revealed by the valuation as at 31 December We are committed to ensuring that we and 29.0m 2005: 32.8m.
The bank interest 2005 by 31 December 2015.
The recovery our supply partners operate to the highest charge for the year was 3.4m, up from plan is effective from 1 January 2006 and safety standards.
It is pleasing therefore to 2.0m in the prior year, reflecting the higher under it the Company will make the following be able to report a step-change improvement average borrowings through the year.
cash contributions to the Plan: in the Groups Accident Frequency Rate AFR, ALFRED McALPINE PLC 14 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES Over BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED 65% of our employees completed our annual employee survey.
Industry Scheme CIS which was introduced The five values are: which now stands at a sector-leading 0.14 2005: 0.24.
This equates to 1.4 accidents by HMRC in April 2007.
Winning Alfred McAlpine values for every million hours worked.
We will winners people who want to create success continue to seek ongoing improvements In addition, in our facilities management business, we introduced a new management for themselves, their company, and their in our safety performance to achieve our customers: people with real commitment.
objective of an AFR of 0.10 or less by 2010. structure and implemented a new Oracle ERP management platform to replace the existing Passion Superior performance is born To deliver the excellent customer service, which legacy systems.
The successful implementation of Oracle provides us with a scalable Tier 1 out of passion.
Alfred McAlpine values people is fundamental to our offering, we need to who are passionate about their work and about attract, develop and retain the best people.
solution to support the planned growth of this business over many years to come and doing the very best job for their customers.
To this end, we aim to be an employer of choice.
We measure our performance in this there is now the opportunity to exploit the Honesty functionality to extract further value from Alfred McAlpine demands area through our annual employee survey, honesty honesty in dealing with each other which is conducted by MORI on our behalf.
and honesty in dealing with all external Further details of the survey and results stakeholders.
can be found in the People section of this People Business Review.
Our employee strategy remains focused Collaboration The Company values people on supporting delivery and customer service, To support our people and our future growth, through a motivated and engaged workforce.
who work openly and productively with each other, clients and partners people who listen, we continue to invest in new systems.
2006 The key differentiator in the service we provide was a year of significant achievement, as to our customers is the quality and motivation people who explore new ideas and create new value.
we successfully completed a series of major of our employees.
This is visibly demonstrated systems change programmes.
These are through their performance: through productivity, Enjoyment The Company values job aimed at ensuring that we capture and quality, safety and customer service.
share the knowledge that exists across satisfaction.
People who enjoy what they do put more in and get more out.
our business, which is vital to our ongoing To achieve a motivated and engaged workforce, competitive success.
we support our employees through excellent Employee survey leadership, skilled management, investment in We completed the implementation of our development and training, involvement through To gauge the extent to which we are meeting the needs of employees and driving the Group-wide HR and payroll system, which inclusive consultation and innovative internal will enhance operational efficiency and communications as well as a reward package behaviour linked to the Company values, we work with MORI, the international market allow us to deliver a high quality service that motivates and supports them.
The higher degree of IT and employee research organisation, using its employee advocacy model to survey sophistication has allowed us to implement In addition, we utilise our HR, time operational processes which generated management, routing and knowledge our employees.
We ask every employee to complete a questionnaire and, in 2006, immediate and ongoing benefits for both management systems to ensure that we the Company and employees: in particular, provide our customers with the right person, we received a 65% response rate.
We have surveyed employees for three years and it has reduced payroll processing costs in with the right skills and motivation, at the Infrastructure Services and Project Services right location, at the right time, with all the a consistent improvement has been apparent year-on-year.
The survey helps us to measure by more than 50%.
knowledge of the Company at their disposal.
how far we are along the path to advocacy: we want our people to be so proud of working This project also necessitated an upgrade Culture and values to the Causeway financial management We believe that a positive culture is essential for Alfred McAlpine that they recommend us to their customers, business partners and system to provide the interfaces required to high-quality customer service.
Our values to allow the automated transfer of data to of winning, passion, honesty, collaboration friends as an employer and service provider.
The path starts with awareness and and from the HR and payroll system.
As part and enjoyment have to be reflected in all our of this planned upgrade, we also introduced practices and procedures.
Our reputation has understanding for both business and individual objectives, moves through satisfaction, a major enhancement of system reporting been built on our people and we believe that capabilities and, as a result, were able to meet employees whose behaviours reflect our values commitment, pride, engagement and, finally, to advocacy.
the requirements of the new Construction deliver excellent customer service.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200615 HM Revenue and Customs HMRC operations encompass a diverse property portfolio ranging from 50 m 3,500 local tax offices to detention centres.
annual contract value, people working in over 700 When HMRC decided to focus over 15 years.
on its core activity and transfer the management of its estate to Mapeley, Alfred McAlpine was their partner of choice to provide 10,500 8,500 total facilities management.
planned maintenance tasks average help desk calls a month.
At 50m per year when fully operational, and over a duration of 15 years, Alfred McAlpines contract with Mapeley to provide management services across HMRCs entire property portfolio is the largest contract in the Group.
Alfred McAlpine has responsibility for over 700 UK properties occupied by HMRC and 3,500 people working on the contract.
Under the Strategic Transfer of the Estate to the Private Sector STEPS programme, property specialists Mapeley acquired HMRCs estate a vast array of properties with a huge variety of styles and uses from dog kennels to data processing sites, Grade I listed buildings, modern office 2 units of over 40,000m, car parks and detention cells.
As well as office administration across the UK, Alfred McAlpine is also responsible for managing property maintenance at HMRCs tax offices.
Alfred McAlpines experience and understanding of the customers values has contributed to the provision of a high quality service irrespective of the location and size of the property.
We perform around 7,000 reactive tasks and 10,500 planned maintenance jobs every month.
The key services are as wide and varied as the buildings themselves and include: mechanical and electrical works, building fabric works, cleaning, security, grounds maintenance and the control and management of catering and childcare sub-contractors at around 15 sites.
The team operates alongside Mapeley personnel from a dedicated office in Milton Keynes.
A 24- hour help desk controls and organises service across all sites, manages reactive calls and coordinates planned preventative maintenance tasks.
On average the team deals with 8,500 calls a month, but this can be as high as 10,000.
Performance management is undertaken by a bespoke software system specifically tailored to Mapeleys needs.
It is vital that the services are provided 24-hours a day, 365 days a year, and performance measurements and financial penalties are imposed for failing to meet objectives.
Tony Hampson, Operations Director overseeing the Mapeley contract for Alfred McAlpine, said, Winning a contract of this length and complexity is testament to Alfred McAlpines reputation for service, innovation and continuous improvement.
It confirms and reinforces Alfred McAlpines position as one of the UKs leading providers of support services to both the public and private sector.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC 16 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES Our training and development programmes help our employees reach their BUSINESS REVIEW full potential Leadership programmes CONTINUED Management programmes Alfred McAlpine Graduate programmes development TALENT programmes MANAGEMENT First line manager programmes Apprentice programmes Management skills Alfred McAlpine Customer management skills skills training Interpersonal skills Technical skills Our target in these key areas is to be in Achieving an engaged workforce Reward and support MORIs Top 10 score for private sector UK Leadership We pay competitive salaries, offer incentive pay organisations.
In 2006, we achieved this for Motivated employees require great leaders for performance and provide market competitive both satisfaction working for the Company and we have continued to focus on facilitating and supportive benefits to our employees.
When asked to rate and nurturing leadership.
We have established satisfaction at achieving something worthwhile talent management programmes covering the We have been refreshing our benefits package at work, the score 79% is the highest that majority of our management team and these to ensure that our benefits position us as an MORI has recorded.
provide both awareness of those who will attractive employer to the whole of the UKs benefit from accelerated development and, diverse workforce.
more importantly, focus the development needs Employee survey results of participants.
Our 360 degree feedback In 2006, we introduced an employee assistance % process, our performance management and programme for employees and their families, Awareness our employee survey all give us insight into the offering confidential help and counselling behaviour of our leaders.
Our employee survey covering any of the life challenges that Satisfaction demonstrates that the improvements are visible may arise.
Commitment We have also introduced a corporate discounts Training and development scheme to enable our employees to save money Pride We run a series of training and development on what they spend and launched a Buy As You programmes operating across the core Earn share scheme to foster share ownership businesses which ensure that we obtain amongst our employees by enabling them Engagement maximum value from our employees by to buy shares in a tax-efficient way.
This has Advocacy helping them reach their full potential.
already been taken up by approximately employer 10% of our employees.
2006 Advocacy When asked through the MORI survey whether 2005 services 2004 employees felt they had a clear career path, Finally, we have introduced childcare vouchers MORI recorded the highest score that they and combined this with a national emergency % 20 40 60 80 100 have recorded for any company.
childcare and elderly care programme to Source: MORI enable employees to both save money Employee forums and consultation and deal with situations where their normal Employee profile We consult employees and listen to their care arrangements break down.
In 2006, we successfully implemented feedback through the annual employee survey a Group-wide HR system which allows us and a regular employee forum in each to capture and monitor information on our Business Stream.
We also publish a range employees.
Not only does this increase the of internal magazines and newsletters across efficiency of our administrative procedures, the Group and use web-based knowledge but we will be able to use the information management systems.
We also hold regular extracted to monitor the success of our team briefings and toolbox talks.
We employ 8,700 people, the majority based in the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200617 Principal risks and uncertainties the management of health and safety Outlook The Board considers risk assessment, risks through an embedded core business We entered 2007 with a record order identification of mitigating actions and internal programme which demands an absolute book and having delivered a step-change control to be fundamental to the achievement focus on providing the safest possible improvement in our AFR and made further of Alfred McAlpines strategic objectives.
The working environments for our employees, good progress in our employee advocacy report on Corporate Governance on pages 24 suppliers and the public programmes in 2006. to 29 describes the systems and processes nurturing a winning culture, on which through which the Board identifies, manages service excellence depends Our priorities for 2007 will be to continue and mitigates risks.
Summarised below are maintaining a balanced business without to grow our core businesses to deliver the the principal risks and uncertainties which the over exposure to one sector, client strong profit and earnings growth that Board considers face the Group and which or service we are targeting and to return our slate could impact on the Groups ability to deliver the winning of new business to deliver the business to profitability.
We will do this its strategic objectives.
The nature and scope growth that we are targeting, which requires through the continued execution of our of these principal risks and uncertainties can us to continuously improve and extend our established strategy.
change and so the Board regularly reviews offering and to deliver tailored solutions these, as well as the systems and processes which meet clients specific requirements for managing and mitigating them: successful implementation and management of major systems and, particularly with the successful and timely execution of regard to contract mobilisation, change major contracts, including the robust management projects control of the bid tender process to address the management of environmental risk I M Grice Group Chief Executive commercial risks, including pricing and through the maintenance of an effective contract specification and regular reviews corporate responsibility programme 11 May 2007 through the contract delivery stage to the pro-active management of the risks completion to minimise the risk of financial associated with the Groups defined benefit loss and associated reputational damage pension schemes.
attracting, retaining and motivating the high quality people on whom the Groups future Fuller details of the programmes and initiatives success depends by becoming an employer that have been implemented to manage of choice through maintaining the highest and mitigate these risks are included in levels of employee satisfaction, motivation this Business Review and the report on and commitment Corporate Governance.
the provision of excellent customer service to maintain the long-term client relationships that we target which are essential to the maintenance of visible, long-term earnings streams
