qxp:Layout 1 6 3 07 13:18 Page 8 Group Overview Chief Executives Statement I am very proud to have been appointed Chief Executive of George Wimpey.
This is a huge opportunity Delivering on promises for me and it gives me great pleasure to use my first Chief Executives Statement to set out how I intend to take this business forward.
At the beginning of 2006 we promised to: Being appointed from within the business has been a considerable advantage.
I was part of the UK management team responsible for merging Wimpey Homes and McLean Homes and for acquiring and Rebalance H1 H2 integrating McAlpine Homes and Laing Homes.
I was a member of the Executive Committee that set the First half 2006 growth growth plans for Morrison Homes.
I understand the strengths and weaknesses of our businesses as well 20% Group revenue as their history.
25% Group PBT 28% UK completions During the four months after it was announced that Peter Johnson would be standing down, I was able to step back from the business and think very openly about what was right for the Companys future.
Deal with the causes of Our goal is to ensure George Wimpey becomes the leading national housebuilder in the UK and in the underperformance in the UK regional markets we choose in the US.
Our strategy must, therefore, focus on the key areas of business H2 operating margin increased to 14.3% performance that will achieve the growth to deliver maximum value for our shareholders, for our Record year end forward order book customers and for our other stakeholders not just in the short term but consistently for many years to Strengthen our landbank come, regardless of market conditions.
14% growth in UK landbank to There are already many things that we do extremely well.
In both the UK and the US, the quality of 57,999 plots the homes we build is very high and we strive to deliver excellent levels of service for all our customers.
Prudent action taken to create In the UK we were the only volume housebuilder to be awarded 4 stars in the two key categories of the US landbank appropriate for HBF Customer Satisfaction Survey.
We also take our duty to behave as a responsible company very current market conditions seriously, seeking to meet the challenges of sustainable development and limit the impact of our developments on the environment.
George Wimpey was amongst the Global Top 100 Companies listed by Innovest Strategic Value Advisors and Corporate Knights as a role model for the effectiveness of our environmental, social and governance risk management.
However, there are areas of our business that we have to take forward to achieve our goal.
We need to deliver consistent and industry leading results so investors have confidence in George Wimpey as a long term secure investment.
We need to create sustainable competitive advantage through the effectiveness and efficiency of: Our landbank Our cost base Our sales expertise Our people Our businesses need to look further forward, to make decisions based not on what the outcome will be tomorrow but what the impact will be for the long term.
8 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Group Overview WP100 p06-p11 vAW1 tp.
qxp:Layout 1 6 3 07 13:18 Page 9 Building a leading position...
In financial terms we will deliver steady and consistent growth across our businesses.
We will continue to grow our total Group volumes, building on the record performance this year to retain our position as one of the three largest UK listed housebuilders.
Our businesses will strive to achieve the highest level of operating profit in our sector as well as above average margins and return on capital.
We will generate cash and reuse our capital efficiently to deliver the steady and consistent growth of our business.
How will we measure our success?
Throughout this report we have highlighted those measures, both financial and non-financial, that we consider to be the Key Performance Indicators for the success of our strategy.
To achieve our goal of delivering sustainable competitive advantage and superior returns for our shareholders we have to run a highly efficient and effective business.
We cannot afford to give away any advantage in the way we buy land, manage costs or sell our products and we need to employ the best people in our industry.
Our landbank Land is our raw material and the aspect of our business that I feel most passionate about.
Since 2001 we have been steadily increasing the number of plots in our short term landbank, particularly in the US where we have achieved significant growth over the past five years.
In the UK we have made a step Reducing the change in our land strategy, increasing our focus on buying land where we can add value, to reduce real cost of land the real cost of land going forward.
In the UK we are establishing a balanced landbank which will give each business a portfolio of land at During 2006 we brought 4,837 plots different stages in the planning system to allow them greater security and allow them to plan business into our UK short term landbank activity in advance.
Ideally our landbank will comprise around 40% short term land and 30% of both from our strategic landbank.
We have medium and long term land.
owned or held options on many of these sites for more than ten years Since the end of 2003 we have increased focus on buying more medium term land, generally larger as we have worked to bring them pieces of land that will be developed within three to five years, where we can add value by taking the site through the planning system.
through the planning system ourselves.
We are already seeing some of the benefits of these types of acquisitions coming through as the plot cost in the landbank starts to reduce.
At the end of 2006 the average plot cost in the landbank was 47,300 compared with that on completions of 49,100.
During 2006 we made a significant shift in the delivery of strategic land into the landbank and were successful in bringing 4,837 plots into the short term landbank.
These plots will come through at a significantly lower cost per plot, adding considerable value to the landbank.
In the US we have been reviewing our landbank in light of the change in market conditions.
As our average selling prices fell by over 10% during the year, and the short term outcome for the US housing market remained uncertain, we took a very cautious approach to land purchases.
During the second half of the year we temporarily withdrew from land purchases in all markets except Texas, where conditions are more stable.
We have deliberately reduced our US landbank by 20% to 18,737 plots.
qxp:Layout 1 6 3 07 13:18 Page 10 Group Overview Chief Executives Statement continued still retain a strong land position with all the land required for 2007s anticipated completions and the majority of that required for 2008.
This land is all held at values consistent with current market conditions.
We expect some further weakening of land prices and believe we will be able to secure land at lower cost in the future.
Our cost base We seek to leverage maximum benefit from our scale to become the lowest cost producer in our industry and ensure we deliver maximum value from our developments.
A thorough review of our supply chain and a detailed benchmarking of costs in every area of our business in both the UK and the US will ensure we achieve our goals.
We have already targeted input cost savings of 25 million in the UK and $20 million in the US in 2007.
This puts us in a strong position from which to create significant competitive advantage.
Setting the strategy Our sales expertise for George Wimpey We are developing a structured and consistent sales process to achieve maximum effectiveness and deliver maximum to become the value from our brands.
We build high quality homes and our leading national strategy will ensure we have show areas that create maximum impact and desirability for our products.
Our sales executives housebuilder in will be highly trained to sell the benefits of our homes and the UK and in the efficient sales processes and procedures will ensure our customers consistently receive the highest levels of markets we choose customer service.
in the US Our people Without the right people taking our business forward we cannot achieve our goals and build the quality of business we seek.
Therefore we need to be able to attract and retain the 5,744 very best people in our industry.
We must ensure we give the people who work for us the right tools to allow them to achieve the very best they can.
We have to invest in training The total number of employees working for George Wimpey and and development and ensure we create the opportunities for Morrison Homes.
people to grow and succeed.
Our employees are our main asset - It is important for the ongoing success of our business that we seek to attract and retain the we have clear succession plans.
We want our future leaders very best people in our industry.
to come from within our business.
We have established clear We will invest in the training and training and development schemes across all areas of our development of our employees 1 to ensure they have long and business so we can effectively manage and develop the many rewarding careers with us.
Delivering our objectives I am delighted to have the support of an experienced and committed excecutive team.
In the UK, Ian Sutcliffe is driving through the improvement plans with great determination Land and in the US, Steve Parker is ensuring Morrison Homes is well positioned for growth when the market stabilises.
Our objectives To reduce the real cost of land in We have clear plans in place to strengthen and improve all the landbank the key areas of our business and I am confident this puts us in a strong position from which to deliver our strategic In the UK, to continue to strengthen objectives.
I believe George Wimpey will become the leading our landbank by adding more medium national housebuilder in the UK and in the regional markets and long term, value added plots we choose in the US and I am proud to be leading the In the US, to monitor land prices so we Company to achieve this goal.
can resume land acquisiton to support further growth on terms reflecting current market conditions Peter Redfern Group Chief Executive 12 10 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Group Overview WP100 p06-p11 vAW1 tp.
qxp:Layout 1 6 3 07 13:18 Page 11... to deliver consistent business growth 23 4 Costs Sales People Our objectves Our objectives Our objectives To establish a framework for measuring To maximise the effciency and To attract and retain the very and challenging every cost in every area effectiveness of our sales process to best people in the UK and US deliver maximum value from our brands housebuilding industy To develop an ongoing cost driven mind set For all our customers to receive high To develop the future leaders of quality homes and excellent levels of our business from within To achieve competitive advantage by customer service becoming the lowest cost producer in To reduce staff turnover the industry 14 16 18 www.
qxp:Layout 1 6 3 07 13:17 Page 12 Great Western Park, Didcot, Oxfordshire City Vizion, Rodney Parade, Newport A strategic site dating back to 1995, Great Western George Wimpey is working with the National Assembly Park, Didcot is made up of a jigsaw of land interests for Wales to provide 480 homes 72 affordable on this controlled by option agreements.
George Wimpey mixed use urban development.
We exchanged successfully overcame the challenges of the contracts in October and submitted a detailed planning system in 2006 to achieve outline planning planning application in November 2006 hoping to permission.
The development is set to provide a start on site in mid 2007 with first legal completions maximum of 3,300 homes 30% affordable as well due in September 2008.
Land costs, including flood as schools, shops, health care facilities and defence works to the Riverside Walk, are expected to community and neighbourhood centres.
be 12% of expected average selling prices.
1 Land The foundations for our future success We are seeking to build a balanced landbank across the Group reflecting the conditions of the markets in which we operate.
The mix of land we hold As part of our commitment to strengthen our UK Housing KPI in our landbank is vital to the future success of landbank we have established a new Land Landbank size plots our business.
Development Division responsible for the total UK landbank and for managing the medium and long 60,000 In the UK, as part of our commitment to delivering term portfolio to deliver the agreed number of consistent growth in financial returns we made 50,000 plots into the short term landbank.
We entered a step change in our land strategy at the end of 2007 in a strong position with detailed planning 2005.
We have increased our focus on buying 40,000 permission secured for 100% of our anticipated land where we can add extra value and so reduce volume for the year.
30,000 the real cost of land for the future.
Building and maintaining a balanced landbank is key to In the US, although we have temporarily stepped 20,000 our strategy.
back from land acquisition in all our weakening 10,000 markets, we have all the land required for our We are focusing on acquiring more long term and anticipated volumes in 2007 and a significant medium term sites which we can promote through 0 2004 2005 2006 the planning system.
We will also seek to maintain proportion for 2008 completions.
We continue to strong relationships with major land developers to hold an appropriate landbank at realistic values become preferred partners on large developments.
qxp:Layout 1 6 3 07 13:17 Page 13 growth in the UK 14% land bank in 2006 I am looking to identify those sites that will create the best value, securing the future performance of our business.
Ingrid Gelley Land and Planning Director George Wimpey East London US Housing KPI Landbank size plots 25,000 20,000 15,000 10,000 5,000 0 2004 2005 2006 www.
qxp:Layout 1 6 3 07 13:16 Page 14 Renegotiating supplier contracts In the US, all Divisions are actively seeking to reduce costs by inviting suppliers to rebid for contracts on every development.
We are holding a combination of group and individual supplier meetings to communicate this initiative and are renegotiating all contracts as bids are received.
Our initial focus has been on the top eight to ten suppliers in each Division which account for 70% of our costs.
We are targeting savings of up to 5% for this initiative.
We are fully committed to continuously driving down costs and maximising the value gained from every pound we spend.
Andy Graham Cost Controller George Wimpey UK 14 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 WP100 p14-15 vAW1 tp.
qxp:Layout 1 6 3 07 13:16 Page 15 Developing national benchmarks A new cost initiative targeting showhome 70 spending across the UK business aims to save a minimum of 8 million by establishing a Cost saving measurable national benchmark for the fit out initiatives identified and landscaping of showhomes.
Low cost, across the UK high quality methods, already operating in some businesses form the basis of the benchmark cost structure which will result in an approximate cost reduction of 40%.
2 Costs Putting the spotlight on costs We are seeking to reduce costs to more than offset the impact of inflation and regulation changes.
We have a clear strategy to develop a sustainable renegotiating all supplier contracts, establishing cost conscious culture so we continually challenge cost guideline principles for outside legal consultants all our processes, seeking to improve the and evaluating and aggressively managing our first 25m cost-value balance.
year warranty claims to drive down costs.
We will also re-evaluate all housetypes to dramatically reduce the In the UK our highly structured approach to cost cost savings targeted in total number offered across the company.
A detailed the UK business in 2007 management has resulted in over 70 locally staffed benchmarking process will measure the progress of initiatives branching from a central management these initiatives so we can remain on track to meet and control process.
This structure allows regional our targets.
best practice processes to be used as national benchmarks.
We have identified priority areas, most $20m 2006 saw the appointment of a Head of Procurement significantly direct selling expenses.
Rapid progress is for George Wimpey UK, Peter Williams and a Director coming through supplier consolidation and stronger cost savings identified in of Purchasing for Morrison Homes, Jeff Allgood, who procurement and tendering methods.
Early gains the US business in 2007 will focus on developing a unified approach to all have already helped to identify further opportunities purchasing across all business units.
In the UK Andy to make savings.
Graham was appointed Cost Controller to ensure we In the US a number of cost reduction initiatives are actively drive down costs and to co-ordinate the cost underway to help offset the market impact.
qxp:Layout 1 6 3 07 13:15 Page 16 Innovative solutions Top class sales staff During 2006, our Houston Division A fresh new sales training experience was piloted mymorrisonhomes.
introduced across the UK during 2006 to This new and interactive part of the build upon the success of our Growing Wiser Morrison Homes website is designed customer service campaign.
The innovative to guide customers through the training sessions provided sales executives homebuying process and serve as with new tools and techniques to enhance a communication tool once they the effectiveness of their selling skills ensuring have moved into their new home.
we have the best sales teams in the industry.
3 Sales Maximising the selling process Across all our brands we are setting industry leading standards providing excellence in sales presentation and management and customer service.
UK Housing KPI Our key sales strategy focuses on delivering In the UK a full review of the effectiveness of greater value from our core brands.
Using sharper marketing spend was carried out in 2006 leading Customer satisfaction % brand positioning, we aim to build on the excellent to a number of new initiatives to create a reputations we have in our markets to create unified brand image.
A standard sales office 90 a consistent sense of desire for our homes.
and showhome will ensure we create maximum 80 impact for every customer and heighten the The internet is increasingly recognised as a key 70 desirability of our products.
selling tool and we will continue to take full 60 advantage of this medium to promote our brands.
Across our business we strive to provide excellent 50 In 2006 we piloted mymorrisonhomes.
com in levels of customer service and are committed to 40 the US and a new and improved UK website was improving levels of customer satisfaction.
We aim 30 introduced early in 2007.
In addition we will make to build upon the innovative training carried out 20 greater use of popular industry websites to throughout 2006 to further develop the customer 10 promote our homes.
care and selling skills of all our sales staff to ensure 0 they are the best trained in the industry.
qxp:Layout 1 6 3 07 13:15 Page 17 Maximising our brand image Top 5% A national initiative is underway in the UK business that will not Morrison Homes only improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our advertising is rated among but also create a strong, unified brand image.
We have reduced the top 5% of all the number of agencies we use from 22 to five, all selected to offer homebuilders in the best blend of service, creative flair and ability to deliver national the US for customer campaigns.
Creative templates will be available for all businesses satisfaction.
to use maximising the value from the George Wimpey brand, creating better quality advertising as well as reducing costs by approximately 50%.
Each member of my sales team is highly passionate about our homes.
This enthusiasm is reflected in every aspect of the sales process.
Amy Haywood VP Sales and Marketing Morrison Homes Houston US Housing KPI Customer satisfaction % 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 2004 2005 2006 www.
qxp:Layout 1 6 3 07 13:15 Page 18 Nearly 40 years of service Steve Farmer joined the company as a Junior Surveying Clerk aged 16 and progressed his career through the commercial 73% department to become Regional Quantity Surveyor in 1991. of our UK employees say Following that he continued to broaden his experience they are proud to work holding the posts of Production Director, Technical Director for George Wimpey.
and finally Commercial Director before being appointed Managing Director for George Wimpey East Midlands at the beginning of 2007.
Our employees are key to our success.
I am committed to developing the talents of my apprentices and ensuring they receive the highest standard of skills training.
Willie Burns Production Director George Wimpey East Scotland UK Housing KPI Sta turnover % 25 20 15 10 5 0 2004 2005 2006 18 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 24 22 24 WP100 p18-19 vAW1 tp.
qxp:Layout 1 6 3 07 13:15 Page 19 Developing the skills for success Morrison Academy was introduced in late 2006 as a programme focused on management and leadership development.
Under this umbrella, two 71 % key initiatives are already underway.
The Morrison Business Academy of our UK business targets members of senior management and aims to enhance higher unit heads were order business skills as well as improve overall leadership capability and promoted from effectiveness.
The Leadership Summit focuses on high potential talent within the business.
within the business and provides them with the skills required to move into top operational leadership roles within 24 to 36 months.
4 People Developing our future leaders We aim to attract, develop and retain the very best people in the UK and US housing industry.
Talent management is the key focus of our people of Florida starting with Morrison Homes in September US Housing KPI strategy.
Throughout 2006 we have improved existing this year.
Sta turnover % practices and introduced new ones to support Reduction of employee turnover is a business 45 leadership and skills development at all levels of priority and to assist in achieving this all managers are 40 our organisation.
completing recruitment skills training with performance 35 management and coaching skills being developed Our development programmes include the Henley 30 across the businesses.
Leadership Programme, New Directors Programme, 25 Oxford MBA, Management Trainee Scheme and In order to facilitate succession planning and to assist 20 Apprenticeships in the UK and the Morrison Business with training need analysis we have completed a 15 Academy and Leadership Summit in the US.
In the UK competency framework for all roles along with the launch of an improved Performance Appraisal process.
10 George Wimpeys Graduate Programme continues to be a success and we are committed to doubling the 5 The responses we receive from our Employee Surveys intake in 2007.
Three of those recruited have already 0 in both the UK and US help us to formulate action plans 2004 2005 2006 achieved director status.
A similar scheme entitled to support employee development at all levels of the Leadership in the Making is being set up in the US business ensuring our companies are great places with the first intake of graduates from the University to work.
