Chief Executives statement In Aerospace the acquisition of Stellex Aerostructures Improving profitability created a leading position in the high growth area of GKN is in good shape.
The strategic actions we have titanium structures manufacture.
taken to better position the business for sustained growth are now contributing strongly to improving Restructuring for growth profitability.
The strategic restructuring programme we embarked on two years ago is now moving to a close with the Aerospace had another excellent year, increasing final announcements on site reorganisation and sales by 11% and profits by 30% and achieved closure in Driveline and Sinter Metals having been the double digit margins we have promised.
made and the actions commenced in 2007.
Substantial new business was secured across a range of programmes, growing our order book for In addition, in the light of further deterioration in UK both defence and civil customers.
The market market conditions, we took the decision to close our outlook continues to be positive in both sectors.
UK manufacturing facility for cylinder liners and this was announced in January 2007.
Liner production will Overall Automotive profits also improved slightly take place solely in China with some machining and despite well publicised turbulence in our major nishing in North America.
A significant downturn in US production and a particularly weak third quarter demand in The successful completion of the Group restructuring Western Europe combined to signicantly challenge plan is a major plank of our strategy to position GKN the skills of GKN plant management in both markets.
Our team are executing this most difficult of leadership challenges with great skill Our Driveline Driveshafts business found conditions and sensitivity, creating a very strong foundation for particularly difficult and profits were down as a result.
the future I am grateful to them.
The foundations of the business remain solid and with our restructuring programme completing in 2007, we It is the promise of that future which is now exciting are confident of achieving improved performance in the GKN team.
Technology and people Powder Metallurgy performed strongly, returning our Our technology programme is producing new US business to profitability and improving margins market leading products from all parts of the Group.
We also continued to grow revenues in The worlds first composite primary wing structure, Asia Pacic and Latin America, creating a business developed at our Cowes site, is now assembled into with a better geographic and customer mix.
Powder the first A400M development aircraft at Airbus: our Metallurgy is now well set for a sustained period Alabama facility will deliver the worlds first production of growth.
standard large commercial engine fan case manufactured in composite materials to General Electric early next OffHighway markets have been mixed, with Europe year for their new GEnx engine: in Automotive, GKNs remaining stable, US construction equipment demand market leading new power control system product will strong and the US agricultural market being somewhat enter the market on a new premium vehicle during soft.
Helped by the acquisition in the US of Rockford 2008: and in Powder Metallurgy, OffHighway and Powertrain, OffHighway also increased profits during Emitec market leading, innovative new designs are the year.
Its acquisition of a wheels manufacturing securing GKNs future prosperity.
operation in Luizhou in China now positions OffHighway as a global leader in the wheels sector and the The pace of development of GKN businesses in serving business is now well positioned to make a growing high growth emerging markets has also increased.
Nine contribution to GKNs future.
GKN businesses employing around 3,500 people now Our performance in 2006 shows GKN making excellent progress with strong results and major milestones achieved which will help secure sustainable growth.
4 GKN plc Annual Report 2006 Chief Executives statement We have entered 2007 with our four major businesses Driveline, Powder Metallurgy, OffHighway and Aerospace in great shape and all well positioned to drive growth.
serve the Chinese domestic automotive and off-highway OffHighway demand in North America is slightly markets.
Two new factories in India will double our down on last year although sentiment appears to be employment there and significant expansion is taking improving: European markets and the mining and place in Brazil, Mexico and Eastern Europe.
heavy construction sectors generally are expected to be good.
Our Lean Enterprise programme has taken hold right across the Group, securing a strong continuous Aerospace markets in all sectors are expected to improvement culture in all parts of GKN.
Strong order books, increasing market shares and new Raw material input costs remain volatile, but the Group technology products have positioned all GKNs major is not expecting them to make a major impact on 2007 businesses for growth.
More importantly our fantastic performance compared to 2006. team of people continue to develop, grow and excel Against this background, in 2007 the Group expects to it is a privilege to lead them.
see further improvement in its Automotive businesses My family and I were immensely proud and excited and continuing growth in OffHighway and Aerospace.
that I and GKN should be recognised by the award Driveline will benefit from the successful restructuring of a Knighthood in Her Majesty The Queens New Year programme which should allow it to recover much Honours.
I would like to thank the entire GKN team of the ground lost in 2006.
Powder Metallurgy and for the wonderful support they have given me since Aerospace should see good top line growth helped I joined the Group in 1999.
This honour is recognition by a strong backlog of booked business.
Performance of the hard work and dedication of that team and they in our retained Other Automotive businesses should should all take pride in it.
The acquisitions made in 2006 are integrating well and will also contribute to revenue Outlook and profit growth in 2007.
The outlook for our major markets is positive, despite some uncertainty around the strength of North American Overall, we expect the Group to see another year of automotive demand.
good progress, with the high level of business wins in 2006 supplemented by further bolt-on acquisitions Forecasts for the global automotive market remain giving us confidence for this year and beyond.
mixed with overall growth in 2007 production projected at 3% to 4%.
Within this, Western European output is forecast to be broadly unchanged and North American demand is also expected to be at a similar level to 2006, although slightly down in the first half.
Good growth is expected in emerging markets including China and India, which represent a growing percentage Sir Kevin Smith Chief Executive of the Groups sales.
