CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW INCORPORATING THE BUSINESS REVIEW I am pleased to be able to report another very However, integration could also carry strong set of results, continuing our record of disadvantages if some parts of the business were consistent growth spanning over 30 years.
not subject to market discipline.
Therefore, each Revenues were up 16% and profits before tax and of our business units is held individually exceptional items were up 25%.
All divisions accountable, as a successful stand-alone business traded well and contributed fully to this result.
in its own right: but each creates more value in Meanwhile, we continued to lay the foundations combination with the others than it could alone.
Rooney Anand, Chief Executive for future growth, investing in our pubs, our beer The consistency of our strategy, and its brands and the development of our people.
We execution, has enabled us to achieve well above continued to respond to, and embrace, changing average earnings per share and dividend growth social trends, customers ever-greater expectations over many years and provides significant scope and new regulatory demands.
for future increases in shareholder value.
Strategy Integration Progress Greene Kings consistent record of enhancing The Laurel and Ridleys businesses, acquired in shareholder value has been derived from a clear August 2004 and July 2005 respectively, have both strategy built on a blend of strong asset been fully integrated.
Synergies captured from management and like-for-like sales and margin both of these deals are in line with our projections.
growth, augmented by acquisitions which meet our strict financial and operational criteria.
On 2 October 2005 we acquired Belhaven, Belhaven has made an excellent new addition to Scotlands leading integrated pub company and the Greene King group, opening up for us an brewer, with a 282-strong pub estate and important new market in Scotland.
Scotlands number one draught ale brand, Belhaven Best.
As in past acquisitions, we Our foundations are our quality assets.
Our pubs deliberately adopted an approach to benefit from are mostly in stable community locations away the best of both worlds.
With Belhaven, we from the high street, concentrated in economically were particularly keen to preserve the businesss resilient regions and overwhelmingly freehold.
We are continuing to We do not pursue size as an end in itself, and will brew at Dunbar, and have sought out areas of continue to divest as well as acquire pubs, in order profitable collaboration between Belhaven and to enhance the overall quality level of the estate.
our English business, where it makes sense to do so.
To continue to trade our ales at a price premium, we consistently invest in the brands.
I am delighted that Belhavens entire top team elected to stay on after the acquisition.
I have We believe firmly in our business model, which been greatly impressed by the quality of the combines the scale required for efficient Belhaven management team led by Stuart Ross, processes and purchasing with the advantages of and the teams in Dunbar and Bury St Edmunds integration.
These advantages include are working very well together.
Our synergy target was to achieve a 3m gain in 2006 7, rising the ability to transfer pubs between to 5m by 2008 9, primarily by leveraging management and tenancy, thus optimising Greene Kings scale for buying benefits: synergy their contribution over the life cycle capture is on course.
the ability easily to integrate other integrated brewer pub companies Earlier this year, we began introducing Belhaven the customer insights that come from Best to a number of our pubs in England, where it being both buyer and seller is proving very popular: we anticipate further roll-out.
leveraging our trusted heritage brand, Greene King, with both consumers and The major challenge for Belhaven during the the trade.
financial year under review has been the GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2005 06 5 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW INCORPORATING THE BUSINESS REVIEW introduction of the Scottish smoking ban, and the Food now accounts for 27% of total Pub Company management team has worked hard to minimise revenue.
As part of our ongoing development the threats and maximise the opportunities cycle, we re-launched 14 menus during the year.
In derived from this significant change in pub the value segment, our Champion core pubs culture.
Looking ahead to the English smoking recorded food growth of 6% over the prior year, ban expected in England in 2007, our ownership while at the premium end of the scale, our Town of Belhaven also gives us very useful insights into concept saw food growth of 16%.
A new initiative the likely impact and best practice approach to this year, with the changes to licensing hours, has adopt: uniquely, we have visibility of this across been the development and promotion of food all the major sales channels and trading models.
offers targeted at later in the evening: pizzas and hot dogs went on sale at over 200 outlets.
Pub Company Reflecting consumers increasing adventurousness, we introduced deli boards and a tapas offer.
We Operating Operating have also sought to reflect and respond to demand Pub Revenue profit profit margin for more healthy eating options.
In Hungry Horse Company m m % for example, on the Pony Club menu that serves our younger customers, information is given to enable 2004 05 495.9 93.8 18.9 2005 06 516.5 102.1 19.8 parents to make informed choices about dishes, Change 4% 9% 0.9% pts while also educating the youngsters themselves, and promoting the 5-a-day message to encourage Pub Company, our managed house division in consumption of more fruit and vegetables.
England and Wales, enjoyed another successful year, with revenue up 4% at 516.5m and Pub Company divisions Number of Number of outlets at outlets at operating profit up 9% at 102.1m.
The operating 1 May 2005 30 April 2006 profit margin was therefore 19.8%, 0.9 percentage points up on the previous year.
Hungry Horse Branded pubs with great value 135 126 food business Real Pubs Unbranded community pubs 357 341 Total like-for-like sales grew by 1.9%.
The growth Town Local Unbranded town centre and 171 152 in the operating profit margin was achieved town local pubs despite cost increases associated with energy, Inns Mix of inns with rooms and 157 142 wages and Sky TV.
destination food businesses Total 820 761 Pub Company began the year with 820 pubs.
46 pubs were transferred to Pub Partners, while 13 were sold.
The closing balance was therefore During the year, Pub Company widened its range 761.
The average number of pubs trading was of wines, including the introduction of more new 784 as against 801 in the previous year.
This was supported by a new range of merchandising support, with consistent We organise the Pub Company business so as to displays and an increased share of the back bar tailor central support to house managers for wine, and promoting wines by the glass.
Our different needs in the different trading formats: wine sales have grown 7%.
The Inns division also upgraded its coffee offer in partnership with the Average weekly revenue per pub was up 6% to Italian coffee brand Segafredo: and we are now 12,670: and the operating profit per pub for the piloting a new coffee shop concept at the year was up 11% to over 130,000.
During the year, we invested 25.7m in 117 property improvement programmes, plus 11.3m on maintenance capex.
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2005 06 6 Food now accounts for 27% of total Pub Company revenue GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2005 06 7 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW INCORPORATING THE BUSINESS REVIEW Our Wayside format, within the Inns division, all our pubs in terms of both the risk and the combines the commercial benefits of a centrally competitive opportunity created by the smoking delivered food, liquor and service offer with the ban.
Plans have already been drawn up for 700 individuality, flair and familiar feeling of a locally locations, and these will be executed over the run and independently owned pub restaurant.
course of the next nine months.
Wayside was a highlight of the year for us, delivering 6% like-for-like sales growth.
Pub Companys 14,000 employees each year service over 50m customer transactions.
The It is vital that we continue to recruit quality people, quality and consistency of this service, above with the right personality and attitude, to run our all else, drives our success.
The proportion of house manager vacancies development of the highest standard is therefore now filled from internal hires is over 50%.
Throughout the pub including part-time augment this with top-quality hires from outside the staff we now have a self-funding bonus scheme business, we operate a Fast Track programme to for outstanding team performance beyond bring in managers from outside the industry, and we budget targets.
We have started a mystery recently created the Greene King Thing campaign, guest programme, and all pubs now receive a a recruitment initiative to identify and attract new mystery visit at least once every six weeks.
The people to a career with us as a publican.
The latter detailed feedback these produce has helped initiative is being carried out in concert with Pub deliver a marked increase in customer satisfaction Partners, which increases its total exposure, and scores: the results also form an element of the allows us to present to people both an employed house managers and business development and a self-employed route into the business.
The quality of support given to house managers Pub Partners by their business development managers is also Pub Partners, our tenanted and leased pub business vital.
We invest strongly in the recruitment and in England and Wales, delivered another strong development of this cadre of managers: and I am performance.
particularly pleased that a member of the Pub Operating profit increased by 19% to 64.1m Company team this year won the accolade of representing an operating profit margin of 43.6%, up Business Development Manager of the Year for a 0.4 percentage points on the previous year.
managed pub company at the ALMR awards.
Operating Operating We have implemented a number of efficiency Pub Revenue profit profit margin programmes both to control cost and to free up Partners m m % more time for staff to serve the customer.
2004 05 125.1 54.0 43.2 Automatic banknote-counting machines, for 2005 06 147 64.1 43.6 example, save between one and two man hours a Change 18% 19% 0.4% pts week at the average pub.
We have installed broadband to every pub, which greatly speeds up administration and reporting and aids business At the start of the year, Pub Partners had 1,244 reviews.
Following the sharp rise in energy costs pubs.
During the period, 46 pubs transferred in we now have even greater focus on energy from Pub Company and 73 came from the reduction, with a comprehensive programme of Ridleys acquisition, while nine were disposed of.
energy management kits, smarter metering, tariff The closing balance was therefore 1,354.
The management and energy efficiency programmes average number of pubs trading in Pub Partners including an estate-wide turn-it-off programme.
over the period was 1,324, as against 1,187 the previous year.
Like-for-like revenue was up 2.0% Our preparations for the smoking ban expected in and average operating profit per pub rose 6% to 2007 are well underway.
We have now categorised just over 48,400.
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2005 06 8 We invested 10.4m in the Pub Partners estate, including 18 major redevelopments GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2005 06 9 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW INCORPORATING THE BUSINESS REVIEW We invested 10.4m in the estate, including 18 expected in England in 2007.
All sites have been major redevelopments and 20 smaller schemes.
categorised by risk competitive opportunity and Of this, 5.0m related to property improvements we are working proactively with our licensees to and 5.4m to maintenance capital.
In addition, we ensure that our approach is optimised on a sitespent 4.7m on property repairs through the by-site basis.
These sums were augmented by licensees own investments.
Recognising the importance of food development to the continued growth of our partners Pub Partners strives to remain first choice for the businesses, in 2005 6 we launched a programme licensee.
A key part of that is to offer the named Food Made Easy as well as re-launching industrys leading package of infrastructure and our successful Time for Wine initiative.
This manifested itself this year in Greene the board, standards in food have risen sharply in King taking a lead in managing and funding the recent years, and the Pub Partners estate can now required re-licensing on behalf of its licensees, to boast many hundreds of high quality food outlets.
enable them to stay focused on maximising their At the top end of the range, congratulations are and our sales and profits.
On an ongoing basis, due to Tom Kerridge, our licensee at the Hand in the Pub Partners extranet offers an unsurpassed Flowers, Marlow, who was awarded a Michelin range of useful services from promotions star in January.
planning, to advice on gaming machine siting, to regulatory and legal support.
We offer a number of different agreements to ensure the right match for both the individual pub The human approach, however, remains key.
We do, however, differ from many have invested in new technologies, and reother industry operators in that, for the majority of designed processes, to enable our regional our pubs, we prefer shorter, non-assignable managers to spend more time face-to-face with tenancies to longer assignable leases.
The shorter licensees, assisting them in the development of tenancy is a better fit for our high quality and well their business.
Three of our regional managers this invested community pubs and provides a number year reached the finals of ALMRs non-managed of advantages for both our tenants and ourselves.
estate Business Development Manager of the Year For the tenants, it allows a lower cost of entry and awards.
Over 1,500 people attended our training commits us to sharing the costs of maintaining the courses this year on subjects ranging from building.
The main benefit for us is that we retain marketing and finance to cellar management and the role of recruiting a new tenant if our existing health & safety.
Particularly popular have been the one decides to leave.
These shorter tenancies Go for Growth seminars, which the publican attends together with his or her regional manager: these focus on identifying specific improvements for pubs where sales have not reached expectation: in certain cases Greene King makes seed funding available: the results have been impressive.
The Share & Save programme leverages the purchasing scale and infrastructure of Pub Company for the benefit of Pub Partners licensees: a typical licensee can save up to 3,000 per annum through the scheme, which includes over 50 suppliers.
In Pub Partners, as in Pub Company, we are well into our preparations for the smoking ban GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2005 06 10 Since 2000 we have increased our sales of cask ale by over 50% GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2005 06 11 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW INCORPORATING THE BUSINESS REVIEW accounted for 79% of our estate.
The balance of Brewing Company serves all major channels, the agreements are longer-term assignable leases.
including substantially every sizeable onand offThese play an important role in attracting talented trade account in Britain.
Almost eight out of every lessees to those pubs where there is a higher entry ten barrels of own-brewed volume are sold cost because they are more food-led or include through external channels.
Sales to other pub letting accommodation.
Take home volume grew by 8% and our share of the UK off-trade ale market Brewing Company rose to 9.4%, according to AC Nielsen figures.
Despite very intense price competition, especially Operating Operating in the off-trade, we have maintained our focus on Brewing Revenue profit profit margin quality brands, trading at a premium to their Company m m % category, and taken a measured approach to price 2004 05 86.5 17.8 20.6 promotions.
This is also consistent with our 2005 06 90.3 20.7 22.9 commitment to the responsible selling of alcohol.
Change 4% 16% 2.3% pts In the take home sector, by the last quarter of the financial year, Old Speckled Hen was selling at an Brewing Company produced another strong 11% price premium to the premium ale category performance.
Against a total beer market down average, and a 38% premium to the premium 2% and a cask ale market down over 4%, our ownlager average, according to AC Nielsen data.
brewed volume grew by 7%, including an increase in cask volume of 4%.
Since 2000, New product development continued apace, Greene King has increased its sales of cask ale by including the launch of IPA Export: the over a half, while the overall cask ale market has introduction of Ruddles Orchard an extension declined by a third.
to the Ruddles brand made with real apples: and packaging innovation in Old Speckled Hen.
The All of our lead brands performed strongly over Beer to Dine For, which we launched in 2003, is the year with volume sales of Greene King IPA, now stocked in half of all British supermarkets.
Britains number one cask ale, up by 3%, Old Speckled Hen by 10% and Abbot Ale by 5%.
Sales The key capital expansion of the year was our were boosted by buoyant Christmas and Easter new bottling plant.
We have continued to seek trading, our continued strong brand support and further efficiency gains across the whole brewing activities such as our St Georges Day promotion, and distribution infrastructure, such as the which went to over 3,000 pubs.
consolidation of all picking and packing for wines and spirits in a single location.
Brewing Companys share of the UK cask ale market rose a further 1.6 percentage points to 13.7%, Brewing Company prides itself not only on the according to industry statistics excluding small quality of its beers, but on the professionalism and micro brewers.
One in every seven pints of cask personalisation of its service.
Fine attention to detail ale served in Britain is therefore a Greene King pint.
with our customers both internal and external has a material impact on the quality of the product served The performance of our brands led to an increase to end consumers, and hence to the value of our in revenue of 4% to 90.3m.
It was therefore particularly pleasing for by 16% to 20.7m with an increase to the trading Brewing Company to be the first brewer to be margin of 2.3 percentage points to 22.9%.
This awarded the coveted Cask Marque Distribution margin improvement was achieved through the Charter.
We also invested heavily in communicating scale benefits of acquiring Ridleys and the Laurel the quality message by, for example, distributing a neighbourhood estate along with organic sales free Quality DVD to 26,000 licensees as a covergrowth, and a programme of cost efficiencies.
mount with the Publican trade magazine.
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2005 06 12 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW INCORPORATING THE BUSINESS REVIEW are particularly strong.
Belhaven Best volume was Belhaven up 9% year-on-year in Scotland: in recent months the brand has been trialled in some of our English Operating Operating managed houses, and the early results have been Belhaven Revenue profit profit margin m m % very encouraging.
Belhaven brands are extensively distributed throughout Scotland: nine 2005 06 64.8 12.5 19.3 out of every ten barrels of own-brewed volume are sold to outlets outside the Belhaven estate.
Belhavens revenue for the 30 weeks since On 26 March, the Scottish Executive implemented a ban on smoking in enclosed acquisition was 64.8m, converting at a 19.3% margin to 12.5m operating profit.
Both the Pubs public spaces.
This represented a major cultural change for Scottish drinkers and a major and Drinks divisions of Belhaven recorded profit growth.
challenge for the licensed trade, which has responded very positively.
There have been no At the time of acquisition, the Belhaven estate material compliance or enforcement issues throughout the Belhaven tied estate and free consisted of 97 managed and 185 tenanted or leased pubs.
Five pubs were transferred from trade.
Publicans have embraced the change: managers, tenants and free trade customers have managed to tenancy with one transferring the other way.
Eight tenanted and three managed done a great job implementing the legislation with the minimum of fuss.
In the first 12 weeks pubs have been acquired, and three tenanted pubs were sold.
At the end of the financial year following the implementation of the ban, overall trade in the Belhaven managed estate was down there were 96 managed and 194 tenanted or leased pubs.
On average since acquisition, 97 0.3%: within that period, trade in the first four weeks was up 5%, with trade in the two managed, and 190 tenanted leased, pubs have been trading.
subsequent four-week periods both within the new financial year being down 3% and 1% Managed houses continued to deliver strong respectively giving an overall figure of 2.2% down across the first eight weeks of the new profit conversion, even before the beneficial impact of purchasing synergies, despite cost financial year.
Given the variability of the results, we retain our view that it is too early to accurately increases in energy, wages and Sky TV.
call the effect of the ban into the future.
Catering development is an important area of focus.
The managed estate deploys discrete Belhaven worked hard to provide external facilities for smokers in all its own pubs where menus for houses with more a more discerning dining clientele, and a new menu recently space and neighbourhood issues permitted and, in line with its reputation as Champion of the introduced into other houses has improved choice, flexibility and quality.
Micro catering Independent free trade.
facilities have recently been installed in some managed and tenanted houses which have Finances The Belhaven acquisition was financed through a insufficient space to allow for expansive food preparation.
Belhaven have also piloted a Coffee combination of a new banking facility, where the interest costs were fixed at under 6%: and a 5% Express franchise, within the Foundry, Inverness, which has proved successful in extending trading share placing at 1300p a share prior to the twofor-one share split effected on 5 September.
This in the morning and lunchtime hours: we anticipate further roll-out of the concept.
facility complemented the financing previously in place, including the 600m long-term securitised Belhaven Drinks saw growth in both volume and bond finance and 450m syndicated five-year bank loan we had arranged in March 2005. margin, driven by free trade sales, where Belhaven GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2005 06 13 Belhaven Best volume was up 9% year-on-year in Scotland GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2005 06 14 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW INCORPORATING THE BUSINESS REVIEW On 8 May this year since the balance sheet date, customers who have different working hours and a further 550m gross of bonds were issued as a lifestyles.
tap of the original securitisation and used to refinance existing bank facilities and to fund the Scotlands new licensing regime is due to be early redemption of debentures.
This improves implemented in two to three years time.
the companys financial flexibility and enhances Extended hours have been in place north of the shareholder value by taking advantage of longerborder since 1976, but the Scottish Act follows term, lower-cost bond finance.
While our total the recent English changes in introducing a debt remains unchanged, the further 550m of personal licence which is distinct from the bond finance takes the overall outstanding premises licence.
It also introduces a number of Greene King bond issuance to 1,137m, backed new regulations dealing with responsible by approximately 70% of our pubs, at very retailing of alcohol.
We welcome these changes advantageous terms, and means that 97% of our and do not anticipate being materially affected debt is now at fixed rate.
Our balance sheet remains strong and efficient.
The smoking ban in Scotland was implemented Our strength is demonstrated through long-term on 26 March this year.
The transition to smokeborrowings being secured against high quality free pubs, bars, restaurants, hotels and clubs has freehold assets, interest cover of 2.7x, and fixed been remarkably seamless, with very few charge cover of 2.5x, at year end.
We believe this compliance and enforcement issues.
Whilst we balanced approach is appropriate and will have been pleased with Belhavens trading since provide flexibility for the future.
the ban, it is still too early to give exact forecasts for the impact: the weather, a change in the Business and Regulatory Environment timing of Easter, the novelty factor and the The new licensing regime came into effect in presence of compensatory sales promotions November.
The company has taken the necessary conspire to make it difficult to isolate the impact steps to ensure that changes to trading hours of the smoking ban itself.
In any case, the ban were made responsibly, mindful of the came into effect in spring: the impact in the communities we serve.
All of our applications winter months could be greater.
We believe the were made on time and, on average, our ban will, over time, bring people back to pubs and managed houses are now open for an additional attract new customers.
The opportunity to four hours a week, relative to before the change.
develop the food offer is particularly strong in We have also provided extensive support to our Scotland, where food sales in the past have tenants in their licensing applications.
formed a lower proportion of the total than south of the border.
The impact on our results in the short term is broadly neutral.
In the main the effect of the Looking to the smoking ban expected in England longer hours has been to spread a similar level of in 2007, we believe the Greene King estate is trade over a longer period, with any small well-positioned to both minimise the adverse increase in total take offset by additional staffing impact and capitalise on the opportunities it costs.
Nevertheless we do foresee medium-term provides.
Over 90% our outlets have external benefits from these changes.
Many of our pubs spaces which may be used to accommodate have responded to customer demand by opening smokers.
Our preparations for the English ban are earlier on Sundays.
We can now also serve both on track, and we have the benefit of learning food and drink later on Friday and Saturday nights lessons from the Scottish experience.
We do not to customers who prefer to remain in their local believe there can be a direct read across from rather than having to travel further afield to the Scottish ban to predict the impact of the nightclubs or late-night restaurants, and to new English ban, due to differences in weather, the GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2005 06 15 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW INCORPORATING THE BUSINESS REVIEW proportion of sales accounted for by food, and These results demonstrate our proven strategy the prevalence of outside spaces.
that delivers value for shareholders.
The intrinsic quality of our assets, combined with the passion Outlook and talent of our team, along with recent Trading in the current financial year has begun acquisitions, give us confidence that there are well.
In the first eight weeks, like-for-like exciting opportunities to deliver further growth in turnover at Pub Partners was up by 1.9%, and the future.
Brewing Company's own brewed volume was up by 4%.
Like-for-like sales in Pub Company were up by 5.3%: in the first four weeks, i. e. before the FIFA World Cup began, the equivalent figure was 2.5%.
In Scotland, following the imposition of the smoking ban, overall like-for-like retail sales in the Rooney Anand first eight weeks of the financial year were down Chief Executive 2.2% year-on-year, which is better than our 4 July 2006 internal projections.
This includes a strong increase in like-for-like food revenue, though machine sales were significantly down.
For Belhavens Drinks division, beer sales volumes were 3% ahead of the previous year with the flagship brand, Belhaven Best, up 6%.
On 15 June this year we made an agreed offer of 271m for Hardys & Hansons plc, a high quality company that we have long admired, and completion is expected in September.
The move is consistent with our strategy to deliver shareholder value by augmenting our organic growth with selective acquisitions at the right price to improve the overall quality of the group.
The deal represents a unique opportunity to acquire a leading pub estate in the Midlands, where we have been under-represented to date, as well as some strong local brands.
We expect to achieve synergies of 3m in the first full year following acquisition, rising to 5m a year.
The leisure industry remains a changing, intensely competitive space and it is only the dynamic players that will thrive.
Within it, the British community pub has proved remarkably resilient and adaptable over many centuries.
Greene King has remained at the heart of this, through both its commitment to the enduring strengths of the business and continuous innovation to improve customer appeal.
