Chief Executives Review Ian McLeod The historic resilience of the business has again been demonstrated.
Introduction In addition, a key contribution to our sales growth has At Halfords we have been acutely aware of the changes been the success of in-car technology.
These products in retail dynamics over the past year as consumers provide us with strong cash margin per unit given their become more selective, particularly when it comes to retail price position, albeit the below average gross high-ticket discretionary expenditure.
Although Halfords margin percentage has precipitated a dilution in this is not immune to such economic changes, the historic performance metric.
However, given the consumers resilience of the business has again been demonstrated acceptance of in-car technology as a growth segment in the financial year to 31 March 2006, which is our of their discretionary spend we have ensured that 18th year of consecutive sales growth.
Halfords is well placed to respond to this demand and have successfully grown sales in this category.
Further Sales for the year to 31 March 2006 were 681.7m growth is anticipated in the future but is unlikely to be 2005: 628.4m, which was 8.5% ahead of the prior at the rate of increase experienced in the latter part of year and 6.1% ahead on a like-for-like basis.
Over the last two years we have continued to focus our During the year we have continued to benefit from the strategy on four key areas: competitive advantage of our strong market position in each of the key categories in which we operate.
In Investing in the store portfolio Cycling, we provide one in three bikes sold in the UK: we are the market leader in car parts supply and enjoyLeveraging the Halfords brand similar status among consumers searching for in-carImproving the supply chain technology solutions.
Marketing the Halfords proposition This position provides us with unique defensive Investing in the store portfolio characteristics given our scale through 408 stores Halfords traded from 408 stores throughout the UK and within the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
Our range, the Republic of Ireland at the end of the financial year, where we are store of first choice in each category, and after opening 18 new stores during the period.
We the needs-driven nature of our core offer, also provides expect to open a further 20 stores in the UK and the us with some protection from economic cycles and Republic of Ireland during the current year and we see changes in consumer behaviour.
the potential for up to 150 more stores in these markets across our different formats.
More generally, our sales performance has been particularly pleasing, given the fact that the prior year Supermezzanine had the benefit of two Easter periods, whereas the year Of the 18 new stores opened, nine were in our to 31 March 2006 included no Easter trading opportunity.
Supermezzanine format, which allows us to also trade Although not as dependent on Easter as other retailers, from an additional floor level, offering up to 40% extra sales during Easter are of sufficient magnitude within a financial year as to be material.
sales space within our stores.
At 31 March 2006 we had 06 Chief Executives Review Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Leisure In Travel Solutions we have introduced a dedicated area for child travel.
Child seat sales have performed well and we have strengthened the number of dedicated child seat fitting specialists in our stores, with over 1,600 colleagues now trained to give advice and fit customers child seats.
Forthcoming legislation this year will mean that all children up to around age 11 must sit in a booster seat, offering us further growth opportunities.
For the new season we have also redeveloped and relaunched our camping and roof box ranges, ensuring that our sourcing, range and keen pricing stimulates consumer purchase and drives sales performance.
Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chief Executives Review 07 Chief Executives Review Car Enhancement Car enhancement has performed well and has generated a significant contribution to sales and profit growth, with the strongest performance from in-car technology.
Our market leading offer on satellite navigation has proved a key sales driver and we are improving our position further with the introduction of our own brand sat nav range, Navsure, this summer.
Car enhancement is marketed through our Ripspeed sub-brand, which has strong credibility amongst younger car enthusiasts.
Sales of higher-ticket items such as alloy wheels continue to grow, showing that discretionary expenditure amongst this consumer group continues to flourish.
08 Chief Executives Review Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2006 The Neighbourhood format will meet consumer needs located within smaller catchment areas.
a total of 100 Supermezzanine stores trading, through a in size.
These stores carry the full Halfords offer but combination of new store development and conversion with a smaller range breadth: where products are not of stores within the existing Halfords estate.
The available immediately, they can be sourced through the development programme will continue next year, with a Halfords website or the nearest larger store.
combination of new store and conversion activity.
Space rebalancing programme By adding the Supermezzanine level we increase the Using the lessons learned from the Supermezzanine range of products we offer, improve category programme, we have carried out a major review of the segmentation and are able to merchandise the effective use of space by improving product display products more clearly, creating an even more customerand adjacency within our stores.
This is particularly friendly shopping environment.
This opportunity has relevant where a Supermezzanine conversion would been particularly important in more effectively either be impractical due to physical constraints or marketing our sub-brands of Ripspeed and Bikehut.
By return on capital would be compromised due to trading on two floors, we can also give greater prohibitive store development costs.
exposure and presence to our Travel, Touring and Active Leisure ranges.
As a result, we have developed a new store layout, which improves the display of our Ripspeed and During the year, we also introduced two further store Bikehut sub-brands, projects Car Enhancement to format programmes: better reflect its increasing prominence, and provides more space and better visibility for new categories such Neighbourhood stores as Active Leisure.
A low cost space rebalance programme for existing stores We are encouraged by the initial results of the space rebalancing trials, which will now be rolled out to a Development of Neighbourhood stores further 20 stores during this year.
The Halfords portfolio polarises between our 32 high street Metro stores of approximately 2,000 sq ft and International our mainstream superstore format ranging from 8,000 At the start of the year, Halfords had three stores sq ft to 12,000 sq ft located primarily on out of town trading in the Republic of Ireland around the Dublin retail parks.
area, which performed ahead of expectations indicating that the Halfords brand has been well However, we have identified a further opportunity to received within this market.
At 31 March 2006 the meet the needs of consumers located within smaller Company had a total of eight stores trading in the catchments, such as market towns, or urban infill areas, and have developed a new Neighbourhood format in Republic of Ireland and we have subsequently secured these locations of between 3,000 sq ft and 5,000 sq ft sites in a further nine locations.
Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chief Executives Review 09 Chief Executives Review Car Maintenance The continuing strong performance in Car Maintenance is underpinned by a needs driven product mix, such as batteries, bulbs and wiper blades.
We remain the largest car parts retailer in the UK, with unrivalled access to more than three million parts.
Our Well Fit It service effectively underpins our product offering, with a unique customer proposition of unrivalled product choice, advice and on-the-spot fitting, with over one million jobs completed in the last 12 months.
10 Chief Executives Review Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Our success in the Republic of Ireland has provided further confidence in our ability to trade successfully overseas.
We now estimate that there is the potential for up to Car Enhancement 20 stores in the Republic of Ireland and will continue to Halfords cemented its position as the market leader for seek further site opportunities this year.
in-car technology and car enhancement products during the year.
Our success in the Republic of Ireland has provided further confidence in the ability of the Halfords offer to In-car audio, which includes the CD audio aftermarket, trade successfully overseas.
Extensive market and continues to be the most significant consumer segment operational feasibility reviews support Halfords increasing within car enhancement and grew further last year.
CD audio is fitted as standard to most vehicles now, but the its international presence, and, in order that any expansion risk is limited, our intention is to pilot three stores within aftermarket also remains strong.
The average car on the the Czech Republic during the spring of 2007. road is about seven years old and approximately half the car parc do not yet have a CD player fitted.
Leveraging the Halfords brand Our car enhancement ranges are marketed through our Car Maintenance With more than a quarter of the Companys sales, Car Ripspeed sub-brand, which has built strong credibility with Maintenance continues to represent an integral element its target market of young car enthusiasts.
This has been achieved through a combination of strong in-store of the Halfords offer and has demonstrated its presence, particularly in Supermezzanine stores, external resilience to changes in the economic environment.
With unrivalled accessibility to more than three million advertising in specialist press and Ripspeed sponsorship support for car enhancement national events.
car parts, industry leading availability and a substantial range in our stores across the country, we remain the In-car electronics has been an exception to the broader largest car parts retailer in the UK and store of first choice for the consumer.
consumer trend of discretionary spend reduction.
Falling retail prices over the last 18 months have made such products much more affordable.
For instance, Approximately 33 million cars represent the UK car satellite navigation devices now retail at approximately parc and our range covers almost all parts for this population and, given the inevitability that car parts one-third of the average price of two years ago, thus bridging the gap between desirability and affordability.
will fail, the search for replacement parts becomes a needs-driven, rather than discretionary, purchase.
Similar price deflation has occurred for entertainment This needs-driven nature of the market provides steady systems such as in-car DVD players.
This has business throughout the year and provides Halfords broadened the market appeal for such items, where with a resilient and significant sales base as the sales grew substantially during the Christmas period.
Our market strength and breadth of offer has enabled us to continue to grow We have enjoyed significant sales success in this category parts sales during the year despite the consumer downturn and the mild weather conditions at the start this year.
However, whilst actual profitability per unit is of 2006. strong, the percentage margin is below the Company Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chief Executives Review 11 Chief Executives Review Gerry Poore Employee Passion and Long Service Employee Passion Halfords has around 10,000 employees, many of whom mix a passion for their work with their hobby.
Gerry Poore, a Ripspeed specialist at Tonbridge, is passionate about cars and has just spent several months building a drift car to take to shows and feature in magazines.
Most people would love to combine their job and hobby so I get the best of both worlds and help to keep Halfords up-to-date with the latest trends he said.
Richard Dean is a cycle enthusiast who works for Bikehut in Barnsley.
He has been a successful team member of the Bikehut Development Squad for three years.
Riding the bikes in competitions gives me a real insight into the product, which I can then advise my customers on, so they get the right bike for their needs.
It really gives me credibility as a cycle specialist he said.
Long Service Brenda Swainston has worked at Halfords head office since 1973 and, Brenda Swainston along with several other colleagues, recently received a long service award from Chief Executive, Ian McLeod.
In 33 years Ive seen a lot of changes and I think the company is now a better, more exciting place to work, she said.
Gerry Davis, who works at the Bletchley store, can top Brendas record, having worked for Halfords for 39 years.
Stores have changed beyond recognition.
There are always new products and services coming into stores but weve never lost sight of what were famous for car parts and cycles.
Gerry Davis 12 Chief Executives Review Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2006 More consumers purchased a bike from Halfords than from all the independent cycle retailers added together.
Richard Dean average, which has had some impact on our percentage Bikehut sub-shops are now in place in 339 superstores margin, particularly in the second half of the year.
Each includes a bike workshop, which adds credibility to the Bikehut sub-brand as a Finally, our collaboration with Autobacs of Japan has specialist cycle retailer.
As our share of the market provided an opportunity to bring certain products to increases, the gap between Halfords and the market faster than would otherwise have been possible.
competition grows further, illustrated by the fact that for A range of Japanese car accessories was piloted early the whole of last year more consumers purchased a in the year and, following their sales success, have bike from Halfords than from all the independent cycle been extended into all Halfords superstores.
Leisure In October 2005 we introduced our Bike Care The Leisure category represents a third of the Maintenance Plan, encouraging customers to maintain Companys total sales and during the year we their bikes regularly and cost-effectively by allowing continued to grow sales and profitability, predominantly Halfords to carry out the work.
The enthusiasm and skill driven by our success in cycling, where we now sell one in three bikes in the UK.
of our colleagues in this area has driven strong sales growth in our bike maintenance and servicing business.
During the year, we successfully relaunched both our A bike-repair training programme was conducted Apollo cycle brand and our Carrera premium brand.
across all stores, supported by the Bicycle Association, Apollo is now the best selling cycle brand in the UK and to ensure the necessary skills were available in stores Carrera the best selling premium brand and we also to provide this service consistently.
received a gold award for the new Carrera Kraken model from What Mountain Bike magazine.
These The introduction of the Bikehut sub-brand into premium cycle ranges are a good example of our ability to cycle accessories has also been well received by successfully source directly from the Far East.
Cost consumers who are looking for high quality accessories prices have improved but so has the quality and at competitive prices.
It is the fastest growing brand specification of individual cycle models as we have had within our accessories range and to date has well direct influence through our sourcing team on the final exceeded our internal expectations.
The Bikehut specification to be included.
This allows us to provide accessory sub-brand has subsequently won a gold quality bikes, which deliver both competitive retail award from Cycling Plus magazine in its first year of prices and improved buying margins.
We plan to continue this success with the introduction of new ranges for 2006, which will The further roll-out of the supermezzanine format has helped drive awareness of the Bikehut sub-brand.
include helmets, mudguards, luggage and clothing.
Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chief Executives Review 13 Chief Executives Review Halfords Online and Financial Services Our online store www.
com was relaunched last October and is now our number one store, with around four million visits.
It is also the UKs second most visited sports and leisure site.
We also launched our financial services offer and this includes: Car and cycle insurance Travel insurance Car breakdown cover Car buying personal leasing Pet insurance 14 Chief Executives Review Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com More than one million fitting jobs were completed during the year.
The new Carrera cycles have also proved popular with halfords.
com customers participating in the government sponsored Prior to the Christmas period, the Halfords website was Cycle2work scheme.
This scheme allows employers the relaunched, to broaden the opportunity for greater opportunity to offer interest free loans to their employees to levels of product purchase, ease of navigation and buy a bike and the employee is able to claim tax relief facilitate greater levels of conversion.
Sales have against the price of the purchase.
This is designed as an increased by 250% since the relaunch, making incentive to motivate the public to take more exercise and halfords.
com our highest turnover store and the is growing in popularity as an employment initiative.
Given second most visited sports and leisure website in our scale and store coverage, Halfords is the largest Britain.
Site visits have grown to 150,000 visitors per provider of this facility.
Sales conversion is also ahead and we are targeting further improvements this year.
The performance of Leisure was adversely affected by a disappointing year-on-year performance within Travel Improving the supply chain Solutions.
Roof carrying equipment such as roof boxes, Our stated strategy has been to increase the level of which are high-ticket items, were more susceptible to product delivered from outside the UK and sourced discretionary spend decisions.
We have made changes directly by Halfords without the cost of third party to our range and price structures for the current financial agents.
The objective has been to improve cost prices, year, which gives us confidence that we can improve which can then be utilised better to improve performance for the forthcoming season.
profitability, improve quality or improve retail prices to increase competitiveness.
The performance in the year of our camping range was not as strong as anticipated given the success in the Two years ago, our penetration of foreign direct previous year, after it had been rolled out to all stores.
sourcing was 7% of purchases and our target was to For the forthcoming season, considerable effort has been grow this penetration to 20% in the medium term.
At made to ensure that our sourcing, range, pricing and the end of this financial year, penetration has improved marketing drive stimulates stronger consumer awareness significantly and we are therefore confident of achieving and purchasing of our offer.
our target ahead of schedule, and seeing further cost price benefits flow accordingly.
Financial services Towards the end of the financial year Halfords launched We have achieved most success within Cycling, but we a range of financial services, primarily targeting the have also increased foreign direct sourcing within Car motorist.
Consumers now have the opportunity to Maintenance, Car Enhancement and Active Leisure.
purchase breakdown insurance, car insurance, bike Initially, we believed that electronics would be an insurance, travel insurance and even pet insurance unlikely addition, but our growth in expertise in this area through a range of products marketed under the has enabled us to develop an entry price point CD Halfords brand.
We have also introduced personal car leasing to complement the financial services offer.
audio, combined car DVD and CD player and satellite Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chief Executives Review 15 Chief Executives Review navigation under our sub-brands of Sendai, Ripspeed Business systems Completion of the installation of retail systems from and Navsure respectively.
These will be on sale during SAP and warehouse systems from Manhattan summer 2006.
Associates at the start of the financial year were well managed and had no adverse service or cost impact on The growth in direct sourcing has been underpinned by the business.
The scale of the changes implemented changes in the in-bound supply chain process and has been significant as all central finance, human infrastructure.
These changes have included using resource, merchandising, planning and supply chain additional Far East ports to access greater capacity.
As systems were replaced and new ways of working well as allowing consolidation of stock from multiple adopted.
Despite these changes, year-on-year in-store suppliers it also improves container fill levels and stock availability improved and the successful support flow into the UK.
A renewed partnership with Maersk delivered during key trading periods on the new Logistics and greater use of their trading systems has systems means we are confident of more benefits in the improved management of the flow of containerised future.
stock, particularly during peak trading periods.
We will take advantage of further systems developments from The next stage of the business systems strategy is a Maersk through greater integration with Halfords SAP two-year programme to replace the hardware including supply chain management tools.
This year represented till systems and software within stores at an investment the first full year of operation of the new warehouse of 8.5m.
In preparation for this next phase of management system within three sites, without any development we have trained over 800 colleagues on service issues occurring.
store stock file accuracy processes, the benefits of which we expect to flow into next year.
The outsourced store delivery fleet and operations were put out to tender during 2006 and the contract was Marketing the Halfords proposition awarded to DHL Exel during the third quarter.
Benefits Halfords continues to push forward with its service were seen immediately, with stock flow to stores during programme under the Well fit it marketing umbrella.
peak trading periods improving year-on-year.
The We actively market this service through press and TV delivery fleet was also equipped with satellite tracking advertising.
We completed more than one million fitting and central route scheduling software has also been jobs during the year, ranging from wiper blades to implemented to further improve service levels to stores.
parking sensors and audio units, with the support of trained in-store colleagues.
These changes and new partnerships provide a platform for continuous improvement in the logistics As well as increasing our advertising spend year on year, operations over the coming years.
we also changed the emphasis of featured product to 16 Chief Executives Review Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2006 reflect the changes in consumer interest which have been Outlook identified.
In addition, different communication channels This has clearly been a tough year for retailers in general: an environment which is likely to continue into were targeted to ensure the greatest return on our the current year.
Our results continue to demonstrate a external marketing investment.
Bikes and in-car level of resilience to such conditions.
During the year technology featured heavily within our TV advertising, we have continued to use our competitive advantage of with all categories featured in black and white press range, scale and service in order to improve the throughout the year, or colour press inserts to coincide consumer offer.
Specialist press was also utilised to support promotional offers or drive new product Our product portfolio includes needs-driven purchases awareness in areas such as Car Maintenance and of core car maintenance products, where our range and Cycling.
scale provide us with strong defensive characteristics in this sector and our Well fit it service programmes Well fit it provide us with genuine competitive advantage.
As well as the regular fitting services we provide, it is essential that we continually update the skill set of The success of our supply chain initiatives, our store colleagues to service demand as we develop new development plans, as well as our product and service categories.
A key differentiator when buying in-car changes, provides reassurance that our strategy is electronics at Halfords, for example, is our ability to fit working.
i-Pod connectivity and parking sensors are sold as a fitted package, given their We have a trading approach which proactively seeks complexity, making such strong offers difficult for out new opportunities and seizes the initiative wherever competitors to copy with any degree of scale.
A clear example of this has been our ability to develop the in-car technology business to the point The Drive away with it working and Free setup and where we are clear market leaders.
demo marketing messages also proved to be effective in securing both interest and consumer purchase of During the forthcoming financial year we expect to satellite navigation systems.
further push our market advantage in key categories, as well as redressing any shortfalls experienced in 2006.
The knowledge base within stores is critical and we We have developed new range and pricing strategies therefore continue to emphasise development training within our leisure categories and will continue to drive for deputy managers to support succession planning momentum in core categories to press home our and product-based training for retail colleagues.
year we trained around 500 hardwire electronics fitters and over 2,000 colleagues on satellite navigation Our gross profit percentage dilution has been a direct product knowledge and we adopted a manufacturer-run result of the changing sales mix in the business training programme for child seat fitters that has following the success of in-car technology.
Whilst we included a further 1,600 colleagues across the country.
expect further growth in this category in the forthcoming year, we do not expect it to have a similar With pressure on costs it is important that our in-store significant impact on our overall sales mix.
Retail productivity has therefore improved as we continue to pursue our policy Our strategy remains focused and our ability to remain of driving increased flexibility within store teams using resilient in the light of economic change is evident.
more appropriate contracts and continuing to match colleague rotas to our customer needs.
This year we This gives us confidence that we can continue to deliver further positive results for our shareholders as have identified store and product group specific rotas that have resulted in appropriate cost savings.
This has we continue to drive the Halfords business forward in the forthcoming year.
been achieved through a combination of improved data provision from our new SAP Business Warehouse and an external work-study analysis.
We expect to reap Ian McLeod, Chief Executive further benefits from this approach in the year ahead.
7 June 2006 Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chief Executives Review 17
