06 Halma p. l. c. 2006 Chief Executives strategic review Record profit and revenues achieved against a background of major strategic change.
We have had an outstanding year producing profit growth from continuing operations of 20% 18% on a statutory basis and revenue growth of 16%.
Organic growth was 15% and 11% for profit and revenue respectively.
This is a record performance by a significant margin and was achieved against a background of major strategic change.
This is a testament to the robustness of our growth strategy and the quality of the contributions made by our employees.
We now report our results under three market-defined sectors: Infrastructure Sensors, Health and Analysis and Industrial Safety.
These replace the previous six product-based divisions and more closely reflect the coherent nature of our activities and the way we operate, as well as making it easier for shareholders to gain a better understanding of what we do.
You will find details about each sector in the comprehensive business review which follows.
Our return to organic growth was widespread across the Group and was underpinned by a tremendous performance in the Health and Analysis sector.
Strong organic growth was boosted further by a rapid recovery by our Water business.
Infrastructure Sensors started to show promising revenue growth in the second half, although continued investment in the sales and support structure for the longer term suppressed short-term profits.
All parts of our Industrial Safety sector performed strongly with the buoyant oil and petrochemical market contributing to healthy revenue and profit growth.
I am very pleased with the record Return on Capital Employed ROCE of 57% achieved during the year.
Our success in achieving growth has not come at the expense of diluting the quality of our returns.
Another year of strong cash generation has funded organic growth, acquisitions and, for the 27th consecutive year, enabled a further increase in our dividend of 5%.
Between self-generated cash and a longer term debt facility of 60 million, we have sufficient capital resources to support our growth plans for the coming year.
Halma p. l. c. 2006 07 Strategic achievements Strategic directions Organic profit growth 15%, organic revenue growth 11% Organic growth to exceed 5% p. a.
3 acquisitions inject new technology and new markets Continued management development 8 disposals generate 15 million cash Establish hubs in China New Chinese, Indian and Middle East sales offices Maintain strong new product innovation New manufacturing facilities in low cost areas Acquisitions particularly in Health and Analysis Over 100 new products launched Management development programme launched 57% ROCE funds organic growth, acquisitions and dividend increase Ungeared at year end We completed three acquisitions, all of which are performing Our highly decentralised operating structure makes us ahead of expectations.
Netherlocks, acquired in July, increased particularly dependent on the quality of our local management our presence in the oil and petrochemical market and teams.
Following the significant people changes made at strengthened further our leadership in valve safety interlocks.
operating company board level over the past two years, Radio-Tech, acquired in August, brought important wireless it is pleasing to see this action translate into improved results.
communications technology to our Water business and offers To build further momentum, we have created a bespoke new opportunities elsewhere in the Group.
In November, we development programme for our senior management at acquired Texecom giving us an entry into the strategically Henley Management College, a leading UK business school.
Texecom offers us attractive This leadership development programme not only helps our growth potential in its own right.
It has common sales distribution management become even more successful in their current role, channels with Fire and similar technology platforms to our but also gives us a stronger pool of talent to draw on as new Door Safety activities, providing additional opportunities for opportunities arise.
I thank all the employees for their contribution during an exciting The disposal of eight businesses demonstrated our commitment and successful year.
We can take great confidence in the to actively allocate capital and people resources.
In February exceptional results that have been achieved during the year we sold our high power Resistors business for 14 million.
but recognise there is no room for complacency.
Our goal is to While this business had generated good value for shareholders achieve growth and create value for shareholders every year.
over many years, its recent performance relative to other Halma We have made tremendous progress in 2005 06 in terms of both companies, and in absolute terms, fell short of expectations.
achieving organic growth in the short term and improving our The net result of the acquisitions and disposals made this year growth potential for the future.
Our underlying growth prospects is that we are making more profit, we have allocated more remain good and we enter the new year better placed to exploit resource to markets with higher growth potential and we have them due to the rapid recovery in our Water business and new 10% fewer companies.
I look forward to the year ahead with confidence.
We have opened additional sales and technical support offices in China, India, Malaysia, Spain, Ireland, US and, most recently, Dubai.
In addition, we have Andrew Williams Chief Executive established new manufacturing facilities in Eastern Europe and Tunisia.
Although we have manufactured Infrastructure Sensor products in China for over a decade, we are increasing our direct presence in this important long-term growth market at a faster pace.
For example, we are creating new Halma hubs in Shanghai and Beijing to help our companies get new activities established or develop their existing activities more rapidly.
We expect those companies which are successful to spin-out and develop as strong, independent operations in their own right.
Last year, I mentioned the need for us not only to maintain our high level of investment in Research & Development R&D, currently 4% of revenues, but improve speed to market too.
This year we launched over 100 new products.
There are some early signs of improvement in speed to market in some parts of the Group, although we can still do more.
For example, high quality R&D resources in lower cost territories, such as India, can supplement our essential in-house technical capabilities to achieve shorter product development cycles.
