Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 04 Chairman and Chief Executives review Overview We are very pleased with the In our first full year as a listed company, Hikma has delivered strong financial results, benefiting from the strength and diversity performance of Hikma in our first of our business model.
In accordance with our strategy, we have achieved excellent performances in both the Branded and full year as a listed company.
Injectable businesses, which have more than compensated for the challenging market conditions in our Generic business in the United States.
We are already well on our way to achieving the main objectives set out at the time of our IPO.
Since then, we have repaid $50 million in outstanding debt.
We have increased capacity, having completed and commenced production at our Algerian plant, completed the construction of our new dedicated cephalosporin plant in Portugal and invested in improvements at our Jordanian, Italian and US manufacturing facilities.
We have also begun to execute our acquisition strategy, through two significant acquisitions.
Financial results The Group performed well in 2006, achieving revenue of Samih Darwazah $317.0 million, up 20.9% from 2005.
Gross margin for the Group Chairman and CEO was 50.0%, down from 51.8% in 2005, but still very strong when compared to our industry peers.
Operating profit grew by 8.7% to $75.2 million, while operating margins decreased to 23.7%, compared to 26.4% in 2005, primarily as a result of increased overheads related to our new Algerian plant, the continued price erosion in the Generic business and an increase in the Groups general and administrative expenses.
The Groups profit attributable to shareholders increased by 24.3% to $54.5 million and diluted earnings per share increased by 9.5% to 31.0 cents.
Business highlights We ended 2006 with a total of 176 products in our portfolio in 397 dosage strengths and forms, including the 23 products launched during the year and 26 under-licence products.
During 2006, we were granted 191 regulatory approvals across all geographies.
In addition, we submitted a total of 88 regulatory filings, including 54 new product applications.
As of 31 December 2006, we had a total of 117 pending approvals in Jordan, the United States and Europe alone, and 105 products under development.
In addition, at JPI we have 125 products 1 pending approval.
In our Branded business, we were able to leverage the investment made in sales and marketing in 2005 to drive significant growth across both existing and newer markets.
Through these efforts we achieved market share gains in each of our three largest markets Algeria, Saudi Arabia and Jordan.
These results were achieved despite disruption in the Algerian market caused by the implementation of a new reference pricing regime.
In Algeria, we have delivered double-digit growth, compared to 2005 as a result of the introduction of new products and the commencement of production at our new manufacturing facility.
1 Definitions of products, filings and approvals are provided in the Business and financial review.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Chairman and Chief Executives review 05 We have continued to consolidate our strong position in the Developments in 2007 MENA region through the acquisition of the remaining 52.5% In January 2007, we announced the acquisition of Ribosepharm shareholding in JPI.
The benefits of the excellent platform we GmbH, an oncology company specialising in the marketing and have created for accessing the GCC market are already being distribution of injectable oncology products both to private seen.
JPI contributed $11.7 million in sales for the four months practices and hospitals in Germany.
This acquisition enhances our ended 31 December 2006.
For the first eight months of the year, injectable product portfolio, develops our sales and marketing and in previous years, JPI was treated as an associate.
capabilities and provides us with an excellent platform from which to enter the large and fast-growing oncology market.
In our Injectable business, we delivered strong sales growth as we continued to develop our sales and marketing infrastructure across Our product portfolio and product pipeline have continued to all three regions.
We now have a strong platform from which to develop in 2007.
In the first two months of the year we received drive future sales in each region.
Sales were particularly strong in a total of 14 regulatory approvals, submitted 9 regulatory filings the MENA region, especially in Saudi Arabia and Sudan, where we and launched 4 new products.
established new customer relationships and distribution channels.
Sales growth was also strong in Europe, and especially in Germany, Looking forward where our distribution agreements with Hospira are enhancing our We expect both our Branded and Injectable businesses to deliver product offering and facilitating the penetration of our products in strong sales growth in 2007, through a focus on key products, the European market.
In the United States we set up a specialised the launch of new products and expansion into new markets.
distribution company, Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. with a We expect the pricing environment in the United States to remain dedicated sales force for injectables.
However, we will work diligently to minimise the effects of this pricing pressure on our Generic business by In our Generic business, sales declined by 1.3% compared to 2005 introducing new products and retaining our strategic focus on as a result of continued price erosion and a limited contribution reducing raw material costs.
However, we were successful in renewing for the fourth option year our sales contract with the The integration of JPI has been successfully completed and the Department of Veterans Affairs, an agency of the government of integration of Ribosepharm is proceeding in line with expectations.
the United States, for the supply of lisinopril.
Further development of our injectable product portfolio and our injectable sales, marketing and manufacturing capabilities Overall, we enhanced our manufacturing facilities across the Group is essential to our growth strategy for this business and we will during the year, significantly increasing our manufacturing capacity continue to work to achieve this both through organic growth in order to meet the growing demand across our core businesses.
At the same time, we remain focused on our Early in 2006, we opened a new manufacturing plant in Algeria aim to consolidate our strong position in the MENA region and and we announced FDA approval of the facilities of JPI for the we continue to evaluate acquisition opportunities in our target manufacture of oral cephalosporin products for sale in the US markets Egypt, Morocco and Turkey.
We are confident that the market.
The construction of our new injectable cephalosporin plant strength and diversity of our business will enable us to continue in Portugal was completed by the year end and continues to be our track record of delivering strong growth within the Group.
on track to begin commercial production in the first half of 2007.
Board appointments In December 2006, Dr. Ronald Goode was appointed to the Board.
Dr. Goode serves as an independent non-executive Director and as a member of both the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
He has spent over 30 years in the international pharmaceutical Samih Darwazah industry, including having held senior positions with Pfizer and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Searle, and is currently a director of Genitope Corporation, a NASDAQ-listed company.
Dr. Goode was formerly President and Chief Executive Officer of Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and eXegenics Inc. and a director of several other companies, including Hokuriku Seiyaku and Vitro Diagnostics.
Dividend The Board has recommended a final dividend for the year to 31 December 2006 of 4.0 cents per share approximately 2.1 pence per share, which makes a total of 7.0 cents per share for the year.
The proposed final dividend will be paid on 18 June 2007 to shareholders on the register on 18 May 2007, subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting.
