Chief Executives Review Richard Harpin Chief Executive Our vision is to be Your Home Emergency Our Emergency Repair business is a market leader Service Worldwide providing insured repair providing a comprehensive range of domestic solutions to customers homes via major business emergency repair trades to homeowners via partners.
This service is provided by selling policies Household Insurers for repairs following break-ins, to cover home emergencies and carrying out high storm and water damage as well as claims by our quality repairs.
We operate networks covering a own policyholders.
The acquisitions of Chemfull range of trades, which completed over 1.1m Dry and Improveline during the year, together repairs in the year.
with the glazing repair division of Pilkington Building Products in April 2006, have signi cantly Our strategy is to be the leading provider of home enhanced our repair capabilities and extended emergency services in the UK and to replicate our relationships with Household Insurer business this internationally.
We have made good progress partners.
Homeserve is now uniquely positioned both in France and the US on policy sales and to provide a national fully integrated repair service have developed our own claims management across all of these trades and in November operations.
In April 2006, we signed a marketing 2005 we commenced our first groundbreaking agreement to commence testing in Spain.
outsourced multi trade contract with Liverpool Victoria.
Our Policy Membership business in the UK and International including Manufacturer Warranty, In addition to employing almost 1,000 of our own has grown by 34% to a total of 5.7m policies in engineers, we operate subcontract and franchise the year 2005: 4.2m.
We provide underwritten networks of almost 4,000 engineers.
Whilst these cover for a broad range of domestic emergencies networks are highly complementary, our strategy branded to our business partners in the utilities, is to increase the proportion of work we do using appliance manufacturing and retail sectors.
Our our own Homeserve branded directly employed policies include cover for plumbing and drains and operatives, delivering increased productivity, quality water supply pipes, electrical wiring, gas central and customer service through more direct control.
heating and appliances, gas supply pipe cover, We plan to do this both organically and through electrical appliances and furniture.
excludes amortisation of acquisition intangibles of 3.6m 2005: 0.3m and exceptional bad debt charge of nil 2005: 2.8m as set out in the Financial Review and notes 4 and 13.
Report & Accounts 6 Chief Executives Review o our vision... ur vision...... is to be Your Home Emergency Service Worldwide... Our recent acquisitions are performing well and The total number of new policies sold during the we have again achieved outstanding levels of policy year in the UK set a new record at 1.63m 2005: growth combined with revenue of 367m and 1.3m.
The number of customers increased by 22% operating pro t of 54.4m.
to 2.79m 2005: 2.29m achieving 1.78 policies per customer compared to 1.66 in March 2005 and Policy Membership Division 1.73 in September 2005.
Revenue and operating pro t from these businesses increased by 26% and 9% to 161m The final quarter mailing campaigns incorporated and 41.3m respectively.
The underlying growth in all of our relevant learning to date on direct mail Homeserve GB operating pro t was 20%.
and performed exceptionally well both for new customer acquisition and cross sell.
Homeserve GB This has been another record year for the utilities We have continued to support our direct mail branded policy business which provides plumbing campaigns with the use of cost effective outbound and drainage cover together with a range of other telesales for cross sell activity.
The total number of emergency policies to customers of water and call centre agents including outbound has increased energy companies and other af nity partners.
We to 497 from 436 last year, and our outbound agents combined the highest ever levels for new customer achieved policy sales of 0.45m 2005: 0.4m.
Average and policy numbers with excellent pro ts growth.
acquisition costs per policy have remained stable.
We have continued to increase our penetration in the UK market where policies increased by 30% Underlying retention rates for the majority of from 3.82m to 4.97m over the year: customers in their second and subsequent year of membership on our standard plumbing and 3.35m in plumbing and drains and water supply drains policies remains in excess of 88%.
However, pipe 2005: 2.76m overall retention rates decreased from 88% to 87% re ecting the increased level of innovative 0.76m in electrical 2005: 0.60m new offers and promotions, which have achieved excellent response rates but with slightly reduced 0.86m in other including gas supply pipe and renewal rates for new customers at their first housebuilder 2005: 0.46m renewal.
The proportion of customers using continuous payment methods such as direct debit increased to 89% 2005: 85%.
Homeserve plc 7 Chief Executives Review what our partners say... Five years on, the results are impressive: more than 400,000 policies subscribed and the creation of Domo Assistance, to provide a claims handling service as part of the Domo business, which can only further improve the quality of service we provide.
This service will have a positive impact on Veolia Eaus image, as well as very promising fi financial results.
Antoine Frrot, Chief Executive Offi cer, Veolia Water, Domos joint venture partner in France Our 48 hour call backs to customers who have Domo, our 49% owned joint venture in France made a claim enable us to directly measure with Veolia performed particularly well and is now customer satisfaction following a repair and to reaching critical mass.
The company achieved monitor and improve the performance of our turnover and operating pro t of 8.8m and 1.6m repair networks.
Customer satisfaction for the respectively, of which our share amounts to 4.3m core plumbing and drains product remains at a and 0.8m respectively.
The number of policies high level of 96% and importantly the proportion increased by 49% from 0.28m to 0.42m during the of customers rating our service as outstanding has year bringing policies per customer to 1.5 2005: increased from 15% to 20%.
Retention rates of 87% are in line with those achieved in the UK.
Domo now employs 85 staff International 2005: 49, including 18 outbound telesales agents.
We are making good progress in the development of our existing international business where There are approximately 12m owner occupied revenue increased by 92% to 6.3m 2005: 3.3m.
houses in France of which Veolia provides water The operating loss for the international businesses to 4.5m.
During the year we sent out over 16.8m of 2.6m 2005: 1.1m loss re ects the increased 2005: 11.0m door to door and solus mailings, investment in management resource, primarily in marketing to over 9m households.
In February the USA, partly offset by a pro t from our French 2006 we took the important step of bringing joint venture.
The number of international policies claims management in house.
Our objective is to increased by 75% to 0.55m during the year.
Our replicate our proven approach in the UK of direct strategy remains one of replicating the proven UK management of our repair networks, which will model of water and energy company branded, improve service delivery and reduce repair costs.
underwritten emergency policies offered via direct marketing and outbound telesales.
Report & Accounts 8 Homeserve plc 9 Chief Executives Review what our partners say...
This relationship benefi ts our own company reputation.
It really is an opportunity for us to show that we care about the added value service to our customers that this relationship brings.
We are able to demonstrate to our customers that we care beyond the strict level of our water supply responsibilities.
Tony Harding, CEO, United Water The US business has achieved strong policy growth There are over 70m owner occupied houses in with its existing af nity partners and now has the US and our experience to date is that our 0.13m policies 2005: 0.03m.
In particular, we policies sell well once we have an af nity partner have grown the United Water LeakGuard policy agreement in place.
Over the last 12 months base, acquired in May 2005, by almost 80% in 12 we have signi cantly increased the level of senior months from 41,000 to 73,000 demonstrating that management resource dedicated to new business we can add signi cant value to acquired policy development and our pipeline of potential bases both through new customer acquisition and partners continues to develop.
Our original target cross selling other products.
of water companies has been extended to include electricity and gas companies, where the largest 50 In May 2006 we signed a five year marketing companies supply 49m households compared to agreement with our fifth business partner, CEMC, the largest 50 water companies, which supply 8m based in Georgia.
CEMC, an electricity and gas households.
utility with access to 0.4m households provides signi cant potential given the limited marketing In April 2006 we successfully reached agreement activity to date.
This is an exciting opportunity with one of Spains largest utility companies to particularly since it is our first energy company trial our policies with up to 0.1m households.
We will market our policies using represents a signi cant market opportunity.
We have also recently secured the meantime we are continuing to progress our agreement with one of our existing partners, discussions with a number of other leading water Aqua America, to market our policies to their and energy companies in Spain.
customers in Texas and North Carolina from July 2006 and Illinois from February 2007, amounting to 0.2m households.
This brings the total number of households served by our five partners to approximately 1.4m.
Report & Accounts 10 Homeserve plc 11 Chief Executives Review what our partners say... Homeserve Warranties have been instrumental in bringing the Halfords Car Breakdown Service to market, demonstrating innovation and fl exibility during development and implementation.
The organisation delivered everything promised on time, refl ecting a shared vision and business approach which Halfords looks for in all its business partners.
Keith Scott, Halfords Limited Retail and Manufacturer Warranties Our furniture warranty business, which provides Our retail and manufacturer warranty businesses fully underwritten furniture cover, operates in the were fully integrated during the year under furniture retail market, which remains dif cult.
This has enabled However, we have successfully secured several new the combined operation to develop and share accounts including Floors-2-Go, Reids, Debenhams, common operating practices and systems and to Halfords and over 20 independent regional share economies of scale and best practice.
During the year we have reduced the cost base of the business and focused on improving We have grown our manufacturer warranty the ef ciency of the upholstery repair network, policies by 60% to 144,000 2005: 90,000. implementing improved scheduling and routing Our client base includes The Vaillant Group, systems, which have already enabled us to achieve Rangemaster part of the AGA Foodservice an increase in the number of jobs completed per Group, Ideal Boilers, Mira Showers, Creda Heating, day of over 25%.
Despite the dif cult trading Sime Boilers, Redring and Xpelair, all of which have conditions, we believe that the business under experienced good policy growth.
the new management team is recovering and we expect it will generate satisfactory returns in the We have been successful in driving policy medium term.
growth through improved direct marketing which has increased warranty card registration rates and the take up rates of these registered customers to fully paid warranties and related service polices.
These warranty and policy sales are generally on products with long lifecycles eg boilers and therefore have a good renewal income stream thereby creating an attractive business model.
We have also started to cross sell our other Home Assistance policies to these customers.
Report & Accounts 12 Homeserve plc 13 Chief Executives Review what our partners say... Liverpool Victoria were delighted to announce their new partnership deal with Homeserve Property Repairs, for the full outsourcing of their Building Claims over a 3 year period.
Together we challenged current market thinking and removed the duplicated processes that get in the way of a speedy solution to the customers buildings claim problem.
Building claims are settled in under 40 days where the industry remains at over 100 days.
John Bannon, Liverpool Victoria Emergency Repair Division Our intention is to roll this model out with other Revenue from these businesses increased by 118% insurers, using our complement of trades to to 218m and operating pro t increased by manage a claim from initial re or ood through 192% to 13.1m.
The acquisitions of Chem-Dry to a permanent building repair.
This is a unique in April 2005 and Improveline in December 2005 offering in a market which is highly fragmented contributed revenue and operating pro t of 64m with many repairs still being performed by local and 3.9m respectively.
Repairs, acquired in December 2004, contributed its first full year revenues of 54m 2005: 13m We have achieved a signi cant enhancement in and operating pro t of 1.5m 2005: 0.1m.
performance in our Glass, Locks, Plumbing and Drains business.
The investment in operational Homeserve Emergency Services continues to be and system enhancements that have enabled us to an innovative market leader.
The acquisitions have achieve a market leading performance are directly brought complementary trades, networks and transferable to our other networks and will ensure customers, ensuring that we are able to provide that we share the same systems, best practices an integrated range of emergency repair trades to and operating models in order to deliver the best homeowners via their Household Insurers, as well possible service.
as to our own policy members.
We opened our first multi trade depot in February We commenced a groundbreaking multi trade 2006, in St Albans, which will act as a blue print for outsourced contract with Liverpool Victoria in other major locations.
This is the first depot of its November 2005 with estimated sales in excess kind and is designed to improve communication of 66m over three years.
Liverpool Victoria and ef ciency and the passing of claims from one has outsourced the management, negotiation trade to the next.
The branch incorporates a and settlement of all of its building claims with a comprehensive training and assessment facility high level of delegated authority per claim.
This for our engineers where we continue to invest in operating model enables us to achieve signi cant skills development and service orientation.
Our ef ciencies and cost savings for Household Insurers.
business model continues to be one of employing There is also improved customer satisfaction high quality branch managers controlling an through reduced claims lead times.
average of 12 engineers for a single national trade to achieve consistent quality and ef ciency.
Report & Accounts 14 Homeserve plc 15 Chief Executives Review what our partners say...
They deliver service levels that our customers expect and the growth of the policy base has exceeded expectations.
Craig Moore, Insurance Services & Regulatory Compliance Manager, Thames Water Glass, Locks, Plumbing and Drains The acquisition of the glazing division of The business delivered an outstanding Pilkington Building Products in April 2006 brings performance during the year completing the a complementary Household Insurance customer turnaround programme.
Despite reduced claims base together with an additional 44 directly due to mild weather conditions, the business employed glaziers supported by a national has bene ted from the introduction of a more subcontract network.
The network includes a ef cient work ow management system which glazing capability for small and medium sized has enhanced engineer productivity together with enterprises which is an important step in providing the successful implementation of new IT systems full support to a number of our insurance partners reducing central and branch administration costs.
in relation to landlord premises and small shops.
The Fitter Package, our engineer incentive scheme, The existing seven branches will be integrated is now operating in all of our Glass and Locks within our network over the coming months and branches following successful trials during the year build on what is now a highly ef cient business.
and is delivering improvements in service delivery and productivity of up to 20% combined with a The national directly employed Plumbing and marked reduction in engineer labour turnover Drainage network works for a range of leading from 50% to 25%.
Household Insurers in addition to completing approximately 25% of the repairs for our own The directly employed Glass and Locks network policy base.
The directly employed model enables comprises over 300 employed engineers covering us to more effectively manage high quality service repair and replacement of glass, frames, locks, delivery for both the initial emergency repair and garage doors, greenhouses and conservatories, in many cases a more permanent second x repair.
and operates from 36 branches nationally.
The This will be further enhanced by the rollout of the operational improvements achieved in this business Fitter Package to this network over the coming have enabled the conversion of insurance leads year following its successful implementation in to sales to be increased from 85% to 90%, a key Glass and Locks.
Report & Accounts 16 Homeserve plc 17 Chief Executives Review what our partners say...
Even after 8 years of working closely with Homeserve, we are impressed by their responsiveness and the excellent value of Home Emergency products for our customers here in the South West.
Bob Baty, Chief Executive, South West Water Limited The expansion of this business together with the A testament to this success was the Glass and Locks operation has been signi cant and commencement of a groundbreaking multi trade in October 2006 we will move to a new purpose outsource contract for Liverpool Victoria in built call centre in Norwich with capacity for over November 2005 for the management, negotiation 280 employees.
and settlement for all building claims with a high level of delegated authority.
This service is Permanent Repair fully personalised to Liverpool Victoria with 30 dedicated employees.
We are now completing Homeserve Property Repairs over 2,000 claims per month across all trades with Homeserve Property Repairs, which was acquired 5% of these claims generating re and ood work in December 2004, is one of the UKs leading for Chem-Dry.
Acting as a single point of contact permanent repair networks working for Household for Liverpool Victoria throughout the claims Insurers, providing permanent domestic repairs process has reduced the administration costs and including plastering and decorating arising from the life cycle associated with a claim and increased escape of water, storm, re and accidental damage.
customer satisfaction which is running at 97%.
This The network comprises over 290 independent contract is estimated to generate revenues of over contractors managing approximately 6,000 claims 66m over three years.
Operating from a new call centre near Nottingham, this business has continued to Improveline deliver operational excellence and in particular has The acquisition of Improveline in December continued to reduce the average claims cycle from 2005 represented a further signi cant step 61 to 39 days, compared to a market average of in the development of our permanent repair over 90 days.
As a result, the inconvenience caused networks.
The acquisition extended our to householders following a major emergency and relationships with five leading Household Insurers the cost to the Household Insurer are signi cantly across the building repair trades and brought reduced.
the knowledge and experience associated with managing a directly employed network of permanent repair operatives.
Report & Accounts 18 Homeserve plc 19 Chief Executives Review what our partners say... Homeserve Warranties have designed a unique warranty off er for our customers covering their new fl ooring against accidental damage & stains.
This exclusive service covers both wood and laminate fl ooring.
The enthusiasm, commitment and willingness of both companies will result in the ultimate goal of Floors-2-Go which is to off er excellent customer service.
Andy Acton, Commercial Director, Floors-2-Go Since its acquisition we have increased the number The business, which operates a national network of branches from four to eight and the number of over 230 franchisees, has performed well in of directly employed engineers has increased the year.
As part of our strategy to increase the from 155 to 187.
Prior to acquisition, Improveline proportion of work we complete using our own successfully developed and implemented leading directly employed operatives, we acquired two mobile data technology for on site survey, job franchises during the year and one in April 2006, costing and management, automatically updating to complement the existing three company owned the work ow management system to ensure franchises.
These acquisitions are being integrated maximum ef ciency.
This technology has the ability and we plan to make further acquisitions over the to keep the Household Insurer constantly up to coming year using the same integration model.
date with our progress during the claims cycle and will be directly transferable to a number of During the year we have successfully developed our other businesses.
Improveline was recently and introduced innovative technology to extract awarded a pilot test of 500 claims under delegated water from the air, reducing drying time by up to authority for all property repairs on behalf of a 75%, and reducing claim costs and duration.
We major Household Insurer operating a building are currently developing remote monitoring of repair model similar to that used for Liverpool this drying process to reduce engineer visits and Victoria.
Fire and Flood Restoration Chem-Dry recently launched a trial of carpet Chem-Dry, acquired in April 2005, provides a inspection, cleaning and replacement on behalf re and ood restoration service on behalf of of one Household Insurer, and has two further Household Insurers together with carpet and trials due to start shortly.
Carpet replacement is upholstery cleaning services.
This business often estimated to cost insurers over 200m per annum provides the first repair service into a home and we are well placed to signi cantly reduce this following a disaster, placing us in a unique position by providing a high quality clean as a cost effective to offer a fully integrated service through to a alternative to replacement, or where that is not permanent building repair.
possible, ensuring that the replacement is like for like and cost effective.
Report & Accounts 20 Homeserve plc 21 Chief Executives Review what our partners say...
It made a lot of sense to go with a company that had already proven how to do it right and were experts in the fi eld.
That way, we were able to participate without being distracted from our core business.
They know what theyre doing, they do it right and that allows me not to worry about this program.
Rick Fox, Vice President Customer Operations, Aqua America Claims Management In November and December 2005 Royal and Sun Homeserve Claims Management provides claims Alliance and DAS respectively outsourced their handling for our own policy holders and a home domestic emergency claims handling, contractor assistance helpline for emergency repairs for network management and some out of hours Household Insurers and other customers in the support to Homeserve.
These are expected to financial sector.
It operates a national subcontract generate additional revenues of up to 0.9m.
network which covers a broad range of trades, complemented by our directly employed networks Overview for plumbing and drains, gas and permanent repairs.
This has been another exceptional year for We managed 650,000 repairs during the year Homeserve both for Policy Membership, which 2005: 520,000 and received over 2.4m inbound achieved record levels of new policies in the UK calls 2005: 2m.
and internationally, and Emergency Repair where our comprehensive range of trades have been During the year we awarded our 40 best brought together into a single offering working on performing plumbing and drainage contractors behalf of Household Insurers.
In return for greater repair volumes, Premier Contractors are expected We will continue to focus on increasing market to invest in systems to accept electronic deployment penetration for our Policy Membership business in and job management in order to speed up the UK and internationally, where we believe there contractor arrival times and provide full visibility of is a signi cant market opportunity.
Our Emergency a claim from start to nish so that the process can Repair offering is unique in the market and we plan be more effectively managed at the same time as to strengthen our position as a leading provider by improving customer satisfaction levels.
80% of our increasing the proportion of repairs we perform plumbing and drainage repairs are electronically using directly employed operatives and seeking to deployed at pre agreed authority levels by type of secure further outsourced multi trade contracts repair.
During this coming year we plan to trial the from Household Insurers.
use of hand held devices for individual contractors engineers to further improve ef ciency and service.
We also expect to trial Homeserves red Richard Harpin vehicle liveries with a number of selected Premier Chief Executive Contractors over the coming months.
22 May 2006 Report & Accounts 22 Homeserve plc 23
