Chief Executives Review In this section: I believe we will come to see 2006 as a critical point in this Groups history.
Crisis At the beginning of the year we faced major challenges with very serious implications Transformation for the Group, and we needed to take decisive action.
We tackled the challenges head Growth on and have now laid the foundations for a new Group with a new future.
So, what exactly was the crisis we faced, what did we do in 2006 to transform our business and what prospects do we see for strong growth in 2007 and beyond?
Crisis First, MFI Retail was making substantial losses and grappling unsuccessfully with a range of operational problems.
Retail sales and margin were both falling in 2005 and that level of performance was unsustainable and unacceptable.
Second, our employee pension scheme had a deficit of 297m, with no agreement in place as to how that deficit would be funded.
Third, we had borrowings of 150m and our existing banking arrangements were inappropriate for the way we needed to develop the business.
Our IT system was defective and our retail supply chain required urgent attention, but we did not have access to the funds needed to address these and other issues.
As a fellow shareholder I am sure you know the ultimate result of the Groups problems our share price collapsed to below 60p.
Transformation In 2006 we took action to get the Group clear of its long-running problems and back on the road to growth.
We could see that the two selling arms of the Group MFI Retail and Howden Joinery were joined together with few real synergies: and we had a single sourcing division trying to fulfil diverging requirements.
We needed to separate these businesses if they were to prosper.
We identified numerous opportunities to improve the performance of MFI Retail but were unable to find a solution that did not involve excessive risk.
At our AGM in May 2006 we reported that we had received tentative approaches from a number of potential buyers for MFI Retail.
Having reviewed all options with the utmost care, we concluded that selling the business to Merchant Equity Partners MEP was the best decision for all, particularly our shareholders.
The successful sale of MFI Retail to MEP in October created a promising future for Selling MFI Retail enables us to focus on growing and both companies and means we can focus on what we do best providing Howden strengthening Howden Joinery Joinerys trade customers with the range of kitchen products they need to serve their customers.
Howden Joinery is a very strong and a very special business.
It has been built from nothing to a turnover approaching 700m and 180,000 customer accounts in 11 years.
The great thing about our customers is that they are repeat buyers.
Now it has the potential to generate very good returns in a strong market driven by the move from DIY to DFY Done for You.
Howdens business model is not only sound, it is hard to copy.
Each depot is a local business that creates long-term, personal relationships with local builders.
Our special skill is to make sure the right products are always available to our customers at the right price so they can serve their customers successfully, time after time.
That requires us to be expert at co-ordinating the supply, storage and sale of the many components needed to build a kitchen.
Time is critical in this business, and in our customers businesses, because no home can function for long without its kitchen.
Galiform Annual Report 2006 17 Chief Executives Review continued So success for Howdens is all about meeting the needs of our customers customers, and that means we must stay up-to-date with the way peoples tastes and attitudes are changing.
Right now more and more people are looking for sophisticated door and drawer frontals.
Our customers must also feel confident that what we provide for them to sell and install meets increasingly onerous legal, quality, health and safety requirements.
In my view, Howdens thrives because we know how to meet these challenges.
In February 2006 we said we wanted to open around 30 new Howden Joinery depots before the end of the year, and we increased our forecast to 40 in July.
To put that in perspective, we opened 20 depots in 2004 and 22 in 2005.
Im very pleased to report we met our target of 40 and now have 382 depots in total in the UK.
40 depots opened in the year with 382 now trading in the UK That achieved, our intention is to open 60 new depots in 2007.
In 2005 we launched a sales trial in France, opening two depots in February and nine more in the second half of the year, all staffed by French employees.
The depots are mostly in the Paris and Lille areas and are mainly supplied from the UK, although we are now taking a small amount of product from French manufacturers.
As anticipated, initial trading in these new depots has been slower than at a typical new depot in the UK, but we think there may still be good potential for growth here in the medium term.
In 2007 we will provide further information on this trial.
For a limited time the Supply business will continue to both source and manufacture products for MFI Retail and Hygena Cuisines, but we will complete and exit the MEP supply contract in the first half of 2008, in accordance with our obligations, and we will exit the Hygena Cuisines contract early in 2009.
Once these contracts end, Howden Kitchens will only make and source products for Howden Joinery and that will represent another major opportunity as volumes from Howdens increase and complexity reduces.
To give one example of what this means in practice: supplying MFI Retail involves 7,000 product components, supplying Howden Joinery 3,000.
We must never underestimate the contribution our Supply business makes to the Graph 1: The shift to global sourcing success of Howdens.
Without the timely delivery of product to our depots, and the Manufactured cost effective manufacturing of the rigid kitchen cabinets so crucial to the Howdens % Bought in business model, we would be a much weaker business.
In 2006 we completed a 100 strategic review of our sourcing and manufacturing processes and that resulted in a 80 60 decision to buy-in kitchen fascias and own label appliances instead of making them 40 ourselves see graph 1.
As a result we closed our factories at Stockton and 20 Scunthorpe and now only manufacture carcasses and worktops one of our core 0 2005 Today competencies.
This streamlined approach enables us to introduce less expensive products that are absolutely up-to-date from a design viewpoint.
In short, our supply chain is now delivering products that are quicker, cheaper, better and more reliable.
18 Galiform Annual Report 2006 While we are talking about supply, I can report that our sourcing joint venture in Asia is proving a success, and now has 42 suppliers in five countries and 67 employees, including quality assurance experts and designers.
We make a 15% cost saving on products delivered through the joint venture, and about 15% of the finished products we buy-in through this route.
We are looking to increase the volume of products sourced this way.
During 2006 we established an excellent design team based in the UK but with a global perspective whose brief is to ensure we are sourcing, developing and offering the right products.
2006 saw us introduce new modern kitchen styles, solid wood worktops and a range of Bosch cooking appliances.
In joinery, we launched a new catalogue and a more extensive range of doors.
Although doors are relatively low-margin items, they generate regular visits from customers and that helps to reinforce our relationship with them.
To help our market awareness, we use a show house to demonstrate our latest Our show house demonstrates a great combination of entrepreneurialism products.
Our house starts as a property in need of renovation: we buy the property, and good common sense install our products, show customers around, sell at a profit and then reinvest in another house.
We are pleased with our relationship with the Leonard Cheshire foundation.
As you may know, this is the largest voluntary body providing support to disabled people in the UK.
Like Howdens, it is a national organisation that serves local people and is always very much part of the local community.
We give financial support to the foundation, but we are also working to design, develop and install bespoke kitchens in a number of Leonard Cheshire homes across the country.
This experience has enabled us to develop our new Inclusive range, which is These kitchens will help transform lives by giving disabled people the aimed at people who have specific physical needs.
The range is available at Howden opportunity to experience greater independence Joinery depots and has great potential, with customers eager to see better products and services.
Generally builders have limited experience in this area, so we have produced a guide to help our customers meet the needs of the many thousands of people and organisations who require a bespoke approach.
Earlier, when discussing the crisis in 2005, I mentioned the financial problems faced by the Group.
In February 2006, I was able to report some real progress as we had reached agreement with the pension fund trustees and The Pensions Regulator on the funding of the deficit.
We had also raised a substantial amount of cash with the sale of Hygena Cuisines to Nobia AG for 92m, and we had received from HM Revenue & Customs a long-standing disputed sum of 21.8m.
Our new banking arrangement was in place too, and this has given us up to 175m of secured funding.
Clearly, the disposal of MFI Retail to MEP and the disposal of Sofa Workshop to New Heights in October consolidated our much-improved position.
Finding solutions to our financial problems has enabled us to concentrate on renewing the business.
And with the financial fire-fighting over, we can now concentrate on going after strategic growth opportunities.
Galiform Annual Report 2006 19 Chief Executives Review continued Growth If we never opened another depot, we could look forward to i good like for like growth from mature depots, ii a seven year maturity curve from ones that have been open for a while and iii incremental growth from recently opened depots.
And this is before taking into account the overall market dynamics, in particular the shift from DIY to DFY.
There are other ways we can grow Howdens, however.
We can develop the range of products we offer, responding faster to fashion and design trends in new products.
We can target larger customers such as developers and housing associations.
We can test new geographical market areas, as we are doing in France.
We can work on meeting our seasonal demand.
We can also find all sorts of ways to increase margin while continuing to deliver exceptional local commercial prices to our trade customers.
There is enormous value waiting to be unlocked.
A critical area for Howdens as it grows is culture the unique way we serve our customers and go about our work.
No other business in our market gets close to the spirit and attitude we have in our depots.
Trust plays a vital role in this.
We trust our depot managers to tailor their stock Depot managers are free to tailor and manage stock to meet local needs, selections to local needs, to manage stock efficiently, to market effectively to and to develop their own team customers, and to develop a motivated team whom customers know and trust.
The financial incentives for our depot managers and teams are excellent, and within Howdens we all know that keeping customers happy is good for everyone.
While expanding our network and enhancing our product offer we must keep tight control of the business.
With Howden Kitchens, for example, it is essential we meet our obligations to MFI Retail and Hygena Cuisines while restructuring for life after these contracts.
Of course, along with these challenges, we remain conscious of the Groups financial position: in particular our obligation to make the agreed 53m payment to MEP in September 2007 and a further 12m in March 2008.
We are clear about the importance of making these payments.
The outcome of all this hard work is Galiform a special business with a unique culture and, I believe, a very exciting future in a strong market.
Builders rely on us again and again to deliver the products they need to earn their living, and this special relationship is immensely valuable.
Throughout 2007 we will be strengthening what I call our four aces a good, well designed range: no call back quality: commercial We talk about the four aces in more detail on pages 8 to 13 trade pricing: and products always in stock locally.
I am confident that from this strong base we can continue to deliver shareholder value for you.
Matthew Ingle Chief Executive 6 March 2007 20 Galiform Annual Report 2006
