Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive During 2006, we made major progress in focusing our business: as a result of the Quest and Uniqema disposals, ICI will have a focused portfolio of market-leading coatings, adhesives, starch and synthetic polymer businesses combined with a significantly stronger balance sheet.
During 2006, we made major progress in focusing The Uniqema disposal to Croda International Plc our business portfolio, with the sales of Uniqema, was completed in September for a gross completed in September, and Quest, with completion consideration of 410m.
We would like to thank all expected during the first quarter of 2007.
These Uniqema employees for their great service to ICI, disposals enable ICI to focus on its coatings, and their endeavours to improve the performance adhesives, starch and synthetic polymer businesses.
of the business during a challenging period.
The restructuring of ICI continues and in May we In November, we announced the agreed sale of announced a further transformation programme Quest to Givaudan SA for 1.2bn.
The consideration that will take the Company through to 2011. obtained by ICI reflects the strategic value of Quest Furthermore, we continued to deliver the operating to Givaudan as it enables them to increase their performance improvements set out in our last leadership in the global flavours and fragrance strategic plan.
Against a backdrop of mixed trading industry.
It also reflects the positive trend of Quests conditions, the Group delivered good overall results, performance in recent quarters.
with solid sales growth, sustained trading margins and We would like to thank the Quest team for their a 17% increase in adjusted earnings per share.
These outstanding efforts in rebuilding the performance and were achieved despite further rises in raw material value of the business over the past three years.
costs and weakness in the North American market for decorative paint.
From Turnaround to Transformation As a result of these recent developments combined Our focus on emerging markets continues to deliver with the performance improvements delivered through Peter B Ellwood CBE good results with sales from our Paints and National restructuring, ICI has moved from a turnaround Chairman Starch businesses in developing countries in Asia strategy, which we embarked on in 2003, to one of growing over 14%.
National Starch and Paints opened John D G McAdam transformation, which we signalled in part with our a new manufacturing centre in China for resins and Chief Executive restructuring plans announced in May 2006.
Construction of a second Paints of our transformation strategy will focus on three plant in Vietnam was also completed.
In addition, we important levers accelerating profitable growth, continue to develop our businesses in Latin America, sustaining our improvements in operational Eastern Europe and the Middle East.
effectiveness and developing a culture of We are also pleased to report a significant sustainable improvement.
strengthening of ICIs balance sheet.
Including the We will focus on accelerating profitable growth by: Uniqema disposal proceeds, Group net debt over the year fell from 763m to 329m a major change continuing the focus on the successful development from the late 1990s when year-end net debt peaked of our core businesses in developing markets in at over 4bn.
Additionally, ICIs overall post-retirement Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America: benefit deficit fell from 1.7bn to 1.3bn, on an IFRS increased focus on technology: our research basis, during 2006.
We expect further reduction in resources will concentrate on 14 science pillars, which net debt and the pension fund deficit following the will support ICIs innovation programmes across all completion of the Quest disposal.
our paints, adhesives, polymer and starch businesses.
Major business portfolio developments This will help deliver a more significant contribution As a result of the Quest and Uniqema disposals, from new products to future revenues: and ICI will have a focused portfolio of market-leading strengthening our target market positions through coatings, adhesives, starch and synthetic polymer selected acquisitions, innovative technology businesses combined with a significantly stronger alliances and other investments.
1933 1936 1941 Polythene, the first plastic, ICIs Board grants a modest Scientists J R Whinfield and is created by ICI scientists as a five-year 15,000 budget for JT Dickson joined ICI where, in result of a laboratory mistake.
pharmaceutical research, paving 1941, they complete their earlier the way for some of the centurys work on Terylene, the first greatest medical treatments.
com Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive Operational effectiveness will continue to be a strong area of focus for the Group, driven by a 340m investment expected to Total shareholder return deliver 170m of savings per annum by 2011.
Restructuring savings Return delivered in 2006, compared with 2003, amounted to 130m: 122m ICI 140 from the 2003 programme and 8m from the 2006 programme.
FTSE 100 Index 130 Developing a culture of sustainable improvement will focus on a series of pan-ICI initiatives that will leverage the organisations 120 combined strengths and expertise, underpinned by a set of eight guiding principles that will align the values and behaviours of all 110 our employees around the Group Strategy.
100 The Groups commitment to sustainability is reflected in our focus 90 on economic, social and environmental performance improvement.
In May, we published final results against our Challenge 2005 Dec Dec Feb Apr Jun Aug Oct 05 06 06 06 06 06 06 objectives and launched new Challenge 2010 objectives.
Whilst not achieving every goal in the previous five-year plan, we were pleased with our progress.
In establishing these new Challenge 2010 Outlook objectives we worked with a number of external stakeholders to The outlook for ICI remains positive.
Though there are few signs identify a broad and challenging sustainability agenda which focuses of improvement in the North American market for decorative paint, on areas of direct relevance to our business portfolio.
In addition, our businesses in developing markets look set to deliver a solid ICI remains a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and a performance.
Combined with the incremental benefits of further member of the FTSE4Good Index, important benchmark indices for restructuring, ICI expects to make further progress in 2007. responsible investors.
Our shareholders, employees and customers continue to provide People strong support to ICI and we thank them for their ongoing trust During 2006, Bill Powell stepped down from the ICI Board and retired and confidence.
We are mindful of our financial responsibility to all from the Company after 30 years of service with National Starch.
Len shareholders and the need always to act with the highest standards Berlik, formerly Chief Executive of Uniqema, retired from the Company of integrity and transparency.
We remain committed to achieving at the end of the year after more than 30 years service.
The Board both as we develop the business.
would like to thank both Bill and Len for their contribution to the successful development of ICI in recent years.
Total Shareholder Return ICI aims to be amongst the leading creators of shareholder return Peter B Ellwood CBE Chairman in its industry.
During 2006, the Group made significant progress with a return of over 39% in the year, compared to a FTSE100 return of 15%, reflecting the many positive strategic and operational developments for the Group.
John D G McAdam Chief Executive 22 February 2007 1945 1953 1953 ICI scientists Drs Frank Rose, Fluothane is introduced in Scientists in ICIs Fibres Division Frank Curd and Garnet Davey invent 1953 as the first replacement for develop the first colour-fast synthetic drug Paludrine, the first chloroform and ether, becoming textile dyes.
the most commonly used anaesthetic in the western world.
com ICI Annual Review 2006 03 Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive Where we operate and our brand portfolio ICI is one of the worlds leading coatings, adhesives, starch and synthetic polymer businesses with products and ingredients developed for a wide range of markets.
Group revenue by customer location continuing operations North Europe America 29% Asia 33% 27% Latin America Other 2% 9% Dulux is one of the worlds National Starchs EASY-PAC Hi-maize is a fast-growing ICI Paints scientists have Elotexs specialty construction best-known decorative paint gives customers the lowest range of slowly digestible reformulated Cuprinol exterior polymers are in demand in brands with a strong presence temperature packaging starches that act as dietary fibre wood treatment into a popular, Chinas fast-growing in Asia, a fast-growing market adhesive on the market when added to foods, from easy to apply sprayable format.
along with low-maintenance bread to breakfast cereal.
Specialty polymers from National Alco Chemicals unique natural, We know the colours that go, Ablestik is a world leading ICIs paints are market leaders Starch give fixative, conditioning, starch-based polymers provide Dulux UKs 2006 advertising supplier of adhesives that in Argentina and Uruguay with thickening, aesthetic or effective and environmentally campaign, helped support connect and protect integrated a strong number two position convenience properties and safe treatment for effluent water.
further growth in a challenging circuits in phone cameras, in Brazil.
characteristics to hair care and DIY market.
MP3 players, computers and skin care products.
Mid-1950s 1962 1963 ICI scientists develop MDI, a safe ICI scientists led by Dr William Boon The Dulux dog appears for the first and inexpensive insulating foam, develop environmentally sensitive crop time in ICI Paints advertisements.
allowing growth of refrigerated protective pesticide Paraquat.
Brilliant White Dulux paint is transport, frozen foods, domestic launched about this time.
com ICI Group strategy and progress
