Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review Chief Executives Review 4 Delivering our strategy Performance Overview Our success in 2006 has been reected in a 7 per cent growth in our cigarette volumes and share gains across all our regions.
In the UK, a good performance from our existing brand portfolio has been complemented by the successful national launch of Windsor Blue.
In Germany, JPS has continued to grow strongly.
In the Rest of Western Europe and Rest of the World regions, we have grown our shares in most of our markets.
Our key premium international cigarette brand Davidoff performed well, with global volumes up 6 per cent on last year to 14 billion cigarettes.
In September 2006, We have again demonstrated we acquired the worldwide cigarette trademark for the brand, having been the the strength of our strategy and long term licensee since the acquisition our organic growth credentials.
We have had considerable success with Davidoff Our brands and in-market cigarettes in the last four years and this performances and the commitment acquisition will provide us with greater exibility to develop the brand and of our people have all contributed accelerate its international growth.
In addition to our acquisition of the Davidoff cigarette trademark, we bought Gareth Davis, Chief Executive Gunnar Stenberg, a Norwegian distributor of tobacco products and accessories, in February 2006, extending our position in Scandinavia.
In our manufacturing operations, our cigarette unit costs reduced by 6 per cent reecting excellent progress in our simplication and standardisation programmes.
In July, to further improve operational efficiencies and our competitive position, we announced the closure of our other tobacco product factories in Liverpool and Lahr.
The closure of the Treforest papers factory and the relocation of our Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2006 Operating and Financial Review 2006 Highlights Central European cigarette production 5 to Poland announced last year have now been completed.
Our success in 2006 has been reected in a 7 per cent In order to ensure the effective use of our cash we increased our rolling share growth in our cigarette volumes and share gains across buyback programme to an annual rate of all our regions.
In our current financial year, we spent 556 million, Drum and Golden Virginia continued to In manufacturing, we reduced our cigarette including transaction costs, acquiring support our world leadership position unit costs by 6 per cent and made 32.5 million shares which are held as in ne cut tobacco.
excellent progress in our simplication and Treasury shares.
The average price paid was standardisation programmes.
As at 30 September 2006, we held Building on our considerable success 46.0 million Treasury Shares representing with Davidoff cigarettes in recent years, We increased our rolling share buyback 6.3 per cent of our issued share capital.
we acquired the worldwide cigarette programme to an annual rate of around Our success is as much due to our trademark in September 2006.
600 million in February 2006, in order people as it is to our products and brands.
to ensure the effective use of our cash.
Our employees enthusiasm and commitment are great assets for Imperial Our unrelenting focus on cost and efficiency Tobacco, ensuring we continue to deliver throughout every part of the business will on our strategy and create value for our continue.
We remain committed to seeking shareholders.
My sincere thanks to them value creating acquisitions that meet our all for yet another great year.
Our rolling share buyback programme is an effective use Regulation of our cash ow in the meantime.
We have demonstrated our ability to Finally, I would like to thank my successfully develop our business in Chairman, Derek, for his guidance and highly regulated environments.
Regulation wise counsel over the years.
It has been continued to increase during the year in a privilege to serve as his Chief Executive.
many markets in which we operate.
We believe that we are well positioned to effectively manage regulatory challenges.
We welcome constructive dialogue with governments and regulatory bodies in Gareth Davis pursuit of sensible, practical and Chief Executive proportionate regulation.
Corporate Responsibility In my introduction to our most recent Corporate Responsibility Review, I reiterated our commitment to corporate responsibility and our performance across many measured criteria has continued to improve.
More detail on our progress is included on pages 32 to 35 of this report and on our website www.
com Outlook Looking ahead, we believe that we are in a strong position.
Our widening geographic footprint combined with our broad product portfolio offers many opportunities to leverage and build brand equity, with long term sustainable growth p rospects across the business.
