04 Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Group Chief Executives review With our clear strategic focus we will seize major growth opportunities both organically and through acquisition.
05 Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Strategic achievements in 2006 A strong legacy I am convinced that in the future a key Inchcape has achieved a remarkable differentiator for automotive customers Strong platform for growth established strategic turnaround since our move will be the service that they receive from to focus purely on the automotive sector their retailer.
Since then, we have enjoyed An outstanding customer Like for like sales growth of 2.1% significant earnings growth and stock experience, delivered consistently, will value creation for our shareholders generate higher returns from our existing Like for like trading profit growth of 10.3% and our colleagues.
This has generated assets, based on higher conversion and At constant currency a high level of pride and energy in loyalty rates.
Our research has identified Operating profit pre exceptional items and central costs at constant currency the business and I am proud to have key opportunities to make sure our inherited such a strong legacy.
customers feel special and to create We have made further progress a world-class retail experience.
Expand in 2006, strengthening our core business When combined with our global Keystar acquisition Australia as demonstrated by the like for like scale and local operational excellence, Lind and EMH acquisitions UK sales growth of 2.1% and like for like delivering exceptional customer trading profit growth of 10.3%, at service will make us the brand partner Axel acquisition and JV with constant currency.
At the same time of choice and increase our access to the Independence Group we have played a leading role in the attractive expansion opportunities.
of Companies Russia consolidation of the automotive This customer-centric vision is not Entry into China industry.
We have expanded our reach limited to our Retail vision for Inchcape: Eighteen new and refurbished in Australia and, via the transformational it also applies to our Distribution sites worldwide acquisition of EMH announced in operations.
As a distributor, our aim Leading role played in the consolidation December and that of Lind in May, is to deliver an outstanding customer of the UK automotive retail market have taken a major strategic step experience for the brands we represent forward in the UK.
We have also entered through both Inchcape-owned and the fast growing markets of Russia and third-party retail outlets.
I am very excited at the wealth that the only way to be successful as of expertise and knowledge we have a distributor is to truly think and act acquired and welcome our new as a retailer.
colleagues to the Inchcape family.
Strategic priorities Strategy and vision In order to deliver our next stage of In October 2006 we outlined our strategic growth we have identified two strategic plan to our investors: how we will priorities: to strengthen our existing core continue to build on our success and business through customer-centric further leverage our unique business operational excellence, and to expand model to drive the next stage of growth in developed and emerging markets.
and value creation for our shareholders.
Our vision for the Company is simple.
It is to become the worlds most customer-centric automotive retail group, exceeding the expectations of our brand partners and our customers, every day and everywhere.
06 Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Group Chief Executives review continued Strengthen In developed markets we will continue In January 2007 we completed our In strengthening the business our goal to play a leading role in the industry acquisition of a 75.1% shareholding is to increase the profitability of every consolidation to increase our share of in the Toyota Lexus retail and service single operation in every single country.
the national volume with our core brand business of Axel Car in St Petersburg, Thus we are seeing an increased focus partners.
The management of fewer, the first step in our expansion strategy on the customer to drive like for like sales bigger, better retail sites is leading, as for this high growth market.
growth and on operational excellence expected, to improved retail standards We have also announced plans to drive like for like profit growth.
for the customer and creates scale to enter the Moscow market through The former is being driven by vehicle and aftersales operations a joint venture with the Independence our long term, Group-wide programme, for us, enabling investment in strong Group of Companies, one of Moscows Inchcape Advantage designed to codify management and infrastructure to leading independent car retailers, to the way we deliver an outstanding generate higher returns.
establish two Toyota retail and service customer experience every day, every As our brand partners pursue centres in Moscow.
These retail centres time, everywhere and at each stage of their expansion plans in the high growth are expected to open in 2008. the customer journey.
We are introducing emerging markets, they are immediately China is another market where a new suite of customer focused developing first class retail networks, I see substantial growth for the Group.
standards, finding ways to share best learning from and leapfrogging the The market is growing fast and has practice across the Group and trialling developed countries experience to build overtaken Japan as the second largest new and innovative ways to deliver a fewer, bigger and better retail sites with in the world, up by 35% in 2006. special customer experience.
We want world-class retail standards.
They therefore The construction of our first to give an advantage to our brand need strong and professional retail Toyota dealership in Shaoxing 4.3 million partners by being the best distributor or partners with significant financial capacity inhabitants from a greenfield site was retailer of their brand.
to develop their retail network in these completed in December 2006.
We have In our push for like for like trading markets.
We are well placed to take also been awarded the Lexus franchise profit growth, we are increasing our focus advantage of these opportunities and for Shaoxing which will open in the fourth on achieving operational excellence it is our intention to increase our retail quarter of 2007 as well as the Lexus from our value-drivers: vehicles, service presence in Romania, Bulgaria, Latvia, franchise for Shanghai, due to open and parts.
In terms of new markets, we are Expand Our people now creating scale operations in both I am equally excited by our expansion I have a strong belief that it is our people Russia and China.
We plan to invest significantly who make the difference.
We have an Russias car market is the largest with our core brand partners in energising Human Resources agenda in Central and Eastern Europe and is developed and emerging markets.
in place around recruitment, motivation, experiencing rapid growth.
In recent We will accelerate our Retail expansion, remuneration and training.
We employ years foreign brands share of overall develop new Distribution opportunities a decentralised but co-ordinated sales in Russia have been increasing and create four additional scale markets organisational model.
Our local businesses strongly with a 65% increase in sales taking our core markets from six to ten are empowered and resourced to make in 2006 to over one million units.
fast decisions while the Group enjoys good synergies based on global best practice and consistent standards.
07 Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2006 The next stage of growth I believe that Inchcape has tremendous An outstanding customer growth opportunities: I expect our strategy to deliver a healthy balance experience, delivered between like for like profit growth and acquisition expansion.
consistently, will generate Our formula for delivering exceptional shareholder returns is very compelling.
higher returns from our existing Our business platform is exceptionally strong.
Our model is assets, based on higher unique in the automotive industry with a balanced geographic spread between conversion and loyalty rates.
We enjoy market leadership positions in key markets with best-in-class margins.
And we have enduring relationships with winning brand partners supported by a strong and professional management team.
Added to this, our performance track record is outstanding.
Our existing portfolio is highly cash generative and every market has contributed to the last five years profit growth.
With our clear strategic focus we will seize major growth opportunities both organically and through acquisition.
We have good financial flexibility and a solid track record of both successfully integrating acquisitions and driving the business forward organically.
This is why we are leading the industry as an independent, international automotive retailer and we are excited about the growth opportunities ahead for our shareholders, brand partners and our people.
Andr Lacroix Group Chief Executive 5 March 2007
