6707-01 IPreport2006 AW tp 3 23 07 09:05 Page 4 Chief Executive Officers statement Dear Shareholder, These values, running through the heart of our core competencies 2006 was a strong year, with very good operational and financial greenfield development, acquisitions, financing, asset and project performance reflected in a significant increase in our share price.
management, trading, and plant operations will continue to be The key commercial drivers were the continued recovery of the US our foundation.
and UK merchant markets, together with contributions from selected acquisitions and greenfield growth projects.
However, none of this A successful year strong operational would have been possible without the continued enthusiasm, and financial performance commitment and drive from our dedicated teams of professionals across the entire Group, and I thank every individual for this.
In terms of performance in 2006, it was a very good year across the portfolio with all regions contributing well, but with especially strong This performance needs to be viewed in the wider context of our performances in the UK and in the US.
Power generation, and the energy sector as a whole, is right at initiatives are a common theme across our portfolio, and you will see the centre of a number of key international debates, including security reference to a number of these in this review.
of supply, high and volatile fuel prices, the environmental impact of emissions, and carbon dioxide in particular, technology advances, and North America In the US, our two key merchant markets of Texas government energy policies.
It is critically important that we actively and New England continued their recovery.
Oversupply continues to keep all these key themes under continual review to ensure we be reduced through consistent demand growth, enabling our plants understand their impact and therefore best position International Power in both Texas and New England to run at higher load factors and at in all of the markets in which we operate.
In July 2006, we acquired Coleto Creek, a 632 MW coal fired plant in Texas, and this asset has been quickly Clear strategy to create value and successfully integrated into our US portfolio.
Coleto Creek provides good fuel diversity, and its access to low cost, low sulphur Powder River Our results are based on a clear strategy to create value from power Basin coal from Wyoming represents a long-term cost advantage.
We generation and very closely related activities, such as desalination and are now investing to improve the environmental performance of Coleto district heating.
A key strength comes from our international portfolio Creek by upgrading its dust emission control equipment.
Coleto Creek approach, which provides a breadth of geography, market structure, fuel, also comes with expansion potential at site, and we are keeping this and technology.
This portfolio approach not only provides excellent risk growth opportunity under close review.
In New England, December mitigation, but also outstanding access to growth opportunities across 2006 saw the introduction of an enhanced Forward Capacity Market all of our markets.
Growth continues to be an important part of our this is a very welcome development, as it rewards capacity for business model, and our combination of in-depth regional market being available.
knowledge with a rigorous capital allocation process is designed to ensure only the best projects are selected.
We will continue to focus on Europe In Europe, the main driver for the increase in profits was the UK.
both carefully researched liberalised merchant markets, where we take As in the US, the reserve margin the difference between installed full price risk for the power that we generate, and regulated markets capacity and peak demand continues to reduce.
This, when coupled where we have long-term offtake arrangements for our power with with a high oil and gas price that generally sets the price of power in contractually agreed pricing.
the UK, resulted in a much improved year for Rugeley, our 1,050 MW coal fired plant.
We are investing some 145 million in environmental Our overarching criterion, irrespective of the market structure in which improvements at Rugeley to reduce sulphur and other emissions, we operate, is that our investments make money for our shareholders providing this plant with a long-term role within UK generation.
To deliver strong performance over the long-term, we volatility, and the continual need for power at very short notice to must have strong values that all International Power employees ascribe to ensure security of supply, combined to make 2006 a very good year for and live by.
It is our values and behaviour that drive our performance, and First Hydro, the largest fast-response pumped storage peaking unit in it is worth a short reminder of our five core values, listed below.
Our core values: Respect for the individual, for opinions, P for nationalities, genders, religions and Financial discipline we assess P ethnic backgrounds opportunities and risks carefully, we wont overpay for assets, and we look after Safety safe behaviour and attitude in P shareholders investment everything we do all day, every day Integrity honesty, openness, and fairness Team culture success in a complex business P P underpin all our business dealings, means bringing people of many different internally and externally disciplines together into co-ordinated teams 4 Chief Executive Officers statement 6707-01 IPreport2006 AW tp 3 23 07 09:05 Page 5 the UK.
For gas fired generation, the high price of gas generally meant federal and state governments, and with selected technology specialists.
that margins remained depressed however, this was not the case for This is a medium to long-term project, and we are pleased to be at Saltend, our 1,200 MW gas fired plant, as this plant benefited from an the forefront of addressing such an important issue for Australian attractively priced gas contract in 2006. power generation.
The balance of our European portfolio is largely contracted, and Asia In Asia, all of our assets operate under long-term offtake contracts, delivered an excellent performance, characterised by high plant and all have performed well, with high availability the main driver.
As in the UK, we are also installing improved emission is a little down year-on-year, primarily because the tax free status of one control equipment at Pego, our Portuguese coal fired plant.
We were of our assets in Pakistan KAPCO has time expired, as originally also very pleased to announce two acquisitions during the year planned.
We continue to target growth opportunities in Asia, including Indian Queens, a 140 MW peaking plant in the UK, and Levanto, a both greenfield and acquisition opportunities, and accordingly we have 436 MW portfolio of wind farms in operation or under construction strengthened our development resources in the region.
Levanto represents our first significant move Focus on growth opportunities into renewables in Europe, and we plan to use this as a platform for further growth in renewables, using the acquired expertise and the Our strong operational performance has been matched by a very inherent development opportunities.
significant improvement in free cash flow.
This ensures that our balance Middle East Our performance in the Middle East in 2006 reflects sheet remains robust, with gearing and debt capitalisation at levels very additional capacity coming on line, our four plants in Saudi Arabia similar to last year, despite the acquisitions made during 2006.
Our progressively reached full commercial operation during the year, in corporate liquidity also remains good, providing us with great flexibility Qatar, our power and desalination plant commenced partial commercial to pursue growth opportunities, alongside our commitment to operation and we also acquired the Hidd power and desalination plant progressively increase our dividend pay-out ratio.
By the end of 2006, we had 2,033 MW net The foundation of our business is stronger, and we are focused on of power plant, and 75 MIGD net of desalination plant in operation in growth opportunities through greenfield development and acquisitions the Middle East, with a further 355 MW net and 42 MIGD net due across our core regions.
Recovering power markets are resulting in to come into operation from existing projects.
Our existing plants generally higher asset prices, but we will use our key strengths of continue to perform well under their long-term contracts, and we regional market knowledge and financial discipline to ensure that we do continue to target this region as a source of long-term growth through not overpay, and that long-term shareholder value remains at the very leveraging our operational and development skills, alongside our top of our agenda.
Australia In Australia, our headline profit is down, due to lower achieved prices which were anticipated in this merchant market.
Our forward contracting policy has significantly insulated the business from weaker market prices over the last few years, but 2006 margins reflect more recent, and hence lower, prices.
However, the market background is now more encouraging, with forward prices showing an improvement.
Philip Cox As we are largely contracted for 2007, we should see most of the Chief Executive Officer benefit from this improvement from 2008 onwards.
We are also investigating means of reducing carbon dioxide emissions from brown coal generation at our Hazelwood plant in Victoria, working with both Annual Report 2006 5
