Chief Executive Of cers review Inside Intertek 2006 was a year of increased public scrutiny of how our behaviour affects the global environment.
Companies across the world are looking internally and at their products to consider what they should do to be more environmentally friendly.
Our customers are increasingly seeking help from us to improve the environmental impact of their products and processes.
In the USA for example, we support QualComm by ensuring that their digital wireless products do not contain environmentally hazardous substances and thereby comply with new European legislation.
In the UK, the development of new biofuel products requires complex testing processes and research and we have undertaken ground-breaking work in this area with Biofuels Corporation.
And, in India, we work with Carrier India to test the energy ef ciency of their products and support their efforts in providing superior products to their Wolfhart Hauser customers and meeting the proposed India Energy Chief Executive Of cer Label requirements.
With countries like India enjoying tremendous The market for safety and quality services is growth in consumerism, our work and skills in growing strongly.
Consumers, manufacturers and tackling and ensuring the environmental ef ciency retailers have higher quality and safety expectations of consumer products thus becomes critical.
Social as there are increasing numbers of products in and regulatory trends for more environmentally the market of growing complexity and due to friendly products continue to grow at a great pace competition among retailers and manufacturers.
in every country and Intertek is well positioned to Environmental concerns from consumers and help and bene t from this trend.
regulatory bodies are increasing the need for new and revised safety and environmental standards.
The increasing af uence in emerging markets is opening up new opportunities and challenges for Our customers are under pressure to expand their the worlds manufacturers, retailers and brands.
product lines, increase speed to market, but also to Intertek is experienced in helping customers mitigate supply chain risk.
They must manage bring new products to new markets under tight changing patterns in global trade, sourcing and budgetary and time constraints.
We will bene t distribution and consider the effects of new and from the forthcoming consumer explosion in emerging markets.
Our goal is to be a source of emerging markets where we already have an vital support to clients through changing times.
As we work alongside our With our global network and local and international customers and help them manage their management, we are well-placed to remain their international expansion, we bring them the trusted partner.
advantages and security of partnering with a world class global corporation.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 06 The foundation of our success Our Strategy lies in our approach of adding value to our clients.
All of these trends create a more complex world Focus on clients by adding for our clients to operate in and an increasing challenge for manufacturers, retailers and brands value to their businesses alike.
Intertek is there to support them through the changing regulatory compliance, consumer attitude and products and global supply chain issues.
We can do this in many different con gurations and client relationships.
Combine and increase the We are seeing many customers bene ting from outsourcing to Intertek whole processes, divisions, number of services to the standalone laboratories or just the more complex areas of safety and quality assurance.
Through bene t of our clients economies of scale and a worldwide resource of talented people, the bene ts that can accrue from this process to both parties can be sizeable.
Organise ourselves along Ultimately, it is our people here at Intertek that are the strength of our brand and allow us to add value industry and service lines to our clients.
I frequently meet Intertek scientists and engineers To be the first or second who say that their achievement of nding innovative solutions for clients complex challenges in each of our core service is a great source of satisfaction to them.
I have seen Intertek leaders offer Government ministers novel industries solutions to their international trade security and customs challenges and develop them into a longterm relationship of fundamental bene t to the well-being and economy of that state.
To drive the outsourcing People at Intertek carry a high level of dedication, trend in all our core service expertise and a desire to see our customers succeed.
Through this, we can be sure that we will industries continue to create value for our customers, demand for our services in expanding markets, and increase our shareholders wealth.
Wolfhart Hauser Chief Executive Of cer Intertek Group plc Annual Report 07
