Chief Executives statement Invensys has continued to focus on addressing the operational performance of each of its businesses and building a solid foundation for growth.
Ulf Henriksson In my first report to you as the Chief Executive of The disposal of Invensys Building Systems for Chief Executive Invensys, I am pleased to report that we are making 157 million has been announced and is expected to good progress in improving the fortunes of Invensys, complete at the end of July 2006.
This will complete culminating in the announcement of the proposals the exit of the Controls business from the building to refinance the Group.
During the year ended systems business, ABS EMEA having been disposed 31 March 2006, Invensys has continued to focus on of in July 2005 for 85 million.
We also sold the addressing the operational performance of each of its Lambda business in September 2005 for an attractive businesses and building a solid foundation for growth.
In particular, the businesses have begun to meet the challenge to: Looking across our business groups achieve return on sales at least in line with their Controls peer groups: Controls is addressing the significant market and convert a greater proportion of their operating operational issues that have adversely affected its profits into cash: and financial performance since its creation through the invest in the capabilities required to grow merger of the Climate and Appliance businesses market share.
Under the leadership of its new President, Chan Galbato, it is executing a broad range In relation to return on sales, we increased our of actions to improve its manufacturing quality and operating margin from 7.0% to 7.8%, but this reflects efficiency, thereby improving its customer on-time a mixed result across our businesses.
On cash, our delivery and product quality.
This is also helping to improved operating performance and effective counter the pricing pressures it is experiencing in management of working capital has resulted in a free some of its markets, particularly in the North cash inflow before legacy payments of 100 million American and European appliance markets.
The compared with 39 million in the prior year.
Process leadership team is also being strengthened through Systems, Rail Systems and Eurotherm achieved good the recruitment of several senior managers and double digit margins and we reduced corporate costs engineers to enhance its execution ability.
by 11 million to 35 million, but our overall operating margin improvement was, in particular, held back by Controls and APV.
4 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 Process Systems Eurotherm Process Systems has undergone significant restructuring Eurotherm, which has been a steady performer across all aspects of its business during the past two for many years, has begun a major restructuring to years and has now restored its position as a leader address its cost base in its mature markets in Europe in the global market for process automation.
In April and North America and to enable it to capture the 2006 InFusion was launched, which is a new growth in its markets in Asia.
It is in consultations with enterprise control system that combines capabilities employee representatives within its manufacturing from across Invensys with advanced enterprise plants in the UK, France and Italy on proposals to information and integration technologies from both outsource significant amounts of its component Microsoft and SAP to significantly reduce integration manufacture and to establish a manufacturing base costs.
InFusion is planned to become a high-growth in Poland.
In order to capture the strong growth product offering.
in capacity within Asian markets, Eurotherm is to commence manufacturing at a facility in Shanghai, Rail Systems China towards the end of the second quarter of the Rail Systems is benefiting from an increase in year ending 31 March 2007. investment in rail infrastructure within its main Corporate markets the United Kingdom, US and Iberia and is gaining business in its export markets.
Rail Systems Corporate costs continued to fall in line with has recently been awarded preferred bidder status recent trends.
on three Category A large signalling renewal framework contracts by Network Rail.
This preferred Taking the Group forward bidder success on three out of the six available Although we have made good progress during the framework contracts confirms our continued market past year, much remains to be done to complete leadership in the UK mainline market and provides the turnaround of Invensys, particularly in APV and the opportunity for over 200 million of revenue in Controls.
The additional operational flexibility that the next five years.
Final agreement on the framework would arise from the proposed refinancing should contracts and the award of the first two projects provide us with additional opportunities to improve under these contracts is expected shortly.
Funding for our capabilities and performance.
Each of our rail crossings in the US is also increasing following the businesses knows what is required of it and we have signing in 2005 of the US Transportation Bill.
In export the management and review systems in place to markets, the business is building upon its success in monitor their achievements and to provide assistance the Chinese mass transit market and is exploring new where required.
We have gradually improved our opportunities, particularly in Latin America and the performance during the year and I believe that we new member states of the European Union.
For can sustain and develop upon this in the year ending example, it has recently won a series of contracts and 31 March 2007. agreements worth approximately 43 million with Marubeni of Japan.
These contracts will provide Marubeni with technical support services and technical consultancy on a major new railway signalling project in Taiwan.
APV APV has undergone significant restructuring, which has stabilised its operations at break-even, and further Ulf Henriksson action is now being taken to create a more stable and Chief Executive profitable financial performance.
Procedures designed to reduce the risk on projects have been implemented and allied to this it is also increasing the use of standardised engineering solutions.
Sales and marketing efforts have been refocused upon products, spares and services PSS, addressing APVs large installed base: good progress has been made and PSS now represents over half of APVs revenue, although growth is tempered by a shortage of titanium, an important raw material for industrial heat exchangers.
Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 5
