Chief executives review 2006 has been a year of considerable change for AMEC.
Since my appointment as chief executive in October we have wasted no time in streamlining our businesses, strengthening our position in core markets and building a firm foundation.
We are now in a much stronger position than we were a year ago and well on the way to creating a more focused and profitable business for the future.
Creating a leaner, fitter business Our first priority at AMEC has been to create a leaner and more efficient business.
To do this, we have introduced a major cultural change programme known as STEP Change, with a focus on significantly reducing our costs.
This was well underway in December 2006 when a cost savings target of 100 million was announced.
Progress has been more successful than we anticipated, with all of us who work for the company taking responsibility for driving the programme forward.
We have now identified an additional 12 million of savings, involving many initiatives such as aligning our benefits programme with peers and reducing our corporate costs.
This will deliver significant benefits of around 40 million in recurring net benefits from 2008 onwards.
S Y Brikho Chief executive AMEC now has a clear vision and strategy 4 AMEC plc annual report 2006 Chief executives review www.
com Chief executives review AMEC plc annual report 2006 5 4155 AMEC front 06 LH CS2.
indd 4 4 4 07 09:15:46 The focus of any organisation must be clear if it hopes to progress and grow.
We remain fully committed to a sustainable approach in all that we do, As a result, at the end of 2006 we decided our focus would be on the energy and our success has been reflected with AMEC being awarded the number and process markets and that non-core businesses in Built Environment one position in the 2006 Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
This was for both would therefore be sold.
We have already successfully sold the rail business, the World and European sustainability indices within the support services received over 40 expressions of interest for the remaining businesses, and we sector and was the third year in succession we have achieved this.
expect the sale of them to be completed during 2007.
AMECs vision for the future As part of the transformation of AMEC, we have had to manage certain issues All the work we are doing is focused on achieving our goal of becoming a leading that have prevented us from achieving our full potential, including the legacy supplier of high value consultancy, engineering and project management projects that have involved litigation claims.
We addressed this issue as services within the global energy and industrial process industries.
a matter of urgency, reviewing all major disputes, establishing clear responsibility for the management of the legacy issues and adopting a strategy The next stage in the development and growth of AMEC is to focus on the to settle where reasonable to do so.
In addition, risk management processes achievement of operational excellence.
This will be by strengthening our have been strengthened.
client relationships, engaging to a much greater degree with our key customers and by creating simpler and more robust management processes.
Everyone A strong balance sheet is always important and following the sale of within AMEC is very clear about what they as individuals need to do to deliver AMEC SPIE in July 2006, we expect to have 250 million of average net cash the targets we have set for the business.
Their commitment means we will available in 2007, up to 100 million of which is being returned to shareholders continue to deliver on our promises to put the business in order, to dispose of in a share buy back programme.
Conversion of profit to cash has also the non-core businesses, to deliver STEP Change and achieve targeted margin improved considerably.
By doing so, we are positioning ourselves as an organisation that is leaner, more focused and profitable and a leader in our chosen fields.
Recent successes In 2006, we profited from successes in our core markets such as oil sands, mining and oil and gas.
These included a major joint venture contract for the upgrade of overhead power lines across western England and Wales for National Grid and a contract with BG Group to support all of BGs upstream natural gas assets and manage the development of the Maria brownfield gas project in the North Sea.
We also improved the market position of our Earth and Environmental business with the award of a multi-year contract for the 14 March 2007 US Air Force.
Chief executives review AMEC plc annual report 2006 5 4155 AMEC front 06 LH CS2.
