Report of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: The second half of the financial year ended 2 30 April 2006 was a turbulent period for iSOFT... Background The second half of the financial year ended 30 April 2006 was a turbulent period for iSOFT and longterm shareholders will be feeling deeply disappointed by the events of recent months.
I joined the Group as Chairman in October last year and share that disappointment, but I am determined to see through a series of actions and change that I believe are necessary to put this company back on a solid footing and enable it to capitalise on its underlying product strengths and experience.
Report of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 2006 Annual Report and Accounts The recent phase of events was triggered by the earlier, respectively.
Those revenues will now be need to issue a trading statement in January 2006 recognised in future years in accordance with the warning of a sharp reduction in revenues and provisions of the new accounting policy.
In profitability for the year ended 30 April 2006, calculating the prior year adjustment, note 1 to the primarily due to delivery and implementation delays accounts outlines the limitations in the historical at the UK National Health Service under the National data available to the Board.
The NPfIT, which is The Group believes that, of the 174 million explained in greater detail on page 18, is a bold revenues reversed, approximately 40-50 million will initiative that I believe will become a blueprint for be recognised in each of the years ending 30 April the delivery of integrated healthcare on a national 2007 and 2008, and the majority of the balance in basis.
However, the sheer scale of the project and its the following three years.
The main benefit of this pioneering aspects have resulted in delays to the 3 change will be that revenues will reflect more closely delivery schedule for a wide variety of reasons, some the Group's trading activities and be more closely of which are beyond iSOFT's control.
The National aligned with the Group's operational cash flows for Audit Office report published in June 2006 explains the financial year 2009 and subsequently.
these reasons, which I am sure will be addressed.
As a result of work carried out by our auditors to The January trading statement, together with a review the adjustment to past revenues, possible related trading update issued on 28 April 2006, had accounting irregularities have come to light which a negative impact on the Group's share price.
have been the subject of an investigation by Deloitte Revenue recognition accounting policy & Touche LLP and Eversheds LLP.
Deloitte & Touche In June 2006 the Board announced that it had LLP was appointed as the Group's auditor in July decided to change the Group's accounting policy for 2005 and was not therefore acting for the Group revenue recognition to an appropriate policy for during the period covered by the investigation.
After today's commercial situation.
That change is an initial review, the Board has deemed it incorporated in the results announced today.
In the appropriate to suspend Steve Graham, the Group's past, iSOFT was primarily a software product Commercial Director, pending the outcome of a company serving independent hospital and family more formal investigation.
The Group is now engaged with The investigation concerns several contracts where it larger, more complex and longer-term projects, in would appear that revenues have been recognised which it is increasingly difficult to distinguish earlier than they should have been in the financial between the supply of product licences and their years ended 30 April 2004 and 2005 under the implementation.
As a result, the current Board has accounting policy in force at that time.
The decided that the use of the previous accounting irregularities uncovered to date do not appear to policy has become inappropriate and has decided have affected the cash position of the Group.
The that licence revenues will in future typically be investigation by Deloitte & Touche LLP and recognised over the period of implementation, Eversheds LLP is complete and a more formal which may range from a few months to a number investigation by the FSA is under way at today's of years from contract signature, and over the full date, which may take some months to complete.
contract duration in the case of bundled services.
Results for the year ended 30 April 2006 The change in revenue recognition policy has been Based on the accounting policies that iSOFT used implemented by way of a prior year adjustment as previously, the Group would have recorded revenues mandated by International Financial Reporting of 214.0 million for the year ended 30 April 2006, Standard 1.
This requires the Group to provide which was within the guidance range given in the comparable figures prepared on a consistent basis trading statement issued on 28 April 2006.
This for the financial year ended 30 April 2005.
The was below the figure of 262.0 million reported accounting policy restatement has involved reversing for the previous financial year, mainly as a result revenues of 76 million, 54 million and 44 million of delivery delays under the NPfIT in England.
total: 174 million which were recognised in the Profit before tax and goodwill impairment under years ended 30 April 2005, 2004 and 2003 or previous policies, would have been 16.4 million 2005: 44.5 million.
Under the new accounting policy and following the Due to the lack of historic contractual cost and adoption of IFRS, the Group is reporting revenues activity information, as explained further in note 1 for the year ended 30 April 2006 of 201.7 million, on page 71, it has not been possible to restate an increase of 8.4% compared with restated historic revenues on a strict stage of completion revenues of 186.1 million for the previous financial basis, and therefore we have concluded that the year.
After excluding the impact of acquiring the most appropriate and practicable basis in the Spanish subsidiary Novasoft Sanidad S. A. in October circumstances, is to recognise revenue on existing 2005, organic revenue growth was 6.0%.
Profit contracts using time as the basis of recognition.
In from operations before goodwill impairment was addition, as a result of limitations created by the 13.3 million, compared with a restated profit potential outcome of the investigation into possible from operations of 8.5 million for the previous accounting irregularities and a lack of conclusive 4 financial year.
evidence regarding deliveries under the NPfIT, the independent auditors have been unable to give an The Group had substantial goodwill, before opinion as to whether the financial statements give impairment, of 495.5 million on its balance sheet a true and fair view in respect of the accounts for at 30 April 2006, more than 80% of which related the year ended 30 April 2006 and the comparative to the acquisition of Torex in the 2004 financial year, figures for the year ended 30 April 2005.
Details are with the remainder arising from smaller acquisitions.
contained in note 1 to the accounts and in the Based on expected cash flows from trading independent auditors' report.
operations in the foreseeable future, the Board has decided that it would be appropriate to take a oneBorrowing facilities time impairment charge of 351.4 million in respect At 30 April 2006 the Group had bank facilities of of goodwill, reducing its value held on the balance 144 million, including a revolving credit facility of sheet at 30 April 2006 to 144.1 million.
The Group 105 million and a term loan facility of 39 million, is required to review the carrying value of goodwill both expiring in 2008.
In the past, a significant annually under the new IFRS accounting rules.
proportion of cash flows were derived from customers willing to pay upfront for product and After applying the impairment charge of 362.5 services or from the financing of customer million to the Company's carrying value of fixed receivables.
In the main, these upfront payments fell asset investments, the Company will have no into two categories: firstly, payments supported by distributable reserves and will therefore be unable to letters of credit and guarantees, which amounted to pay a final dividend for the financial year ended 88.2 million at 30 April 2006 provided under the 30 April 2006.
The Group intends to evaluate the 105 million revolving credit facility, and secondly, opportunities for altering its existing capital structure payments via third-party contract financing in order to address this distributable reserves deficit.
arrangements which amounted to approximately Nevertheless, we will only be able to pay dividends 62 million at 30 April 2006.
Following the in future as and when resources permit.
adoption of IFRS and further detailed review these contract financing arrangements have been brought The change in accounting policy for revenue recognition and goodwill impairment charge had on to the balance sheet.
no effect on cash flow performance last year and The Group's principal covenants under its bank the Group ended the year with net cash of facilities were that net financial indebtedness, 16.2 million, excluding the value of contract including letters of credit issued in support of finance arrangements brought onto the balance upfront payments but excluding non recourse sheet at April 2006.
However, a combination of financing, may not exceed three times earnings lower upfront payments from customers under before tax, interest, depreciation and amortisation today's larger and more complex contracts, together EBITDA, and net interest cover must be greater with a decision to limit the use of non-recourse than five times earnings before interest and financing in future, will result in an unwinding of taxation EBIT.
customer upfront payments over the next few years.
Consequently, the Group will need to utilise its bank Due to the adoption of the new accounting policy facilities more extensively than in the past.
and the expected future cash flow profile of the business, some aspects of the Group's banking facilities have had to be amended.
The Group has Report of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 2006 Annual Report and Accounts The Group has been taking, and continues to take, action to re-align its operating costs with future revenue expectations.
The Group is targeting to reduce its total operating cost base to below 185 million by the end of the current financial year.
therefore undertaken discussions with its banks with We have already carried out an extensive 5 the objective of agreeing new terms.
The outcome consolidation of UK locations following the merger of those discussions is that the Group will retain the with Torex and some further rationalisation of our current facilities with no further amortisation of the locations is taking place at the moment.
The Group term loan and additional facilities of 25 million owns two freehold properties and these will be which will be available in certain circumstances until divested as soon as possible.
These terms include Streamlining the cost base an upfront fee of 1.2 million and higher costs of The Group has been taking, and continues to take, borrowing including Payment In Kind PIK interest action to re-align its operating costs with future from 1 January 2007 of 5% per annum for the 3 revenue expectations.
As part of this process we are months to 31 March 2007, 7.5% per annum for the examining in detail the operating cost structure of 3 months to 30 June 2007 and 10% per annum each of our operations, both in the UK and thereafter.
Within those terms, the Group will issue internationally, to identify areas for cost reduction warrants amounting to 3.7% of iSOFT equity to the and improved organisational efficiency.
The Group is banks, with a strike price of 10p, when shareholder targeting to reduce its total operating cost base approval is obtained.
An exit fee of 15 million is from an annual run rate of just over 209 million at payable at the end of the facility, on refinancing or 1 May 2006 to below 185 million by the end of on change of control of the Company, and if the the current financial year.
The current run-rate is warrants are not issued prior to 31 October 2006.
If higher than the total actual cost incurred for the the warrants are issued prior to 31 October 2006 year just ended because the Group has increased then no exit fee is payable.
Further details of the significantly its level of development resources to revised banking facilities are available in the support both existing and future applications.
As part of the plan to reduce costs, the Group The new terms will provide the Group with funding entered into a consultation process with employees for its ongoing operations, see note 1, and provide in the UK in early May 2006 and it is likely that at a period of stability in which we can consider and least 150 employees, representing approximately execute a longer term financial strategy.
15% of total headcount in the UK, will be made Disposal of non-core assets redundant.
The cost of this action will be about As part of the review of its financial position, the 3 million, but is expected to reduce the current Group is considering the disposal of several nonannual cost base by approximately 6 million.
core assets, including freehold properties.
We The Group also intends to reduce staff levels in announced the disposal of our Swiss operation some of its international operations and has taken to Nexus Medizinesoftware und Systeme AG on steps to reduce sub-contract and overhead costs as 31 May 2006.
That operation had revenues of less part of the financial year 2007 budget review than 5 million last year, but generated a loss of process.
The total cost of action already in hand to 0.7 million.
The sale and purchase agreement will reduce the cost base, which will be taken as a oneallow iSOFT to focus on its key markets, whilst at time charge in the year ending 30 April 2007, is the same time retaining the right to sell our estimated to be at least 7 million.
strategic product offering LORENZO into that market in due course.
Commercial strategy The United States represents more than half of the The NPfIT in England is the world's largest civilian IT worldwide market for healthcare IT and is a project today and the first attempt to implement an tempting prospect, but our resources are insufficient integrated national healthcare solution, based on at the current time to enable us to tackle such a minimum standard specifications for patient records large market directly without incurring excessive risk.
and supported by a dedicated national communication Nevertheless we continue to keep a watching brief network and data base.
It is a bold initiative and on this opportunity and to evaluate a number of iSOFT intends to continue playing a significant part partnership proposals.
in helping to produce an efficient health service in Product development the UK.
Further details of iSOFT's commercial, LORENZO is iSOFT's flagship strategic offering and it contractual and potential for liability position within 6 is central to the Group's future.
It is an integrated the NPfIT are available within the Financial Review healthcare system, built using a modern services on page 18. oriented architecture SOA and adopting web-based In the short-term, delivery schedules and payment protocols.
It is designed to be flexible, adaptable milestones are being revised in all regions, affecting and will provide customers with easy operability and most contracted parties and that process is on lower costs of ownership than any other healthcare going.
On 11 August 2006, iSOFT signed a IT product.
That flexibility will enable customers to Memorandum of Understanding with Computer upgrade existing systems incrementally, phase and Sciences Corporation CSC confirming the manage their investment resources and provide schedule under which it will provide deliveries to them with a low-risk, fully compatible upgrade path.
CSC up to a value of 153 million in respect of the LORENZO comprises several layers of development.
CSC agreement, including 36 million already The technology layers - also packaged as Healthcare delivered, subject to the satisfactory achievement of Studio - provide a framework within which both delivery milestones, with the opportunity to win iSOFT and third-party systems can be retained by additional NPfIT business in future through CSC in customers but enabled to communicate securely certain circumstances.
Under this agreement, iSOFT with newly installed LORENZO solution applications.
has made a number of commitments in respect to Completed LORENZO functionality is now being the future development of its products for the NPfIT tested in early adopter sites in Germany and Singapore.
and the costs that it will bear for that work.
CSC The subsequent development of individual user will have the right to take over the management of solution modules will follow after that.
the development team in the event that iSOFT is unable to fulfil those obligations.
However, the We intend to begin delivering LORENZO ownership of the Intellectual Property Rights IPR functionality to users within the NPfIT before the remain with iSOFT under all circumstances.
This end of 2007, and for individual solution modules to agreement offers greater certainty of cash flow to become available on a phased basis through 2008. iSOFT since payments are tied to specific milestones We continue to apply substantial resources to the tied for the most part to software incremental development of LORENZO, with much of that releases.
resource located in Chennai and Hyderabad in India, where the Group now has 1,454 employees.
In international markets, the Group has a strong presence in Germany, The Netherlands, Spain and Board representation Asia Pacific, where we believe that market The Board has undergone substantial change in the conditions are appropriate for selling our products, past twelve months.
Patrick Cryne stepped down as including LORENZO.
We also believe that France and Non-executive Chairman in October 2005, at which Italy will provide favourable environments in due time I was appointed to replace him, as explained in course.
Our primary focus is on the major markets our half-year report.
Colin Wall resigned from the of Western Europe and specific parts of Asia Pacific.
Tim Whiston resigned as Chief Executive Officer on 14 June 2006.
I have taken over the responsibilities of the Chief Executive until such time as we are able to appoint a suitable replacement.
Report of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 2006 Annual Report and Accounts The NPfIT in England is the world's largest civilian IT project today and the first attempt to implement an integrated national healthcare solution.
It is a bold initiative and iSOFT intends to continue playing a significant part in helping to produce an efficient health service in the UK.
On 20 July 2006, the Group announced that it had This has been a very difficult and uncertain period 7 commissioned an investigation into possible for all employees and it is at times like this that their accounting irregularities.
On 8 August 2006, the dedication, particularly in the face of widespread Board concluded that there are grounds for a more and sometimes misleading outside comment, is formal investigation and the Board deemed it most appreciated.
I am most grateful to them.
appropriate to suspend Steve Graham, Group Outlook for 2007 Commercial Director, pending the final outcome of At the present time, there remains some lack of a more formal investigation.
One other employee certainty regarding future deliveries under England's has been put on special leave of absence.
Prospects in the international markets are employees that appear to be involved have since left more predictable, nevertheless we cannot give the Group.
The results of the initial investigation accurate guidance for 2007 revenues at the present have been presented to the FSA, who will be time, although it is likely that the second half of the conducting the formal investigation.
year will be stronger than the first.
Management and employees The Group's annualised cost base at 30 April 2006 I am pleased to report that we have been active in was around 209 million.
After taking account of appointing new management to guide the Group.
cost reduction action currently underway, we expect Bill Henry joined iSOFT on 28 June 2006 as Chief to reduce our total costs below that level in 2007 Operating Officer.
He comes to the Group with and to exit the year with an annualised cost base of extensive experience in leading organisational not more than 185 million.
The extent of the change at PeopleSoft and establishing strong profitability of the Group remains dependent on a professional services capability.
His background in number of key commercial outcomes.
delivering and implementing advanced technology products and providing high-quality support for We expect a significant operating cash outflow complex enterprise level projects will be relevant and during the current financial year, as some customer important assets for the Group.
upfront payments unwind and due to one-time expenditure to reduce the cost base going forward.
We have also appointed a new Group Programme Nevertheless, the Group has funding arrangements Management Office Director, Chris Feeley.
Chris has in place with its banks which, subject to the over 20 years of programme management uncertainties discussed in note 1, will help to ensure experience in software and systems development that it remains within the terms of its banking and consulting services.
I am also pleased to welcome three new country Managing Directors - Peter Herrmann in Germany, Katrina Diaz in Spain and Tommy Soh Boon Boon in Asia.
All three have deep experience in the industry and are already making significant contributions to their businesses.
John Weston Chairman and acting Chief Executive Officer 25 August 2006
