JKX IFC Sect1 AW:JKX-report 30 4 07 12:23 Page 6 6 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT The Company has delivered an encouraging increase in production with the drill bit through the period, and stepped up its efforts to add reserves and exploration prospects to its portfolio.
Ukraine The Companys wholly owned subsidiary, Poltava Petroleum Company PPC, continues as the largest domestic non-state producer of oil and gas, supplying approximately 5% of the Ukraines oil and gas production during the period.
Average daily oil production increased significantly by 37% to 4,889 bopd 3,561 bopd.
Average daily gas production rose by 9% to 38 MMcfd 35 MMcfd, in spite of the limitations imposed on the gas export capacity from our Poltava fields.
Average realisations for oil in the period rose by 17% to $54.31 per barrel $46.43 per barrel.
All oil was sold into the domestic market at a price which tracks international prices but at an effective discount.
We anticipate that our oil will be sold into the domestic market throughout 2007.
Average realisations for gas in the period rose by 55% to $2.83 per Mcf $1.82 per Mcf, with all gas being sold into the domestic market.
Gas realisations increased to $4.00 per Mcf from the beginning of 2007, as a result of the year end negotiations between Russia and Ukraine.
We anticipate that gas prices will remain stable at this revised level through 2007, with a further rise at the beginning of 2008.
PPC concluded a one-year gas sales agreement with Shell Energy Ukraine in August 2006 for supply of a minimum of 250 million cubic metres 8.75 billion cubic feet of gas for domestic delivery, with options to increase the contracted volume and extend the contract term.
The ongoing development drilling programme on our Poltava fields continued apace throughout the reporting period.
Ignatovskoye field Three new vertical wells I124, I125, and I126 were drilled and successfully brought on-stream during the year.
In addition, a re-entry and sidetrack was successfully completed on Well I101, a well originally drilled but not brought on-stream in 1996 because of completion problems.
Molchanovskoye field Five new wells M153, M154, M155, M156 and M157 were drilled in the northern area of the field during the year and successfully brought on-stream.
Production was Dr Paul Davies achieved in both the targeted Tournaisian and Devonian sandstones and most encouragingly in the Chief Executive overlying Tournaisian carbonates which are proving to be more productive than originally assessed.
Novo-Nikolaevskoye field Well NN9 was re-entered during the period and a beam pump installed to maintain production and maximise recovery.
Rudenkovskoye field The first new Well R101 was drilled in the northern part of the field in 2005 and, as previously reported, drilling was halted at 4,579m due to significantly higher than expected pressures.
Two shallower intervals in the Tournaisian sandstones were subsequently tested during the period with the second interval completed and placed on production in the fourth quarter.
We now plan to conduct a major hydraulic fracture stimulation treatment of this interval.
The second new Well R102 was spudded at the end of the period in the southern area of the field, and is designed to gather an extensive data set from the logging and coring programme.
Our production facilities at Poltava continued to be upgraded and expanded throughout the period.
Major items include the commissioning of a new 2,300hp compressor, a 25,000 bbl expansion of our oil storage facilities and installation of more than 50km of new flowlines.
Gas export capacity from our Poltava licences is constrained primarily by the characteristics of the state transmission line to which we connect and, to a lesser extent, the capacity of our processing facilities.
In the third quarter, PPC replaced the river crossing section of the state transmission line downstream of our facilities with a 12 inch line which increased PPCs maximum delivery capacity to approximately 42 MMcfd.
In the period, PPC received formal government approval for JKX Oil & Gas plc Report and Accounts 2006 JKX IFC Sect1 AW:JKX-report 10 4 07 19:14 Page 7 7 tie-in of its production facilities to the 56 inch Soyuz pipeline, one of the main gas trunkline systems delivering gas from Russia to western Europe.
The 5km spur to the PPC facilities is currently more than 80% complete with the hot tap into the Soyuz line scheduled for the first quarter 2007.
The requisite metering skid, gas compressor and hydrocarbon dew point control plant are scheduled for delivery in mid 2007 to allow gas delivery via the Soyuz line in the fourth quarter 2007.
The success of the 2006 drilling programme has not fully translated into an equivalent increase in gas production because pipeline delivery constraints have required PPC to shut-in a proportion of its gas production during the second half of the period.
Completion of the Soyuz tie-in will effectively remove any capacity constraint to delivery of gas to market from our Poltava licences.
The Company has continued to develop and expand its exploration and appraisal licence position in Ukraine.
Poltava Petroleum Company PPC, continues as the largest Zaplavskoye JKX: 100% The Company drilled its first exploration Well Z1 in the third quarter on the 95.7sq.
km Zaplavskoye exploration domestic non-state producer of licence, which is adjacent to its four production licences at Poltava.
The oil and gas well did not encounter hydrocarbons but reprocessing and reinterpretation of the full set of 92km of 2D seismic data over the licence using the data from Well Z1 has subsequently indicated that the well was drilled offOur production facilities at structure.
A new drilling location for Well Z2 has been identified for 2007.
Poltava continued to be upgraded and expanded Elizavetovskoye JKX: 100% The Company was successful in the period in halting the local state production company from producing gas throughout the period from the 70sq.
It continues to seek an agreement to acquire the existing infrastructure in order to Completion of the Soyuz tie-in re-commence production.
No exploration work will be undertaken on the licence until such an agreement has been achieved.
will effectively remove any capacity constraint to delivery Chervonoyarske East JKX: 100% The Company was awarded this licence in the first quarter, following the first open auction of licences in of gas to market from our Ukraine.
The Company has purchased and interpreted the 110km of 2D Poltava licences seismic and data from the 6 wells drilled on the licence to date.
The scope of further work will be established by the second half of 2007.
Georgia Anadarko Petroleum has completed the processing and interpretation of the 1,100sq.
km, 3D seismic survey over the southernmost block of the 8,900sq.
km exploration area of the Georgia Black Sea JKX: 4% net profit interest.
A preferred location for the first exploration well has been identified.
Timing of this well is dependent on the progress made to secure a suitable drillship in a very tight offshore rig market: we do not anticipate this to be earlier than 2008.
Anadarko is seeking additional farm-in partners to join the consortium.
Bulgaria The Company farmed into two onshore exploration permits, B Golitza and B1 Golitza, in the first quarter of 2005.
The permits currently cover a total of 4,171sq.
km and contain two well defined prospects and a number of leads.
The Company shot 200km of 2D seismic in the third quarter of 2005 to earn an initial 25% interest in the permit and firm up the large prospect in the B Golitza permit with the potential to contain several hundred Bcf of gas, and the smaller prospect in B1 Golitza estimated to contain approximately 50 Bcf.
Interpretation of the seismic data was completed during the period, and a well location chosen on the larger B Golitza prospect.
The Company has exercised its option to increase its interest to 50% and become operator, and contracted a 2,000HP rig from Romania to spud a 4,900m well in the second quarter of 2007.
Turkey The Company farmed into three Karakilise onshore exploration licences, covering a total of 1,230sq.
km in south-eastern Turkey, in the second quarter of 2005 JKX: 30%.
The licences contain an oil discovery well, Karakilise 1, and a number of leads.
During the reporting period, the oil discovery well, Karakilise 1, was deepened by approximately 600m but failed to find oil in the deeper horizons.
Acquisition of 55km 2D seismic in the southern part of the licence area is planned for the second half of 2007.
The Company farmed into two onshore exploration licences in the Thrace region in the fourth quarter of 2005.
A third adjacent licence was added during the period to bring the total licence area to 980sq.
The licences contain two strong leads and additional seismic is planned for the second quarter of 2007 to identify drilling targets for 2008.
Delivery JKX IFC Sect1 AW:JKX-report 10 4 07 19:14 Page 8 8 Italy In Italy, progress has been achieved in the development of our onshore portfolio.
The Company has applied for a production concession for its Aglavizza gas discovery JKX: 100%, in cooperation with ENI, with first gas sales scheduled for early 2008.
ENI retains its 70% interest and remains operator of the 270sq.
km Civita exploration permit: we anticipate a decision by ENI on its future plans commitment to the block by mid-year 2007.
The Company farmed down its interest in the 358sq.
km Fiume Arrone exploration permit during the reporting period: the first exploration well is now planned for the second quarter 2007 JKX: 10%.
km Montalbano permit JKX: 40% is undertaking the reprocessing of existing seismic data on the block.
We anticipate reprocessing and interpretation to be completed in the second quarter 2007.
The Company is awaiting the award of an exploration permit for the 176sq.
km Corropoli block JKX: 100% in the eastern part of central Italy.
USA The performance of the three wells drilled to date on the Center Deep project in east Texas JKX: 34.4% has been below expectations.
There remain a number of areas on the 11,290 acre Unit where it is believed that commercial producing wells could be drilled to the James Lime the primary target in the Unit or to the underlying Travis Peak and Pettet formations.
The Company has indicated to the operator its preference for a 9,500 ft vertical well to be drilled this year to test all three formations.
The Company is continuing to examine its options for this remaining interest in North America.
Outlook Development drilling will continue throughout 2007 on all four production licences at Poltava, using the Skytop N75 and the Kremco 900 rigs.
We expect gas production to increase in the fourth quarter with The Company has continued to unrestricted gas delivery via the Soyuz trunkline.
The technical effort on develop and expand its our deep Rudenkovskoye field will intensify with evaluation of the exploration and appraisal extensive logging and coring data being gathered from Well R102 and the results of our first hydraulic fracturing programme on Well R101.
We licence position in Ukraine retain the option to mobilise the heavy duty rig contracted for the Golitza well in Bulgaria to Ukraine later in the year to test the very high pressure Increasing our reserves and gas in the underlying Devonian formations on the Rudenkovskoye field.
asset base remain our core We are planning to continue the exploration programme in Ukraine with a second well on the Zaplavskoye licence and completion of the evaluation objectives of the Chervonoyarske East licence.
We are actively evaluating other existing licences and opportunities in the area and will seek to participate I remain confident that we in any further Ukrainian government auctions.
have the experience and The results from the first well on the B Golitza permit in Bulgaria are knowledge with which to grow scheduled for the third quarter and will hopefully provide further encouragement for our forward exploration programme in Bulgaria on the Company in the coming several of the attractive leads identified in our large licence area.
We also year and to deliver value to our anticipate that during the second half of the year the ongoing evaluation work in Turkey will establish the basis for the 2008 drilling programme.
shareholders Increasing our reserves and asset base remain our core objectives.
We continue to be very active in evaluating potential onshore acquisitions in Ukraine and Russia with the goals of increasing our production and broadening our reserve base and expanding our exploration portfolio in eastern and central Europe.
I remain confident that we have the experience and knowledge with which to grow the Company in the coming year and to deliver value to our shareholders.
JKX Oil & Gas plc Report and Accounts 2006
