Chief Executives Statement Neil Carson Chief Executive Johnson Matthey achieved good results in 2005 06.
Sales new technologies become economic.
Industry experts differ in excluding the value of precious metals rose by 13% to 1.3 billion.
their views of the breakeven prices for these various products Underlying earnings per share increased by 9% to 72.7 pence.
so we have shown the prices as ranges above which the We continued to invest heavily in the future.
Capital processes are financially attractive.
DPT has process technology expenditure of 124.0 million was 1.8 times depreciation.
expertise in all these new markets.
Gas to liquids GTL and We increased R&D expenditure by 9%.
In February 2006 we coal to chemicals depend on a range of catalysts to achieve the acquired Davy Process Technology Limited DPT for a net cost final product.
Nearly all these processes require purification of 24.6 million.
DPT has world class expertise in chemical catalysts to remove harmful contaminants.
We expect to see process technology which it licenses to customers in the oil, gas major growth in these markets over the next decade.
The acquisition will give Johnson We are currently living in a carbon world where most Matthey the opportunity to expand catalyst sales into the of our energy is derived from fossil fuels and the impact of the rapidly emerging markets for new process catalysts.
resulting carbon dioxide CO emissions to the atmosphere 2 Our business is built on long term investment in new is well publicised.
There is a growing and urgent consensus technology.
Environmental Catalysts and Technologies ECT that we need to reduce worldwide carbon emissions through is about to reap some of the benefits of that long term the more efficient use of energy and the introduction of investment with the emergence of new markets for heavy duty alternative energy sources, so starting a transition towards a diesel HDD catalysts in Europe, North America and Japan.
lower carbon and ultimately a hydrogen economy.
Catalysts will We expect to obtain a leading position in these markets which play a crucial role in this transition.
They not only allow chemical we now expect will be worth US$700 million, excluding reactions to proceed under less harsh operating conditions precious metals, by the end of 2008. for example lower temperature and pressure they also We are also benefiting from similar technology leadership facilitate the more efficient conversion of raw materials to the for light duty diesel vehicles where concerns about particulate desired end product.
Hydrogen offers the potential to be an emissions are encouraging fitment of catalysed soot filters alternative, or additional, energy carrier to power our homes CSFs well ahead of the legislation Euro V which will apply and workplaces, transport and industry.
Johnson Matthey has a in Europe in 2010. broad range of skills in hydrogen processing ranging from the The legislation to limit these emissions will continue to catalysts used in its generation, to the materials used for its tighten.
A new market will emerge in 2011 for off road storage and the development of systems to use it in fuel cells.
vehicles, which will be as large as the one for heavy duty Our Operating and Financial Review OFR on pages 6 trucks and buses.
to 37 sets out in more detail Johnson Mattheys involvement Growth in catalyst technology is not limited to vehicles.
In this years report we have included a High oil and gas prices, together with pressure to move to low special section describing the companys involvement in carbon energy, is transforming the long term market for process improving energy efficiency and reducing carbon emissions catalysts.
The graph on page 5 shows the price of oil at which pages 34 to 37.
- Johnson Matthey 4 Oil Price Drives Interest in Hydrocarbons to Products Technology Brent Crude Oil Price US$ Barrel 80 70 With oil above $40 per barrel 60 the following technologies 50 become viable: Coal to Chemicals 40 $40-$50 30 Biodiesel $35-$45 20 Gas to Liquids $25-$35 10 0 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Developing the technologies to meet these new achieving a zero accident rate is our objective.
The groups opportunities is at the heart of our business, but on its own policies in this area are set out in our Corporate Social it is not enough.
We need to generate a good return on our Responsibility CSR report on pages 27 to 37 which forms an invested capital to provide an attractive return to our important part of the OFR.
A fuller version is available on the shareholders and retain sufficient funds to support future companys website at www.
We have for many years focused on return on assets Our financial record over the last ten years has been well ROA as the key performance measure for our businesses and above average with 8.7% compound annual growth in earnings have set a pre-tax target of 20% which is well above our cost per share before one-off items and goodwill amortisation and of capital.
This year we improved the group return to 17.0% 7.7% compound growth in dividends pages 110 to 111.
We and are looking for a further gradual improvement over the are recommending a 9% increase in the dividend for 2005 06. next few years.
We have also increased our focus on cash The outlook for 2006 07 and the next few years continues to generation.
Not all our businesses have the growth potential be very encouraging.
We expect the group to achieve strong of some of our catalyst businesses.
However the cash they top line growth from the introduction of new products and generate is an important factor in the companys success.
generate good growth in earnings.
A more detailed outlook Precious Metal Products, Pharmaceutical Materials and statement is included in our OFR on page 8.
Ceramics all achieved strong cash generation in 2005 06.
Much of our attention today is focused on delivering the opportunities that our technological investment has generated.
In the last year we have built a new factory at Royston, UK and are making a substantial investment at our facility near Philadelphia, USA to manufacture the next generation of Neil Carson products for diesel emission controls.
New catalyst factories Chief Executive are also being constructed in Korea and Russia.
In Johnson Matthey we have a very strong team ethos where every employee has a key role to play.
That will be crucial in delivering our future growth.
The fact that many of the companys products are beneficial to the environment is a strong motivator.
We place considerable emphasis on career development.
Over the last few years we have also worked hard on improving our health and safety record.
Although the accident rate has fallen steadily and is below industry averages, our philosophy is that any accident is unacceptable and Annual Report and Accounts 2006 - 5
