Business review Chief Executives review All round good performance from Kelda Group companies has seen real progress on a number of fronts this year.
CHI Group profit attributable to shareholders Review of business performance as reported under IFRS increased by 15.9% Yorkshire Water enjoyed a good start to the new to 174.1m with adjusted earnings per share five year price determination period maintaining our track record for out-performance of both increasing 10.1% to 46.9p 2005: 42.6p.
Our full year dividend has increased 4.6% operating and capital programme delivery targets.
Increases in turnover and good operating cost performance have enabled the company to Yorkshire Water had a good year.
Improved deliver a year on year improvement in operating efficiency, customer service and environmental profit.
The impact of IFRS adjustments has also compliance helped the company to further contributed to improved profitability as detailed industry recognition and record levels of in the financial review.
Yorkshire Water gained industry recognition by Progress in developing our Kelda Water Services being named Utility of the Year for the second year KWS business has also been excellent.
From a running and for the first time ever, achieved top standing start just over 5 years ago, KWS is now position in the 2004 05 annual Ofwat Overall one of the leading utility infrastructure outsourcing Performance Assessment, reflecting continuous businesses in the UK and well placed to take improvement in the service provided to customers.
advantage of future opportunities in this sector.
The company was also named by Ofwat as the UKs Improved performance from our Aquarion water most efficient water and sewerage company, with business in the US preceded our announcement in 3 A ratings for efficiency.
February of its conditional sale to Macquarie Bank, a move which we believe represents a positive Despite below average rainfall for 7 out of the outcome for shareholders and committed new 12 months during the period there are no water ownership for Aquarion.
resource issues in the region and the company has no plans for water restrictions in Yorkshire in 2006.
Kevin Whiteman These achievements have put the group in a very KWS also had a good year, with both profits and Chief executive, Kelda Group plc strong position at the end of the financial year and turnover increasing as a result of strong operating have been made possible by the commitment and performance of existing businesses and the professionalism of our people and service partners inclusion of a full years contribution from the and our continued drive to deliver total shareholder operations contract with Welsh Water.
value, balanced by improved service, environmental compliance and good corporate social responsibility.
A KWS-led consortium Dalriada Water Limited was also successful in being named preferred bidder by the Water Service of Northern Ireland to design, build, finance and operate water treatment facilities that will supply 50% of Northern Irelands water.
Kelda Group plc 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Awareness campaign Yorkshire Water launched a major awareness campaign aimed at discouraging commercial kitchens from disposing of fat or grease down their drains.
Last year the company had to spend in excess of 3m clearing drains that had been blocked by solidified fats.
Schools poster competition Schoolchildren across Yorkshire were invited to enter a poster design competition to warn adults and children alike of the dangers of swimming in reservoirs.
Pictured is Jade Hodgson of Holybrook Primary School in Bradford with her winning entry.
The poster has now been transformed into a striking, full size sign for use at reservoir sites.
This contract of approximately 500m is over 25 the operation and management of their assets to Yorkshire Water had a good years, with operational commencement expected companies with a record of delivering efficiency in 2008. savings and service improvement.
Improved efficiency, customer service and At Aquarion profits and turnover increased during Overall, our focused strategy and our mantra of the year due to improved operating performance efficiency matched by improved customer service environmental compliance and efficiency and better weather during the and environmental compliance continues.
We helped the company to summer of 2005.
Having improved returns at the believe Kelda is well placed to deliver further business, but seeing few opportunities for growing progress during the next year.
further industry recognition our US interests without further major investment, and record levels of we were pleased to announce the conditional sale of the business to Macquarie Bank.
we achieved a good price for the sale and are confident that the move will prove positive for both shareholders and Aquarion.
Outlook The conditional sale of Aquarion, continued operating efficiency and performance at Yorkshire Water and an increased contribution from KWS has put the group in a strong position going forward.
Following regulatory approvals and completion of the Aquarion sale anticipated to occur in late 2006 we will provide clarification regarding the use of the proceeds.
Looking ahead we can expect that prospects in 2006 07 for further operating cost outperformance at Yorkshire Water will be significantly diminished by escalating energy costs.
The business is exploring a number of initiatives to deliver savings and reduce consumption.
Our non-regulated businesses continue to make progress, with KWS now accounting for 14% of group turnover.
The business is well placed to take advantage of the trend for UK utilities to outsource Kelda Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07
