Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 3 Chief Executives review Gerry Murphy, Kingfishers Group Chief Executive, pictured with Nick Whyte at the new B&Q Warehouse store in Milton Keynes.
The store, which opened in December 2005, showcases new ranges and merchandising techniques, with more kitchen and bathroom room sets and a wider range of finishing touches products.
Concerns about the outlook for the housing market have further impacted the home improvement sector.
The governments Tough markets retail sales figures for 2005 show that total household goods sales fell by 3.7% during the year.
Against this very tough background, B&Q has grown its share of the UKs Repair, Maintenance and Improvement market.
firm To address these short-term challenges, and to drive long-term progress, a new management team at B&Q, led by Ian Cheshire, has taken firm action to manage costs, drive customer traffic and action support sales, consolidating B&Qs longer-term leadership in the market.
Kingfisher has faced the toughest trading conditions for many These initiatives, covered in more detail in the Operating Review years in the UK and the impact of a sudden downturn in consumer on pages 16 and 17, included the streamlining of the Store spending has more than offset good performances in France and Support Office in Southampton and the closure of 17 stores in in the Groups other international markets.
Kingfisher made good markets already served by other B&Q stores.
In 2006, the first progress against its longer-term objectives, strengthening its three of around 17 of the larger B&Q Warehouse stores will be established businesses, expanding its developing operations, converted to the smaller mini-Warehouse format.
Future store entering new markets and harnessing the Groups buying scale.
development will focus primarily on revamping existing stores, However, the short-term trading environment in the UK meant that and opening new lower cost, higher return mini-Warehouse stores.
sales and profits at B&Q, Kingfishers biggest business, were The pre-tax exceptional costs of the store rationalisation significantly affected.
and the cost reduction programme are 205 million, of which 149 million are cash costs.
Difficult short-term trading conditions In the UK, B&Q continued its longer-term objectives of In 2005, the UK economy grew by 1.8% with total retail sales broadening its product offer for customers and offering even more growing by just 1% on the previous year.
According to government competitive prices.
The programme of modernising the smaller, figures, this was the lowest economic growth since the Second older stores, which started in 2003, made good progress, with World War.
nearly half of these stores now converted to the more modern UK consumer spending has been dampened by high levels of mini-Warehouse format.
These stores are performing well and household debt and rising taxes, as well as higher utility and fuel the format is proving popular with customers.
The ongoing 4 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Chief Executives review continued Longer-term development on track development of the next generation of the larger Warehouse stores successfully integrated and all the stores have now been rebranded also made encouraging progress with the opening of new-look under the B&Q banner.
With 48 stores trading by the end of the stores in Gloucester and Milton Keynes.
year, B&Q China is now twice the size of its nearest competitor and is one of the largest western retailers in China.
B&Q is making these changes from a position of strength.
It is the clear market leader in the UK with a strong brand built on value for money.
I am convinced that the new initiatives being Harnessing our strengths introduced will make B&Q more attractive to its customers and Cross-Group supplier programmes are a key part of Kingfishers more valuable for its shareholders.
strategy, helping operating companies use the Groups scale and An important milestone in the year was the establishment of international reach to offer customers the best products at the best a new UK Trade division, led by George Adams, to complement possible prices.
During the year, the development of Kingfishers B&Qs largely retail consumer business and target the UK market own-brands continued with further roll-out of the Performance for trade and building materials.
This division includes Screwfix Power range of power tools and the Colours range of paint and Direct, which has performed strongly following the previous years decorative ranges across more of Kingfishers operating expansion of fulfilment capacity.
Screwfix Directs Trade Counter companies.
Direct sourcing increased by 5% to US$575 million.
trial, set up to build on the main online and catalogue business, Another key strength is the sharing of ideas around the Group.
has been successful with seven operating by the end of the Important examples this year have been the strong influence from financial year and 15 more expected to open in 2006 07.
B&Q China and Castorama France on B&Qs format development The year also saw the opening of the first two Trade Depot and Brico Dpts influence on Trade Depot.
Adapted from the Brico Dpt format in France, Trade Depot is aimed at serving the needs of Board changes small builders and specialist trade customers.
On behalf of the Board and management of Kingfisher, I would In France, Kingfisher successfully continued its twin-track like to pay tribute to Sir Francis Mackay, who retires from Kingfisher strategy of developing Castorama for the mainstream consumer at the Annual General Meeting in May.
Francis has been an and Brico Dpt for the heavy DIY user or trade professional.
outstanding Chairman, steering Kingfisher through a period of Castorama is now three years into its revitalisation programme, major change, and we wish him every success and happiness with a quarter of the stores upgraded to a more modern format in the future.
Were delighted to welcome Peter Jackson to the and continued progress in price competitiveness, range and Board and we look forward to working more closely with Peter service.
The performance of these stores is continuing to improve, when he becomes Chairman in May.
with the most recent example in Englos, near Lille, bringing together all the Castorama teams work on ranges, prices and Outlook customer service in an attractive, modern environment.
The UK home improvement market continued to weaken into Brico Dpt added eight new stores in the year, bringing the 2006.
At the time of writing, with the important spring and summer total to 73.
Sales passed the 1 billion mark for the first time and season still to come, it is too early to forecast the full year, although the Brico Dpt store in Artigues, Bordeaux, delivered the highest a continuation of the recent stronger mortgage and housing trends sales of any store in the entire Group last year.
The store, which is could provide some support later in the year.
featured on the cover of this years Annual Report, delivered sales Over the longer-term our home improvement markets across of58 million from selling space of 6,200 square metres, a truly Europe and Asia remain fundamentally attractive with good exceptional performance, even by Brico Dpts high standards.
The Board believes that the In Kingfishers other international markets, 47 new stores were actions we are taking will position Kingfisher well for the future.
Expansion continued into new, developing markets with significant growth potential.
The first B&Q Home store was opened in South Korea and the first Castorama Russia store opened just after the end of the financial year, Kingfishers 11th national market.
During the year, Kingfisher completed the acquisition of the OBI stores in China consolidating B&Q Chinas market leading position in this most exciting market.
The OBI business has been Gerry Murphy Group Chief Executive
