6 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chief Executives statement We have continued to build on our strong foundations and heritage during 2006 and we look forward to another year of endeavour and preparation for our future, as we develop our business for 2008 and beyond.
Christopher Bell Ladbrokes latest journey as a pure betting and eGaming grew operating profit by 13.5 per cent Chief Executive gaming business has been both exciting and and our Sportsbook, Casino and Games channels challenging.
We continue to work hard to prepare all showed strong double digit growth during 2006. ourselves for development opportunities which will Sportsbook performed particularly well as we drive quality earnings growth over the next decade.
embraced the opportunity of the World Cup and other major sporting events.
A buoyant first half and a successful World Cup provided the basis for Ladbrokes highest ever Unique active players increased to nearly 550,000 profit before interest and taxation of 268.1 million.
in 2006 and adjusted cost per acquisition has Good progress has been made across all of our improved, along with growth of more than 20 per established business channels and also in our cent in real money sign-ups.
fledgling International and Casino businesses both of which show good promise.
Poker saw fierce competition during most of 2006, particularly from the state monopoly initiated poker In our UK shop business, we continue to improve site in Sweden, our second largest poker market.
the quality of our 2,141 shops, through an ongoing However, Poker has shown improvement in recent relocation, refurbishment and extension programme months, driven by the introduction of player points with continuing investment in technology and and offline marketing investment.
Ladbrokes policy has always been to rigorously Our UK and Irish shops saw the completion of the prohibit US based customers and we were therefore hardware rollout for Ladbrokes Xtra in time for the unaffected by the passing of the Unlawful Internet World Cup.
By the half year of 2007, we will have Gambling Enforcement Act in the US during completed the renewal of our EPOS system which will October 2006. enable the full potential of the Ladbrokes Xtra content and customer betting opportunities to be realised.
Our aim in eGaming is for growth through product The additional betting opportunities on offer will be innovation and geographical expansion.
The particularly relevant during winter evening opening, continued popularity of our eGaming sites overseas which commences in September 2007. indicates the international appeal of the Ladbrokes brand and the growing interest in betting and gaming The entire population of approximately 6,700 Fixed across the globe.
Odds Betting Terminals FOBTs is being replaced by new dual screen machines and initial indications During 2006, we established a consultancy for the are that our machines business will be reinvigorated operation and development of the Happy Pool shops as a result.
in China, which have now expanded into two other provinces outside Beijing.
We believe China to be a Ladbrokes shop estate is well positioned for the strategic imperative amongst the worlds emerging changes which will be enabled by the 2005 Gambling markets and we have prime mover advantage.
Act later this year and we expect to see the benefit Also in Asia, we are in competition to operate flowing through in 2008.
Vietnamese fixed odds sports betting and anticipate the outcome of this process later this year.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 7 E Following the re-regulation of Italys betting and gaming environment during 2006, we won 142 licences to open betting shops and corners.
These represent 30 dual licence, 28 sports licence and three horse licence shops, as well as 51 corners, which we will open over the next 18 months.
In addition, we now have four shops operating in Turin and Milan.
The Italian opportunity is a sound one and we will invest around 100 million in building our estate to at least 200 outlets over the next three years.
3 In Spain, the Madrid region has expressed its intention to regulate sportsbetting for the first time and we have announced a Joint Venture with Cirsa Slot Spains leading slot machine operator.
We expect our International channel to contribute 20 to 40 million EBIT per annum over the next three to five years and Italy and Spain will be central to this guidance.
Finally, we opened the Ladbrokes Casino & Sports Bar at Londons Paddington Hilton, during 2006, as part of a Joint Venture agreement.
In January 2007, we bought out our Joint Venture partners for 11.1 million and now own 100 per cent of the enterprise.
The casino is an attractive and innovative proposition and we believe it will position us well in our tenders for Manchester and several of the other 16 new UK casinos.
2006 has been a year of good progress and we anticipate another year of endeavour and preparation for our future, as we develop our business for responsible growth over the next decade.
Christopher Bell Chief Executive 22 February 2007
