Chief Executives review Peter Hill Strategy amortisation of acquired intangibles, the believe that it is important to maintain or Over recent years Laird has been gain or loss on disposal of businesses and grow this organic growth investment, as transformed from a diversi ed industrial the fair valuing of financial instruments, in one of the foundations of our success.
conglomerate into a higher growth, 2006 was 66.4 million, up 94% on the increasingly pro table company.
Acquisitions form a key part of our have established a successful strategy strategy.
Acquisitions are made to allow us of focusing on high growth markets, Underlying earnings per share in 2006 to expand our technology, market access, obtaining a competitive edge through were 31.7 pence, up 16% on the product offering and geographic spread.
technology and customer service allied 27.3 pence in 2005 which have been The acquisitions we have made have to a well established, and still expanding, restated for the bonus element of the 4 for not only contributed signi cantly to the low cost manufacturing base in East 17 Rights Issue in the first half of 2006. successful growth we have achieved over Asia, India, Mexico and Central Europe.
Underlying earnings per share growth, recent years in revenues and underlying We operate in specialist markets that another of our KPIs, was 16%.
pro ts, but have also been value adding: provide opportunities for growth, with a of the seventeen acquisitions we have global reach that provides advantages There were no exceptional costs incurred made between 2001 and 2005, the compared to many of our more regional in the year 2005, 15.5 million.
aggregate return on invested capital in or local competitors.
We have expanded, 2005, taking account of the effects of and intend to continue to expand, our Net borrowings at the year end were integrating the acquired businesses, is technology, market access, product 109.1 million 2005, 148.1 million, estimated to be 15%, well in excess of our offering and geographic spread, both representing 27% of shareholders funds.
For the Group as a organically and through acquisitions, Interest cover for the year was 8.4 times.
whole in 2006, return on capital employed, as lower growth businesses have been There was a trading cash in ow in the another of our KPIs, was 16.9%, up from divested.
The Laird strategy is one driven year of 50.9 million 2005, 34.0 million, 15.6% in 2005. by the overarching objective of creating before a net cash out ow on acquisitions and growing shareholder value.
and disposals in the year of 122.1 million In the first half of 2006 we undertook 2005, 29.1 million.
The Rights Issue, a 4 for 17 Rights Issue to raise Delivery of Pro table Growth announced on 16 March 2006, raised approximately 118 million net of Group revenue in 2006 was 608.3 million, approximately 118 million.
expenses, to help fund our continuing up 24% on the 490.3 million of investment for growth.
In 2006 we made continuing revenue in 2005, with organic Investing for Growth six acquisitions, with an aggregate revenue growth for the Group, one of We have established a strong track spend, including deferred elements, of our key performance indicators KPIs, record of achieving organic growth and approximately 110 million.
successfully nding and integrating we have made a further three acquisitions, acquisitions.
We invest for organic with an aggregate spend of 82 million: Underlying pro t before tax was a record growth primarily through new product details of these acquisitions are given in 73.3 million in 2006, 33% higher than the development, plant capacity expansions the sections on Laird Technologies and 55.1 million in 2005, with the increase and new production equipment.
In 2006, Laird Security Systems later in this Report.
coming entirely from Laird Technologies.
our own-funded expenditure on research The Groups underlying operating pro t and development was 20.9 million, Maintaining Progress margin in the year, another of our KPIs, predominantly in Laird Technologies, an Laird has again made strong progress in increased to 13.7%, from 12.9% in 2005 increase of 31% over 2005.
Research and 2006, growing revenues and underlying as a result of organic growth, a greater development expenditure in 2006 as a pro t. The Group will continue to be proportion of manufacturing from low cost percentage of sales for Laird Technologies, developed strategically, and is well countries and the portfolio repositioning.
Capital positioned to make further progress expenditure in 2006 was 22.9 million, in 2007.
Pro t before tax from continuing an increase of 34% over 2005, and operations after exceptional items, the 10.4 million in excess of depreciation.
We The Laird Group PLC 3 Laird Technologies 4 The Laird Group PLC The Laird Group PLC 5 Laird Technologies The Path to Growth Laird Technologies Strategic Development Strong growth in revenues and growth, driven by emerging markets Laird Technologies is a leader in the profits demand, increasing functionality, and design and supply of customised In markets that remained buoyant in style.
Industry commentators believe performance critical products 2006, Laird Technologies benefited that global unit handset shipments for wireless and other advanced particularly from the strong demand increased by over 20% compared with electronics applications.
From its for its EMI shielding and antennae 2005, to nearly 1 billion units.
origins as a supplier of electromagnetic products for the cellular handset interference EMI shielding products, market, as well as for its products Laird Technologies saw continuing in which field it grew to become sold into the telecommunications growth in the IT, telecommunications the global market leader, Laird infrastructure, wireless antennae, infrastructure and data transfer markets Technologies has been developed into notebook PC and plasma display during the year, to Cisco and Huawei a broad based business operating in panel markets.
in particular, benefiting the sales of specialist high growth markets, with our EMI shielding, thermal interface an extensive range of proprietary and Revenue grew by some 43% in the and wireless antennae products.
year to 370.6 million, compared with sales into the server and networking 259.4 million in 2005, driven by a equipment markets remained buoyant, As well as being the global market combination of organic revenue growth as well as into the notebook PC market leader in EMI shielding, Laird of 23% together with the effects of the where global unit shipments were Technologies is now also the global acquisitions of Antenex, RecepTec, estimated by industry commentators to leader in cellular antennae, and Supercool and Steward.
be up some 25% compared with 2005. holds strong positions in a wide These markets accounted for some range of other markets, including Underlying operating profit grew 23% of 2006 revenues.
mobile and infrastructure wireless by some 47%, to 55.4 million, antennae, thermal interface materials compared with 37.7 million in 2005, Demand for our products, particularly and thermoelectric coolers, as a result of the organic revenue satellite radio antennae from the major mechanical actuation devices, growth, the benefits of acquisitions OEM automotive manufacturers, power products, signal integrity and the increased levels of production grew in 2006, with new programmes components and complete radio from lower cost countries.
We continue to modules and systems.
develop new products, are devoting greater effort to the satellite radio Laird Technologies supplies components Underlying market growth consumer electronics market, and are and systems to the global electronics maintained starting to benefit from a new focus on industries, including cellular handsets, The largest market for our products in intelligent transportation systems.
This telecommunications infrastructure, 2006 was cellular handsets, accounting segment accounted for some 11% of voice and data communications, asset for some 47% of revenues.
tracking, satellite radio and information supply a range of antennae and EMI technology sectors, and also supplies shielding products to the major global In our other markets including the automotive, aerospace and defence, OEMs, including Nokia, Motorola, industrial, services, military and consumer electronics, medical and Sony Ericsson and LG.
Our first security, consumer and medical, we industrial markets.
Laird Technologies combination products, of EMI shielding were successful in obtaining design now employs 9,000 people in and antennae, and EMI shielding wins into plasma display panels for 35 facilities in 14 countries, including and thermal interface materials, Samsung, Panasonic and Hitachi, for over 400 engineers and technologists.
were shipped during the year.
The manufacture in our plants in China, It has 390 patents issued with a further worldwide cellular handset market Central Europe and North America.
experienced another year of strong Thermoelectric cooler sales, into the 6 The Laird Group PLC 8 The Laird Group PLC The Laird Group PLC 9 Laird Technologies industrial, aerospace and medical China, is an international leader in the development of a full wireless markets, grew strongly, as did sales the field of ferrite-based products systems capability.
of our wide range of communications designed to ensure signal integrity antennae into the security, industrial, in electronic cable and board level In late February 2007 we acquired and voice and data transfer markets.
applications, and will form the nucleus M2sys Co. Limited, for a cash of our focus on the Signal Integrity consideration of 17.0 million, and Laird Technologies percentage of total Products market.
revenue from its top five customers South Korea-based M2sys designs was 53%.
We also acquired Coolab AB in and manufactures custom products December for 8.9 million.
Coolab, that enable mechanical actuation of Benefits of strategic acquisitions which trades under the Supercool brand, handheld devices while maintaining Laird Technologies made four is a leading designer, manufacturer and electrical integrity and performance.
In March we supplier of thermoelectric modules and M2sys joins Laird Technologies acquired US-based Antenex, Inc. cooling systems for a wide variety of growing handheld products business a leading rapid response supplier end use markets.
From its operations in and enables us to offer integrated of wireless communications Sweden and California, USA, Supercool designs and convergence of functions antennae for a variety of voice and provides additional technology, market and components in future OEM data transmission applications, for access and resources with which Laird electronic applications.
Technologies will develop the next generation of thermal management US-based Cushcraft designs In March we also acquired RecepTec products and solutions required by and manufactures advanced LLC for 54.7 million.
communications antennae and a leader in the design, testing and accessory products to provide supply of satellite digital radio, global We have continued to invest in Laird highly engineered customised positioning system and other specialist Technologies through acquisitions RF solutions for OEM light communications antennae to the North in 2007.
In January we acquired infrastructure applications in a American and European automotive AeroComm, Inc. for 19.1 million.
variety of communications markets markets.
With its wide range of other AeroComm is forming the core of including WLAN, WiMax and vehicular antennae products including Laird Technologies focus on the RFID.
Cushcraft will be integrated FM AM and Digital Audio Radio, high growth market in embedded into Laird Technologies Wireless Bluetooth and cellular, RecepTec has wireless communications solutions.
Infrastructure Antennae business and broadened Laird Technologies antennae AeroComms unique and proprietary will provide the combined customer portfolio for telematics applications.
RF modules provide wireless base with the broad range of products communications in applications needed to transmit and receive In December, we acquired Steward, that previously communicated by signals over an increasing spread of Inc. for 26.8 million.
Steward, cables and, combined with Laird wireless protocols.
which has manufacturing facilities Technologies antennae, shielding and in Hermosillo, Mexico and Shunde, signal integrity products, will allow 10 The Laird Group PLC Operational and geographic premises in early 2007, with production growing electronics market.
development of shielding and thermal products also Asia continues to be of increasing being added to better support our Technical development importance to Laird Technologies, customers in that region.
In 2006 we During 2006 Laird Technologies both as a growing market and as a established antennae design, testing continued to expand and develop low cost manufacturing base, and now and assembly in Korea, initially serving its technology capabilities.
New also as a design and development Pantech Curitel and LG.
EMI shielding products included centre.
In 2006, 52% of Laird EcoGreen, a fabric over foam Technologies revenue by destination In Europe, our UK and French facilities product for plasma display panels, was from Asia 2005, 50% and 61% have been rationalised, our plants Recyclable Clean Copper of revenue by origin 2005, 56%.
At in the Czech Republic and Hungary fingerstock products for use in the end of 2006, Laird Technologies reached record levels of production, telecommunications and data transfer had approximately 9,000 employees, and in Sweden we established a equipment and high flow MaxAir of whom 75% were in Asia, the multi-product design and development shielded ventilation panels for military majority in China.
centre to serve cellular handset and telecommunications applications.
customers including Nokia, Sony In China, we opened three new plants Ericsson and Sagem.
In antennae, new integrated antennae in April: a new 35,000 square metre modules, including software controlled facility for EMI shielding and thermal In mid 2006 we established our first antennae were developed, to cope products in Shenzhen: a new 23,000 facility in Mexico, initially for antennae with the increasingly complex square metre facility in Beijing for assembly.
We expect to relocate to demands for multiple applications.
the design, testing and production larger premises in 2007 and to initiate Other new antennae products of wireless handset antennae, and production there of a number of our included NanoAnt, a very small a new expanded facility in Tianjin, to other product lines.
directional antennae for a wide variety support the growth in the production of wireless applications, Phantom of shielding products for the wireless In late 2006 we secured government Elite indoor and outdoor mobile handset market, as well as that of approval for the construction of a antennae for use in public safety, thermal and electrically conductive new facility in Chennai, India, with utility vehicle and WiFi applications, elastomer products and materials.
A groundbreaking in the first quarter of a ceramic antenna for handheld and new, expanded facility in Shanghai, to 2007, and with production scheduled data devices that come equipped with support the increased output of board to commence by year end.
This Bluetooth WLAN and GPS capabilities, level shields for the wireless handset production capacity, together with and Ultrasphere, named Product market, is expected to become the associated design and application of the year by Electronics Products operational in April 2007. engineering which will be added, will magazine, a miniature, low profile enhance significantly our proximity and multi-band omni-directional in-building Elsewhere in Asia, our antennae design support to the increasing number of wireless antenna.
and assembly operations in Penang, our key customers who are themselves Malaysia were relocated to larger establishing operations in this fast The Laird Group PLC 11 12 The Laird Group PLC The Laird Group PLC 13 Laird Technologies We also launched a wideband Extending global leadership mobile antenna for use in public Laird Technologies had another safety and other communications very successful year in 2006.
It now applications, providing US government possesses a unique combination of agencies with a single antenna with products and solutions covering a interoperability capability to exchange wide range of applications.
Its ability voice and data transmissions across to bundle products and exploit multiple frequencies in the event of an their technology convergence both emergency.
An update of Mercury, differentiates Laird Technologies a GPS antenna with tri-band from many of its competitors and functionality, was also introduced, creates added value for customers.
combining voice, data and locations Its focus on increasing the content communications for fleet tracking, theft and value-add of its products, in protection and self-diagnostic systems.
customers devices and applications, The first integrated module combining provides both revenue growth for a cellular antenna and EMI board Laird Technologies and supply chain level shield was rolled out with Nokia, simplification for its customers.
and a new antenna developed for the Its global footprint and its well Microsoft Xbox gaming console.
established and still expanding low cost manufacturing base gives Laird A number of new thermal interface Technologies the ability to best serve products were also developed, its main global OEM customers at including specialist thermally competitive prices.
As we focus conductive greases, the T-Gard increasingly on providing complete high performance insulator, and systems and solutions we believe that the first board level shield with Laird Technologies is well placed to an integrated thermal interface continue to extend further its global pad for 3G applications for leadership positions.
A breakthrough was achieved with the development and commercialisation of our new thermoelectric cooler embedded in Dells XPS desktop computer.
14 The Laird Group PLC The Laird Group PLC 15 Laird Security Systems Support and Innovation Laird Security Systems Innovative home improvement In the USA, the new build residential 28.1 million in 2005.
Operating margin solutions housing market suffered its well in 2006 was 12%.
Laird Security Systems is a leader publicised downturn during the year, in the design, development, and this accelerated in the second Commodity prices remained volatile manufacture and distribution of half.
In contrast, the replacement and overall.
Through carefully managing the innovative products and solutions.
renovation market showed greater relationship between input and output These aim to improve performance stability.
Total US revenues for Laird pricing, Laird Security Systems was and thermal efficiency, and enhance Security Systems, after positive able to contain fully the adverse effect protection and security, for homes organic growth in the first half of the of higher commodity prices in the year.
and buildings within the UK and year, showed a small organic decline USA residential building and home in the second half of 2006 compared Portfolio repositioning improvement markets.
Its wide range with the second half of 2005.
In March 2006 Laird Security Systems of products includes window and enhanced its growing position in the door hardware, composite doors, Against this backdrop, Laird Security US building products market with the conservatories, windows, uPVC Systems demonstrated its resilience acquisition of Bandlock Corporation in products and weather stripping seals.
and delivered a very respectable California for 10.4 million.
Bandlock, performance in 2006, with revenue up a supplier of an extensive range of In recent years the product range has 3% to 237.7 million in the year 2005, PVC extrusions, supplements Security been broadened and the business 230.9 million.
Organic revenue Systems existing extrusion business strengthened.
Laird Security Systems growth was slightly negative for Laird in the central US, while enhancing its sources an increasing proportion of Security Systems as a whole, with a critical mass on the West Coast.
its hardware products from its well year-on-year organic decline of 4% in established supply base in China, both the UK and 3% in the USA.
March also saw the acquisition of from its own manufacturing facilities Balance UK, for 3.3 million.
Balance and from its partner suppliers.
UK revenue from continuing supplies a range of heavy duty window businesses in 2006 was approximately balances used in the manufacture of Benefits of broad market spread 125 million.
Of this, 34% represented vertically sliding windows for a growing Laird Security Systems markets window hardware, 21% composite niche segment of the UK market.
In the UK the doors, 24% door hardware, 17% These heavy duty balances also overall housing market improved windows and conservatories and provide the potential for Laird Security somewhat during the second half of 3% seals.
Systems to enter the commercial the year after a weaker first half, as window market, and fill its remaining did the renovation market, although US revenue in 2006 was approximately product gap in the US, allowing it the retail markets for our windows 108 million.
Of this, 53% represented to participate in the replacement and conservatories remained weak.
window hardware, 15% seals, 14% of traditional windows with heavier, The UK social housing market, door hardware and 17% uPVC hurricane-proof ones along the eastern where Laird Security Systems is a extrusions.
major supplier of composite doors, continued its long term growth trend.
Laird Security Systems was broadly Operational and geographic Overall, Laird Security Systems total able to maintain underlying profits development UK revenues returned to positive despite its mixed markets and the In Laird Security Systems UK organic growth in the second half of increases in commodity prices.
window hardware and components 2006, compared with the second half Underlying operating profits for 2006 businesses, a headcount reduction of of 2005. were 27.8 million, compared with 75 took place in the first half of 2006, 16 The Laird Group PLC following a reduction of some 300, or sector.
Although market conditions are but with a higher specification.
Laird 35% of the combined total, in 2005. now more competitive, Laird Security Security Systems continues with its Both of these actions benefited the Systems expects to benefit from new product innovation and new designs, 2006 results.
Emphasis has now been product introductions, its industry both to differentiate itself from its switched to product development and leading levels of customer service, and competitors and to provide enhanced new account targeting, with benefits market share gains both directly and functionality for its customers.
At Laird through the continuing consolidation of Lifestyle Products, manufacturing its customer base.
Laird Security Systems is targeting operations were consolidated further, its product development to take to improve efficiencies and allow a Sales of products manufactured in advantage of three macro trends which greater emphasis on marketing and Asia by Laird Security Systems or its it sees emerging over the next few product positioning.
partner suppliers grew by over 40% in years.
The first is more demanding 2006, on top of an increase of 15% in construction standards in North In the UK composite door business, 2005.
30% of Laird Security Systems America, to reduce hurricane damage.
the three sites resulting from hardware sales in 2006 were sourced The second is higher security allied acquisitions in this sector were from Asia, compared with 22% in to ease of use, including electronic consolidated into two in the first 2005.
Its own facilities in Ningbo, access controls, which is seen to be quarter of 2006, with a capacity China, were expanded during the year, particularly applicable as demographic expansion at one of the two facilities while sourcing from partner suppliers trends move towards an increasingly being completed at the end of also grew: these suppliers are ageing population.
The third is the the first quarter of 2006.
These integrated into Laird Security Systems expected trend towards even greater actions, together with Laird Security supply chain, which provides them insulation and thermal efficiency, as Systems technical capabilities and with engineering expertise, specialised governments and consumers adjust to broad product range, should position investment and quality control.
the UK business to maintain its return to growth.
Innovation Development of the strategy Laird Security Systems maintained Laird Security Systems has continued In the USA, the window hardware, its focus on product innovation to provide innovative local solutions door hardware, weather seals and and development, and continued to its customers allied to what are uPVC extrusions businesses all had a to develop its intellectual property believed to be industry leading service good first half, with each product line portfolio.
There were benefits in levels on a global basis, underpinned showing organic growth.
Although 2006 from the Springback sealing by the ongoing expansion of the low the revenues from these businesses product range introduced during cost engineering and manufacturing declined year-on-year in the second 2005, innovative new window balance capability in Asia.
Although the yearhalf, action was swiftly taken to protect designs, and an increasing range on-year market decline in 2007 in operating margins, with personnel of multipoint locks.
A new door seal the US may not be fully offset by the reductions of 135 or 12% of the total.
product has been developed for the better conditions expected in the US market, as has its first ever range UK, within the division there is now a The long term outlook for the US of casement window hardware, a much broader presence in a range of window and door market remains significant US market segment where markets, products and sales channels, positive, driven by favourable Laird Security Systems currently has which should provide considerable demographics, job creation and minimal sales.
In the UK, the composite resilience during 2007. mobility, and expected sustainable doors business will be launching a new economic growth.
The replacement  faced door in cycle lags considerably that of the 2007, replacing its current product with UK, implying long term growth in that one which has lower production costs The Laird Group PLC 17
