Chief executives review LogicaCMG Annual report and accounts 2006 Delivering on our strategy company would have been likely to have LogicaCMG has won independently.
In Germany, following Earnings per share articulated a a comprehensive restructuring programme, we achieved a pro t in the combined adjusted clear strategy for LogicaCMG-Unilog business in the second growth.
In August, we announced our intention successfully delivering 2005 to acquire WM-data, the third largest on that strategy IT services company in the Nordics.
We completed the acquisition in October through a combination and are already pursuing a number of of organic development exciting cross-selling opportunities across 7.5pence the two businesses.
In particular, we see and carefully targeted considerable potential for introducing acquisitions.
LogicaCMGs global service delivery model GSD to Nordic customers seeking to outsource IT and business processes.
A transformational year Early in 2007, we announced the 265 The last year has been one of major million sale of our Telecoms Products 2006 change and progress for LogicaCMG.
business to an investment consortium led Our businesses performed well by Atlantic Bridge Ventures.
Over recent operationally and we are pleased to have years, we have signi cantly improved the achieved another year of strong operating pro tability of this business and developed results.
2006 was also an important year in a new product range, enabling us to secure 10.7 pence the strategic development of our business, an attractive sale price for the strengthened one in which we signi cantly strengthened business.
This divestment allows our footprint in Europe.
We entered 2007 LogicaCMG to focus on its core strengths Four signi cant as a substantial European company with in IT and business services.
The proceeds an extensive international network focused from the sale will be used to support a 130 pro t generators on IT and business services.
million share buyback, to buyout existing In 2006, reported revenues were up minority interests and to pay down debt.
45.3% against 2005 to 2,665.2 million The acquisitions of Unilog and WM-data 5 2005: 1,834.1 million.
Operating pro t have signi cantly strengthened our increased by 29.7% to 155.8 million.
European presence and extended our range 1 4 Adjusted operating pro t i. e. excluding of offerings in areas such as healthcare and exceptional items and the amortisation of retail.
Today, LogicaCMG employs around acquisition-related intangibles was 217.3 40,000 people across 41 countries.
We are 3 million, up 16.5% on a pro forma i. e. likethe second largest IT services company for-like basis.
This represents an adjusted listed in Europe by market capitalisation.
2 operating margin for the year of 8.2% By revenue, we are a global top twenty IT 2005: 7.3%.
Adjusted basic earnings per services company and the seventh largest share rose by 42.7% to 10.7p.
We now have the strength and to deliver strong cash ow, with a net cash scale to compete effectively for any major 1UK 31% in ow from trading operations of 250.4 contract in Europe.
2 Nordics 27% million in the year.
3 France 18% In January 2006, we completed the On track to meet our strategic 4 Netherlands 17% acquisition of Unilog to become the fourth objectives 5 International and Germany 7% largest IT services provider in France and Technology has played a signi cant role Chart re ects pro forma annualised 2006 adjusted a top ten provider in Germany.
By the yearin building todays global economy with operating pro t based on the new group.
Germany end, we had made excellent progress with work increasingly able to ow from one recorded a loss of 1.3 million in 2006. integrating this business into the group, country to another with few barriers.
with over 100 million 67.6 million in In the IT services industry, the laws of For a glossary of Key Performance cross-selling orders recorded by the former supply and demand, and hence pricing, Indicators, see page 128.
Unilog businesses over the year.
These now have a global dimension and our KPIs are identi ed throughout this report by the symbol cross-selling orders typically draw on blue-chip customers increasingly look LogicaCMGs speci c industry capabilities, for suppliers who can help them respond international network and offshore to this changing market.
They want to do For risk factors, resources and Unilogs strong local client business with a smaller number of larger see page 54. relationships.
They are orders that neither suppliers who can provide them with a 2 Business review Identifying potential We are quick to identify change in the market and have developed our business accordingly.
Chief executives review LogicaCMG Annual report and accounts 2006 Global professional IT services market size and predicted growth 2007 2010 US$bn 700 Global total CAGR: 6.9% 600 5.0% 500 400 Organic revenue growth in IT services 300 North America CAGR: 6.7% Western Europe CAGR: 6.6% 200 100 Japan CAGR: 5.4% Asia Paci c CAGR: 9.8% Latin America CAGR: 12.3% 2007 2008 2009 2010 Source: Gartner broader range of offerings and support Transport IDT, Telecoms and Media and service across all the geographies in them internationally.
Our recent acquisitions which our customers operate and we can Our strategic objectives, which were have maintained this market balance respond exibly to their requirements.
In outlined in last years annual report, have and with the divestment of the Telecoms 2006, we increased our offshore capacity been set against this background and we Products business, we now have the in Bangalore and opened another offshore made good progress towards meeting product independence to build on our scale centre in the Philippines.
We also increased them in 2006. and capabilities in IT and business services our nearshore presence in the Czech To respond to the need for scale and with telecoms and media customers.
Republic, the Slovak Republic and Morocco.
geographical balance, we set ourselves In 2006, we also made good progress Our onshore facilities, such as our centre in the objective of securing four signi cant towards our target of deriving 30 to 40% Bridgend, Wales, form the front-end hubs pro t generators in Europe, an objective of our revenues from value-based of our GSD organisation.
We continue to which we have now achieved.
This proportion has risen strengthen our capabilities onshore given acquisitions of Unilog and WM-data provide from 16% in 2002 to 27% in 2006.
Our the need for customer intimacy.
us with leading positions in France and the strength in Europe, our international Our customers particularly value the Nordics, complementing our already strong network and our compelling propositions strength of our value-based offerings, our presence in the UK and the Netherlands.
helped us to win major outsourcing deep understanding of their businesses, We seek to maintain a balanced market contracts with blue-chip customers in the our track record for delivery and our sector pro le.
This helps to reduce year, including ING, InBev and the UKs extensive international network.
With our volatility and facilitates our ability to build Department for Constitutional Affairs.
in-depth domain knowledge, strong Global the in-depth industry knowledge that our We are also making good progress in Service Delivery capability and international customers value.
In 2006, our revenues cross-selling LogicaCMGs outsourcing reach, we are well placed to meet our were fairly evenly spread across our five capabilities to French customers.
We customers needs in the years ahead.
key markets Financial Services, Energy were awarded three major applications and Utilities, Industry, Distribution and Unilog and WM-data have signi cantly management orders in the year with a major French retail customer, a major IDT strengthened our position as a customer and international gas company leading global IT and business Air Liquide.
These contracts will be partly services company.
World ranking among delivered out of our service centres in India Unilog and WM-data were carefully and Morocco.
WM-datas expertise in targeted acquisitions.
Their strong cultural global IT services infrastructure management adds further t with LogicaCMG was a fide ning factor.
companies by revenue to the groups outsourcing capabilities.
We employ similar types of people, doing We continue to enhance and extend the same kinds of things for the same our Global Service Delivery capability sorts of customers.
Our GSD teams are intimately Unilog and WM-data are high-quality involved in our customers operations.
They businesses that deliver strong margins.
understand the local challenges and they This compatibility greatly simpli es the speak our customers language.
Through task of integration and forging a single, 19th our exible blended global service delivery uni ed company.
model, we provide our customers with By acquiring Unilog and WM-data, we the optimal mix of onshore, nearshore have added major scale in two important 2004 and offshore resources.
This facilitates markets, France and the Nordics, an integrated approach to IT services and strengthened our position in Germany, enables our customers to reduce costs.
broadened our European footprint and 28th Crucially, we deliver a seamless, consistent extended our capabilities.
For example, Gartner Dataquest Industry Market Strategies Worldwide Vertical Forecast Database, November 2006 5 Business review Extending potential We are extending our capabilities by integrating complementary businesses.
6 Chief executives review LogicaCMG Annual report and accounts 2006 Unilog and WM-data have provided us LogicaCMGs deep domain knowledge and with a leading utilities billing solutions global resources, we were able to secure capability, added to our business process a number of signi cant cross-selling wins outsourcing BPO resources and brought in 2006 including those with major French an established management consulting clients, Air Liquide and Natixis.
At the capability to the group.
We believe these end of the year, we signed a signi cant additional capabilities will deliver revenue outsourcing contract with a major French 67.6m synergies over time.
This was the largest order ever These transactions also enable the signed by the former Unilog business former Unilog and WM-data operations and is indicative of the potential of the to further grow their businesses.
This contract would Cross-selling orders companies were important players in their not have been won without Unilogs longrespective local markets but they had standing customer relationship and the from Unilog in 2006 reached a stage in their development where strength of LogicaCMGs Global Service 100m at 1 1.48 continued growth depended on having Delivery organisation.
access to a wide-ranging international The addition of Unilogs operation in operation able to extend their capability Germany more than doubled LogicaCMGs to support major blue-chip organisations.
presence in this important market.
They now have access to LogicaCMGs Restructuring was completed during the global sourcing capabilities, repeatable year and the business moved into pro t propositions and international network.
A strong In integrating Unilog and WM-data, management team is now focused on we have applied the approach we used securing continued margin improvement, successfully for the merger of Logica and boosting recruitment and delivering revenue CMG.
Our focus in the integration process growth.
The combined German operation has been on combining the best of delivered a number of cross-selling wins in 10m LogicaCMG and the acquired companies 2006, including a key contract for the UN by sharing good ideas and know-how Framework Convention on Climate Change.
Our goal is to create The former Unilog team in Germany one company with one set of values and drew on LogicaCMGs emissions trading Cost savings from one set of systems and processes.
capabilities to win this important contract.
Unilog in 2006 Unilog WM-data We have made good progress in integrating The acquisition of WM-data gave us our the former Unilog and LogicaCMG fourth major pro t generator in Europe.
businesses in France and Germany.
The WM-data is the third largest IT services cultural t between the companies and very restructuring is now complete.
We have met company in the Nordic market, with major little geographic overlap.
We expect the our cost savings targets and have exceeded operations in Sweden, Finland, Denmark integration to be straightforward.
our revenue synergy expectations with the and Norway.
cross-selling contracts secured in the year.
In addition to its public sector clients, Full service provision and releasing Integration proceeded smoothly in WM-data has a strong list of commercial your potential France with LogicaCMGs French operation clients that have extensive international Our customers demand world-class IT assimilated into Unilog.
By combining operations, such as Volvo and Ericsson.
LogicaCMG is committed to Unilogs strong customer relationships and It can now leverage LogicaCMGs helping them build and maintain leadership repeatable propositions, Global Service positions in their respective markets.
We Delivery organisation and international do this by using our industry and domain network.
Demand for global sourcing is expertise and our strong business and growing in the Nordics as companies seek technology insight.
to build their competitive position.
As part Our services and solutions span of LogicaCMG, WM-data is now able to consultancy, design, systems integration compete for larger international contracts and value-based outsourcing.
We have with Nordic customers.
structured our business around five core The process of integrating WM-data vertical market sectors.
This industry focus % 27 is underway and we have identi ed a means that our services and solutions number of exciting opportunities.
Like are tailored for the challenges that our LogicaCMG, WM-data is a business which customers face in their speci c markets.
prides itself on successful delivery and a We exploit our mission-critical, Percentage of revenue thorough understanding of its customers repeatable propositions across the vertical from outsourcing business challenges.
There is a good markets and geographies in which we 7 Business review Releasing potential Through our innovative solutions and services we release the potential of our customers.
Chief executives review LogicaCMG Annual report and accounts 2006 operate.
Our thorough understanding of an optimal mix of services around the these markets means that we are often clock.
Whilst our established presence in first to market with new value propositions local markets means that we can engage that help our customers respond rapidly to with our customers at a local level, many changing market needs.
We deploy strong of our customers increasingly require their 6,000 technical and project management skills IT services to be delivered continuously, to deliver solutions on time and to budget.
at optimal cost and with maximum We recognise the importance of offering effectiveness.
Our blended model delivers a powerful consultancy practice and will this service and incorporates application Employees in our continue to grow our capabilities in this development and support, testing, Global Service Delivery important area.
product engineering and business process During 2006, we launched our new brand outsourcing BPO, such as finance and organisation positioning to our employees, re ected accounting, HR and procurement.
in the strapline Releasing your potential.
Our customers in the UK were early Early in 2007, we launched a corporate adopters of valued-based outsourcing but advertising campaign across Europe to we are now seeing growing demand for communicate this brand proposition to our blended sourcing offer in continental our customers and other key stakeholders.
For example, our  is also taking an active role art Technopolis campus in Bangalore is biggest customers.
We will concentrate in shaping our own industry by responding a vital part of LogicaCMGs application our efforts on sectors and propositions to the key challenges and opportunities management services solution for the that offer the best opportunities for growth, that globalisation poses for the IT worlds largest brewer, InBev.
while continuing to maintain a balanced services sector.
This has involved us in a Other customers have speci c security pro le between vertical markets.
We will dialogue with senior stakeholders across concerns which mean that their projects continue to recruit the right people into industry, government and educational need to be managed wholly onshore.
In October, LogicaCMG and the case of the UK Ministry of Defence, medical talented and independent-minded Confederation of British Industry launched records are managed from our secure professionals is a top priority and we a report and action plan entitled Building a onshore centre in Bridgend, Wales.
are actively recruiting across all our key Globally Competitive IT Services Industry.
Our ability to offer a tailored, consistent markets to meet demand.
This outlines a number of tangible actions and coordinated service in line with We will continue to invest in our Global that need to be taken to help the UK IT customer requirements will continue to be an Service Delivery model to gain competitive services industry to thrive and prosper important competitive differentiator for us.
We are also strengthening our in the years ahead.
We are working with consulting capability which we believe a number of interested parties to realise Looking ahead will help us to build stronger boardroom this plan.
In 2007, we plan to extend this The last 18 months have been a period relationships and lead to further initiative to other key European markets.
of signi cant change for LogicaCMG.
Our increased scale, range of offerings LogicaCMG has built its reputation on Global Service Delivery and international presence provide major its deep industry knowledge and track Central to our ability to respond to opportunities to grow and develop our record for delivering innovative solutions changing market demand is our integrated business in the years ahead, to the bene t that provide real business bene t. During Global Service Delivery organisation.
of our shareholders, our customers and 2007, we will continue to focus on building International blue-chip companies have our employees.
a world-class business that helps our long been aware of the cost advantages Our focus is now on delivering customers be market leaders in their of value-based outsourcing, including the bene ts of the acquisitions and own industries.
application management and business demonstrating the value that they bring process outsourcing services.
We remain on track to outsourcing is used to manage costs deliver the anticipated cost savings from and to streamline the delivery of entire both acquisitions and to create a single, business processes, such as payroll and uni ed company with common systems accountancy services.
We have been pleased by We identi ed the growth in global our cross-selling successes in the former sourcing early on and now have a powerful Unilog business and are encouraged by Martin Read Global Service Delivery capability.
With the opportunities that we see at WM-data.
Group chief executive a network of 40 service delivery centres As a much larger organisation, we also employing around 6,000 people, the believe there are opportunities for further Global Service Delivery organisation is an operational improvements such as more integral part of our worldwide offering.
blended service model integrates onshore, Over time, we expect to achieve an nearshore and offshore centres to deliver increasing share of business with our 9 Business review
