ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT We achieved operating pro t of $9.8 billion, the highest ever recorded for Anglo American, on the back of increased production and higher commodity prices.
2006 was an important year In addition, we were very pleased for Anglo American.
We made to announce that Cynthia Carroll good progress in executing our will succeed me as chief executive restructuring initiatives to become on 1 March 2007.
Cynthia brings a a more focused mining group.
wealth of highly relevant We reported our strongest ever experience and an excellent operating results, announced a operational track record and is $7.5 billion capital return in 2006 ideally suited to take Anglo and a further $3 billion in 2007, American to the next phase of while also investing in signi cant its development.
growth opportunities and progressing our $6.9 billion of Record financial results Tony Trahar projects across our portfolio.
We achieved operating pro t Chief Executive for the year of $9.8 billion 04 | Anglo American plc Annual Review 2006 % Increase H2 v H1 See also Anglo American at a glance IFC Operating review p16 The business p34 During 2006 Good progress was made in our restructuring initiatives to become a more focused mining group Strongest ever operating results A record $7.5 billion returned to our shareholders Signi cant investment in our project pipeline our highest ever recorded on Regarding Mondi, plans for a full The unbundling of Tongaatdevelopment and are assessing a the back of increased production demerger are progressing.
Huletts aluminium business to further $10 billion to $15 billion of and higher commodity prices.
Approval in principle has been shareholders and simultaneous unapproved opportunities that will While cost pressures persist in received from the regulatory introduction of broad based BEE provide us with a pro table the sector, Anglo American authorities in South Africa for into both Tongaat-Hulett and growth platform over the next successfully continued to limit a Dual Listed Company Structure Hulett Aluminium will occur decade.
Underlying earnings with primary listings in during the second quarter of were $5.5 billion with record Johannesburg and London.
This will reduce Anglo Anglo Platinum expects re ned EBITDA of $12.2 billion.
The Arrangements are being nalised Americans interest in Tongaatplatinum production to be strong cash generation from our to enable a smooth and ef cient Hulett to 38% and in Hulett between 2.8 and 2.9 million operations, as well as proceeds transition to a fully independent Aluminium to 39%.
ounces in 2007 in line with its from non-core disposals, resulted company.
The senior long term growth target of 5% in 2006 in the announcement of management team is in place Tarmacs strategic review, per annum.
During 2006 the a $7.5 billion return of capital in and a new board of directors completed in early 2006, clearly company approved several major the form of share buybacks and is being established.
The listing fide fines the scope of its business projects, including the $692 special dividends one of the of Mondi is targeted for midas aggregates, together with million Potgietersrust Project, highest levels of capital return in 2007. three routes to market asphalt, the $224 million Amandelbult the industry in addition to concrete and concrete products expansion and the $316 million $1.4 billion in ordinary dividends Good progress was made in and integration of cement where Paardekraal 2 shaft replacement paid in 2006 and a further restructuring our Ferrous Metals appropriate.
These projects will $1.1 billion final dividend and Industries business.
In July announced in February 2006 contribute 456,000 platinum recommended in 2007.
2006, we disposed of the have been largely completed ounces to Anglo Platinums majority of our stake in Highveld and good progress is being production.
The Townlands Ore Focus on core mining Steel, with Russias Evraz group made on delivering structural Replacement project, at a capital portfolio and Credit Suisse each acquiring operational improvements.
cost of $139 million, was Our strategic focus is clear: 24.9% of Highvelds share approved in February 2007.
1 to further focus the Group capital for an aggregate A pro table growth This will replace 70,000 ounces on its core mining portfolio consideration of $412 million.
platform over the next of re ned platinum per annum by and in the process simplify Evraz has an option to increase decade 2014 with production from new our structure and enhance its stake in Highveld, once During 2006, we made excellent Merensky and UG2 areas at the pro tability: regulatory approvals are progress in developing our pipeline Rustenburg Townlands shaft.
2 to deliver on our signi cant received, entitling Evraz to of growth opportunities across $6.9 billion project pipeline: purchase our remaining 29.2% numerous territories.
We currently Anglo Coal has one of the most and shareholding.
On implementation have $6.9 billion of projects under extensive near term portfolios of 3 to return any excess capital of the option arrangement, the to our shareholders.
aggregate amount that will have been realised by Anglo American IN DETAIL In 2006, we made signi cant for its 79% interest in Highveld Anglo Americans financial position progress restructuring our will be $678 million.
In April, we sold $1 billion worth of AngloGold In November 2006, we Operating profit US$m 2006 H2 production increase Ashanti, reducing our completed the restructuring 2006 Iron ore shareholding from 51% to 42%.
of Kumba Resources with the Gold The decision to reduce and listings on the Johannesburg Platinum 5,269 Copper 15% ultimately exit our gold holding Stock Exchange of Kumba Iron 15% 4,563 Coal relates to the higher relative Ore as a pure-play iron ore valuations attributable to purecompany in which Anglo play gold companies, rather than American holds 64%, and 9% as part of a diversi ed mining Exxaro, which became South group.
We will continue to Africas largest black economic 5% explore all available options to empowered BEE natural 3% exit AngloGold Ashanti in an resources company.
H1 H2 Anglo American plc Annual Review 2006 | 05 ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Left to right: Safety and Sustainable Development S&SD Committee chairman Dr Chris Fay, Tony Trahar and Dawson project construction manager Ken Grother during the visit of the S&SD Committee to Anglo Coal Australias Dawson project in April 2006 growth options in the coal In February 2007, Anglo Coal 26 year mine life.
Construction Scaw produced a record industry and is currently announced the creation of Anglo of the Barro Alto facilities is operating pro t for the year developing four major projects Inyosi Coal, an empowered coal scheduled to begin in 2007, with of $160 million, up $39 million across three operating regions.
company housing key current and production commencing in 2010 on 2005, driven by strong In Australia, work is continuing future domestic and export and ramping up to full capacity demand for its range of products on the $835 million Dawson focused coal operations.
In addition, Anglo and the acquisition of AltaSteel, project, which is planned to reach Coal has signed a Heads of Base Metals is continuing work a manufacturer of value added full production in 2007, Agreement with Inyosi, a newly on feasibility and debottlenecking steel products in Canada.
producing 12.7 million tonnes formed broad based BEE studies at the two major Chilean per annum Mtpa for export company.
Inyosi will acquire copper operations, Los Bronces Progress continues on fide Beers markets.
We also began 27% of Anglo Inyosi Coal, and Collahuasi, and a decision to Canadian projects at Snap Lake construction of the $516 million creating a company valued at proceed with these expansions is and Victor.
Despite project Lake Lindsay green eld project at $1 billion and incorporating expected in 2007. costs rising, owing to higher the German Creek mine which several key Anglo Coal assets: energy costs, technological will produce 3.7 Mtpa of namely Kriel Colliery an Kumba Iron Ore is well advanced challenges and the impact metallurgical coal and 0.3 Mtpa existing mine and the Elders, on the $754 million Sishen of the early closure of the of thermal coal by 2008, most Zondagsfontein, New Largo expansion project in South Africas winter road to the sites, both of it for the Paci c Rim markets.
Northern Cape, with first output developments remain on In South Africa, we started due in 2007 and full ramp up to track to open in the final development of the Mafube mine Anglo Base Metals is currently 13 Mtpa targeted for 2009.
This quarters of 2007 and 2008 following the granting of assessing a number of major will take Kumba Iron Ore to respectively.
In 2006, fide Beers prospecting rights, while the projects, which will drive 45 Mtpa of iron ore production, also approved two projects Isibonelo project, which supplies signi cant production growth of which 36 Mtpa will be in South Africa: the re-opening 5 Mtpa to Sasol, reached full well into the next decade.
Further brown eld and of the dormant Voorspoed production in 2006.
In Colombia, December, we approved the green eld projects offer the mine and the South African the first phase of the expansion $1.2 billion Barro Alto project potential to increase Kumba Iron Sea Areas marine mining to 28 Mtpa at the Cerrejn mine in Brazil which will produce an Ores annual production to over project for a total capital reached completion and a second average of 36,000 tonnes of 70 Mtpa by 2015.
Other iron expenditure of $315 million.
expansion to 32 Mtpa is already nickel per year in the form of ore growth opportunities are under way.
ferronickel over a minimum being pursued.
06 | Anglo American plc Annual Review 2006 MANAGEMENT FOCUS R elatively strong Pro le global growth will Anglo Americans incoming provide a supportive chief executive, Cynthia Carroll climate for commodities in the coming year.
Cynthia Carroll joined the Anglo American plc Board Safety EITI supports improved governance on 15 January 2007 and will succeed Tony Trahar as The most signi cant challenge in resource rich countries.
chief executive on 1 March remains our safety performance.
After several years of steady Outlook safety improvement, the last Global economic growth was quarter of 2006 was marred by a especially rapid in the first half signi cantly higher incidence of of 2006, with all the major fatal accidents.
During the year, regions of the world growing 44 employees and contractors rapidly over this period.
All loss of life at prices reacted positively to this the workplace is totally environment, with new highs unacceptable and we continue being recorded for a number of to strive through a variety of products.
In the second half, measures for the elimination global growth began to moderate, of any loss of life and injury.
During 2006, we introduced a comprehensive new framework European markets are now of safety policies the Anglo improving and emerging markets Safety Way and guidelines generally, and China and India in which are based on the principles particular, are growing strongly.
of achieving zero harm, of Continued growth in these Cynthia Carroll was formerly president Hallmarks of her five year tenure as identifying key learnings from regions in 2007 is likely to and CEO of Alcan Primary Metal, the Alcan Primary Metals president and each incident and of using these largely offset weaker US growth largest division of Canadian aluminium CEO were her ability to recon gure to prevent repeat incidents and and thus the decline in global producer, Alcan.
In that position she organisational structure and leadership of ensuring that there is uniform economic activity from the was responsible for all primary metal roles to create greater accountability adherence at site level to a set strong level achieved in 2006 facilities, power generation plants, R&D for decision making and execution of clear rules.
The and technology development centres.
throughout the business, as well as Group continues to progress its the implementation of a worldwide asset Sustainable development strong project pipeline and drive During her 18 years at Alcan, she optimisation strategy resulting in value In terms of sustainable its operational excellence to established a strong track record of creation of around $1 billion.
development, Anglo American meet ongoing demand for its improving operational performance continues to be amongst the commodities.
Relatively strong and realising and integrating synergies Throughout her career, she has shown leading companies in the global growth will provide across that group, particularly in regard a keen interest in engaging with local extractive sector, including a supportive climate for to newly acquired assets.
communities in addressing through a big improvement in the commodities in the coming year.
developmental and sustainability proportion of employees coming Cynthia substantially repositioned Alcan challenges in countries as diverse as forward for voluntary counselling I retire from Anglo American in in the aluminium industry, expanding Australia, Brazil, Cameroon, Canada, and testing for HIV AIDS, the knowledge that the Group the companys operations from being China and the US.
She is strongly continued success in improving is today one of the largest and Canadian focused to a global company committed to improving safety in the our local development impacts strongest mining companies in operating in 20 countries, with 18,000 workplace and under her leadership through our Socio-Economic the world.
Its people and assets employees.
Following the takeover of Alcan Primary Metal achieved a major Assessment Toolbox SEAT are second to none and I have French aluminium producer Pechiney by reduction in lost time accidents.
process and through our position every con dence that my Alcan, she led the successful integration as the first private sector investor successor, Cynthia Carroll, of Pechineys primary metals business, Cynthia, who is 50, is married and has to commit to fund the Investment will continue to serve all our while simultaneously reducing costs.
She is a US citizen who Climate Facility for Africa.
We stakeholders in a successful Alcan Primary Metal is now achieving its has an MSc in Geology from the have continued to be actively and pro table way.
highest ever returns, pro tability and University of Kansas and an MBA from involved in the development and growth.
Today, Alcan holds the largest Harvard.
Cynthia began her career in promotion of the Extractive I would like to thank the share of capacity at the lowest end of 1982 in the US as a senior petroleum Industries Transparency Initiative Board of directors, management the aluminium industrys cost curve.
geologist with Amoco and from 1988 EITI, including through and all employees for their until the end of 2006 held various representing the mining sector support during my tenure as positions in Alcan, working in the US, on the EITIs governing body.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2006 | 07
