ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT We achieved operating pro t of $9.8 billion, the highest ever recorded for Anglo American, on the back of increased production and higher commodity prices.
2006 was an important year In addition, we were very pleased for Anglo American.
We made to announce that Cynthia Carroll good progress in executing our will succeed me as chief restructuring initiatives to become executive on 1 March 2007. a more focused mining group.
Cynthia brings a wealth of highly relevant experience and We reported our strongest ever an excellent operational track operating results, announced a record and is ideally suited to $7.5 billion capital return in take Anglo American to the next 2006 and a further $3 billion in phase of its development.
2007, while also investing in signi cant growth opportunities Record financial results Tony Trahar and progressing our $6.9 billion We achieved operating pro t Chief Executive of projects across our portfolio.
for the year of $9.8 billion 06 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 NCREASE V During 2006 Good progress was made in our restructuring initiatives to become a more focused mining group Strongest ever operating results A record $7.5 billion returned to our shareholders Signi cant investment in our project pipeline our highest ever recorded on Regarding Mondi, plans for a full into both Tongaat Hulett and will provide us with a pro table the back of increased production demerger are progressing.
Approval Hulett Aluminium will occur growth platform over the and higher commodity prices.
in principle has been received during the second quarter of next decade.
While cost pressures persist in from the regulatory authorities 2007.
This will reduce Anglo the sector, Anglo American in South Africa for a Dual Listed Americans interest in Tongaat Anglo Platinum expects re ned successfully continued to limit Company Structure with primary Hulett to 38% and in Hulett platinum production to be the impact.
Underlying earnings listings in Johannesburg and Aluminium to 39%.
between 2.8 and 2.9 million were $5.5 billion with record London.
Arrangements are being ounces in 2007 in line with its EBITDA of $12.2 billion.
The nalised to enable a smooth and Tarmacs strategic review, long term growth target of 5% strong cash generation from ef cient transition to a fully completed in early 2006, per annum.
During 2006 the our operations, as well as independent company.
The senior clearly fide fines the scope of company approved several major proceeds from non-core management team is in place its business as aggregates, projects, including the $692 disposals, resulted in 2006 and a new board of directors is together with three routes to million Potgietersrust Project, in the announcement of being established.
The listing of market asphalt, concrete the $224 million Amandelbult a $7.5 billion return of capital in Mondi is targeted for mid-2007.
and concrete products and expansion and the $316 million the form of share buybacks and integration of cement where Paardekraal 2 shaft replacement special dividends one of the Good progress was made in appropriate.
These projects will highest levels of capital return restructuring our Ferrous Metals announced in February 2006 contribute 456,000 platinum in the industry in addition to and Industries business.
In July have been largely completed ounces to Anglo Platinums $1.4 billion in ordinary dividends 2006, we disposed of the and good progress is being production.
The Townlands Ore paid in 2006 and a further majority of our stake in Highveld made on delivering structural Replacement project, at a capital $1.1 billion final dividend Steel, with Russias Evraz group operational improvements.
cost of $139 million, was recommended in 2007. and Credit Suisse each acquiring approved in February 2007.
24.9% of Highvelds share capital A pro table growth This will replace 70,000 ounces Focus on core mining for an aggregate consideration platform over the next of re ned platinum per annum portfolio of $412 million.
Evraz has an decade by 2014 with production from Our strategic focus is clear: option to increase its stake in During 2006, we made excellent new Merensky and UG2 areas at 1 to further focus the Group Highveld, once regulatory progress in developing our the Rustenburg Townlands shaft.
on its core mining portfolio approvals are received, entitling pipeline of growth opportunities and in the process simplify Evraz to purchase our remaining across numerous territories.
Anglo Coal has one of the most our structure and enhance 29.2% shareholding.
On We currently have $6.9 billion extensive near term portfolios pro tability: implementation of the option of projects under development of growth options in the coal 2 to deliver on our signi cant arrangement, the aggregate and are assessing a further industry and is currently $6.9 billion project pipeline: amount that will have been $10 billion to $15 billion of developing four major projects and realised by Anglo American for unapproved opportunities that across three operating regions.
3 to return any excess capital its 79% interest in Highveld will to our shareholders.
IN DETAIL In 2006, we made signi cant In November 2006, we completed Strong performance in second half progress restructuring our the restructuring of Kumba portfolio.
In April, we sold Resources with the listings on $1 billion worth of AngloGold the Johannesburg Stock Exchange PERATING PROFIT 53 M 0RODUCTION NCREASE Ashanti, reducing our of Kumba Iron Ore as a pureshareholding from 51% to 42%.
play iron ore company in which 5,269 RON ORE 'OLD The decision to reduce and Anglo American holds 64%, and 4,563 15% 15% 0LATINUM ultimately exit our gold holding Exxaro, which became South #OPPER relates to the higher relative Africas largest black economic #OAL valuations attributable to pureempowered BEE natural 9% play gold companies, rather than resources company.
as part of a diversi ed mining 5% group.
We will continue to The unbundling of Tongaat- 3% explore all available options to Huletts aluminium business to exit AngloGold Ashanti in an shareholders and simultaneous orderly manner.
introduction of broad based BEE Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 | 07 ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT R elatively strong global growth will provide a supportive climate for commodities in the coming year.
In Australia, work is continuing ferronickel over a minimum and the South African Sea Areas including through representing on the $835 million Dawson 26 year mine life.
Construction marine mining project for a total the mining sector on the EITIs project, which is planned to reach of the Barro Alto facilities is capital expenditure of $315 million.
The EITI full production in 2007, producing scheduled to begin in 2007, with supports improved governance 12.7 million tonnes per annum production commencing in 2010 Safety in resource rich countries.
We and ramping up to full capacity The most signi cant challenge also began construction of the during 2011.
In addition, Anglo remains our safety performance.
Outlook $516 million Lake Lindsay Base Metals is continuing work After several years of steady Global economic growth was green eld project at the German on feasibility and debottlenecking safety improvement, the last especially rapid in the first half of Creek mine which will produce studies at the two major Chilean quarter of 2006 was marred by 2006, with all the major regions 3.7 Mtpa of metallurgical coal copper operations, Los Bronces a signi cantly higher incidence of of the world growing rapidly and 0.3 Mtpa of thermal coal by and Collahuasi, and a decision fatal accidents.
During the year, over this period.
Commodity 2008, most of it for the Paci c to proceed with these expansions 44 employees and contractors prices reacted positively to this Rim markets.
In South Africa, is expected in 2007. lost their lives.
All loss of life at environment, with new highs we started development of the the workplace is totally being recorded for a number of Mafube mine following the Kumba Iron Ore is well advanced unacceptable and we continue products.
In the second half, granting of prospecting rights, on the $754 million Sishen to strive through a variety of global growth began to moderate, while the Isibonelo project, which expansion project in South Africas measures for the elimination of particularly in the US.
supplies 5 Mtpa to Sasol, reached Northern Cape, with first output any loss of life and injury.
In due in 2007 and full ramp up to During 2006, we introduced a European markets are now Colombia, the first phase of the 13 Mtpa targeted for 2009.
This comprehensive new framework improving and emerging markets expansion to 28 Mtpa at the will take Kumba Iron Ore to 45 of safety policies the Anglo generally, and China and India in Cerrejn mine reached completion Mtpa of iron ore production, of Safety Way and guidelines particular, are growing strongly.
and a second expansion to which 36 Mtpa will be exported.
which are based on the Continued growth in these regions 32 Mtpa is already under way.
Further brown eld and green eld principles of achieving zero in 2007 is likely to largely offset projects offer the potential to harm, of identifying key weaker US growth and thus the In February 2007, Anglo Coal increase Kumba Iron Ores annual learnings from each incident and decline in global economic activity announced the creation of Anglo production to over 70 Mtpa by of using these to prevent repeat from the strong level achieved Inyosi Coal, an empowered coal 2015.
Other iron ore growth incidents and of ensuring that in 2006 should be fairly modest.
company housing key current opportunities are being pursued.
there is uniform adherence at The Group continues to progress and future domestic and export site level to a set of clear rules.
its strong project pipeline and focused coal operations.
Anglo Scaw produced a record drive its operational excellence Coal has signed a Heads of operating pro t for the year of Sustainable development to meet ongoing demand for its Agreement with Inyosi, a newly $160 million, up $39 million on In terms of sustainable commodities.
Relatively strong formed broad based BEE company.
2005, driven by strong demand development, Anglo American global growth will provide Inyosi will acquire 27% of Anglo for its range of products and the continues to be amongst the a supportive climate for Inyosi Coal, creating a company acquisition of AltaSteel, a leading companies in the commodities in the coming year.
valued at $1 billion and manufacturer of value added extractive sector, including incorporating several key Anglo steel products in Canada.
through a big improvement in the I retire from Anglo American in Coal assets: namely Kriel proportion of employees coming the knowledge that the Group Colliery an existing mine and Progress continues on fide Beers forward for voluntary counselling is today one of the largest and the Elders, Zondagsfontein, New Canadian projects at Snap Lake and testing for HIV AIDS, continued strongest mining companies in Largo and Heidelberg projects.
Despite project costs success in improving our local the world.
Its people and assets rising, owing to higher energy development impacts through are second to none and I have Anglo Base Metals is currently costs, technological challenges our Socio-Economic Assessment every con dence that my assessing a number of major and the impact of the early Toolbox SEAT process and successor, Cynthia Carroll, projects, which will drive closure of the winter road to through our position as the first will continue to serve all our signi cant production growth the sites, both developments private sector investor to commit stakeholders in a successful well into the next decade.
In remain on track to open in the to fund the Investment Climate and pro table way.
December, we approved the final quarters of 2007 and 2008 Facility for Africa.
We have $1.2 billion Barro Alto project in respectively.
In 2006, fide Beers continued to be actively involved I would like to thank the Board Brazil which will produce an also approved two projects in in the development and promotion of directors, management and all average of 36,000 tonnes of South Africa: the re-opening of of the Extractive Industries employees for their support during nickel per year in the form of the dormant Voorspoed mine Transparency Initiative EITI, my tenure as chief executive.
08 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006
