WDB 1-19 artwork 12 12 06 3:51 pm Page 7 W&DB ANNUAL REPORT 03 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW RALPH FINDLAY CHIEF EXECUTIVE These strong results include a 7.1% same time creating distribution increase in turnover, a 13.2% increase opportunities for our Marstons, in underlying profit before tax, and a Jennings and Bankss beers.
The 14.0% increase in underlying earnings Jennings beers, particularly Cumberland per share, with turnover and profit Ale, have proved popular across the increased in each of our trading divisions.
business, and are showing strong growth.
This excellent progress demonstrates Our acquisitions have been consistent the value we are able to generate from with a clear strategy of investment our high quality estate, beer brands and in predominantly freehold community our integrated model.
In the last twelve months, from good weather and the World Cup in competition for acquisitions has become the second half-year, and our focus on more intense, and fewer potential continuous investment and improvement acquisitions have met our strict financial in the quality of our pubs and beer and operating criteria.
The introduction of more flexible Celtic Inns in March 2006 but, having opening hours as part of the Licensing looked at a number of other transactions Act in November 2005 did not have a since then, we believe that there is now significant impact on our performance.
a reduced opportunity to create real value for our shareholders through BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT acquisition.
Investor demand for AND STRATEGY freehold pubs with predictable cash flow The effective and fast integration of has increased substantially, and such acquisitions has contributed to our strong pubs are attracting a wider range of financial performance.
Our integrated investors than was the case historically.
business model has been beneficial in Prices have risen such that investment making successful acquisitions, and returns are now comparable to rental offers opportunities to create additional yields from investment properties.
The tenants of Burtonwood, Jennings and Celtic Inns, for example, We will continue to explore acquisition now have access to a wider range of opportunities as we are confident that beers, wines and spirits, while at the our integrated model can create greater 07 W&DB ANNUAL REPORT 2006 12988 11 12 06 Proof 2 WDB 1-19 artwork 12 12 06 3:51 pm Page 8 W&DB ANNUAL REPORT 03 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW value from acquisitions than is available areas, mainly in pub gardens and patios the site, the design and the customer to others.
Nevertheless we have always - facilities which are available in around offer.
This development is critical to the recognised that organic development 90% of our pubs.
We are encouraged by continuous improvement in the quality combined with efficient balance sheet the support and interest shown by our of our estate, and in extending our management is an equally important tenants and lessees in preparing for the trading geography.
We also acquired 14 element of our strategy.
Based upon the early existing trading units for refurbishment evidence from the ban introduced in and conversion to one of our operating Each of our trading divisions has a Scotland in March 2006 and from Ireland formats, making a total of 26 new pubs well defined plan for organic growth as where it was introduced in 2004, we opened this year.
Underpinning these anticipate that while there is some risk plans is a clear focus on the quality of to drinks sales and gaming machine New community pubs were opened in our pub estate and customer offers, as income, there is also an opportunity to Kent, Northamptonshire, Cambridgeshire, market trends favour well situated pubs increase food sales and attract more Somerset, Hampshire and Durham.
offering good quality food and drink in an customers.
These pubs are often built on new housing attractive environment with high standards developments, and typically cost around of service.
Our estate is well positioned PATHFINDER PUBS 2 million per pub to build they are to meet longer term growth in informal Turnover increased by 4.2% to 330.7 of better quality than most trading pubs dining, and to attract families whilst million.
Underlying operating margin sold in the market, and generate higher meeting legislative requirements as was 19.2% 2005: 19.9%, and underlying returns.
Food sales in new build pubs the regulatory environment becomes operating profit increased by 0.3% to are generally 50% of total sales, more challenging.
contributing to an 8% increase in food sales overall.
This focus is reflected in the fact that Total like-for-like sales increased by over the last five years the average 2.4%, with good summer weather and Community pubs represent the majority turnover of our managed pubs has the World Cup contributing to second of the pubs in our estate, but our high increased by over 50% and the average half-year like-for-like sales growth street estate is developing well.
This profit of our tenanted estate has also of 3.7%.
Average turnover per pub year we opened a new Pitcher & Piano increased by over 50% through a increased by 10% to 13,200 per week.
in Taunton, and refurbished Pitcher & combination of investment and disposal Piano bars in Cornhill, York, Harrogate of less well situated pubs.
New site development in Pathfinder and Swansea.
Over the last two years Pubs is a key element of our organic the Pitcher & Piano bars have been Looking forward, 2007 will see the growth.
Over the last four years we have refurbished to a contemporary design, introduction of a ban on smoking in public invested significantly in the specialist and the Pitcher & Piano business has places, including pubs.
The ban is likely skills required to target successfully new performed strongly overall.
Since the to be in place by summer 2007, and pub sites and to manage licensing and year-end we have opened a new Pitcher earlier in Wales.
planning processes, with the number of & Piano bar in Brighton and have acquired new site openings increasing from 8 in sites for conversion in Derby and Poole.
We are well prepared for this significant 2005 to 12 this year.
We have a good change, and by the time the smoking pipeline of sites for future development, We added three new bars trading as ban is introduced we will have invested and next year we expect to open 20 new Bluu in Nottingham, Manchester and approximately 20 million in outside freehold pubs where we have selected in Hoxton Square, London.
Bluu is a 08 W&DB ANNUAL REPORT 2006 12988 11 12 06 Proof 2 WDB 1-19 artwork 12 12 06 3:51 pm Page 9 THE EFFECTIVE AND FAST INTEGRATION OF ACQUISITIONS HAS CONTRIBUTED TO OUR STRONG FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE.
09 W&DB ANNUAL REPORT 2006 12988 11 12 06 Proof 2 PAVILLION END, LONDON WDB 1-19 artwork 12 12 06 3:51 pm Page 10 premium food and late night venue With 459 managed pubs in the estate, We have supported tenants and lessees offer operated by the Pitcher & Piano Pathfinder Pubs has the scale to as they manage and develop their management team.
compete effectively on a national basis.
businesses in a period of unprecedented We have invested in a single EPOS change and significant challenges.
In These developments emphasise the Electronic Point Of Sale platform across 2005, they dealt with a major reform of value of a managed estate which includes the estate and in broadband for all pubs.
licensing regulation, and got to grips a range of community pubs and high We have also been consistent and diligent with the requirements and implications street bars with different operating in our investment in training for all of the new Licensing Act.
During 2006 styles, giving us greater scope for employees.
The skill and enthusiasm of they have been preparing for the profitable investment.
This year we our employees are the most important introduction of the smoking ban in invested a total of 34.2 million on pub ingredients for success in Pathfinder Pubs.
England and Wales next year with refurbishment, including a number of minimal guidance to date from the pubs from the Wizard estate acquired THE UNION PUB COMPANY Government.
At the same time, they in 2004: the Rack & Tenter, Moorgate, Turnover increased by 16.6% to 178.8 are having to absorb higher energy and Pavilion End, Watling Street, both million.
Underlying operating margin and labour costs.
in London: The Sarah Moore, Leigh-onincreased by 2.4% to 44.9%, and Sea: the Treasury, Sutton: the Custom underlying operating profit increased As a consequence of these challenges, House, Romford: the Counting House, by 23.3% to 80.3 million.
Average the level of support and advice that Watford and the Station House, Chingford.
profit per pub increased by 5.0% to licensees receive from the pub operating Similarly, from the former Burtonwood 57,400 per pub per year.
company really makes a difference, and estate we re-opened Childwell Abbey, The Union Pub Company strives to be Liverpool: Eastham Ferry, Wirral The Union Pub Company, comprising amongst the best in the industry in and The Green Lodge, Hoylake, after 1,893 tenanted and leased pubs, offering support and guidance to its significant refurbishments the last includes 63 pubs which were part of the tenants and lessees.
We were the first just in time to benefit from the British Celtic Inns estate acquired in March major operator to volunteer financial Open Golf Championship.
2006, and 93 smaller managed pubs and practical support in dealing with transferred from Pathfinder Pubs in licensing reform, and we have again the second half-year.
been active and early in advising 10 W&DB ANNUAL REPORT 2006 12988 11 12 06 Proof 2 GREEN LODGE, HOYLAKE, WIRRAL WDB 1-19 artwork 12 12 06 3:51 pm Page 11 licensees to prepare properly for the planning calendar, which licensees can The 93 pubs transferred during the introduction of the smoking ban, use to plan events and pre-order posters.
second half-year from Pathfinder Pubs committing investment of over 10 have been well integrated and will million as a consequence.
Our in-house training programme, contribute to the continued growth of the Skills Pool, had a record 1,500 The Union Pub Company in 2007.
We Over 1,500 licensees so far have agreed attendees.
The Skills Pool includes a will also benefit from the ongoing investment schemes with us in gardens, number of modules including RAPPID extension of longer term leases across patios and food: their response to the Run A Profitable Pub In Days, wine the estate, with at least 1,200 of our challenges and opportunities presented training, cellar and beer management, pubs being suitable for leasing to by the proposed smoking ban has been hygiene, responsible retailing and independent operators as opposed overwhelmingly positive.
Over 1,300 to being let under shorter term DVDs of chef skills were requested, agreements.
We now have around This year we launched uniON, a new reflecting the growing importance of 900 such leases, having introduced intranet service for licensees, which food within the estate.
The attractions of features on-line ordering, promotions, longer leases for operators include the advice on wine choice and personalised The recruitment of good licensees is potential for greater rewards for the menus, and an on-line accounting fundamental to the continuing success entrepreneurial skills required to build service which saves licensees both time of The Union Pub Company.
While many a successful business and, for our and money.
Theme nights, fundraising prospective licensees are still attracted part, we are able to attract better events and sporting competitions are by letting boards and trade press operators by having a wider choice also being catered for, including the advertising, more and more are coming of attractive agreements.
provision of personalised team shirts via the website www.
We will shortly be launching September alone we registered over WDB BRANDS additions to the package so that our 40,000 visitors to The Union Pub Turnover increased by 0.7% to 86.0 business development managers can Company website, indicative of the million.
Underlying operating margin access bespoke business-building kits high level of interest in the business increased by 0.1% to 20.9%, and to provide individual support for capital and in becoming a future tenant or underlying operating profit increased expenditure projects, and an interactive lessee of one of our pubs.
THE GARDEN ROOM, THE HIGHWAYMAN, OSWESTRY.
THE CRISPIN INN, ASHOVER, DERBYSHIRE WDB 1-19 artwork 12 12 06 3:52 pm Page 12 12988 11 12 06 Proof 2 THE FOUNTAIN, CLENT, WORCESTERSHIRE WDB 1-19 artwork 12 12 06 3:52 pm Page 13 12988 11 12 06 Proof 2 WDB 1-19 artwork 12 12 06 3:52 pm Page 14 W&DB ANNUAL REPORT 03 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT THIS YEAR INCLUDED THE LAUNCH OF MARSTON'S SMOOTH IN A CAN, WITH THE MARSTON'S SMOOTH BRAND SHOWING STRONG GROWTH.
The UK beer market declined by 2% management and beer keeping.
This MARSTONS AND CRICKET last year.
The continuation of long-term year we launched a new initiative called THE PERFECT OPENING trends including the growth of lager as CaskForce www.
co. uk, as PARTNERSHIP a proportion of the market and the a result of which nearly 1,000 people increasing consumption of alcohol at received training in their pub, while the home rather than in pubs are reflected prize for the ultimate winners was their in our operating plans.
In our pub rent paid for a year.
The initiative, run businesses, we have exploited these jointly with The Morning Advertiser, has trends by investing in our food offers just been launched for a second year.
and by developing our wines and spirits offers, a product category which we New product development this year increased by around 10% last year.
included the launch of Marstons Smooth in a can, with the Marstons In WDB Brands, we recognise these long Smooth brand showing strong growth, term trends by focusing increasingly and the expansion of an unrivalled on cask ale and premium products.
seasonal beer programme which The England Cricket team had never Although pubs are facing tough has been successful with tenants had an Official Beer partner previously, competition from the off-trade, cask and free traders.
but Marstons offered an opportunity far ale offers pub retailers a unique benefit greater than a brand simply looking for a and point of difference compared to all We maintained our marketing investment designation, it gave us the chance to bring other sector categories in that it is not at 4.2 million, and were delighted cricket into the pub the centre of the available to off-trade customers.
Our to announce in August that Marstons community, a perfect place to get people beer brand range includes Marstons is the Official Beer of England in a talking about Englands traditional national Pedigree, unique in being brewed using new sponsorship deal with the ECB, game beginning with the defence of the the famous Burton Union system: the Cricket Board of England and Ashes in Australia this winter.
Jennings Cumberland Ale from the Wales.
This sponsorship builds on our Lake District: and popular Midlands involvement with cricket and many of The sponsorship package was launched brands such as Bankss and Mansfield, the county cricket clubs: for example at The Brit Oval, the home of Surrey CC, which have a strong local following.
earlier in the summer Marstons another high profile partnership signed became the Official Beer of Surrey up during the summer.
The lead up to Our market share of the premium ale Cricket Club, with associated pouring the Ashes then offered the opportunity market increased by nearly 1%, with rights.
More recently, we have developed for promotional activity to run in pubs volume up 3%.
WDB Brands is Britains other significant new relationships, and clubs through Marstons Smooth and Pedigree, giving customers the biggest brewer of premium cask ale and including becoming the Official Beer has a 16% share of the draught premium of Lords.
opportunity, alongside other great offers, to win tickets to the Ashes in Australia.
Marstons Old Empire This coincided with a high profile national performed particularly well, up 9.5%, CURRENT TRADING press advertising campaign and the and Jennings Cumberland Ale Trading in the new financial year has launch of the Marstons Cricket Club increased by 12%.
The Bankss and been strong, benefiting from good website www.
co. uk, Mansfield brands performed in line with weather.
Our performance in the 8 weeks offering users the opportunity to be kept the standard ale market.
to 25 November 2006 has been in line up to date with latest cricketing news, with expectations, with particularly exclusive competitions and offers.
Excellent beer quality is a competitive strong like-for-like sales growth of advantage, and it is an area to which 9.1% in Pathfinder Pubs.
More cricketing themed activity will be we devote considerable resources.
developed, with further opportunities to We employ our own Beer Quality share the passion between Marstons and Technicians to visit pubs ours and cricket, at Test Match grounds throughout those operated by other pub companies the summer of 2007. or independent operators who stock RALPH FINDLAY our brands to advise on good cellar CHIEF EXECUTIVE 14 W&DB ANNUAL REPORT 2006 12988 11 12 06 Proof 2 WDB 1-19 artwork 12 12 06 3:52 pm Page 15 15 W&DB ANNUAL REPORT 2006 12988 11 12 06 Proof 2
