MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW Chairmans statement 3 base of installed equipment and securing 11,000 employees with revenues of future aftermarket revenues.
His legacy is highly contract wins included engine sensor signicanta world-class global packages and thermal management engineering business with solid equipment on Safrans popular LEAP foundations and continuing enormous engine: re protection and control potential.
Stephen Young, whose equipment on numerous military and civil contribution as Group Finance Director programmes: long-term agreements with has been outstanding, succeeds him Sikorsky for composite components: and from May 2013. another major contract in offshore gas processing from Petrobras for our Our people innovative printed circuit heat exchangers.
May I take this opportunity to thank Capital expenditure on property, plant all Meggitt employees for their efforts in and equipment and other intangible what has been a year of further strong assets increased to 63.5million 2011: growth.
We doubled the capacity of which has been undertaken during the our printed circuit heat exchanger facility year leaves us in excellent shape for in Poole, UK.
In California, we have signed We continue to grow the 2013s rolling implementation of the the lease on a new building to co-locate business by investing in group-wide standardised and upgraded our North American sensing businesses production system.
In particular, may I people, technologies and onto a new campus in Irvine and extend my gratitude to our outgoing preparations are underway to combine facilities CEO, Terry Twigger.
our North American re detection and re suppression businesses onto our established campus in Simi Valley.
We Group outlook Delivering our strategy continue to implement common ERP and We continue to focus on organic growth, During 2012, Meggitt developed its other IT systems across Meggitt and supplemented from time to time with strong market positions further.
Total launched a major initiative to raise our targeted acquisitions where we can orders rose by 7% and total revenues operational performance and increase identify value-creating opportunities.
Underlying our organic growth rate.
energy markets remain strong with earnings per share were up 13% to sensing and monitoring, uid control and 36.2pence.
We generated net cash of Board of directors heat exchangers continuing to experience 116.7 million 2011: outow of 30.1 high demand.
Sales of new civil aircraft million.
Net debt decreased to We increased the international diversity remain strong.
Air trafc growth remains 642.5 million 2011: 788.4 million and of our Board in the Autumn with the steady, sustaining demand for our net debt to EBITDA reduced to 1.3 times appointment of two new non-executive aftermarket products and services.
Board is proposing an increase to the The potential sequestration of US defence Guy Berruyer, a French national, is Group full-year dividend of 12% to 11.80 pence.
However, Chief Executive of The Sage Group plc, we believe our exible manufacturing base The t between Pacic scientific whose French division he joined as Chief will enable us to redirect activity to areas Aerospace and Meggitt has proved to be Executive in 1997.
Guys early career was where demand is strong and we are much better than we first thought, spent with software and hardware vendors confident that retrot, outsourcing and enabling us to increase our synergy in management roles at French and upgrade opportunities will continue from target to a run-rate of $25 million savings pan-European levels.
greater utilisation and extension of per annum by 2014.
Philip Cox, a chartered accountant, is existing programmes.
Chief Executive officer of International We look forward to continued growth in Investing for growth Power, which he joined as Chief Financial 2013 and beyond.
Before that, Philip was We continue to grow the business by Senior Vice President for Operational investing in people, technologies and Planning at Invensys plc and Finance facilities.
In 2012, we spent 7.6% of revenues, or In January 2013, Chief Executive Terry 122.0 million 2011: 110.5 million on Twigger announced his intention to retire.
We invested 36.1million 2011: Terry has been responsible for growing the 33.2million on supplying free equipment group from around 4,000 employees with to new aircraft and programme Sir Colin Terry Chairman revenues of under 400 million to almost participation contributions, growing our
