BUSINESS STRENGTHS When I became Chairman, I shared with you my assessment CHAIRMANS STATEMENT of the strengths of the business: s !
FOCUSED STRATEGY OF ORGANIC GROWTH ROLLING OUT OUR brands into country after country, city after city, discipline after discipline s !N EXPANDING PRESENCE IN THE WORLD S GROWTH MARKETS s 0OWERFUL BRANDS RECOGNISED AROUND THE GLOBE s NE OF THE STR ONGEST hMAKE IT HAPPENv CULTURES HAVE come across in forty years s !
WORK HARD PLAY HARD GO ANYWHERE MANAGEMENT TEAM and s !
"SMALL AND EFFECTIVE ""OARD Those strengths have been reinforced during 2012."
Your Board has reviewed and embraced the strategy of worldwide organic growth in multiple disciplines and geographies.
We have continued to open ofces in growth markets.
We have established the PageGroup brand for our corporate activities so as not to dilute the power of our three operating brands, Michael Page, Page Personnel and Page Executive.
We have redesigned the executive leadership team to create one global company, organisation and culture.
In doing so, we have also reduced the cost of this team.
We have further strengthened our Board.
We remain free of the constraints that hold back so many businesses in this difficult environment.
We still have: no DEBT NO UNFUNDED PENSION SCHEME NO ACQUISITION INTEGRATION ISSUES NO LAYERS OF BUREAUCRACY AND NO BURDENSOME xed costs.
4 2012 Preliminary results, in April he will succeed Ruby as board would not only bring different skills and perspectives Performance Chairman of the Audit Committee.
but also support our gender diversity objectives across the There is one constraint we do have.
Our industry and our Group.
We continue to look for outstanding individuals who company are more exposed to global economic troubles Our Remuneration Committee Chairman, Reg Sindall, can bring such diversity to our Board.
2012 was a difficult year for the macrowho had begun making important improvements to our economy in most countries.
Despite this, PageGroup compensation system, had, for personal reasons, to leave There are three elements of our governance that are delivered a creditable performance with gross profit down the Board.
However, we are particularly important.
The Board debates and decides on 4.9% compared to 2011, a decrease of only 1.5% at very fortunate to have appointed David Lowden to take strategy, holding the Executive team accountable for its constant rates of exchange.
over the Chairmanship of the Committee.
We ensure that we have and will have the most the Remuneration Committees work can be seen in the talented leadership, both within the Executive team and on In these tough times the company is looking to get the Remuneration Report.
We always ask, What is the right thing to do?
maximum effectiveness and efficiency out of its so that everyone involved with PageGroup can continue to investments in operations and infrastructure.
My job is to make sure these three things progress has been made on this already.
Further details of how the company is governed in the months to come.
Further details of our performance Our people navigate the economic ups and how the Board is run are given elsewhere in this report.
and our plans are in the Business Review on page 12. and downs.
They make the changes Looking Ahead Dividend happen.
We are very grateful to them.
Our priorities for 2013 are clear.
We will continue to execute We are committed to increasing the dividend over the our organic growth strategy.
We will develop our worldwide course of the economic cycle in line with our long-term Governance leadership team.
We will push for greater returns from our growth rate.
That way, we can maintain a sustainable level Two topics have dominated the UK discussion on investments in support systems and processes.
We will of dividend payment during downturns, as well as during Corporate Governance.
Senior executive pay and build on the improvements we have made in designing a more prosperous times.
Given our results, we intend to boardroom diversity.
On executive director pay, we global company.
The Board will concentrate on supporting maintain our dividend at the same level as 2011, i. e. pay a have made five particularly important changes.
We have and challenging our management to ensure this happens.
final dividend of 6.75p for the 2012 financial year, bringing capped previously uncapped pay, we have made executive The macro-economy is tough.
PageGroup will continue to the full year dividend to 10p 2011: 10p.
director incentives both more strategic and longer term, go through considerable change.
Our people navigate the we have set performance criteria for all incentive payments, economic ups and downs.
They make the changes happen.
The Board we have introduced claw-back provisions, and we have We are very grateful to them.
In the last Annual Report I explained that the Board was increased shareholding guidelines.
I should emphasise that undergoing considerable change.
PageGroup will continue to pay the market rate to attract and keep executives of the highest calibre and we will Andrew Bracey, our new Chief Financial officer, started in reward performance for shareholders.
April 2012 and has already made valuable contributions.
In May 2012, following Hubert Reids retirement from On diversity, the Board had two goals this year.
As a global Robin Buchanan, Chairman the Board, Ruby McGregor-Smith, our Audit Committee group we need extensive international experience and are March 2013 Chairman, became our Senior Independent Director.
keen to see a higher proportion of women on the Board.
Our I mentioned last March that we were looking for another three new directors have worked in multiple countries in all non-executive.
We are delighted that Simon Boddie has regions of the world.
A higher proportion of women on our joined the Board.
Following the announcement of our 5
