Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Chairmans statement Business highlights Business transformation programme Award-winning brands and infrastructure underway to improve focus on the projects: Harvester and Toby Carvery guest in all areas top Technomic satisfaction poll: Central support functions and Retail Systems Award for Best Use of IT infrastructure reorganised with Technology: Alex wins Consumer Focus 6m saving delivered in FY 2012 award in Germany: Mitchells & Butlers Increased investment in training and awarded Carbon Trust Standard for the service: new Training Academy opened second time Guest satisfaction and retail employee 47 new site openings and 10 conversions engagement both improved by in the period with expansionary capex 5 percentage points of 55m Building on enhanced technology EBITDA returns of 17% achieved on platform to further improve guest expansionary capex invested over the satisfaction and more targeted marketing last two years Bob Ivell Since becoming Chairman my foremost priority Very early on in my tenure as Chairman I realised Chairman has been to recruit the right person to lead the that the operational changes necessary to make business as Chief Executive.
I am delighted your Company not just good but great, could Since becoming Chairman my foremost priority therefore that Alistair Darby joined us in October not wait for the appointment of a new Chief has been to recruit the right person to lead the following an extensive and rigorous process.
I therefore galvanised the Executive business as Chief Executive.
Having appointed Alistairs last role was as Chief Operating Officer Team to initiate a significant cultural change Alistair, my focus will now shift to enhancing the at Marstons plc and thanks to 20 years working programme, aimed at freeing our teams from balance, skills and compliance of the Board through on some of the largest brands in the pub, drinks a distracting administrative burden and placing the selection of appropriately qualified independent Non-Executive Directors.
and consumer sectors, he has all the operational our guests at the heart of everything we do.
and brand experience necessary to lead your To this end, we have invested in amenity and Company to further success.
In his first few service: made senior executives more directly weeks in the job he has impressed me greatly.
responsible for their brands: and have trialled As a consequence of Alistairs appointment a new way of working at restaurant and pub I have relinquished my executive responsibility level aimed at giving our teams the skills and for running the business and reverted to the motivation to deliver outstanding customer role of Non-Executive Chairman.
It is clearly early days but the initial signs are encouraging.
In March, Eddie Irwin, a representative of Elpida Limited, who are a significant shareholder I am consistently amazed by the quality, tenacity in Mitchells & Butlers, joined the Board as a and passion of our 40,000 employees.
He that to have driven the resilient financial has made a positive contribution in the short performance that they have this year, at a time time since his appointment.
Doug Evans will of cultural and organisational change, where leave the Board in January 2013 to take up the economic conditions have been challenging, role of Company Secretary and General Counsel is exceptional.
On behalf of the Board, I would with Hays plc.
I would like to thank him for the like to thank them for their efforts.
important role he has played.
Bob Ivell Alistair Darby My focus will now shift to enhancing the Chairman Chief Executive balance, skills and compliance of the Board Appointed October 2012 through the selection of appropriately qualified I am delighted to be leading a Company with great independent Non-Executive Directors.
people and popular branded pubs, bars and restaurants.
Mitchells & Butlers is well positioned to take maximum advantage of our evolving industry and we have the right strategy in place.
I look forward to continuing the business transformation to deliver long term earnings growth and shareholder returns.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012 01
