com Group PLC BuBu sin se in ss e O ss Rev vervi iew ew Annual Report 2012 Chairmans Statement more growth more success Gerald Corbett Chairman 2012 has been another year of solid progress for the Group.
Dividend We continued to invest heavily in our brand, our marketing, Having reviewed the cash required by the business and the our site and our people.
The strong financial results reect performance of the Group, the Company paid an interim this commitment and the consistency with which we have dividend of 1.8p per ordinary share on 14 September 2012. followed and executed our strategy.
This will remain This represented an increase of 20% on the interim dividend unchanged in 2013. excluding the special dividend paid in 2011 and is consistent with the Companys progressive dividend policy.
Results and strategic progress 2012 was another good year for the Group as revenue During the year, the business continued to generate increased by 13% from 181.0m to 204.8m and adjusted cash, and, despite the completion of the acquisition of EBITDA increased by 26% from 52.5m to 66.5m.
com where the Group paid 35.0m in verticals, Money and Insurance, delivered solid growth during cash on completion, we ended the year with cash balances the year with revenue in the Money vertical increasing by 9% of 18.7m.
With the business growing, the Board is from 52.6m to 57.4m and revenue in the Insurance vertical recommending a final dividend of 3.94p per ordinary share, increasing by 17% from 102.7m to 120.4m.
representing an increase of 30% on the final dividend in 2011.
Together with the significant growth achieved in our Home This is consistent with the Companys progressive dividend Services vertical and the return to growth of our Travel vertical policy and is a statement of the Boards confidence in the in the second half of the year, these results demonstrate the Companys earning progression in the year ahead.
If continuing strength and diversity of our business model.
approved by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, this will bring the total dividend for the year to 5.74p The Group also completed its first major strategic acquisition per ordinary share and will be paid on 26 April 2013 to all with the purchase in September of MoneySavingExpert.
com shareholders on the register at 22 March 2013. for consideration of up to 92.5m.
com operates one of the leading personal finance journalism Outlook websites and their principal activity is the provision of The new year has begun positively and, whilst we remain consumer information in relation to saving money and alert to the continuing uncertainty in the wider economic personal finance.
It has a very strong brand and its strategy of environment, including the impact of the Funding for Lending helping the consumer first complements the Groups strategy scheme on our Money business, we are confident that we will of helping every household to make the most of their money.
Our great brands, including MoneySavingExpert.
com, strong market positions, experienced During 2012 we continued to make significant investments in people and scale are the basis on which our business is built our marketing strategy, including the strengthening of our and will remain key strengths in the coming year.
digital marketing capability and the continuation of our Youre So MoneySupermarket advertising campaign, both of which Governance and the Board helped to drive visitor growth to the Groups websites.
We Since the Group listed on the London Stock Exchange in have continued the Youre So MoneySupermarket theme in 2007, our Board and executive governance structures have the early part of 2013 with the launch of our latest advertising continually developed and improved.
We believe that good campaign demonstrating how we continue to help our governance reduces risk and adds value to the business.
customers save money on their household bills.
As such, the Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and supports the principles laid MoneySupermarket.
com Group PLC 15 Bu Bus si in ne es ss s O Rev ver iew view Annual Report 2012 down in The UK Corporate Governance Code published 2012 has been another year in June 2010 by the Financial Reporting Council Code.
of solid progress for the The Corporate Governance Report together with the Audit Group.
We continued to Committee Report, Nomination Committee Report and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 52 describe invest heavily in our brand, how the principles of the Code are applied by the Group and our marketing, our site and reports on the Groups compliance with the Codes provisions.
The strong During the last three years, since the appointment of Bruce financial results reect Carnegie-Brown as an additional Non-Executive Director, the Board has remained stable and focused on growing the this commitment and the business.
The Board has a good mix of experience, skills, consistency with which we structure and balance in order to support the Groups growth aspirations.
have followed and executed As part of the Boards development, Bruce has taken over the our strategy.
This will chair of our Remuneration Committee from Michael Wemms.
Michael has done a good job for the last five years and we thank him for his contribution.
As with last year and in accordance with the Code, all of our Directors will retire at this years Annual General Meeting, and being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
Employees Our results this year reect the dedication and quality of our employees which continues to be a core strength of the Group.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Peter Plumb, his management team and all the employees for their achievements during the year.
I would also like to welcome our new colleagues from MoneySavingExpert.
com to the Group and look forward to supporting their growth during 2013 and beyond.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00am on Wednesday 17 April 2013 at the Leverhulme Stand, Chester Racecourse, The Racecourse, Chester, CH1 2LY and I look forward to seeing you there.
