cHairManS StateMent i am delighted to join the Board as chairman.
i am grateful to tim Stevenson for helping this transition and also for his efforts since 2006 including leading the Group through the economic downturn and positioning the business for future growth.
i am excited by the opportunities that the Group has to develop, and i look forward to contributing to its future success.
in recent years, great strides have been made to simplify the business, most recently in the consolidation of the two ceramic Businesses in 2010. it is the case that we produce a variety of different products for different industrial and geographical markets, but there are powerful underlying unifying themes.
We specialise in bringing science and application engineering Andrew Shilston expertise to meet demanding technical chairman requirements involving advanced materials, and we look to position ourselves in growth markets.
it has become apparent that we can further simplify the business to improve clarity trading conditions were difficult in 2012, at the customer interface, gain benefits from innovation across the Group and reduce costs.
nevertheless operating profit before We are therefore re-organising the business one-off costs of 122.0 million was on a regional basis and sharpening the brand identity, as is further explained in the Groups second highest ever.
the chief executive Officers review.
trading conditions were difficult in 2012, nevertheless operating profit before one-off costs of 122.0 million was the Groups second highest ever.
cash generation was strong with a reduction in net debt of 22.6 million compared to 20.8 million in 2011. this reflects the strength of our capabilities and being present in growing markets, which helped to offset disappointing performance in Morgan engineered Materials.
04 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dividend Board and Governance the Board has decided to set the final dividend i should like to welcome Victoire fide Margerie at 6.4 pence per share.
this is an increase of to the Board.
She has a wealth of operational 6.7% compared to the final dividend declared experience across europe in related industries.
in 2011. this means that the full-year dividend it has been a pleasure to work with Board is 10.0 pence.
colleagues over the last nine months and we all remain committed to the development of the Group.
Total dividend per share Pence i have visited a number of the Groups sites since i joined the Board and have been 2012 10.0 impressed by the enthusiasm and loyalty to the Group of all those i have met.
the Board 2011 9.25 recognises that the quality and commitment of our employees is key to future success 2010 7.7 and continues to be grateful for their efforts.
7.0 2009 Andrew Shilston chairman 2008 7.0 Outlook the macro-economic outlook for 2013 is not significantly better than 2012, with global imbalances and indebtedness in developed countries still weighing on growth.
the changes we are announcing to the organisation structure will maximise our chances of growing.
Despite the challenging economic environment we continue to invest in new manufacturing facilities and research and development and to look for bolt-on acquisitions to add capability.
Annual Report 2012 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 05
