Chairmans Statement PROFITS AND PROGRESS IN TOUGH TIMES We are pleased to have delivered a solid financial outcome for the 53 weeks ended 3 March 2012, especially in light of the difficult economic conditions for our customers.
For the first time online sales have reached 50% of total sales and we have made good progress in developing a growth platform for the business.
Financial Results profit before taxation is 95.6m 2011, Total group revenue increased by 98.2m.
Adjusted earnings per share 4.8% to 753.2m.
Excluding the nonare up by 7.0% to 28.91p, benefitting comparable periods for newly opened from a lower tax charge, primarily due stores, the acquisition of Figleaves and to the utilisation of tax losses acquired the 53rd week, like-for-like sales grew with Figleaves.
The board is proposing by 1.6%.
The combination of rising a final dividend of 7.74 pence per share, input prices and falling disposable up 5.0% on last year and in line with income inevitably subdued demand the increase in the interim dividend.
from our hard-pressed customers, This gives a total dividend for the year so as anticipated we reduced prices of 13.03 pence, covered 2.2 times.
and increased promotional activity to stimulate demand.
This led to a Net borrowings at 3 March 2012 were 0.8% decline in the rate of gross 192.5m 2011, 180.9m.
As expected Trading Highlights margin to 53.0%.
there was a higher level of capital During the year the key trading highlights expenditure to drive internet sales have been: Operating profit is slightly down by and set up the pilot Simply Be stores.
0.6m to 102.0m, after absorbing Net finance costs have increased from s NLINESALESPASSINGTHE SHARE 5.2m of losses on opening the Simply 4.4m to 6.4m, covered 16 times by of total sales, following 16% growth to Be concept stores and expanding operating profit.
The rise is due to the 377m during the year.
However higher margin payable on 350m of it does include the benefit of the 53rd bank facilities which have been renewed  week this year which has contributed during 2011 for a further five years.
investment across our brand portfolio revenue of 12.9m and operating profit Gearing has fallen from 50% to 48% based on the results of recruitment of 2.9m.
Profit before taxation is up by on net assets which have risen by campaigns, mailings and online 2.5% to 96.9m 2011, 94.5m although, 11.6% to 402.3m.
The strongest growth was once the fair value adjustments to foreign from the Jacamo, Marisota and House exchange contracts are excluded, the of Bath customer brands.
08 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 The board is proposing a final dividend of 7.74 pence per share, up 5.0% on last year and in line with the increase in the interim dividend.
This gives a total dividend for the year of 13.03 pence, covered 2.2 times.
 but overall the pattern of trading from are that a high proportion of store visits Figleaves and High & Mighty delivering the second half is continuing, with are from women who have not shopped results.
Figleaves made its first ever customers reluctant to spend unless with us previously.
profit in 13 years of trading and the product or promotional offer is High & Mighty opened 3 new stores compelling.
Consumer confidence International expansion is another key whilst significantly reducing its losses remains fragile but we believe the strategic development.
"situation will improve in the second the USA, and we have now appointed half of the year as inflation and income local digital marketing agencies to boost s'ROWINGTHE3IMPLY""EBRANDIN growth become more balanced and Simply Bes online recruitment and the USA where sales increased our own comparatives become softer."
We deliberately trial both Marisota and Jacamo, initially slowed the rate of customer growth In a weak economic environment any on the Simply Be website, and look to in Germany until we had reduced the improvement to our competitive position boost Figleaves international sales.
rate of returns which improved by must therefore come through our own 1 percentage point to 60%.
"We believe that we have the Market conditions remain challenging required plans and platform in place but we have a competitive proposition s PENINGTWO3IMPLY""ECONCEPT for growth in these market conditions."
for the middle-aged and plus-size stores, and four more since the customer groups, which have excellent year-end, to test whether a full We will be offering customers lower long-term growth prospects.
The multi-channel operation can drive prices in the autumn and will look to be continuing development of our unique sufficient incremental sales to justify more aggressive on key value lines.
Our product ranges, online trading capability the investment and fixed costs.
stock levels are currently well balanced and the expansion into stores and We will evaluate the performance and this will reduce the need for the level international markets should keep of these stores towards the end of discounting and promotional offers N Brown in the leading group of of 2012 based on the uplift of sales that were required in the second half clothing retailers.
from all channels in the postcode last year to clear some excess stocks.
Our online trading strategy still has The ability of the business to rapidly adapt to changing market circumstances much further to go and we can exploit is one of its enduring qualities and I s& the features and functionality we have would like to thank all stakeholders, propositions in footwear and already developed to deliver rich and including suppliers and the trade union, menswear to deliver growth of 6% relevant content, which will drive both for their contribution, but especially all and 15% respectively.
The sales of incremental sales and cost savings.
our staff who have been both innovative ladieswear were up 2%.
and hard working to deliver record levels We recognise the increasing importance of service quality to our customers Corporate Social Responsibility of strong brands in the online channel, throughout the year.
The role of business in society has been, high street stores and international and remains, clearly in the spotlight.
At markets and we will be concentrating our marketing spend on fewer of our brands N Brown Group we aim for continuous than has previously been the case.
improvement in all areas from ethical sourcing of product through to greater Customer recruitment was strong in involvement in our local community.
the second half and we are investing A description of some of our initiatives extra resources this year to support are set out in the directors report.
this growth, in addition to campaigns Lord Alliance of Manchester, CBE to reactivate more of our lapsed Current Trading and Outlook customers.
One of the aims of the Sales for the 8 weeks to 28 April 2012 multimedia Simply Be stores is to reach are 1.0% up on last year and 0.6% up on a like-for-like basis.
The year-on-year customers who are in our target market weather conditions and the earlier Easter but prefer to shop on the high street, break make comparisons complicated rather than online, and early indications N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 09
