Overview Chairmans letter Delivering shareholder value I am pleased to report that National Express has delivered a good revenue and profit performance as part of another strong set of results for 2012.
Dear shareholder, I am delighted to have joined the Group in January this year, taking over as Chairman from John Devaney who has led the company with clarity of purpose through a challenging but successful period.
I look forward to building on the solid foundations that he has put in place.
National Express continues to be one of the strongest performing providers of public transportation.
The strength and resilience of the Group lies in our unique, diversied portfolio of high quality businesses, operating in Bus, Coach and Rail, providing excellent geographic access to those markets.
Transport trends over the last 20 years have been positive and National Express benets from a combination of highly visible revenues from long term contracts and deregulated operations addressing a socially important need.
Our UK Bus, UK Coach and Rail operations, and the divisions in Spain and North America, are well managed and exible businesses with a track record of successive margin improvement, delivered by completing a highly successful turnaround programme begun in 2010.
Our strength in delivering operational excellence has seen National Express invest in new vehicles, technology and people, which have helped to drive underlying revenue and improve margins.
Across the Group, we continue to focus on achieving greater cost efficiencies, reducing variable costs by exing operational mileage, and offering highly competitive prices with a quality service others nd difficult to match, driving organic growth.
In 2012 we acquired the Petermann school bus business in North America, a strategically significant acquisition which has been successfully integrated into the Group.
Along with two other smaller acquisitions, this has also provided a platform for us to establish and advance our North American Transit business.
Sir John Armitt 8 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Delivering on our strategy Business review Governance Financial statements National Express continues to be an impressive Investment case cash generator.
Our balance sheet is underpinned by an appropriate dividend and funding structure.
The Group has strong liquidity and investment grade debt 1.
Credible strategy with a long maturity prole.
The Board is committed to a transport operator gearing policy which provides security but at the same time Margin Best in Delivering operational allows us to invest for the future.
Public transport markets % class % excellence are growing and liberalising around the world.
This offers Spain 15.7 NX a range of market opportunities for National Express in t Margin at 11.6% best in class passenger transport contracts and concessions in selected in 4 out of 5 divisions N America 10.2 NX target markets.
t Record non-Rail profit at UK Bus 12.7 17 185million third successive Dividend UK Coach 8.1 NX year of growth The quality of our business and our chosen strategy enable Rail 13.7 NX us to generate an improving return on capital.
The Board Driving organic growth has an attractive and sustainable dividend policy which is Group 11.6 NX t Revenue up 7% appropriate for the current business environment, where, t New contracts secured alongside our opportunities, challenges will continue 2.
Well balanced portfolio with nearly 2 billion in revenue in a world of austerity.
Our aim is to pay a dividend that diversied exposure to modes is covered approximately twice by our Bus and Coach Generating superior of transport and geographies earnings.
The Board is recommending that the final cash and returns dividend for 2012 is increased by 0.1 pence, to 6.6 pence, t Free cash ow of 141 million which, when added to the interim dividend of 3.15 pence, investing for growth represents an increase of 3% for the year as a whole.
Subject to approval by shareholders, the final dividend will be t Non-Rail pre-tax ROCE paid on 17 May to shareholders registered at 26 April 2013. stable at 10.6% Delivering new Board opportunities On behalf of the whole Board, I would like to thank our departing Chairman, John Devaney, for the fortitude and t Delivery of $10million energy with which he has led National Express since 2009. annualised synergies from We welcomed Jackie Hunt to the Board during 2012 and Petermann school bus Q Spain 535m she has quickly brought her strong financial skills and listed acquisition company experience to our discussions.
Q North America 578m t $65million revenue US Transit Q UK Bus 269m business established Our values During my initial visits around the business, I have been Q UK Coach 255m Read more 14 impressed by the high level of commitment shown by the Q UK Rail 195m Groups management and employees to its core values.
Our employees place great value on safety, customer service, their colleagues and the communities in which 4.
Stable financial footing, with a commitment to investment we operate.
Doing their difficult but often rewarding jobs, grade credit rating and medium term nancing our employees will ensure the long term sustainability of the Group.
Gearing ratios 2012 2011 Covenant Net debt EBITDA 2.5x 1.9x 3.5x Our future Interest cover 6.7x 7.2x 3.5x With the right strategy and initiatives in place, I am excited about the opportunities available for us and believe we will Ratings Grade Outlook add to our pipeline of long term contracts and concessions Moodys Baa3 Postive within the coming months.
These have the potential to Fitch BBBStable deliver further growth and returns to shareholders.
Strong debt maturity profile 493 388 230 Drawn 65 59 24 24 20 42 Available 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 Sir John Armitt Chairman 5. Dividend policy offering growth on a sustainable non-rail 28 February 2013 earnings basis 2012 p 2011 p Basic EPS Non-rail 21.6 20.7 Rail 3.9 6.3 Group 25.5 27.0 Dividend 9.75 9.5 www.
