Chairmans statement improved customer service and without their dedication, hard With the majority of the restructuring further operational efficiencies work and loyalty.
I would like to going forward.
thank them on behalf of the completed the Group will continue Board.
During the year the Commercial area of the business was also its strong disciplines of asset Dividend restructured, and a number of The Group has reduced net improvement programmes were management, cash generation and 4 debt by 532m over the past initiated in the final quarter of four years.
In recognition of the the financial year, the main cost control whilst at the same time higher returns within the focus being to increase the skills, business, the sustained resource and support within the maximising profitable growth where improvement in performance sales team.
The success of these and our confidence in the long initiatives is central to the the appropriate return exists.
term future of the Group, the objective of returning the Board recommends the business to growth at re-introduction of a dividend for appropriate levels of return.
the current financial year of operations can focus on 3.0p.
This would represent a maximising profitable business Spain cash outow to the Group of opportunities going forward.
As widely publicised the Spanish 4m and is in respect of the The balance sheet of the Group economy continues to be an full year.
continues to strengthen with net extremely difficult environment 4 It is the Boards intention to debt reducing by 158.6m in in which to operate.
Despite this maintain a sustainable the year from 529.9m to 10 our operating margin increased dividend policy with the aim of 371.3m.
At 30 April 2012 we to 19.1% in the year 2011 6 increasing returns to had 276m of headroom on 18.0% and utilisation was shareholders over time, whilst our committed debt facilities of maintained above 90%.
It is 7 taking into account both the 668m.
Net debt to EBITDA has testament to the strength and underlying profitability, cash reduced to 1.3x 2011 1.7x commitment of our Spanish generation and cash and all covenant measures management team that despite Bob Mackenzie requirements of the Group.
improved over the year as a Chairman hire revenue falling by 20.5m, Going forward we would result of 138m of underlying the underlying operating profit 8 expect to pay one-third of the cash generation.
The Groups I am pleased to report that fall was limited to 1.7m.
total dividend at the interim despite a continuing background profitability and cash generation Given the dire economic 5 stage and two-thirds as a has reduced gearing to 105% of economic uncertainty in the situation in Spain, which has final dividend.
As a result countries in which we operate, been exacerbated by the Euro we are pleased to announce the Group has maintained its crisis, we have continued to Current trading and market leading position and that the Group is returning to concentrate on cash generation.
outlook the payment of a dividend.
substantially completed the Over the last four years capital restructuring of our UK and The Group retains its strong, Our management teams in the employed in Spain has been Spanish operations which market leading position in both UK and Spain have strengthened reduced from 829m to 388m commenced in summer 2010. the UK and Spain.
With the each business and are working with net debt falling from We now operate under the majority of the restructuring effectively to maximise 556m to 172m.
Northgate brand in both the UK completed the Group will returns for shareholders and and Spain and are concentrating We have successfully replaced continue its strong disciplines of realise the objectives of the on increasing the awareness of the former Fualsa and Record asset management, cash Groups strategy.
our brand in both countries.
brands and now trade as generation and cost control UK Northgate, which is enjoying whilst at the same time The focus of the Group in the growing brand awareness.
Our maximising profitable growth 9 year has been to maintain Our operating margin increased business in Spain has where the appropriate industry leading levels of to 23.2% in the year, compared implemented a new commercial return exists.
utilisation, improve operating to 22.0% in 2011.
This increase structure which is targeting efficiency to reduce costs and has been achieved through Whilst this will be challenging in increased new business wins concentrate on increasing the actions aimed at improving the awful economic situation across a range of sectors to Return on Capital Employed operating efficiency, increasing Europe nds itself, the Board is offset declines historically seen ROCE.
Against all of these hire rates and the continued confident that the dedication in its traditional markets, whilst measures we have performed strength in the residual values of and hard work shown by all our maintaining its concentration on 1 well with ROCE increasing to used vehicles.
employees over the past two cash generation.
13.1% in the year 2011 years provides the Group with a Our previous model of 20 11.9%.
strong platform upon which Employees separate companies was further to build.
Our management team has i`Vi`wii} V The improvements delivered and done an excellent job in moving 2012.
In addition, the The Group has begun the new our confidence in the future to one brand, rationalising implementation of the new IT financial year in line with the performance of the Group depots and operations, installing system has enabled the UK to Boards expectations, and the would not be possible without new IT systems in the UK, establish a centralised Customer Board is confident the Group is the people we have working generating cash and Support Centre and a Financial well placed to deliver significant with us.
The Group has strengthening the balance sheet.
Shared Services Centre based in value to shareholders.
experienced two years of We now have a solid base from Darlington.
This will provide the considerable change and this Bob Mackenzie which both our UK and Spanish platform for a consistent and would not have been possible Chairman Northgate plc Chairmans statement 2 Annual report and accounts 2012
