Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 34 Chairmans letter After six and a half exhilarating and eventful years, I am leaving the Company in the best possible hands.
Ocado is one of the most innovative and exciting growth companies in the UK and it has been a privilege to be a part of their story.
Lord Grade of Yarmouth Chairman Dear Shareholder, On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Companys Changes to the Board composition statement of corporate governance.
The Board fully supports We welcomed a number of new Directors to the Board during the principles of good corporate governance and is committed the period.
Duncan Tatton-Brown joined the Board as Chief to the improvement and development of appropriate structures, Financial officer in September 2012 and Mark Richardson processes and procedures for the Group in support of was appointed as Operations Director in January 2012.
In particular, we endorse the description also appointed Alex Mahon as an Independent Non-Executive of governance published by the FRC in October 2010 that Director of the Board.
governance should support, not constrain, the entrepreneurial leadership of the company, while ensuring that risk is properly A number of Directors also left the Board.
Boards must see good governance as a means to resigned as Chief Financial officer in March 2012 and David improve their performance, not just a compliance exercise.
As Young retired after almost 12 years of service as Non-Executive Chairman, I recognise that my leadership of the Board is critical Director at the annual general meeting in May 2012.
Nonto encouraging open and transparent debate, discussion, Executive Director, Wendy Becker, left the Company on constructive challenge and support.
The Board would like to thank Andrew, David and Wendy for their valued contributions to Ocado.
Board balance and effectiveness Securing the right balance of skills, experience and perspectives Chairman succession on the Board is a key responsibility to ensure that the Board On 22 January 2013, I announced my retirement as Chairman.
A recruitment process has taken place as described in the Nomination Committee report, and as a result Sir Stuart Rose I am also mindful of my responsibility as Chairman to lead the will be succeeding me as Chairman from the 2013 AGM.
Board and ensure that it is working effectively.
This year a Board evaluation was carried out with the FRCs Guidance on Board After a smooth succession process and having secured a Effectiveness in mind.
I am encouraged that our Board operates new Chairman my job at Ocado is almost complete.
After six effectively and remains properly engaged.
and a half exhilarating and eventful years, I am leaving the Company in the best possible hands.
Sir Stuarts substantial Management of risk retail experience and commercial acumen will add significant Monitoring the level of risk, and ensuring appropriate value.
Ocado is one of the most innovative and exciting growth governance to support this is a key objective of the Board.
It is companies in the UK and it has been a privilege to be a part of important that we continue to improve our understanding and their story.
monitoring of the risks associated with our business strategy, and that our risk appetite and tolerance is communicated Annual General Meeting through the management structures as our business evolves.
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11am on Details of our risk management systems are described in greater 10 May 2013 at One Bunhill Row, London, EC1Y 8YY and detail on pages 42 to 44.
I look forward to seeing you at my final Ocado AGM.
Communications with shareholders We are committed to maintaining constructive communications with our shareholders.
Our Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial officer are responsible for maintaining a regular dialogue with major shareholders.
I and David Grigson, the Senior Independent Director, are also available to the Lord Grade of Yarmouth Companys shareholders and during the year, we met with Chairman several of our largest shareholders to discuss governance Ocado Group plc matters.
