BUSINESS PROFILE Chairmans Statement The Group is now 02 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 performing more strongly than at any time in its history and was admitted into the FTSE250 index in September 2011 Oxford Instruments delivers shareholder The Group is recommending a final value by providing our customers with dividend of 7.23 pence, an increase the most advanced tools and services.
of 11.6% over the prior year bringing Our customers use these products the total for the year to 10.0 pence.
to advance the frontiers of science, manufacture innovatively and ensure The success reected in these results the quality of industrial processes.
The has been fostered by our culture of diversity of our products and markets, inclusivity and our ability to bring our clear customer focus, our culture together skills and ideas from across of innovation and our commitment to the business to drive innovation and the attracting the very best talent in the delivery of new products.
These results industry has continued to drive the are a credit to all our people.
I thank growth of the business.
The Group is them on behalf of the Board for their now performing more strongly than at any hard work and commitment.
time in its history and was admitted into the FTSE250 index in September 2011.
We are aware that we are operating in uncertain times.
We have the This strong performance in the first right people in place to maximise the Adjusted earnings 48% year of our 14 Cubed three year plan opportunities and tackle the challenges per share has been built around organic growth, of the coming years.
As we enter the efficiency improvements and a successful second year of our 14 Cubed Plan, it acquisition programme.
Our healthy is our intention to continue to deliver 61.6p product pipeline and exposure to value for all our stakeholders with growing markets has yielded good the wholehearted care, passion organic revenue growth with further and commitment for which Oxford improvement in operating margins.
Dividend per share 11.1% The integration of the three acquisitions we made in the year is proceeding to plan and each is making a positive 10.0p contribution to our business.
Nigel Keen Chairman 12 June 2012 Omniprobe Gas Injector tool for see Our Strategy on page 8 nano-fabrication and modication BUSINESS PROFILE 03 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 OUR VALUES INCLUSIVE We listen and engage with customers, colleagues, shareholders and partners for mutual success.
Superconducting wire TRUSTED We build long term relationships based on integrity, trust and respect.
INNOVATIVE & PROGRESSIVE We bring skill, experience and openness to new ideas to address Wafer processing the needs of the 21st Century.
1900 HEARTED We approach what we do with passion, with people worldwide care and with pace.
