Overview Chairmans Statement 2012 has been a good year for Pace: wehave stabilised the business, made very good progress on our Strategic Plan and delivered strong financial results.
Dear Shareholder The Group remains relentlessly focused on the execution of itsprimary objectives, as outlined in the Strategic Review we Following a challenging 2011, 2012 has been a good year for Pace: communicated to the market in November 2011.
They are: we have stabilised the business, made very good progress on our Strategic Plan and delivered strong financial results.
In doing Transform core economics: improve our operating so we have created the platform for Pace to become a great performance and leverage scale: technology company.
PayTV hardware leadership: build on our position as a At the start of 2012, the Group laid out a clear plan and I am world leading Set-top box, Residential Gateway and Media pleased to say that it has delivered on all aspects of this plan.
Server company: and Under Mike Pulli and the new Executive Management teams Widen out in Software, Services and Integrated Solutions: leadership, many of whom have come from within Pace, we have accelerate widening out by pursuing opportunities to provide a new sense of accountability across the business, underpinned Software and Services assets for current and newcustomers.
by robust management processes and systems and a strong Paces core strengths are its engineering excellence, financial discipline.
complemented by strong customer focus and delivery capabilities.
The Group has delivered improved operating profits through both This is demonstrated through our market leadership position top-line growth and a focus on operating efficiency, which has inthe development and large-scale deployment of advanced enabled Pace to signicantly reduce net debt, reducing risk in technologies such as Media Servers by major North American the business and increasing our strategic exibility.
operators such as DirecTV and Comcast, and Software and Services wins at tier one operators across the world, an area The strong operational performance in 2012 and the momentum we continue to signicantly invest in.
we take into 2013 give the Board confidence to continue building on the progressive dividend policy that was introduced in 2009.
We have only just started on the delivery of our long-term plans Therefore the Board is recommending a final dividend of 3.06cents and still have a huge amount to do.
Nevertheless, we remain per share, giving a full year dividend of 4.50 cents per share, confident that the continued successful execution of the Strategic a20.0% increase on 2011.
The dividend reects the improved Plan will enable Pace to achieve an operating margin target cash generation of the business and Pace will look to continue ofaround 9% in the next two to three years, as well as increase to pay a progressive dividend off this new rebased level.
profits generated by Software, Services and Integrated Solutions.
Thistranslates to enhanced quality of earnings and significant incremental shareholder value.
If you have any comments on my statement or any part of the Annual Report, I would be delighted to hear from you either by writing to me at Pace or by email at Allan.
Yours sincerely Allan Leighton Chairman 5 March 2013 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Pace plc
