CHAIRMANS STATEMENT MyPayPoint I am pleased to report the growth in earnings continued, as a result of good performance MyPayPoint, a new extranet, makes it by our UK retail network and the turnaround to profit in our Romanian network.
easier for agents to keep track of their Although losses in Collect and PayByPhone have increased, growth in Collect remained PayPoint payments, commissions and strong with commercial deliveries and consumer to consumer deliveries contributing well other documents.
The new system is and we have achieved success in winning new business in PayByPhone.
We have made accessed securely over the internet and progress in technology, with preparation towards the introduction of the Simple Payment allows agents to check weekly statements service replacing cheques, due for introduction later this year for the Department for and payments records, as well as accessing Work and Pensions DWP, installing virtual terminals, completing the development of a commonly used forms, FAQs and a library broadband communications solution for faster transactions and rolling out new services for of bulletins and communications normally our retail network, including cash out and money transfer.
MyPayPoint also has a real environmental advantage as, in time, it will eliminate the 1 million sheets or In the UK retail network, retail services delivered healthy growth, although mobile top-ups approximately 5 tonnes of paper used continued to decline.
The introduction of the Simple Payment service for the DWP should annually for sending weekly statements help fuel future growth.
We have made progress in developing transaction reporting tools for PayPoint.
net which Online statements are a clear priority for should go live in the second half of the current year and help to secure merchants in me.
With the unreliability of the post and the gaming sector and win new business.
We expect to develop this reporting tool for paper-based financial documents easily extension into other channels and markets.
Further investment in a new transaction being lost or misplaced in a busy shop, I processing platform will also bring more functionality and exibility in multi-currency, more am delighted that we now have a system that makes them available anywhere, any frequent settlement and transaction optimisation.
Mani Dhesi, Nisa Retail, Glasgow We have continued to invest in our Romanian retail network by increasing our full service terminal estate by 735 sites.
We accept bill payments for 36 clients and transaction volumes have increased by 56%.
We have started to introduce money transfer under our contract with Western Union.
We have extended our parcels service through Collect, our joint venture with Yodel, across our UK retail network.
Momentum is strong, with considerable interest among major high street and internet retailers and internet marketplaces.
We have over 4,700 sites handling Collect parcels and over 125 online and multichannel retailers live, including some of the most respected customer service leaders, including ASOS, New Look, Boden, House of Fraser, ASDA Direct and Very.
During the year, parcel volumes Collect were up over 3.5 times and, based on March 2012, we handle a run rate of 5 million Collect has extended its service to enable parcels per annum.
consumers and small businesses to send parcels to each other and to pick up goods In PayByPhone, we have increased the resources in sales, marketing and delivery more than bought from retailers online from their local Collect shop.
Major online retailers we originally planned, to address the increased opportunity.
New mobile phone apps have already providing their customers with this been introduced, making registration and parking easier and we have launched one of option include House of Fraser, ASOS and the largest deployments in near eld communications in San Francisco.
The costs of the Very, for whom up to one in five packages increased sales and technology spend have come ahead of the revenue as installations lag sales are now being delivered to Collect stores success.
We will continue to invest to stay at the leading edge of this fast moving market.
Consumers are increasingly looking for delivery options that t in with their busy lives and our online sales have benefited The combination of sound, profitable growth in both the UK retail network and our from providing our customers with the option to have their purchases delivered to internet business, substantive progress towards profitable growth in our Romanian retail a Collect shop.
network, gathering momentum in Collect and proper resourcing of PayByPhone, have Keith Basnett, Group Chief Operating positioned the group for further substantial growth.
We are proposing a final dividend of officer, Shop Direct Group 17.8 pence per share, making a total for the year of 26.5 pence, an increase of 13.2 per cent, marking another year of uninterrupted dividend growth since our listing.
For the current financial year, trading is in line with the companys expectations.
This is an important year for investment in infrastructure and tools to ensure the efficient delivery of future growth.
Our established business UK and Irish retail networks and internet payments is strong, with further opportunities to enhance retail yield through the introduction of new technology and services.
In addition, improvements in our service offering to online merchants will provide opportunities for growth.
We will benefit from rolling out services in our developing business Collect, PayByPhone and the Romanian retail network, growing our market share and improving profitability.
Together, our businesses provide a solid foundation to deliver increasing value for our shareholders.
David Newlands 24 May 2012 2 PayPoint plc annual report 2012
