04 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Petrofac, at a glance Our vision To be the worlds most admired oilfield service company.
Who we are Our culture and values For more than three decades Petrofac has been serving the At the heart of the work we do, our values differentiate us, international oil and gas industry.
During this time, we have andguide our decisions andactions.
amassed a broad range of skills and capabilities which we deploy in order to help our customers develop and unlock thevalue of their energy assets.
Safe Through two divisions, Engineering, Construction, Operations & Maintenance ECOM and Integrated Energy Services IES we designand build oil and gas facilities: operate, maintain and manage facilities, train personnel and enhance production.
In addition, Driven to wedevelop and co-invest in upstream and infrastructure projects Ethical deliver wherewe can leverage the service capabilities of our Group.
Our people are: People Its our people that make Petrofac.
We have more than 18,000 Quality talented men and women in Petrofac, drawn from over and cost Innovative 80nationalities operating at our ofces and projects across conscious the world.
Wherever possible, we aim to recruit locally and focus ondeveloping and retaining our staff.
Responsive For more information on our people see page 52.
Learn more about how our values are embedded into our business on page 54 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 05 Our goal To more than double our recurring 2010 Group earnings by2015.
How we deliver Our plan We help our customers develop and produce their Long-term growth hydrocarbon resources, bringing together world-class Our strategy for future growth is based on three key drivers: capabilities and delivering them locally.
We are exible and entrepreneurial, so we promote commercial arrangements t geographical expansion that are aligned withourcustomers goals.
By sharing their t broadening our offshore engineering, procurement objectives wecan deliver even greater value.
and construction EPC capability Learn more on page 19 t implementing our Integrated Energy Services strategy Learn more on pages 13 to 17 Our business model How we are evolving for the future We deliver our services on either a stand-alone or integrated We have clear financial goals for 2015 and we are working basis and under a range of commercial models, which are hard to ensure that the Company is t to deliver on them.
tailored to meet our customers needs.
Wehave identied a number of initiatives as part of our Fitfor2015 programme that should help secure a strong, sustainable future for the Group.
Engineering, Construction, Operations & Maintenance Learn more on pages 22 and 23 t Reimbursable services t Cost plus key performance indicators KPIs t Lump-sum turnkey Integrated Energy Services t Risk Service Contracts RSCs t Production Enhancement Contracts PECs t Equity Upstream Investments Learn more on page 20
