Chairmans Statement Peter Hambro Petropavlovsk produced 710,400oz of gold 2012 was a year in which the mining industry At Malomir, the first stage of development in 2012 and generated almost half a billion generally experienced a number of extremely focused on the processing of non-refractory dollars in EBITDA for the year, a combination large non-cash fair-value impairments and ores through a conventional resin-in-pulp of production growth and cost control in the we were not spared these problems.
Net loss RIP plant and this stage is now drawing to key areas of mining and processing and the on disposals of a number of non-core assets an end.
The otation concentration plant will strong gold price.
of US$26.9 million, US$197.9 million fair be available for processing refractory ores, value write-down of IRCs net assets and from Q3 2013.
At the time of the First Half Results, I highlighted US$21.0 million of other impairments in IRC operating successes measured by the volume and US$109.5 million impairment of Yamal In the meantime, treatment of the transitional of material mined and processed, the number and other non-core assets took their toll material, so called because it is neither of ounces of gold sold, our operating costs and and, when added to continuing interest fully-oxidised nor fully-refractory, is the reason the resulting EBITDA, but went on to highlight expense and depreciation charges, the for the temporary reduction in recovery rates the negative effect on our bottom line of higher welcome US$487.7 million EBITDA number at Malomir and this did affect Group interest charges and increased depreciation, is transformed into a disappointing loss of production and cash costs.
that resulted from commissioning of new US$243.9 million.
It should be noted that production facilities.
non-core assets impairments are part of IRC a policy of disposal and we will continue Petropavlovsk continues to be a major For the full year, we are again pleased by to work towards realising value from these investor in IRC as it goes through its a US$112.7 million increase in revenue to written-down assets.
The carrying value successful development programme, US$1.4 billion resulting from a US$53 oz of IRC will be at the prevailing market price enabling the Company to share the upside increase in the received gold price to until it becomes an associate and any change of IRCs growth potential.
During the year, US$1,670 oz and a 26,900oz increase in reected in the profit and loss account.
IRC exceeded production targets for the volume of gold sold to a record of 703,200oz.
second consecutive year and continued to Operations develop its K&S mine towards production significant increases in input costs have In 2012, Petropavlovsk achieved its tenth in the first half of 2014. been an industry-wide phenomenon in 2012 consecutive annual increase in gold production and for us, the effect was compounded by and exceeded its production target in spite of I am delighted to report on the significant scheduled lower grades, increased stripping some one-off operational challenges.
potential investment in IRC by General Nice costs and temporarily reduced recoveries and Minmetals Cheerglory, a transaction related to processing transitional ore types.
Over the past 16 months, the Group also which sees IRC realise its ambition of We are pleased to report, however, that we brought into production Albyn, its fourth becoming a Sino-Russian champion, the managed to offset some of these cost new mine, where commissioning of a first stage of which is expected to complete increases by containing mining and processing second milling line began just seven months shortly after this report is published.
costs, which, on average, were slightly better after commissioning the first processing line, than in the previous year.
Nonetheless, total thereby effectively doubling Albyns processing This transaction provides IRC with additional cash costs for the Group on a Dollar per ounce capacity within the first year of operation.
nancing for its agship K&S project and In addition, we also commissioned a fourth basis increased from US$740 oz in the first Garinskoye.
It also fide-risks cash ow from milling line at Pioneer and these successes half of 2012 to US$855 oz in the second these projects by providing take or pay off-take helped mitigate the negative effect of half of 2012, an increase of 16% excluding and marketing arrangements.
Following processing transitional ore at the alluvial operations.
completion of this transaction, I believe IRC Malomir mine.
will be on a strong footing to fund and deliver its growth plans.
For the full year, we are again pleased by a US$112.7 million increase in revenue to US$1.4 billion.
2 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements Finance net debt repayments of c. US$75 million, Exploration Hedging commodity prices is always the Group is currently not in need of additional This year, we have focused our exploration a difficult decision for mining companies equity capital with which to full its current plans.
programme on areas at, or close to, and one that is often seen by the financial our operating mines and, in particular, community as controversial, so I thought Reserves and Resources on nding new, non-refractory Resources.
it might be appropriate to share with you This is the sixth consecutive year in which As a result, the majority of the c. 2Moz of some of the background to our recent Petropavlovsk has increased its total new Resources we have found are within decision in this regard.
This is particularly non-refractory ore and located at, or close good news, given that it was also a year to, our processing plants, thus requiring To obtain its shareholders approval for the of record annual production of more than minimal capital expenditure for development.
IRC transaction, which it did on a 99.98% vote 710,000oz of gold.
in favour by about 60% of holders of its shares The progress we have made at Elginskoye, eligible to vote, the Company was required It is also gratifying to note, that the total JORC a licence area some 15km from the RIP plant to issue a Class 1 Circular.
This, in turn, Resource identied in the year, amounted to at Albyn, is of particular interest.
In just over meant that the Directors had to issue a almost 2Moz, which more than offset ounces two years, the area has been transformed working capital opinion and, for this purpose, removed from the inventory on the sale of from a prospective greeneld site to one with we adopted conservative assumptions on non-core assets, and as a result, of production.
an estimated 1.3Moz of JORC Resources costs and the gold price.
It was in connection in non-refractory ore a great testament to with this exercise, and in order to protect Our ability to not only replenish, but also the strength of our geological team.
Analysts cash ows from the volatility in the gold market, add to the Groups Resource base is one should note that this licence area is not yet that the Board decided to hedge up to 50% of the great strengths of this Group and fully explored and a number of prospective of production, and accordingly the Company has been key in our success to date.
targets have been identied that are not sold c. 400,000oz of gold for fortnightly forward included in the stated Resource estimates.
delivery to be cash settled at US$1,663 oz.
It was encouraging to see in 2012 that we Accordingly, we expect Elginskoye to provide produced c. 20% more gold at Pioneer than additional reserves for the Albyn RIP plant This hedging, IRCs proposed new capital and was predicted from the JORC Resource in due course.
the proposed pro-rata indemnity from General models, thus conrming what we have Nice in respect of the Companys contingent believed for some time, that even JORC We have also identied a number of liabilities for IRC bank debt to ICBC, all support Reserve estimate methodologies do not prospective targets at the Pioneer and the Groups strong financial position.
always account fully for the nugget-effect Malomir licence areas that are yet to be fully of gold mineralisation at Pioneer.
explored and, thus, not included in todays However, like many of you, I read the analysts statement.
If proven, these will further comments about the Group and the reports It is also important to note that in calculating boost gold production from good grade, in the press of market sentiment and there our Reserves we have continued to use non-refractory ore in the short-term and the same price and cost assumptions that are two recurrent topics on which I would dilute the contribution from refractory ore. were used in the Wardell Armstrong reports comment.
First, I am happy to confirm, based of 2010 11 a gold price of US$1,200 oz on the most recent forecasts from our financial The acquisitions of Afanasevskaya, a licence for Visokoe and Albyn and gold price and operations team, that the Group presently north-west of Albyn, Ivanovskaya, a licence of US$1,000 oz for all other projects.
has reasonable headroom in respect of its close to, and within, the same geological trend banking covenants in the light of the expected as Pioneer and two new licences at Malomir, deconsolidation of IRC.
Second, these all look very promising and one of these forecasts also indicate that together with its licences already has established Russian undrawn bank facilities and, having made Category resources.
Work is currently being conducted to upgrade these into JORC estimates.
Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 3 Chairmans Statement continued Outlook Interest charges and depreciation are, I am Gold price We expect 2013 to be a transformational year afraid, here to stay and indeed depreciation During the weekend of 16-17 March 2013, for the Group and I am confident in the teams will increase again once the investment in our we saw the first attempt by a European Union ability to manage the goals we have set in an pressure oxidation facilities bears fruit in 2014 country to expropriate funds from customers efficient and timely manner.
Our announced and gold production climbs once again.
of its banking system as a means of restoring production target of 760,000oz780,000oz In 2013, the Group is planning to process its viability.
Though portrayed in the media represents a base-case scenario, based on some of the lower grade stockpiles which we as some sort of super-tax on wealthy savers, current Reserves and excludes any potential built up over the course of past years.
Though it is, as well, a most damaging attack on the upside from the new discoveries.
these are more expensive to treat on a per normal course of business treasury functions ounce basis than higher grade ore, processing of a large number of corporations.
Cyprus is, During 2013, we are planning to nalise the these stockpiles will release working capital after all, the country where double-tax treaties construction of our pressure oxidation hub and boost operating cash ow.
We also expect between Russia and the rest of the world meet.
POX Hub, with commissioning planned for a 10% reduction in 2013 in capital expenditure the beginning of 2014.
We believe the POX Hub excluding IRC and exploration when Happily, the Group had minimal funds in these will transform the Group into one of the leaders compared to 2012. banks and the effect on us is fide minimis but in the sector, using tried and tested modern the draconian measures only serve to confirm technology to recover gold from refractory ore.
In general, our costs are likely to remain my belief that the financial system, as we know under pressure and efforts are being made it, is under great pressure.
We know that this is Much has been written about the complex to minimise both direct and administrative not caused by bankers but rather it is caused nature of gold production using high pressure, expenses.
As part of the latter, members by deficit spending by governments and the high temperature oxidation of refractory ores.
of the management team have volunteered world population is becoming daily more No responsible mining company embarking to cancel their bonus payments for 2013. aware of the hidden taxation caused by the on this process would claim certainty of ination needed to balance the governments commissioning without some teething In keeping with the Boards insistence on books.
For this reason, individuals and troubles.
But I believe our decision to adopt minimising cash outows during the period countries alike continue to divest themselves a multi-autoclave process, which enables of maximum investment, the Board decided of monetary assets and turn to real assets higher temperatures and pressures for a more to maintain the final dividend but to do this by instead.
Amongst these, gold is the leader.
complete oxidisation of the ore, and our early way of a 0.02 per share cash dividend and identication of the issues caused by the a 0.05 per share scrip dividend.
Thanks chlorinated process-water, will be seen to I should like to thank all of the Groups have removed at least some of the problems In summary, your company started a long employees for their hard work and devotion, encountered elsewhere in the industry.
journey when it was formed almost 19 years our bankers and brokers, for their continuing ago to mine and process gold in the Amur support and the owners of our shares, for the In addition, extensive advice from international region and it has achieved many milestones faith with which they entrust us.
specialists on vessel lining, our insistence on along the way.
Its immediate waypoint is the high-quality metals for piping and associated successful gold extraction from refractory ore welding will, I believe, further assist in reducing via pressure oxidation.
To achieve this, we have commissioning problems.
Indeed, I have great incurred substantial debt and the market is faith in our internal team and in our external concerned about this.
This concern is consultants, who have successfully brought currently being played out in our poor share pressure oxidation facilities into production price.
I believe that management will deliver Peter Hambro elsewhere in the world.
And, if we get this right, on their objectives and the result will be a Chairman the rewards are significant, since it will open significant decrease in capital expenditure in the door to the 80% of Russias gold resources 2014 and steady cash ows from gold mining which are believed to be contained in operations.
By then IRCs agship iron ore refractory ores.
operations at K&S will also be in production.
All this should enable the substantial repayment of the debt by 2019.
