I am pleased to report another excellent Future Prospects Chairmans Statement financial performance in what has been a We remain committed to our strategy of challenging year.
The business has delivered profitably building brands and ensuring Ronald G. Hanna, further growth in revenue, volume and that we have an efficient asset base capable Chairman profit in a climate of continued economic of supporting the Groups future growth uncertainty.
The additional pressure of ambitions.
In late 2011, we announced our significant increases in raw materials costs intention to invest in additional production has required strenuous management efforts capacity in the south of the U. K. We can to minimise the impact on margins.
Despite confirm that we are currently in advanced these challenges, profit before tax and discussions with a developer to construct exceptional items increased by 6.2% a new production and warehousing facility reflecting the positive sales performance at Magna Park in Milton Keynes.
of our core brands and continued focus on cost control.
Underlying earnings per share The U. K. economic outlook remains increased by 9.1% to 66.84p.
While we need to remain flexible, our fundamental objectives and approach In the year under review, sales continued to remain constant to drive value, improve outperform the soft drinks market and grew efficiency, compete effectively at the point 6.6% to 237.0m 2011: 222.4m.
of purchase as we build awareness and distribution of our brands further across Throughout the year, we have continued the market.
To achieve this, we will continue to invest in building our brands and driving to develop our organisation, capability, innovation to meet consumers needs.
Operationally, much of our attention has been on the completion of our production The business is in good shape and our investment at Cumbernauld and its full balance sheet and finances are strong despite commissioning.
Following some difficulties the difficult macro-economic environment.
related to late commissioning across the As before we believe that, the combination summer, I am pleased to advise that our of well invested iconic brands, together with Cumbernauld site is now performing well.
motivated teams across the business, will enable us to achieve further growth, both in In this fast moving business and in this the immediate and longer term.
difficult environment our management teams have been very focussed on delivering bottom line performance.
The business is in good shape and our balance sheet and finances are strong despite the difficult macro-economic environment.
02 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Dividend The board is pleased to recommend a final dividend of 20.65p to give a total dividend for the year of 27.95p per share, a full year increase of 10.0% on the prior year.
Ronald G. Hanna Chairman 66.84p Underlying earnings per share increased by 9.1% to 66.84p.
237.0m Sales continued to outperform the soft drinks market and grew 6.6% to 237.0m.
