Overview Chairmans Statement Playtech has had another excellent year, incorporating some of its most significant achievements to date.
Introduction Operating across all regulated areas, Playtech The year ending 31 December 2012 was is in a prime position to benefit from increasing an exceptional period in the continued regulation as it develops on an international development of Playtech.
It is the Boards belief that the Companys delivered another impressive financial ability to provide market-leading products performance and passed a number of and services to both established operators and significant corporate and operational new entrants operating under new regulations milestones.
Notably, the Company achieved will over time increase the scale and quality a Premium Listing on Londons Main Market, of its earnings.
reflecting both the short-term effort needed to make the progression and the longer Strategic developments during the year term determination to comply with the included further integration of PTTS, our wholly responsibilities associated with a Premium owned services business, the acquisition of Listing.
Pleasingly, Playtech was included in which introduced the ability to provide full the FTSE 250 Index in September and has, since turnkey solutions, enhancing joint venture inclusion, moved up approximately 30 places.
opportunities and further increasing Playtechs The move provided greater visibility for the ability to attract new partners.
The acquisitions Company, improved market liquidity and of Mobenga, Ash Gaming and Geneity have affords wider recognition of Playtechs strengths been fully integrated and have proven to and consistent strong financial performance.
positively enhance Playtechs offering and strengthen its position as the best of breed Strategic Developments technology provider to the global online Playtech is the clear market leader in the gaming industry.
provision of software and services to the global online gaming industry.
Its offering includes a The Company was pleased to announce full product suite, leading-edge management in February 2013 that its joint venture with system, full integration across all player Gauselmann in Germany was awarded licenses interfaces and a broad range of marketing by the State of Schleswig-Holstein for the services and techniques that enable licensees provision of casino and sports betting, and to maximise the potential of their online management is now working with Gauselmann gaming business.
to develop an appropriate business plan pertinent to the emerging regulatory regime The period saw growth of software revenues in Germany.
derived from regulated markets, including Italy, Spain and Denmark, further enhanced Signs from the US are encouraging, with by organic growth.
While the regulatory the news that the states of New Jersey and environment remains in a state of flux in Nevada are to legalise online gaming and poker a small number of geographies, the global respectively.
As a result, other US states may process of regulating the online gaming contemplate similar actions, however, such industry continues to advance.
This trend, developments are in their infancy and there led by national and local governments, is a key remains much work to do to resolve regulatory, driver of Playtechs current and future success.
We continue to watch developments closely.
2 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Sustainability Accounts Governance and Risk Management This has generated substantial returns for acquisitions, joint ventures and partnerships, Playtech is committed to upholding the highest the Company during the lifetime of the joint focusing on regulated markets, together levels of corporate governance.
While this brings to a close a highly with the possibility of a return of capital to was delighted to welcome Andrew Thomas to successful and profitable joint venture for shareholders.
Playtech has a proven ability the Board as an independent Non-Executive Playtech, the Company will continue to enjoy of generating value through successful Director, and Chairman of the Audit Committee, a close working relationship with William Hill, acquisitions and management is confident effective 19 June 2012.
Andrew brings with him which remains a top-five licensee.
a wealth of experience in the leisure sector and valuable insight into the nuances of taxation Dividend In summary, Playtech has had another excellent and finance.
The Board has recommended a final dividend year, incorporating some of its most significant of 15.4 cents per share, giving a total 2012 achievements to date.
The Company continues As announced at the interim results last year, dividend of 23.2 cents per share 2011: 16.5 to capitalise on its clear strategy and strong David Mathewson retired as Chief Financial cents per share, an increase of 41%.
The Board is highly confident of Officer and from the Board on 31 December the Companys strong underlying growth in the Companys prospects in 2013 and beyond.
I would like to thank David for his efforts earnings, cash generation and the Companys and counsel while he was a director.
dividend policy of paying out 40% of adjusted net profit.
Ron Hoffman, formerly Vice President of Finance over the previous eight years, and who has Subject to shareholder approval of the final played a fundamental role in all of Playtechs dividend at the Annual General Meeting, to be Roger Withers recent acquisitions, was appointed to the Board held on 8 May 2013, the dividend will be payable Chairman as Chief Financial Officer with effect from the on 24 May 2013 to those shareholders on the 14 March 2013 new financial year.
Companys register as at the record date of 26 April 2013.
The ex-dividend date is 24 April 2013.
The Board has worked to ensure a robust governance structure to comply with corporate For any shareholders who elect to receive best practice.
During 2012, an advanced internal their dividends in sterling the conversion audit function was implemented by PwC and exchange rate from euros into sterling will the Company, and a revised Code of Conduct be set on 26 April 2013 and election forms and Ethics policy was adopted.
should be returned to the Companys registrars by 3 May 2013.
William Hill Online In October, the Board of William Hill plc The Board, with its advisers, is undertaking commenced the valuation process relating a broad review of the most effective use of to their call option over Playtechs 29% stake the expected proceeds from the disposal of in William Hill Online.
The process culminated William Hill Online, once completed, taking into in the confirmation that William Hill will exercise consideration feedback from shareholders and the option for a consideration of approximately the Companys future requirements.
The transaction is expected will, amongst other strategic options, assess the to complete by the end of April 2013. potential for further value-enhancing Listing on the Main Market This is a very exciting occasion for Playtech and we are delighted to be part of the Official List.
We have experienced exceptional growth since the Company was founded in 1999, and this marks a significant milestone in our continued development.
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 3
