Business review Business review Chief Executives Q&A We are proud of our record of delivering on our promises as this has enabled us A conversation with to outperform both the market and our peer group in terms of Total Shareholder Return and to deliver real value to the Chief Executive our shareholders.
How has the Company changed Q.
What are the key challenges in Q.
What are your key operational since moving to Londons respect of safety and responsible priorities for 2013?
development and how do you While were naturally focused on a complete range of address them?
operational activities, we do have two significant priorities While we continue to go from strength to strength operationally, achieving our targets for operations at Amursk POX, and the a key area of development has been the compliance with wider completion and ramp-up of Mayskoye.
These two objectives While our in-house safety performance was excellent international standards of corporate governance.
Clearly there are pre-requisite to achieving the 1.4 Moz production target this was the second year in a row that we were able to is a far greater amount of attention on Polymetal from a far from our existing asset base in 2014, and to delivering on our record not only zero fatalities but also a continuing trend greater range of stakeholders, commentators and press estimate of 1.2 Moz in 2013.
Were confident that both these of reduced injury rates we of course deeply regret the regarding the Companys performance, as well as more priorities will be achieved during the coming year.
loss of one of our suppliers ships in the Sea of Okhotsk.
focus on governance and sustainability from an expanded We are now taking measures to roll out our health and and more demanding investor base.
We are therefore safety approach to our supplier network to address this risk continuing to focus strongly on governance, transparency Q.
A production target of 1.4 Moz in future.
Our environmental and social performance remains and stakeholder relations.
In general though, we are proud fundamentally important to our sustainable growth, and seems now achievable how do Left: Operations at the Voro open pit of our record of delivering on our promises as this has Top right: Regular equipment checks at the Khakanja plant consequently a key area of focus for us.
We have made enabled us to outperform both the market and our peer you see strategic development Bottom right: The area adjacent to our Mayskoye site in Chukotka a positive impact in every region where we operate, and group in terms of Total Shareholder Return and to deliver continue to invest heavily in our environmental, safety of the Company beyond 2014?
real value to our shareholders.
Although we have yet to deliver the 1.4 Moz, we are already Q.
What would you describe as Q.
How are these achievements and 1 looking at the next generation of assets to ensure growth Lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR your main achievements and main areas for further focus impacting beyond 2014.
There are key decisions to be made in respect 1.9 of this third generation of assets, including the expansion disappointments during the year?
of Albazino and development of the two most significant greeneld targets, Kutyn and Svetloye.
Albazino is the nearest Im pleased that our achievements have strongly outweighed The fact that we achieved production growth ahead of target, and represents an excellent example of our exploration 0.63 0.59 any disappointments, so that while Amursk POX despite expectations, along with our stable performance at mature success.
All three of these projects are subject to ongoing 0.59 achieving its ramp-up and initial production targets did not mines, meant that we also delivered improved cost efficiency evaluation and the relevant development decisions will be 2010 2011 2012 deliver fully on target, the Company as a whole achieved an and profitability levels, including adjusted EBITDA growth of made by the end of 2013 beginning of 2014.
The delay in full ramp-up 47% and stable total cash costs.
In addition, the completion of Per one million hours worked.
some major growth projects combined with a strong operating of the Amursk POX does not undermine our confidence for the future, and this confidence is further boosted by the great cash ow resulted in free cash ow generation, a comfortable progress we have made in other areas, such as the success level of debt and solid profitability.
Importantly, this also of our growth projects at Omolon and Albazino, and significant enabled us to implement our industry-leading dividend policy, exploration success at both browneld and greeneld projects.
with a sizeable US$0.50 per share special dividend.
M&A activity was limited, although a number of relatively small acquisitions may offer additional expansion opportunities in particular the new platinum project and the Olcha browneld expansion at Dukat.
12 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 13 s t e s s a e d a r g Business review - h g i L h e n v e o r g a n g i i s e n M c u g a n c i o a n o t n u F a r r i e n h v i n o u g g b - e y r x b a e a l p m s Business review Business model Polymetals business model Delivering sustainable value Three elements form the substance Performing in line of our business model: a focus Delivering on high-grade assets, support sustainable and expansion of our hub-based value operating system and investment with our business model in exploration underpinned by a commitment to strong governance.
Success in our market depends to a large Area of focus What we said What we are doing The future extent on our ability to increase our resource We have a preference for open-pit The newest mines which were ramped Our focus on grade is also embedded Focusing on base, continually develop systems that mining unless higher grades justify up and or are under construction in our thresholds and targets set for underground development.
Grades most importantly, Omolon hub, Albazino assessing organic and inorganic growth high-grade assets increase production efficiency, and improve and mining conditions are the key cost and Mayskoye are all characterised opportunities, in order to support 22 factors that drive return on invested by high reserve and resource grades, Companys grade prole going forward.
Our business model has therefore capital in the precious metals industry.
which reduces the project risk and Read more about our assets on 22-59 been developed to ensure that we have the By setting appropriate thresholds ensures good cost levels despite At the operational level, we are on head grades and focusing on complex logistics and weather continuing to implement various best methodology and approach to address open-pit mines we are achieving conditions.
Further, grade control initiatives both at mine planning and better returns and lower risks from remains a top priority at our existing processing level to ensure continuous these issues, and ultimately to ensure that our project portfolio.
operations thus supporting intense grade and recovery improvements.
we continue to deliver sustainable value.
management focus on cost control.
Creation of centralised facilities for the Omolon and Khakanja are both good We are continuing to invest in Leveraging our Business philosophy treatment of materials from different examples of asset transformation browneld exploration and searching sources allows us to minimise supported by the hub concept.
for synergistic M&A targets which hub-based system What we like and do processing and logistics costs and Both demonstrate solid performance could extend the life of existing 6 achieve economies of scale.
improvement in 2012 in terms of operations and or improve grade Q High return on invested capital and meaningful dividends production growth and cost reduction prole, with acquisition of Olcha Read more about our hubs on pages 6, 28-51 driven by addition of high-grade ore in 2013 being the latest example.
Q Browneld projects based on the concept of sources from medium and small-sized processing hubs: capital light, simple, predictable satellite deposits.
Q High-grade medium-size projects This will allow us to ensure a costOur exploration efforts in 2012 have Greeneld and browneld exploration Investing in exploration Q Synergy-driven M&A effective increase in our reserve resulted in meaningful growth in will continue to serve as the principal base which is, in turn, the key source reserves and resources without source of future growth assets, some 60 of long-term organic growth.
New resource of which Albazino expansion, Read more on pages 20, 24, 60 additions at Albazino are the largest Kutyn and Svetloye have already What we dont like and dont do success of 2012. been identied.
Q Low return on capital even at low total cash costs and symbolic dividends We strive to ensure proper steering Good corporate governance and Going forward, the Board will Maintaining exemplary of the Company, accountability to listening to our shareholders remains continuously focus on compliance Q Greeneld projects: expensive, complex, risky shareholders and attention to other a top priority of Polymetal Board and with UK best practice in corporate and governance stakeholders interests.
executive management, with key on further improvement in health and Q Very large low-grade projects 2012 developments including new safety record, as well as on maintaining 88 progressive dividend policy and a robust system of internal control.
Q M&A driven by desire to grow production Read more on page 88-109 adopting best practices in executive remuneration.
Health and Safety, as well as environmental and social performance, are also embedded in the managements KPIs and remain an area of focus.
14 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 15 e m p l d e a n x r s o y e y i t g g s a o t n r i v e o n e i l m r a p n t x a n i e n a c n M e i g n i t s e v n I
