Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS indicators KPIs is outlined on pages 18 and 19 of this report.
Strategy and performance Further detail on our business model and the strategies for This year saw a slowdown in the recovery of the global Welcome delivering those objectives are set out on page 38 and pages economy, with many regions around the world experiencing 44 to 47 of the Business review.
increased levels of uncertainty in the macro environment.
from the new Thevolatile economic nature of 2012 in turn affected the end Innovation markets inwhich Premier Farnell operates.
However, through the execution of our strategy to focus on the Electronic Design 2012 has been a year that has seen us make positive progress Chairman Engineering EDE sector, the more profitable segments towards realising our vision of becoming the trusted global withinthe Maintenance, Repair and Operations MRO sector, source for engineering solutions.
December 2011 saw us theweb and the worlds developing markets, the Group announce our intention to acquire technology company, hasproven to be resilient and agile, as Harriet Green, Chief Embest, as well as the signing of our partnership with ARM, Executive Officer CEO, covers in detail on pages 4 to 13 aglobal leader at the forefront of many of todays electronic ofthis report.
design solutions and the release of the latest version of CadSofts EAGLE software.
These three developments alone By pursuing our strategy for profitable growth, accelerating clearly demonstrate the pace at which the Group is pursuing thetransformation of our cost base to drive cost efficiency this vision, a subject which is outlined further onpage 23 of andinvesting in our proposition, the Group still delivered this report.
Harnessing creativity from across theorganisation salesgrowth in 2012.
Group sales this year were up 1.6% to breed new innovations and bring the element14 brand to onthe prior year, on a like-for-like basis, with a healthy return lifehas been a feature of the last 12 months.
We have made on sales of 11.0% which continues to be a feature of our over 100 new enhancements to ourweb capabilities, while ability to deliver industry leading returns through the cycle.
theKnode, an intelligent online search and knowledge tool, our Inconsidering this performance, together with both the level online TV channel, element14 TV and the element14 Innovation ofearnings and cash requirements of the Group, the Board Series were all created this year from our innovative culture.
isrecommending a final dividend of 6.0pence per share.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting AGM Financial position on12 June 2012, this will bring the full year dividend to 10.4pence per share, unchanged from last year.
Our financial position remains robust, with good liquidity andstrong free cash flow, with cash conversion at 102.7%.
This year has seen us continue to make progress towards InNovember, we successfully refinanced, with a five-year ourstrategic and financial targets.
Communicating our 200million revolving bank facility.
In addition, we further performance accurately, in a consistent manner, ensures all Valerie Gooding, CBE strengthened our balance sheet by issuing $235million of ourstakeholders can keep track of our progress with ease, Non-Executive Chairman fiveto ten year US Private Placement Notes.
This funding will using the same metrics that we use internally to assess our @premierfarnell Iamconfident that the Group, with reduce the cost of borrowing over the medium term, providing performance.
The performance against our key performance itsstrong executive leadership, has the right strategy.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 3 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS us with funding security to execute our strategy with Board members and senior management are a testament Our employees confidence and the opportunity to reduce existing, more tothe Groups open and inclusive approach and benefit As a new chairman, I have sought to gain as broad as expensive debt.
In addition, our disposal of TPC Wire & Cable Boardmembers and managers alike.
possiblean exposure to, and understanding of, Premier and Newarks calibration laboratories during the year further This is the first year we have reported on full compliance Farnells business and its employees.
Having observed the strengthened the Groups financial position.
withthe UK Corporate Governance Code.
We welcomed senior team at work and met many of my new colleagues, The Board is confident that the Groups balance sheet itspublication last year and this year we engaged an external Ihave been impressed by the level of talent that exists at provides a stable and long term funding platform for the facilitator to help usin our annual review of the Boards andbelow the senior executive team, and in particular by business as we enter this new financial year.
The insights theinnovation culture that is very apparent at all levels.
I am gainedenriched the individual evaluations carried out later proud of all 4,400 employees across the Group for the way inthe year in a spirit ofopenness, team-work and healthy they have handled and adapted to the challenges and change Governance and the Board challenge.
The outcome of this evaluation process is set of 2012.
Iexpress my sincere thanks to all our colleagues for This year has been a year of change for Premier Farnells outinthe Corporate governance report on page 87. the warm welcome I have experienced and the commitment Board.
I was appointed as Chairman in June, following Sir and support they continue to display.
Having now spent considerable time working with the other Peter Gershons retirement.
Peter left an outstanding legacy members of the Board and the Companys key personnel, atPremier Farnell, having formed and led a strong Board.
Outlook Iamconfident that the Group, with its strong executive Wewere further strengthened when Nicholas Cadbury was leadership, has the right strategy and is responding tothe appointed Chief Financial Officer in September following the Nobody can predict with any confidence what will happen uncertain environment with the agility that will enable itto departure of Mark Whiteling.
I would like to thank both Peter toglobal economies in the coming year and there remain continue to drive profitable growth and ensure its long term and Mark for their substantial contributions to Premier Farnell.
financial instabilities across the world.
thechallenging economic environment, Premier Farnell has Nicholas and I have greatly enjoyed our personalised proven through the execution of its strategy it can consistently inductions to the Group: meeting shareholders, learning Diversity deliver industry leading returns through the cycle.
aboutthe businesses, getting to know senior managers andhigh-performers and visiting facilities as diverse as sales As a leader in business diversity we continue to recognise We remain cautious on the economic outlook as markets offices in Germany and China and distribution centres in thebenefits of diversity in the workforce and, while we continue to be uncertain and the nature of our business Singapore and the USA.
I have been particularly impressed willcontinue to make all appointments based on the best givesus limited forward visibility.
However, under the guidance bythe unfailing appetite for innovation and the commitment candidate for the role, our medium term target is for women ofthe Board, strong executive leadership and with a proven toengagement I have seen at all levels throughout the Group.
tomake up 30% of management grade employees.
The strategy, I believe we are well positioned to capitalise on Company is well on the way to achieving this, with women growth opportunities in the coming year to the benefit of As Chairman it is my job to lead the Board and ensure its representing 27% of the Executive Directors and their direct ourshareholders, employees, customers and suppliers.
The Board has a full schedule of meetings, report population.
Furthermore, the Groups Board itself presentations, training sessions, papers and time spent one to Valerie Gooding, CBE hasachieved the 2015 goal of 25% female membership, one between the Executives and the Non-Executive Directors Chairman asrecommended for FTSE 100 companies by Lord Davies to ensure that the Board functions effectively, stays informed earlier this year.
We recognise that it is not just gender diversity and knows the business and its people in depth.
The breadth that supports the strength and future success of the business of issues addressed by the Board this year is illustrated on and we remain focused on achieving the right level of diversity page 84.
The mentoring relationships established between whether related to ethnicity, gender, creed or culture.
