Chairmans statement The Group delivered revenue growth despite challenging trading conditions.
Profits were lower with a robust performance in the UK, strong trading in the Beauty division and positive momentum in Indonesia, more than offset by specific market challenges in Nigeria and Australia, and the impact of the largest year-on-year increase in raw material costs we have experienced.
Despite the external challenges, the Group remains committed to those needs with a strong distribution footprint in key geographic driving profitable growth through brand renovation and innovation, markets.
Whilst the situation in the Groups important Nigerian and through further cost reduction.
During the year, underlying market remains fragile, we are confident that the Group will revenue growth continued across the business, particularly in return to profitable growth in the current financial year.
Overall the UK, in the Beauty division and in Indonesia.
As we start the performance since the year-end has been in line with expectations.
current financial year this momentum, together with our new Cussons Mum & Me and Fudge ranges, will help to ensure this Derek Lewis, who has served the Board as a Non-executive growth continues.
Director since 2004, has indicated his intention to retire with effect from the 2012 Annual General Meeting on 19 September.
Our exciting joint venture with Wilmar is on track with the The Board would like to thank him for his significant contribution Nigerian palm oil refinery due to be completed by the end of to PZ Cussons over the past eight years.
Following Mr Lewis the calendar year.
retirement, James Steel, a Non-executive Director since 2005, will be appointed Senior Independent Director in his place.
At the same time, we are working actively to reduce our cost base, and the supply chain optimisation project announced in I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of the Groups March will significantly reduce the overhead base of our staff for their continued hard work and dedication.
Their skill and manufacturing activities.
commitment will be essential in maintaining our progress and is highly appreciated both by me and by the Board of Directors.
Our balance sheet remains strong with only a small net debt position and this gives us the capacity to pursue further investment opportunities which fit our strategic aims.
Richard Harvey Non-executive Chairman Clearly the world remains uncertain and volatile.
However, 24 July 2012 consumer demand for high quality innovative products serving day to day needs continues, and we are well placed to serve PZ Cussons Plc 02 Annual Report & Accounts 2012
