BUSINESS REVIEW Redrow plc Annual Report Redrow plc Annual Report Business review Business review 12 13 and Accounts 2012 and Accounts 2012 Our aim is to be the premium brand in the sector, by Our strategy delivering a high quality product to our customers.
Goal Deliver long term sustainable value Financial Key Strategic Objectives Priorities Improve ROCE Increase Margin Focus on Revenue Growth Raise ASP Maintain Quality Land Bank Read more on Page 24 & 25 Growth Core Drivers Principles Expansion into London Quality Product Improve Share of Excellent Customer Service Housing Market Training for the Future Sustainability High standards in Health and Safety The Ruthin housetype from the New Heritage Collection BUSINESS REVIEW Redrow plc Annual Report Redrow plc Annual Report Business review Business review 14 15 and Accounts 2012 and Accounts 2012 Our Business Model Source the Add value Strategic Committed Quality Targeted & Knowledgeable Satisfied QUALITY right land at the during the supplier & and skilled of build measured customer customers PRIDE right price planning subcontractor Redrow people marketing focused VALUE process relationships sales teams Land Planning & Design Relationships People Build Marketing Sales Customers Outcome Land is a key raw material for Redrow has an experienced The importance of working Redrow depends on the Quality of build is an Our core marketing strategy Well informed and Redrow understands how At Redrow, all the individual elements of our business model our business: the quality not planning team interpreting, closely with suppliers and commitment, skill and important aspect of our is to continue to increase approachable sales teams are important their home is to combine to make Redrow stronger than the sum of its individual just the quantity of our land monitoring and anticipating subcontractors and enthusiasm of its employees ability to deliver quality brand awareness, understand important to delivering an our customers and potential parts.
bank is fundamental to planning policy.
maintaining a strong supply to deliver our business homes to our customers.
our customer expectations appropriate house purchase customers.
This helps us deliver value to our customers, shareholders and delivering sustainable and chain are principles that have objectives.
and deliver effective experience for our customers.
This team complements the Through our quality control Redrow is committed to other stakeholders.
long been established within communication.
work of the land, technical Redrow has an in-house processes, enhanced by the Sales staff undergo regular delivering a high quality To this end, earnings per share grew by 80% and return on Redrow.
Our land purchase strategy and design teams within the training centre which delivers development of technological We use a variety of channels training to ensure they home and providing a high capital employed by 43% in the year ended 30 June 2012. encompasses three elements: Divisional businesses to Redrow has an experienced bespoke training courses support and the use of to deliver marketing remain well informed about standard of customer service optimise opportunities and centrally based commercial including management experienced subcontractors messages.
With increased the attributes of our homes, throughout the purchasing n Identification of and returns.
and sustainability functions development courses.
and site management, focus on digital platforms, customer choice options and process and beyond.
investment in forward responsible for sourcing key Redrow endeavours to deliver monitoring and analytical finance initiatives such as strategic land where we can Redrow also has experienced Redrow is proud of its raw materials and new well built homes on tools, we are able to measure NewBuy.
Sales conferences use our master planning centrally based technical, apprentice, graduate training improved products.
programme in a safe the performance of our are held annually and are skills to unlock value design and sustainability and industrial placement environment for our marketing activities.
We are attended by all sales functions responsible for programmes reflecting its n Investment in medium employees and contractors to constantly reviewing and personnel.
ongoing product investment in the future.
term land where we can work in.
refining them to deliver value development and design.
Sales performance by add value by resolving to our customers and the development is monitored legal, planning and business.
weekly as part of our weekly technical issues performance reporting n Purchase of consented process.
land with short term return opportunities KPIs KPIs KPIs KPIs KPIs KPIs KPIs KPIs n n n n n n n n Read No.
of plots in forward Forward land pull through Proportion of timber No.
of training days Average reportable items No.
of active outlets Customer satisfaction rate ROCE more on land bank products sourced from delivered per NHBC inspection n n n Private reservation rate per Customer EPS Page category 3 or above WWF 16 & 17 n n n Staff turnover rates Accident incident rate outlet recommendation rate No.
of plots in current land n Net asset value per share classification bank Other performance Other performance Other performance Other performance Other performance Other performance Other performance Other performance Other performance indicators indicators indicators indicators indicators indicators indicators indicators indicators n Operating margin n n n n n n n n No.
of planning Purchases under central Proportion of apprentices RoSPA rating No.
of visitors per outlet Visitor conversion rates HBF Home builder n Operating cash flow current land bank permissions granted per contract customer satisfaction n n n n Proportion of site RIDDOR No.
of visitors to website Cancellation rate annum rating managers winning NHBC n n Email open & click - Mystery shopper scores awards through rates Excludes deferred tax rate change impact BUSINESS REVIEW Redrow plc Annual Report Redrow plc Annual Report Business review Business review 16 17 and Accounts 2012 and Accounts 2012 Key Performance Indicators KPIs Land and planning Net asset value per share 2012 2011 2012 2011 Why this matters How we performed How we measure it Why this matters How we performed How we measure it n We increased our current n n n The land bank is The number of plots in the We monitor how We increased our net Net assets divided by number of 1.45 1.52 12,356 plots 11,190 plots land bank to support the foundation for current land bank effective our asset value by 5% in the ordinary shares in issue future growth our future business operations have year n n No.
of plots pulled through from performance This represents a threefold been in generating 1,991 plots 207 plots increase in the number of forward land bank to current shareholder value land bank in year outlets pulled through n n This represents a net The number of plots in the 22,790 plots 22,150 plots forward land bank increase of 640 plots Customers Why this matters How we performed How we measure it 2012 2011 Outlets n n We aim to provide We maintained our high The percentage of customers 94% 93% our customers with customer satisfaction who are satisfied with their Why this matters How we performed How we measure it 2012 2011 a home they are and recommendation overall purchase experience 1 n n Outlets define our We increased our outlets The average number of proud of and to levels in the year including quality of their home 73 70 potential to reach in the year developments on which we are deliver improving n The percentage of customers customers actively selling 96% 97% levels of customer who would recommend Redrow service that n n The value of private homes The value of our order to a friend 152m 114m enhance our reserved or exchanged at the book increased by over reputation in the end of the period that are due to 33% year on year marketplace legally complete in the future n n We increased our rate Private reservation rate achieved 0.58 0.54 per week per outlet per week Build Why this matters How we performed How we measure it 2012 2011 n n We aim to build There was a 24% The average number of 0.19 0.25 Return on capital employed ROCE our homes well improvement in reportable items per NHBC 2012 2011 and safely and reportable item inspection Why this matters How we performed How we measure it therefore monitor performance n n We monitor how We improved our Operating profit as a 6.1% 8.7% construction n n Accident incident rate effectively we use our The 27% reduction in the performance by 43% percentage of the average of 495 685 quality and accident rate reflects the capital base with the in the year opening and closing capital accident rates objective of delivering impact of new initiatives employed aimed at reducing slip ROCE in excess of our comparable cost of capital and trip injuries Employees Earnings per share EPS 2012 2011 Why this matters How we performed How we measure it Why this matters How we performed How we measure it 2012 2011 n n Redrow looks to be Increase reflects Number of staff leaving as a 7.6% 10.4% regarded as an increased mobility in job proportion of total staff n n Redrow regards We improved our Profit attributable to ordinary 9.7p 4.4p employer of choice market growth in Earnings performance equity shareholders divided by the in the industry and n n per Share as an significantly in the year weighted average number of We increased our training No.
of training days 2,267 days 2,302 days therefore we important objective ordinary shares in issue during days in the year monitor our staff for our shareholders the year turnover n Adjusted prior to deferred tax rate 10.8p 6.0p change Adjusted for recent share issue 1 Comparator excludes Scotland BUSINESS REVIEW Redrow plc Annual Report Redrow plc Annual Report Business review Business review 18 19 and Accounts 2012 and Accounts 2012 The market recovered at the start of the calendar year Operating and we had considerably more success opening new review outlets.
A closing private The Group Accident order book of Incident rate fell by Steeple Chase, 152m 27% Calne, Wiltshire John Tutte Group Managing Director The Average Selling price of the New Heritage Collection increased by 7% Hedera Green, Royston, Hertfordshire Branwell Gardens, Guiseley, Yorkshire Introduction Sales and Marketing Private Average Selling Price New Heritage Collection Private Average Selling Price The strong financial performance in 2012 is a measure of the The first-half of the year was challenging for two reasons, there success of the strategic changes implemented across the was a slower than expected upturn in the autumn sales market 000 business in 2010 and 2011, particularly the introduction of the and bringing new outlets on-stream proved to be frustrating.
The New Heritage Collection which has been central to the Groups volume of reservations was fairly flat compared to the previous growth in turnover, average selling price and profit.
The average year and the number of outlets remained stubbornly static: in selling price, including social housing, has increased from the first-half we opened five new outlets and closed six.
In spite 137,400 in 2009 to 189,900 in 2012 with private housing of this, the value of reservations was comfortably ahead due to 204.1 215,100 rising to 204,100 as a result of building larger and higher the increase in average selling price.
specified homes in better locations.
The average selling price is 201,900 The second-half saw a change in fortunes.
The market recovered set to increase further, albeit at a slower pace, as we continue to 174.1 at the start of the calendar year and we had considerably more open new outlets in higher priced areas and completions come success opening new outlets: in the second-half we opened 24 154.8 through in the London division.
Build costs remained relatively stable throughout the year with In the first-half we secured 180m of reservations and averaged price pressures on certain materials being offset by economies 0.50 reservations per outlet per week, by comparison in the elsewhere.
Operating expenses increased largely due to Jun 2010 Jun 2011 Jun 2012 Jun 2010 Jun 2011 Jun 2012 second-half we took 292.0m of reservations and averaged 0.66 investment in overheads in the London division and to a lesser per outlet per week.
We closed the year with a private order extent, elsewhere to meet the growth in outlets.
