Chairmans statement We are pleased to report another year of strong resultsfor Regus, building on our performance ofthelastfew years.
Douglas Sutherland Chairman Group revenues grew 9.2% at constant Strategy aswell as attract new customers in new currency rates to 1,244.1m 2011: Regus strategy is to serve and pro t fromthe markets.
Based on Regus strong financial 1,162.6m, operating pro ts, bene ting structural shift towards exible work bybeing performance, we are con dent these inpart from disciplined cost management, the platform of choice from which business investments will translate into future pro ts.
The structural shift towards exible Overall, this set of results again re ects our and earnings per share increased from work is taking place ona global scale and resilient business model and the continued 4.3pto 7.5p.
The step-up success of our growth strategy.
The Group ofinvestment in our network in response to On a like-for-like basis, revenues in our has again proved itself capable of delivering growing demand forour services will, together Mature business improved by 2.9% at strong and sustainable growth and returns.
with continued innovations in product offerings constant currency to 1,124.1m 2011: and customer service, enable us to maintain Our people 1,114.3m, while operating pro t increased ourmarket leading position.
We continue to As a growth orientated company, the by 65% to 170.5m 2011: 103.6m as build our management capabilities in line Boardis only too aware of how important gross margins increased to 29.0% 2011: with ourgrowth objectives through the acommitted and motivated workforce is to 25.9%.
Additionally, our Mature Centres development of our people, processes and us achieving our aspirations.
As such, we continued to be highly cash generative, systems, supplemented by the strategic remain focused on maintaining high levels withfree cash ow after tax, finance costs hiring ofexperienced professionals.
ofemployee engagement, training and and maintenance capital expenditure of Consistent with managements priorities, development.
I would like to place on record 144.3m, representing a mature free cash execution of our strategy includes continuing my thanks to all our team members around ow yield of 12.8% or 15.3p per share.
to improve the pro tability of ourmature the world for their continued hard work and Alongside our focus on Mature Centre centres, investing for attractive returns and dedication.
The strong results we present performance, we continued with our growing long-term earnings pershare.
are a testament to their endeavours.
strategy to expand Regus global network, Growth of our Mature business is achieved Dividend in order to serve the growing demand for primarily through the maturing of our new Given the strong performance of the our products and services.
Our mature centres are highly cash business, the Board is recommending expansion includes both targeted organic generative and this allows us to continue a naldividend of 2.2p.
Subject to the growth and carefully selected acquisitions.
toexpand through organic growth and approval of shareholders at the 2013 During 2012 we added 243 centres, taking carefully selected acquisitions, enabling AGM, this will be paid on 31 May 2013 to us to a year-end total of 1,411. usto better serve our existing customers shareholders on the register at the close ofbusiness on 3 May 2013.
This represents an increase inthe full year dividend of 10% to 3.2p 2011: 2.9p.
Douglas Sutherland Chairman 5 March 2013 Board composition andperformance With a view to the future development of the Group aswell as a desire to continue to enhance diversity and succession planning for Boardroles, weplan to increase the size ofthe Board overtime.
The Nomination Committee hasimplemented an ongoing programme ofengagement with highly quali ed potential Non-Executive Directors of varied backgrounds and gender to support this process.
A formal external evaluation of the performance of the Board was carried out during the year by an independent leadership consultancy with experience in conducting such reviews.
The external evaluation results were reviewed by theBoard and are being addressed in our efforts to continuously improve the processes and effectiveness of the Board.
No reportable matters were noted by the evaluation and we continue to have full con dence in the Boards members and processes.
8 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
