Chairmans statement I am delighted to report that the Group delivered another strong performance in 2012, with growth in revenues, profits, cash ow and earnings per share.
Like-for-like sales growth for 2012 was strong, rising 4.5% on the previous year.
Building on a good first half performance, the Group saw an acceleration in like-for-like sales growth and roll out activity as we moved through the second half of the year.
This momentum has continued with like-for-like sales 10% for the first eight weeks of the year to 24 February 2013 6.5% ahead of the previous year.
This represents a strong start and increase in earnings bodes well for 2013. per share Although conditions for consumer-facing businesses were again tough in 2012, our consistent focus on our customers, standards of service and value for money meant that the Group has once again delivered a record level of profits and earnings.
Our new development activity was busier than the previous year and, having opened eight new restaurants by the end of the first half, we saw a significant increase in pace during the second half, opening a further 20 new sites.
Much of this development took place in the final eight weeks of the year when we opened 12 new restaurants.
We are very pleased with the performance of our new restaurants and we are confident that they are set to deliver superb returns.
The performance of our new Coast to Coast restaurants gives us particular pleasure.
This brand has a distinct and scaleable offering, and represents the start of what we believe is a significant new leg to our Leisure business.
In 2012, the Groups revenues grew by 9.25% to 533m 2011: 487m, adjusted profit before tax grew by 7% to 64.6m 2011: 60.3m and adjusted earnings per share increased by 10% to 24.1p 2011: 21.9p.
This increase in adjusted earnings per share represents a compound annual growth rate of 10.5% over the five years to December 2012.
04 Annual Report 2012 The Restaurant Group plc Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements A record level of profits and earnings 9.25% total sales increase 12% increase in dividend per share This is a significant achievement, secured during the worst During 2013 we will be saying farewell to Trish Corzine and recession for generations, and demonstrates the broad Robert Morgan Executive Director, Concessions and appeal of our brands and the resilience and consistently Company Secretary respectively.
Trish joined the Company positive performance of The Restaurant Group.
almost 20 years ago and has served on the Board for nine years.
Robert joined 11 years ago and has been Company During 2012 we experienced a continuation of the input Secretary for eight years.
I would like to thank both of them, cost pressures from the previous year and household to wish Trish a long and happy retirement and Robert incomes also remained pressured.
Despite these challenges, success in his next role.
our team diligently managed our businesses to ensure that operating margins were maintained at a similar level to 2011 We have had a strong start to the current year, with sales whilst also securing a significant uplift in revenue and profits.
growth of 14% like-for-like sales up 6.5% for the first eight weeks of the year and we are looking to build further on this As a result of this strong performance, the Board is as we move through the year.
We have an outstanding recommending a final dividend of 7.3p per share giving business with distinct and leading market positions, our a total for the year of 11.8p per share 2011: 10.5p an brands are well recognised and we deliver superb value for increase of 12%.
Subject to shareholder approval at the money offerings which have wide appeal.
I am confident that Annual General Meeting to be held on 15 May 2013, we are well placed to continue our further profitable progress.
the final dividend will be paid on 10 July 2013 and the shares will be marked ex-dividend on 19 June 2013.
Alan Jackson Chairman In 2013, we expect to open between 28 and 35 new 27 February 2013 restaurants and the composition and size of our new site pipeline is better than we have seen for a number of years.
TRG has consistently demonstrated the resilient nature of its business model and this is another set of record results.
The Group is managed in a disciplined and focused manner growing both organically and also through a judicious and carefully executed roll out.
By operating in this manner we are able to grow our estate, increase earnings and dividends and generate high levels of cash and returns on investment.
These excellent results are a product of the hard work, expertise and dedication of our Directors, senior management and staff, under the superb leadership of Andrew Page.
On behalf of the Board I would like to record our thanks to all our teams across the country.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2012 05
