4 Rexam annual report 2012 overview chairmans statement I am pleased to report that, in less than ideal market conditions, 2012 was a year of progress on many fronts and our results demonstrate the underlying resilience of the business.
This is reflected in the improvement to our ROCE and the value we have created for our shareholders with our total shareholder return in 2012 significantly ahead of the average for the FTSE 100 see also page 85.
Our focus on cash and continued discipline in our capital spend helped us maintain a strong balance sheet, and during the year, we refinanced some of our bonds in the US private placement market at better rates than previously and, as a result, will reduce our financing costs.
In December 2012, we completed successfully the sale of our Personal Care business.
As promised, we are returning 395m of the proceeds to shareholders byway of a B share scheme, together with a share consolidation.
This has been my first year as Rexams dividend The board is proposing a final dividend of 10.2p per share, chairman and it has been an inspiring one.
making a total dividend of 15.2p for the year.
This increase of 6% reflects the boards continuing confidence in the future of the Group In my visits to our plants and businesses and is in line with our dividend policy to have a dividend cover in around the world, it is obvious that the range 2.0 to 2.5 times underlying earnings.
strategy manufacturing excellence lies at the very With the sale of the Personal Care business, and the Healthcare heart of this company.
I have been impressed business now being managed separately, our strategy has beverage cans at its very core.
It continues to be based on by the efficiency of our plants and particularly operational excellence, deeper customer relationships, expansion in emerging markets, innovation in processes and products as well struck by the skill, commitment and enthusiasm as a commitment to a sustainable future andto building a winning of our people.
During the year, we continued to drive cost efficiencies and In my first month I was in touch with each of generate cash.
We will use this cash to fund disciplined investment inthe business for longer term growth, pay dividends and when our largest shareholders to learn about and the balance sheet allows we will consider additional returns toshareholders.
gauge their views of Rexam.
I also had the Although Rexam is a results focused organisation, we attach great opportunity to talk to many more at our AGM importance to the way we do business.
We have an integrated in May.
There was a clear consistency about approach to the performance of our people, including setting financial and non financial objectives for management.
Details what sort of company you expect Rexam to ofthis approach, and the way it embraces our senior management, are on page 82. be: a results focused business that can be corporate responsibility relied upon to deliver on its commitments The sustainability agenda requires greater transparency around our environmental and social impacts, and the Sustainability both short and long term.
section of this report describes our progress in key areas during the year.
The publication of our separate Sustainability Report 2012 is further evidence of our commitment in this area and serves as an internal and external benchmark to monitor progress.
5 dividend The board is proposing a final dividend of 10.2p per share, making a total dividend of 15.2p for the year.
This 6% increase 5.0p 10.2p reflects the boards continuing confidence in the Groups future and is in line with our dividend policy to have a dividend cover inthe range 2.0 to 2.5 times underlying earnings.
Subject to shareholder approval at Rexams AGM on 18 April 2013, the final dividend will be paid on 22 May 2013 to shareholders on 15.2p the register at close of business on 26 April 2013.
Rexams success is built on the hard work and commitment of our summary people and their safety has been and will continue to be of In the current challenging business environment, Rexam continues paramount importance.
Our safety record, measured in the lost to take the actions the board believes necessary to remain time accident rate LTAR, again improved year on year and in competitive and deliver value for shareholders.
We will keep the November and December there were no LTAs at any of our plants, strategy under review and remain flexible to adapt where it is in a first for Rexam.
Over the last three years there has been a more the interests of shareholders to do so.
than 50% reduction in LTAR which is testament to the concerted We have a strong leadership team that clearly delivers on its effort to build further our peoples engagement around safety.
We also have thousands of people who go the extra Although we met our 10% LTAR reduction target in 2012, the years mile every day to manufacture quality products and provide the performance was regretfully overshadowed by a fatality in July at highest levels of service for our customers.
I would like to take this our Personal Care plant in Excelsior Springs, US.
As you would opportunity to thank all our employees for their efforts in 2012. expect after such a tragedy, we have put in place corrective actions and improvements to strengthen further our safety focus The economic environment in most of our markets remains tough.
and ensure the continued wellbeing of all our employees.
However, through the disciplined application of our strategy, we see opportunities for profitable growth.
I am therefore confident the board that Rexam can and will go from strength to strength for the We remain committed to maintaining high standards of corporate benefit of all our stakeholders.
governance in a constantly evolving regulatory and governance environment.
This years board evaluation review details of which are in the Corporate governance section was especially valuable in helping me identify where we can improve the boards effectiveness.
I also completed performance reviews of each director and I was, in turn, provided with feedback by our senior Stuart Chambers independent director on my own performance.
chairman There were three changes to the board during the year.
In May, 20 February 2013 wewere pleased to welcome Johanna Waterous as senior independent director.
Johanna is a former director of McKinsey, the global management consulting firm, and a leading European expert in retail and customer relationship management.
Herexperience of the global retail world and as a FTSE 100 non executive director is a great asset to the board and the company.
In the latter half of 2012, Wolfgang Meusburger and Noreen Doyle announced their retirement after six years on the board.
I would like to record mythanks and appreciation for their contributions to our deliberations during their time with us andwishthem both well for the future.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview
