co. uk Chairmans statement Scott Forbes Chairman I am pleased to present Rightmove plcs results for the year I would like to express my thanks to our customers and also ended 31 December 2012. to our employees who continue to bring their skills and efforts Online advertising is changing consumer behaviour to bear to make Rightmove the best place for home hunters across many markets and transforming the way businesses to nd their next home and for property advertisers to reach communicate with consumers.
Rightmove has driven the the widest possible audience.
transformation in online property advertising which has been a boon to home movers as they are the beneciaries of The Board of Directors greater and more timely access to better quality information.
ii`v `7 ii The pace of change is continuing with the rapid growth of the years of accomplishment at the helm of Rightmove.
It has mobile internet, meaning that home movers now have instant been very much a business partnership with Nick McKittrick, access to information on Rightmove irrespective of whether currently Chief Operating officer and Finance Director and they are at home, in the ofce or on the move.
"At the same VVi ` iv iVi""vwVi i time, online advertising has enabled property professionals behalf of the Board and all employees when I say that we to operate more cost effectively and improve their consumer `L i `vi ii ` reach at a time when housing transaction volumes have have greatly appreciated his valuable contributions to i i` `v i }iVii Rightmoves success."
Rightmove is proud that it continues to be at the forefront In Nick, we have a strong and experienced successor vii `i}, }i i`, }i } ` } ranked as the sixth most popular website in the UK amongst standing member of the Board since March 2004, he global brands such as Google and Facebook, once again became Chief Operating officer and Finance Director in 2009. demonstrating that Britain moves at Rightmove.
We are } vi`iV ii proud of the compelling value proposition that Rightmove `, L ivi} `} Viii and our brand creates for our customers.
We will continue meriting appointment as Chief Operating officer and Finance to offer an increasing number of brand building and property Director, respectively.
advertising options to help our customers take advantage of the internets ability to deliver advertising with unrivalled consumer reach at a fraction of historic cost levels.
4 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Rightmove plc annual report 2012 A total of 86.8m was returned to shareholders through dividends and share buybacks, bringing the total returned since our otation in 2006 to 293m.
In 2012 we have undertaken a full external Board evaluation.
Dividend The evaluation was interview based and covered strategy, The Board previously announced that it would increase the organisation, culture and Board composition and interim dividend to 9.0p H1 2011: 7.0p per ordinary share, effectiveness.
The findings were presented at the December which was paid on 9 November 2012.
Consistent with our 2012 Board meeting and further detail on this is shown policy of increasing the total dividend for the year broadly on page 25. in line with underlying operating profits, the Board proposes to pay a final dividend of 14.0p 2011: 11.0p per ordinary Financial results share for a total dividend for the year of 23.0p 2011: 18.0p, 2012 set new records for revenue, profits and underlying basic Vi ivn iw ``i`]LiV i`i 1 1 ]Li ` i i`i i }i i -.
Underlying operating profit was the register on 10 May 2013. nx {`iL}} V iii}vVi`Vi`V ivV Outlook }ii - x x With healthy growth in average spend per advertiser at with the increase being helped by the repurchase of 4.5m the start of the year and assuming there is no significant 2011: 4.4m shares.
As at 31 December 2012 the cash deterioration in the UK housing market, the Board remains position was 7.1m 2011: 21.8m.
confident of continued growth in the business in 2013.
"Investors Our investors have benefited from our strong performance and our clear and continued policy of returning all excess V ""V Vii iVivv operating profit and in 2012 we returned a further 86.8m Scott Forbes 2011: 65.1m to shareholders through dividends and share Chairman buybacks."
This brings the total returned to shareholders since our otation in March 2006 to 293.0m.
1 From continuing operations before share-based payments, NI on share-based incentives and no related adjustment for tax.
