Chairmans statement Delivering long-term growth Record results With this financial strength we have continued to invest strongly This time last year we expected to see improving results in in organic growth with the Groups rental fleet now being 12% the coming year although we did not anticipate the level of larger and an average of seven months younger than a year ago.
growth we have achieved in the last 12 months.
The momentum Whilst our focus remains on organic growth, we intend to we established over the last year combined with continuing continue to assess appropriate acquisitions such as that of operational efficiency and prudent yet flexible financial Topp earlier this year that would help us accelerate our growth planning have delivered results significantly ahead of our strategies.
We also continue to have the necessary finance earlier expectations.
available to invest appropriately in growth.
Therefore we believe that we are very well placed to continue our progress and also to I am therefore delighted to be able to report record full-year take advantage of cyclical economic recovery in end construction underlying pre-tax profits of 131m, 100m higher than last markets as and when that occurs.
years 31m and 16% higher than 2007 8s the previous peak year 112m.
This was achieved on record revenues of 1.1bn and Governance despite the continued depressed activity levels in our main end In May 2010 the Financial Reporting Council issued a new UK market, US construction, which is some 40% down on its 2006 Corporate Governance Code, effective from June 2011, with peak.
The increase in demand for our services in the US is being which we are fully compliant this financial year.
Over the year we driven predominantly by increased rental penetration and the have continued to evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and gains we continue to make in market share.
The past year saw experience among the members of the Board, as well as paying record levels of fleet on rent and strong physical utilisation.
due regard to the need for diversity.
I am satisfied that we have an appropriately skilled and balanced board.
Particular Board Sunbelts rental revenue for the year grew 23% to $1.3bn, priorities this year have been maximising profitable growth comprising a 13% increase in average fleet on rent, 7% higher in the US, reviewing managements plans in response to the yield and a first-time contribution from Empire Scaffold which recently concluded combination of our two largest US peers was acquired last financial year.
In the UK, despite slower and remuneration incentives and succession planning for key markets, A-Plant continued to perform well relative to its peers members of our management team.
and delivered rental revenue growth of 9% to 168m including 1% growth in average fleet on rent and 6% yield improvement.
Board changes Last year we announced the planned retirement of Ian Robson Underlying earnings per share for the year were 17.3p as finance director and the appointment of Suzanne Wood 2010 11: 4.0p whilst the Groups EBITDA margin rose 12% as his successor.
Previously the chief financial officer of our to 34% and our balance sheet strength was enhanced, as US business, Sunbelt, Suzanne brings outstanding talent and evidenced by the further reduction in net debt to EBITDA considerable industry experience to the role of Group Finance leverage to 2.2 times at year end 2011: 2.7 times.
Suzanne will be a most welcome addition to the team.
The Board unanimously recommends her election as a director following her appointment in succession to Ian.
4 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 I am delighted to report record full-year underlying pre-tax profits of 131m Chris Cole Chairman Your Group is indebted to Ian for his long years of service Current trading and outlook and, in particular, his vigilant and forward looking financial The good growth of the past year has carried forward into May management that has positioned us so well to deal with the with encouraging levels of fleet on rent and yield improvement.
challenges of the economic cycle and more importantly, to The momentum we have established, and the flexibility provided capitalise on the growth to come.
We wish Ian a long and by our strong balance sheet, allows us to anticipate further happy retirement.
growth with or without end market recovery.
In January 2013 Hugh Etheridge will complete his third term as a non-executive director.
In view of the fact that 2012 13 will be Suzannes first full year as finance director, coupled with the mandatory five-yearly rotation for the 2013 14 audit of our external audit partner, we considered it prudent to extend Hughs services until June 2014.
Notwithstanding Hughs length of service, we consider that he will remain independent and Chris Cole accordingly he will continue to chair the Audit Committee until 20 June 2012 his retirement.
It is intended to appoint Hughs replacement to the Board in 2013 to allow for a period of familiarisation.
Dividend We continue to be committed to a progressive dividend policy, with consideration to both profitability and cash generation at a level that is sustainable across the cycle, and therefore we are recommending a final dividend of 2.5p per share making 3.5p for the year 2011: 3.0p.
If the final dividend is approved at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, it will be paid on 7 September 2012 to shareholders on the register on 17 August 2012.
Our people As always I need to thank all our employees whose commitment has helped us to capitalise on the market opportunities and without whom we would not be in the strong position we are now.
Our people continue to demonstrate their dedication to making Sunbelt and A-Plant the best equipment rental businesses in their respective markets.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 5
