Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 12 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 chairmans statement The six acquisitions we completed in 2011 14% to 109.3 pence.
Net cash balances were successfully integrated and have all grew 11m in the year to end at 60m.
I am pleased to report made positive contributions during the year.
another year of record order Rotork Instruments, the division we created Board Composition intake, revenue and profit.
in 2011 to address the wider flow control In May 2012 we welcomed Sally James as market, performed well and will benefit from a non-executive director, broadening the Our strategy remains to grow the addition of Soldo which we acquired in range of skills and experience within the both organically and through November 2012.
Following the year end, in Board.
Sally currently holds a number of acquisitions and again this January 2013, we acquired the Schischek other non-executive positions and group of companies which will form part of previously held senior legal roles in year we have extended our the Controls division and provides us a investment banks in London and Chicago.
presence in a new market, heating, Following Sallys appointment the Company ventilation and air conditioning HVAC.
is now compliant with the Corporate Governance Code in that half the Board, Rotork has a reputation for innovation and excluding myself as Chairman, are during the year we maintained our focus on independent non-executives.
We have bringing new products to market which also met our stated aim that 25% of incorporate additional features and provide our independent non-executives will be new benefits to our customers.
2012 saw the women by the end of 2012. launch of IQ3, the latest generation of our flagship electric actuator range, as well as Board Performance Roger Lockwood new products in each of the other divisions.
Once again this year we used external Chairman consultants to conduct an independent Financial Highlights appraisal of Board effectiveness.
The results Revenue grew 14% to 512m despite a 3% of the review were positive and Directors currency headwind.
The currency impact were unanimously of the view that the was more than offset by the benefit of a full Board operates effectively as a unit.
It is year contribution from the six businesses clear that the breadth of experience and acquired in 2011, meaning growth on an skills represented on the Board is a key organic constant currency basis was 12%.
During the review it was Adjusted operating profit increased by noted that a number of improvements had 14% to 132m, resulting in a broadly similar been made following last years review operating margin of 25.8% compared with including the appointment of a new 25.9% the prior year.
The rapid growth of non-executive director and a strengthening Fluid Systems had a dilutive effect on Group of the approach to risk management and to margins even though this division generated acquisitions within the broader flow control adjusted operating margins in excess of its strategy.
The review recognised that many 15% target at 15.3% for the full year.
of the challenges facing the Board relate to Earnings per share increased 11% to 103.1 managing the continued growth of the pence, or based on adjusted profit, Group whilst preserving the strengths of Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 13 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 This project involved the installation of 330 IQ and IQT ATEX certified explosionproof intelligent electric valve actuators at an underground natural gas storage plant in the Baltic country of Latvia.
References to adjusted profit throughout this the business.
Overall, I remain satisfied that now complies with all aspects of the UK document are dened as the IFRS profit, whether profit the composition of the Board enables it to Corporate Governance Code.
before tax or operating profit, with the amortisation of full its expected role.
Dividend Corporate Governance The Board recommends a final dividend of As a Board, we are responsible to the 26.6p per share which, taken together with Companys shareholders for increasing the 2012 interim dividend, gives a payment shareholder value over the long term of 43.0p per share 2011 core dividend: through effective management and good 37.25p, representing a 15% increase in core governance.
The Board considers all the dividends.
This dividend will be payable on aspects of the business necessary to provide 21 May 2013 to shareholders on the register good governance including strategy, on 12 April 2013. acquisitions, current performance, risk management and the internal control Outlook framework.
Discussions include the Rotork The strong results across the Group reect Management Board on occasions and at the progress we have made in executing our least once a year the Board meeting takes strategy, with each division achieving record place at one of the subsidiary sites.
I am results in terms of order intake, revenue and pleased to be able to confirm that Rotork profit.
Our expanded product portfolio and Dividend History p extensive international reach position us for further growth.
We will continue to invest in infrastructure, product development and Core Dividend sales channels both organically and by Additional Dividend acquisition to strengthen our presence in the wider ow control market.
The markets that we serve remain active and whilst we recognise that we are likely to see weakness within some regions due to economic conditions, the Board remains confident of achieving further progress in the coming year.
