Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Chairmans statement It is pleasing to report yet another record performance.
The Superfos business has been successfully integrated and has made a significant contribution whilst the growth in higher added value products continued.
Very good progress has been made towards achieving our stated 20% ROCE target.
Notwithstanding the current economic uncertainties, following the significant increase in underlying earnings after the Superfos acquisition the Board is proposing to increase the final dividend to 10.2p representing a full year increase of 25%.
Overview of the Year andby developing high quality, innovative DSM NV, a global life sciences and material products that meet customer needs.
The sciences company quoted on the Euronext I am pleased to report another excellent set Group achieves and maintains its leading Stock Exchange in Amsterdam.
of results for the Group which were delivered market positions by continued innovation Corporate Governance continues to evolve against a background of increasingly tough and investment, leveraging RPCs leading and emerging practice has remained a regular economic conditions.
Adjusted operating technological capability and through strategic subject for discussion at the Board.
We seek profit increased by 68% from 55.8m to 93.5m, corporate development.
to run our businesses in a responsible way, reflecting both the full year impact of Superfos Following the successful completion of its recognising that good corporate governance trading and an improvement in margins in the restructuring programme, RPC 2010, and the supports the long term health of the Group.
pre-acquisition business driven by further recent acquisition of Superfos, the Group is Acknowledging the need to review regularly growth in higher added value products.
Sales well placed to continue to grow by building on the effectiveness of our external auditors, were at a record 1,130m 2011: 819m and its strong market positions and technological during the year the Audit Committee undertook adjusted earnings per share increased by know-how.
The Groups current aim is to an external audit tender which resulted in 25% to 37.3p 2011: 29.9p.
Cash flow was well achieve a return on capital employed ROCE therecommendation that KPMG Audit Plc controlled with the Group ending the year with of20% following the realisation of 15m to bereappointed as Group auditors.
25msteady state cost and revenue synergies As a consequence of a decentralised structure, The Superfos business, which was acquired related to the Superfos acquisition, assuming the Group is able to provide many opportunities in February 2011, has been successfully a non-recessionary economic environment for individuals to make their own contribution integrated into the Group and now operates and no significant volatility in raw material to the Group.
On behalf of the Board I would as a standalone cluster with key management prices.
Good progress was made during the like to thank all employees for their outstanding retained.
Unfortunately it was necessary to year towards meeting the target with a ROCE efforts, who together have enabled the Group close the UK site at Runcorn which has been of19.1% realised 2011 pro-forma: 15.1%.
to deliver a strong financial performance for largely completed without any significant loss Opportunities for further organic and its shareholders, and I look forward to their of business.
Together with the centralisation acquisitive growth continue to be explored, contribution in achieving our growth strategy.
of polymer purchasing and other overhead both in the European and US markets as well savings, the acquisition has delivered cost Dividend as in less mature, higher growth economies andrevenue synergies of 10m in the first year In light of the Groups financial performance outside Europe.
of ownership, with more to come as expected.
and in line with its progressive dividend policy In addition circa 20m of cash synergies Board and Governance of targeting dividend cover at approximately related to working capital management have There have been a number of recent changes 2.5 times adjusted earnings through the cycle, been realised.
Overall the Superfos acquisition to the Board.
Peter Wood, who joined as the Board is recommending a final dividend has been significantly earnings enhancing.
a non-executive director in 2006, retired of10.2p per share making a total for the year In January 2012 the Group announced its on 31 March 2012.
I would like to take this of 14.4p, representing a 25% increase over intention to exit from the loss making vending opportunity to thank Peter for the contribution theprevious year.
cup business in mainland Europe and its he has made to the Board over the last Subject to approval at the forthcoming automotive components business in Germany six years.
Martin Towers has taken over AGM, the final dividend will be paid on before the end of 2012.
These businesses Peters role as Senior Independent Director 7September 2012 to shareholders on the operate in a very competitive environment and Stephan Rojahn has been appointed register on 10 August 2012. where it is no longer possible to generate Chairmanof the Remuneration Committee.
satisfactory returns for the Group.
I am pleased to welcome Ilona Haaijer, Strategy whojoined the Board on 30 May 2012 asanon-executive director.
Ilona, who is RPCs strategy is to grow and develop leading J R P Pike aDutch national, is currently President of positions in its chosen product markets Chairman and geographical areas in the rigid plastic the global Personal Care business unit and packaging industry, by establishing strong a member of the Executive Committee of long-term relationships with its customers theNutritional Products division of Royal
