Management & Governance Corporate Governance Chairmans Introduction I am pleased to have the opportunity to report for the second time on how the principles relating to the role and effectiveness of the Board contained within the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code have been applied at RPS.
The report below explains our compliance against the detailed provisions of the Code during 2012 as well as giving a more detailed view of the activities of the Board and its Committees.
It is satisfying to be able to report that we have been fully compliant throughout the year.
As Chairman I have the key roles of providing leadership to the Board and ensuring we maintain an environment to enable the Board to perform effectively.
I remain of the view that we have the appropriate governance structures in place as a key component of achieving these objectives and that these are provided in a practical and cost effective way.
In addition to myself, the Board comprises three executive and four nonexecutive Directors.
As explained in my first report, 2011 saw a number of changes to the Board.
There have been no further changes during 2012 and a welcome stability.
Our executive team has many years of experience within RPS and its predecessor companies, whilst our non-executives are from a range of highly relevant backgrounds and disciplines as outlined elsewhere in this document.
As the year progressed the Board developed into an increasingly cohesive team able and willing to draw on the breadth of talent and experience it possesses.
This is particularly reassuring as, in common with many businesses, we continue to face an uncertain trading environment, caused by the continuing turbulence in the financial markets and consequent slow economic growth.
The continuing strength of the Group and the quality of its management, was demonstrated by the terms and manner on which we were able to renew our banking facilities in July 2012.
Succession planning remains under continuous review.
I am personally of the view that over-planning succession accelerates unwanted change, which is neither in the best interests of the Company, nor its shareholders.
Robert Miller-Bakewell, who is our Senior Independent Director, was appointed for a three year term which will expire in 2013 and I am very pleased to report that he has agreed to continue for a further three years.
The Boards agenda continues to reflect the key issues that we face.
Our discussions in relation to Group strategy, performance and potential acquisitions are balanced by consideration of appropriate controls, systems and policies to underpin our progress.
This year increased prominence has been given to Health & Safety reporting focussing on maintaining a high standard of performance and where appropriate, improvement.
In addition, our non-executive directors continue to visit and engage with our businesses globally in a manner that assists and informs their contributions at Board level.
Our Board Committees, supported by external professional advice as required, continue to operate in an effective and professional manner and enjoy good lines of communication to the Board as a whole.
The Board completed its annual review process in September, which gave rise to no major issues or difficulties.
The Board has recently commissioned an externally facilitated review for the first time.
This will take place soon and be reported on in the 2013 Report and Accounts.
The Groups performance has remained solid notwithstanding the continuing economic uncertainty.
Much of this is down to the hard work and loyalty of our employees, to whom I would like to extend the Boards thanks.
I am confident that the strength of our Board and the manner in which it operates will continue to be a key element in sustaining this performance.
Brook Land Chairman Corporate Governance Committee The Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for overseeing the Group structure and organisation and evaluating these in the context of developments in standards of corporate governance.
The Committee keeps the Board and its other committees appraised of developments that may impact their structure and activities.
It also oversees the policies described in the Corporate Responsibility Statement as well as the Groups environmental policies.
The Committee consists of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Company Secretary.
UK Corporate Governance Code The Board is pleased to report that the Company complied with all provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code throughout the year.
A new version of the Code was published in September 2012 which is applicable for financial reporting periods commencing on after 1 October 2012 and against which the Board will report in future years.
