Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 7 Castle Lager Origin: South Africa Chairmans statement First brewed: 1895 www.
co. za Significant progress and strong results First brewed in 1895 by founder brewer, Charles Glass, Castle Lager enjoys worldwide recognition as the beer thatbrings friends together.
Dedicated to excellence, itisbrewed using the finest quality ingredients to provide an engaging taste that always invites another.
The year has seen further excellent progress.
Growingconsumer demand in developing markets hashelpedtosecure another strong set of results andourglobal footprinthas continued to expand.
Meyer Kahn, Chairman Dear Shareholder, The groups free cash flow was US$3,048 million, In my final letter as Chairman, I am delighted to an increase of US$560 million over the prior year.
report another year of significant progress and Working capital cash inflows of US$258 million strongresults.
As we predicted 12 months ago, continued recent positive trends.
markets were difficult in Europe and North America but consumer demand continued to grow in most Capital expenditure was US$1,639 million, a developing economies.
Through successful riseofUS$324 million as we increased production marketing, product innovation and skilful commercial capacity, particularly in Africa.
Net debt at 31 March execution, we were able to build onourposition 2012 was US$17,862 million.
This was higher than inthe worlds developing consumermarkets.
the previous financial year-end, primarily due to 91 US cents theFosters acquisition.
Total dividend per share, Results and dividend Beverage volumes totalled 286 million hectolitres, The board has recommended a final dividend of an increase of 12% up 6% with lager volumes up 5% and soft drinks 69.5 US cents per share to be paid to shareholders volumes up 8%.
Group revenue grew by 11% on 17 August 2012.
This brings the total dividend for 7%on an organic, constant currency basis as the year to 91 US cents, an increase of 10 US cents aresult of higher volumes, focused price increases 12% over the prior year.
and our efforts to increase the premium element inour brand mix.
Operational highlights The year saw strong performance in most of our Reported earnings before interest, tax and developing markets.
Latin America and Africa were amortisation EBITA grew by 12% 8% on an particularly notable while South Africa and Asia organic, constant currency basis and EBITA margin Pacific also generated significant, profitable growth.
was 10 bps ahead of the prior year at 17.9%.
Group With the exception of Europe, all beverage divisions revenue growth offset increases in raw material contributed to EBITA growth.
costs while marketing investment rose in line with revenue and fixed costs increased asaresult Latin America produced EBITA growth of 15% ofexpenditure on sales and systems capabilities.
14% on an organic, constant currency basis.
Profit before tax was up 55%, after theinclusion Lagervolumes increased by 8% on an organic ofexceptional gains in the year.
basis with soft drinks volumes growing 10% on thesame basis.
Strong revenue growth reflected Finance costs were 7% higher than the prior year acombination of higher volumes, selective price and the effective tax rate was 27.5%.
Adjusted increases and favourable mix, though these were earnings per share were up 12%at 214.8 US cents, partly offset by higher commodity costs.
The region while basic earnings per share were 266.6 US cents.
also benefited from manufacturing efficiencies.
8 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Chairmans statement continued Share price performance from 1 April 2009 to 24 May 2012 sterling 30 SABMiller 124.5% 25 20 International Brewers Index 53.4% 15 FTSE 100 35.3% 10 Apr 2009 Oct 2009 Apr 2010 Oct 2010 Apr 2011 Oct 2011 May 2012 Source: Factset and Datastream as at 24 May 2012 Note: Share prices are rebased to SABMiller: the International Brewers Index charts the share price progression of an index of the company's closest peers in the global brewing industry Anheuser-Busch InBev, Carlsberg, Heineken and Molson Coors, relative to 1 April 2009.
The index is weighted relative to the market capitalisation of the brewers as at 1 April 2009 In Europe, EBITA declined by 6% 9% on an In South Africa, lager and soft drinks volumes organic, constant currency basis while lager bothgrew by 2%.
Reported EBITA was upby 9% 286m hl volumes fell by 1% on an organic basis.
Poland and 14% on a constant currency basis, benefiting from Total beverage volumes Romania were particularly affected by discounting favourable pricing and mix and with supply chain and poor consumer sentiment, with EBITA down productivity offsetting the impact of higher raw sold during the year inboth countries.
Other markets generally saw material costs.
Further reductions in operating costs stronger financial performance with good growth enabled the business to fund higher market-facing inpremium brands.
Across the region, EBITA was investments in support of its brands.
affected by significant increases in raw material costs.
Against this background, our regional Continuing expansion manufacturing project continued to deliver The year saw further progress in expanding costefficiencies.
ourgeographic footprint and brewing capacity, consistent with our strategy of creating a balanced In North America, EBITA grew by 2%.
MillerCoors and attractive global spread of businesses.
sales to wholesalers fell by 3% with sales to retailers down 2% as economic pressures continued to affect The main advance was the acquisition of Fosters key consumer groups.
The Tenth and Blake crafts inAustralia.
With 11 breweries including cideries, and imports division saw double-digit growth.
The Fosters is a substantial business and our largestincrease in EBITA was mainly a result of revenue ever acquisition by value.
growth from pricing and favourable brand mix along with cost savings partly offset by higher raw material The Fosters deal gives us a highly cash-generative and distribution costs and investment in systems.
brewing business with a portfolio of iconic brands and a leading position in a stable and profitable In Africa, lager volumes increased by 13% and beermarket.
Adding to its attractions areAustralias softdrinks volumes by 11% on an organic basis.
soundeconomic growth prospects and expanding EBITA grew by 15% 16% on an organic, constant population.
In addition, the business provides currency basis, driven by volume growth, opportunities for financial and operational pricingand mix benefits, cost efficiencies and improvement as we apply our global skills and the theraw material costbenefits of local agricultural benefits of scale in areas such as procurement.
These were partly offset by higher have already identified AUD180 million in operating sales and marketing investment, inflationary profit synergies and a range of initiatives for boosting AUD180m pressures and currency weakness.
We welcome Fosters employees into Cost savings identified the group and I thank them for their cooperation Lager volumes in Asia Pacific increased by 4% on andhard work during the integration process.
inAustralian acquisition an organic basis, with reported volumes significantly higher as a result of both the inclusion of Fosters since 16 December 2011 and acquisitions in China.
Reported EBITA grew by 247%, mainly due to the addition of Fosters.
On an organic, constant currency basis, EBITA grew by 30% with good growth in both China and India.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 9 Kilimanjaro Origin: Tanzania First brewed: 1996 www.
com Named after the iconic mountain and better known initshome market of Tanzania as Kili, this crisp, mild, easy-drinking, refreshing natural lager is light in colour witha slightly bitter taste.
The years second major transaction was our Building a global leader strategic alliance with the Turkish beer and soft As one of the worlds largest and most respected drinks business, Anadolu Efes, under which we brewers with strong positions in every region, have transferred our Russian and Ukrainian beer SABMiller has come a long way from its origins at businesses to Anadolu Efes in return for a 24% the foot of Africa.
On the eve of my retirement, I am stake in the enlarged Anadolu Efes group.
Anadolu proud of the groups achievements over the years.
Efes will now be the vehicle for both groups investments in Turkey, Russia, the Commonwealth Looking back, the trigger for our international of Independent States CIS, Central Asia and the growth was the recognition by the board of Middle East.
As well as leading the beer and soft SouthAfrican Breweries, as it was then, that global drinks markets in Turkey, Anadolu Efes has strong consolidation was about to hit the worldwide beer positions in Kazakhstan, Moldova and Georgia, business as it had done other consumer goods allof which are developing fast.
In Russia, the sectors such as food and soft drinks.
At this point combined business has a strong number two in the late 1980s, the beer industry largely consisted position and is benefiting from greater scale, of local and regional businesses, many still run by anattractive portfolio of brands and cost synergy the founding families.
We saw an opportunity to opportunities amounting to at least US$120 million.
lead the consolidation that we knew was coming The two partners will share best practice and and we took it.
Anadolu Efes will develop SABMillers international brands across the territory.
Starting close to home in Africa, we began toacquire brewing assets typically from We have also developed our strategic alliance governments wanting to privatise.
Many had withCastel in Africa.
We are now responsible for the beenneglected under public ownership, so were operational management of the Nigerian businesses relatively cheap to buy.
Our strategy was then to while Castel has taken over the running of the establish market leadership and build local brands.
Next we applied the rigorous operational disciplines learned in South Africa to drive down costs, In China, our CR Snow joint venture continued achieveworld-class standards in our breweries itsexpansion with a number of bolt-on additions anddistribute our products more efficiently.
including the acquisition of the remaining interest Fromaposition of leadership, we then sought inHangzhou Xihu Breweries from Asahi Breweries.
toenhancethe industrys business practices, US$260m The moves further consolidate CR Snows marketresponsibly and initiate local social Investment in new leadingposition.
capacity in Africa Along with widening our geographic footprint, we Weve continued to expand our have continued to invest in capacity.
In response geographic footprint, consistent to rising demand in Africa, we have already invested with our strategy of creating a US$1,500 million in the continent over the last five years.
But such is Africas rate of growth that balanced and attractive global demand continues to outstrip supply and we now spread of businesses.
We have consequently embarked on a US$260 million programme to Moving out from Africa, we began acquiring builda new brewery in Uganda and add capacity businesses in newly liberalised Eastern Europe inGhana, Zambia and Tanzania.
The projects andthe vast emerging market of China.
As our announced last year the new brewery in Nigeria growth continued, we clearly needed access to and the major expansion in South Sudan are further capital.
In 1999, therefore, we took the progressing well.
majorstep ofmoving to London and listing on theLondon Stock Exchange.
Further expansion In November 2011, we also announced a US$295 followed.
In2002, the addition of Miller in the USA million capital investment programme to increase took us into the global beer industrys biggest profit capacity and support future brewery expansion pool.
Despite widespread scepticism that a brewer atour Peruvian subsidiary.
from SouthAfrica could succeed in the worlds most sophisticated consumer market, we knew the As a result of this continued expansion, we move was necessary if SABMiller was to continue nowhave operations in over 75 countries on six playing a decisive role in the industrys continents with breweries in such far-flung places consolidation.
as the Gobi Desert, the High Andes, the banks of the Nile and the Tasman coast.
10 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Chairmans statement continued In the past decade we have added Birra Peroni in The groups results, both in the past year and Europe, the Bavaria group in Latin America, Fosters longerterm, are testimony to the high calibre of in Australia and many other brewers and brands, ourdirectors, managers and employees.
They are, from the small and specialised to the pan-regional.
undoubtedly, among the best in the industry and The decision to move out from South Africa and Ithank them all along with our business partners totake on the world has succeeded beyond the for the skills and dedication that have helped to expectations of those of us involved at the time.
establish such an enviable and sustained record.
Of course we cannot measure our success simply An abiding lesson of my career is that beer is a by the territory we cover.
As brewers, we succeed personal business.
More than any other, its about by making beers that are the first choice of our people, friendship, camaraderie and a sense of 790 consumers, wherever they live and whatever connection with fellow workers, customers, theircircumstances.
So as well as building our consumers and communities.
Appropriately Return on 100 invested geographic portfolio and striving to be the best inanindustry devoted to enjoyment, my career in SABMiller in 1999 operationally, we have had to develop our skills atSABMiller has been tremendous fun and Ive increating, marketing and nurturing great beenprivileged to work with a great many talented, brandsthat add to our consumers enjoyment principled and remarkable people, my current board oflife.
Again, we can claim to have succeeded.
While it would be invidious to single out individuals, I must pay tribute to Graham Mackay whos been instrumental in Given that SABMillers success building the group we know today.
I leave depends on flourishing local withenormous gratitude for his friendship and communities, we aim to be a force support, knowing that the business continues inexcellent hands.
for good in the societies in which we operate.
Succession and board changes My retirement will take effect at this years Annual By running successful businesses, we have also General Meeting on 26 July 2012.
At that point, contributed to the social and economic wellbeing Graham Mackay will take over as Executive ofthe countries in which we operate.
We have Chairman for an interim period of one year and always known that business and society are AlanClark, currently Managing Director of SABMiller inter-dependent and that SABMillers growth Europe, will become an executive director and depends on flourishing local communities.
At the end of the interim aswell as creating jobs and paying taxes, we have period, the intention is that Graham will become constantly sought to stimulate local enterprise and Non-Executive Chairman and that Alan will to work with governments, NGOs and others on succeedhim as Chief Executive.
issues of common concern such as water, energy and food security.
We have also taken a lead in We acknowledge the recommendation in the UK tackling the abuse of alcohol by small minorities Corporate Governance Code that a chief executive ofconsumers inour various markets.
Im proud should not go on to be chairman of the same tothink that SABMiller has been a consistent force 19.0% company and that the roles of chairman and chief for good in its local communities.
executive should not be exercised by the same Rolling annualised individual.
Nevertheless, after long deliberation, Our success in all these areas is reflected in five-year total shareholder we believe that these appointments are in the thevalue we have created for our shareholders.
best interests of SABMiller and its shareholders.
return since1999 100invested in SABMiller in 1999 would have grown to790 as at 31 March 2012, compared In selecting my successor, the board carefully withjust 200 if invested in our peer group median considered the requirements of the job in the and just 144 if invested in the FTSE 100 index.
context of the groups size and geographic spread.
Over this period, our rolling annualised five-year We agreed that the new Chairman must be able total shareholder return has been a remarkable toprovide stability and continuity, must understand 19.0% compared with 1.9% for the FTSE 100 index.
both the global brewing industry and the particular challenges of the emerging markets in which we operate, must be familiar with our ways of working and able to enhance our corporate culture and operational performance and must be competent to oversee the completion of the business capability programme currently under way.
Against these criteria, the nomination committee concluded that Graham Mackay was the outstanding candidate.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 11 Carlton Dry Origin: Australia First brewed: 2007 www.
au Carlton Drys exceptional dry finish is achieved through a special brewing process, removing sugars over an extended period of time.
This creates a remarkably smooth, crisp finish with less carbohydrate than other full-strength beers.
This decision has the unanimous support of the Alans successor as Managing Director of SABMiller directors and the strong backing of our two major Europe will be Sue Clark who has been our Director shareholders and was made after discussions of Corporate Affairs and a member of the group withmajor institutional investors.
Graham is executive committee since 2003.
Sue has a deep highlyregarded in the industry and among our understanding of the group and its culture and stakeholders and we firmly believe hes the theright mix of skills to take our European rightperson to lead the board and to represent businessforward.
SABMiller externally at the highest level.
In December 2011 Ari Mervis was appointed Alan Clark, similarly, is ideally qualified to succeed Managing Director Asia Pacific and Chief Executive Graham as Chief Executive and his appointment Officer of Fosters with responsibility for integrating isunanimously supported by your directors.
His Fosters into the SABMiller group.
Having been 22years with the group include positions as Managing Director of SABMiller Asia since 2007, Marketing Director for the South African beer Ari continues his role as Chairman of our Chinese business and Managing Director of the groups joint venture, CR Snow.
softdrinks operations in South Africa.
In 2003 hejoined the groups executive committee and All these appointments are consistent with the wasappointed Managing Director of SABMiller groups long-standing policy of developing strong Europe.
During his tenure he built this business leaders within the business.
Having also appointed intoone of the groups strongest and fastestfive new independent non-executive directors over growing divisions, recording successive years the past four years, we remain committed to our ofdouble-digit earnings growth between 2003 policy of progressively renewing the board and the and2009.
In the tough conditions of the last three independent directors in terms of age, gender and years, he has successfully protected the divisions balance of skills.
In line with that policy, it is also profitability through cost management and the boards intention now to begin the process operational improvements.
ofrecruiting a new independent non-executive director, with the expectation that in due course Any individual stepping up from an operating role heor she could become the senior independent to the chief executives position in a global group director in succession to Mr Manser.
will inevitably need time to absorb the complexities of the business.
This is particularly so in light of Rob Pieterse will retire after this years Annual the groups many external relationships and General Meeting after four years as an independent partnerships and the varied challenges it faces non-executive director.
Rob has been a diligent indifferent markets and regions around the world.
director and we are sorry to lose him though we Accordingly, the board has decided that a staged will still have the benefit of his wisdom in his capacity handover of responsibilities will ensure appropriate as Chairman of the supervisory board ofRoyal continuity and best serve the interests of the group Grolsch NV in the Netherlands.
We are grateful for and its shareholders.
Hence the one-year interim his contribution during his time at SABMiller and we period before the intended change of roles at the wish him the very best for thefuture.
Outlook Trading conditions are expected to be broadly The senior management unchanged with further growth in our developing changes are consistent with the markets but no more than modest improvements groups long-standing policy of inconsumer spending in some more developed economies.
We will continue to develop and developing strong leaders within differentiate our brand portfolios, taking the business.
opportunities to improve sales mix and raise prices selectively.
Unit input costs are expected to rise Job specifications setting out the respective inmid-single digits in constant currency terms.
authorities and responsibilities of the Executive Chairman and Chief Operating Officer have Focus will be maintained on cost effectiveness, beenagreed by the board and the directors are including synergy delivery in Australia, and on confidentthat Graham and Alan will continue to expanding our globally-managed procurement work effectively together during the transition programmes.
While healthy cash generation will andthereafter.
Any risk of an over-concentration again be a priority, targeted investments in ofdecision-making powers in one person will be production capacity, marketing and sales capability mitigated by the fact that John Manser, our senior and business systems will continue in order to drive independent non-executive director and chairman medium-term growth.
of the audit committee, will in addition become Deputy Chairman of the board.
