Donald Brydon, Chairman 2 Chairmans statement The Sage Group has again delivered a solid performance in the face of an economic backdrop which remained difficult and uncertain in many of our major markets This is my first report as your Chairman and I am pleased to report have been clear that it will take time for the strategy to bear that the Group performed creditably in the past year in the face of fruit fully, it is also clear that the foundations are in place and that an economic backdrop which remained difficult and uncertain in momentum has been established.
It is not easy to make many of our major markets.
I have been impressed by the strong changes of this magnitude at a time of economic uncertainty, fundamentals of Sages business: our unmatched footprint with and I recognise the courage and commitment of everyone small to medium sized companies, the recurring nature of our involved in driving the business forward on this important journey.
revenues and strong cash generation.
Above all, it is the strength Elsewhere in this Report, the Chief Executive will set out progress of our relationship with our customers and partners, and our ability against the strategy.
A focus on shareholder returns is at the heart to meet their needs, which differentiates us in the market and of the strategy and the work of the Board.
The Board believes provides us with significant opportunities to grow.
that high-quality and sustainable long-term revenue and earnings A feature of the year has been continued good progress in driving growth, combined with a disciplined approach to capital allocation, recurring revenue and I am encouraged by the progress made with should drive superior returns for shareholders.
Sage has a sound our initiatives to develop more active relationships with our reputation for capital allocation discipline and the Board will customers.
Embedding more valuable support contracts or continue to ensure such discipline is maintained.
integrating a payment solution with the core accounting function Expectations about the value added by Boards are rightly high.
are important examples but there is considerable opportunity to There is much debate about corporate governance: good continue to improve the value of our relationship with our customers.
corporate governance is about helping to run the Company well A key characteristic of this relationship is giving our customers the and the exercise of a mindset to do what is right.
A successful confidence to achieve their business ambitions.
The importance Board requires the right interaction between individuals and a of this is amplified in a climate that makes such confidence fragile.
mixture of skills and outlooks that brings balanced judgements The resilience of our performance demonstrates the value we add and the ability to rise above the day-to-day detail.
The Board sets to customers through the products, services and support we the tone for the Company.
It is also testament to the quality of our people As to our Board itself, the past year has seen some important and the quality of what they do and it is important to recognise the changes.
In September 2012, Tony Hobson retired from the Board.
excellence of our employees who help to support our customers.
Tony joined the Board in 2004, acting as Chairman since 2007.
He We know how our business performs in the face of challenging made a considerable contribution to Sage, particularly as Chairman markets and we will make business decisions appropriately.
We are and in helping Guy to transition to the CEO role and to cement his confident in our ability to grow recurring revenue strongly in all but senior team.
David Clayton, formerly Group Director of Strategy the most severe of economic headwinds whilst we recognise that and Corporate Development, retired from the Board at the Annual growth in licence revenue remains more closely linked to GDP General Meeting in February 2012.
David had been on the Board growth.
In the current environment, this means we can continue of Sage in both non-executive and executive roles since 2004, to invest in our strategic initiatives with confidence.
I am pleased providing great authority and experience and making a significant to report that we have done so during the year, not least with our contribution to the success of Sage in recent years.
We wish both significant investment in Brazil and in our technology priorities Tony and David well.
such as Sage One, hybrid cloud and Sage ERP X3.
Importantly, Sage remains in a strong position to weather any economic storms we have made this investment whilst maintaining margins, and to take advantage of the compelling opportunities to deliver demonstrating our relentless focus on the judicious use of capital and disciplinedexecution.
accelerated growth from our core business.
Whilst much remains to be done, a continued focus on disciplined execution means we I believe this is an exciting time in the corporate evolution of Sage.
can look forward to the future challenges and opportunities with The leadership team at Sage, ably led by Guy Berruyer, is focused increased confidence and optimism.
on delivering a step-change in the level of growth and in the quality of revenue driving growth.
Since joining the Board, I have been On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Guy and all of our struck by the determination and focus across the business to people for their dedication and focus on our commitment to execute the plans to deliver the full potential of Sage.
Whilst we performance improvement and value creation for shareholders.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 3 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview
