Section 3 | Our performance Chairmans Statement It was, I suggest, impossible to experience the atmosphere in the Olympic stadium on 11 August 2012, up on ones feet applauding Mo Farahs amazing 5,000 metre gold medal, and not be proud to be British.
It was eTually impossible not to be proud to be Chairman of Serco given the awless performance of our Docklands Light Railway and Barclays Cycle Hire contracts during the period of the Olympic Games.
All across the Group in our Board, executive, management and operations we felt the weight of the responsibility for not only transporting a significant proportion of the spectators to Britains most important sporting showcase, but for ensuring our other London-based contracts, such as Court Escorting, continued to work as expected during this most unusual period.
That everything functioned exactly as planned is testament to the foresight, capability, commitment and ingenuity of all those involved.
In all parts of Serco, when I visit our contracts I meet people who have business into a shape to be able to better support our customers and the same commitment to service, to making a difference through helping deliver our strategy over the next five or so years.
Serco now has three those with whom they work while at the same time delivering against distinct areas of regional focus: UK & Europe: Americas: and AMEAA: our promises.
I have witnessed this ability to reconcile efficiency and and one area of sector specialism our Global Services BPO division.
humanity in such diverse areas as the way our electronic monitoring This reorganisation equips Serco to increase our exposure to international teams deal with new offenders: the way our staff supporting the US growth markets: builds a significant private, alongside our majority public Veterans Agency interact with returning war-ghters: and the way our sector customer base: creates an ability to bring together expertise teams in Australia handle those seeking immigrant entry to the country.
across back and middle ofce, and our historic strength in frontline This ethos is deeply ingrained in Serco and is enshrined in our Governing services: and slims us down to a much tighter concentration of functions Principles, which set out clearly and succinctly the behaviours by which at the centre.
Accompanying this restructuring is the proactive management of our Our desire to look beyond the confines of the contract and to put portfolio by assessing the strategic t of particular operations, together something back into the communities in which we work, is amply with their expected future levels of performance and returns.
As a evidenced by the amount raised each year by our people for a wide consequence we disposed of four operations during the year.
At the same variety of charitable causes.
In recognition, the Board has decided that time we took advantage of opportunities to add further scale and depth the most appropriate way to mark Sercos 25th year as a publicly traded of capability to Global Services through the acquisition of the UK public company is to establish, with an endowment of 5m, an independent sector BPO operations of Vertex: and strengthened our position as charitable foundation with the mission of helping charities be even more a leading defence services provider, as well as increasing our exposure effective through the application of Sercos people, skills and capabilities.
to the growing marine services market in Australia, by acquiring the remaining 50% of DMS Maritime.
Another of Sercos four Governing Principles is to foster an entrepreneurial culture, in particular, to embrace change and, by taking measured risks, The benefit of this portfolio shift is already starting to evidence itself.
The management team has successfully Over the last two years the proportion of our turnover derived from implemented significant change during the past year, restructuring the outside the UK has increased to 44%, while the value of our BPO 18 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 Fiona Stanley Hospital, Perth, Australia Global Services supporting retail customers, UK Docklands Light Railway, London, UK contracts has risen to 15%.
These changes in turn reect the continued At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting we say goodbye to David excellent revenue growth in AMEAA and the successful launch of Global Richardson.
David joined the Board of Serco inune 2003 and has served as Chairman of our Audit Committee for the past nine years and as Senior Services, in part offset by the very difficult US environment.
Turnover in 2003 was 1.6bn, With a large and high growth addressable market, Global Services has compared with 4.9bn in the year just ended, such has been the extent of established itself very strongly with major new wins, for example, in retail change over the period David has been a Director.
I would like to extend customer contact, life and pensions transaction processing, and NHS to him the thanks of the Board for his wise counsel during this journey shared service centre operations.
Through the successful integration and our best wishes for the future.
In Davids place as Audit Chair I am of related operations over the course of 2012, we have established Serco delighted to welcome Malcolm Wyman, who joined the Board with effect as a leading provider of BPO services, with extensive opportunities in the from 1 -anuary 2013.
Malcolm has a long and distinguished career having private sector and uniquely positioned to offer integrated services through retired in 2011 after ten years as Chief Financial officer of SAB Miller, joint bids with our frontline regional divisions.
a period of substantial international expansion for the group.
He is also a non-executive director of Imperial Tobacco and is SID and Audit Chair We see the potential for sustained strong growth in the AMEAA region, at the Nedbank Group.
with real GDP growth alongside a drive by governments to invest in social infrastructure, in particular in justice, health and transport.
A small Finally, may I once again thank our shareholders for their continued but significant step was achieved by winning our first frontline services support and for the time they have devoted to maintaining an active contract in India, to operate a dedicated bus corridor in the city of Indore.
dialogue with our management and our Board.
Given the breadth Not only does this provide Serco with a foothold in the rapidly developing and diversity of our business, we aim to ensure that our shareholders public transportation sector in India, but it also demonstrates how understand our objectives and the challenges to their achievement.
our achievements elsewhere in the world can support our entry into new Where relevant, such as on matters relating to remuneration, we seek markets.
In this case, our management of complex transport systems to consult with them at an early stage and take their input into account such as the DLR, the Dubai Metro and the Barclays Cycle Hire scheme, as we develop our thinking.
In turn I, and my colleagues on the Board, were particularly relevant.
Similarly, earlier in the year Serco was awarded are always available should there be issues they would like to discuss the contract to provide and operate the innovative Wiri prison in in more detail.
New Zealand, building on our experience in custodial services across New Zealand, Australia and the UK.
Alastair Lyons CBE Chairman The UK continues to account for more than half our turnover and, whilst we encountered some headwinds in 2012 from contract attrition, we continue to view the market outlook as positive.
This is supported by the underlying economic pressures on government to deliver more services for less, and the approach to introducing more competition, choice and innovation, as set out in the Public Services White Paper.
The Americas have presented us with the toughest trading conditions, with new contract awards being constrained by the inability to agree federal government funding.
Although this underlying uncertainty remains unresolved, the US is still the worlds largest outsourcing and BPO market.
We are, therefore, confident that having a significant established presence will reap dividends for the Group in the future.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 19 Our performance Financial Governance statements
