Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2 Chairmans statement Sound financial results Im delighted to report on Severn Trent has a good financial track record and we delivered another solid set of results in 2011 12.
Total group revenue another good year for Severn rose by 3.5% to 1.77 billion, while our profit before tax, exceptional items and Trent.
We delivered sound losses on financial instruments was 275.3 million, a decrease of 4.6%.
Thisgave us adjusted earnings per share financial results and continued excluding deferred tax of 88.9 pence, down by 15.8%.
to improve key aspects of our Our dividend policy is to grow our dividend by 3% more than the retail price operational performance.
The board is therefore proposing a final dividend of Andrew Duff, Chairman 42.06 pence, to be paid on 27 July 2012.
Thiswill give a total dividend for the yearof 70.10 pence, representing growthof 7.7%.
We are pleased to share the benets ofour strong balance sheet with our stakeholders, in an efficient and sustainable way which maintains ourinvestment grade credit rating.
Wewillincrease by 150 million our investment programme in our water andwaste water networks, to improve further our services to customers, andpropose to return an additional 150million to ourshareholders.
Thisspecial dividend, subject to shareholder approval, equates to 63pence per share and will be payable withthe final dividend on 27July 2012.
These actions underpin our ability to invest in our networks in the future, forthe benefit of all stakeholders.
Continually improving ourperformance Im delighted that at Severn Trent Waterwe improved our operational performance in 2011 12.
In particular, we were able to reduce leakage, to a record low level.
Severn Trent Water is theonly company targeting significant reductions in leakage over this five year regulatoryperiod.
After the driest 18 months on record, itispleasing that we are managing our water resources so well.
Our customers continued to receive a high quality water supply and we have avoided a hosepipe ban to date.
Good water management also helps us to maintain our environmental performance.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 3 Chairmans statement At Severn Trent, we know that we Were always looking for ways to help our apprentices, Michael Williams, won the canalways do better.
The desire to people work more safely and that is why national EEF Outstanding Achievement continuously improve runs right through we are introducing the MindSafety by a Final Year Apprentice Award, for our company.
We enjoyed our first full behavioural training programme which introducing process changes that year in our new operating centre in encourages our people to be aware of improved efficiency and reliability and Coventry which is helping our people what theyre doing and to be saved us money.
towork together more effectively as a accountable for their own safety.
Taking Severn Trent Services cohesive team.
Our SAP-based systems care over health and safety can also help Severn Trent Services had a challenging allow us to respond to our customers us to improve performance in a whole start to the year, while the second half more quickly and exibly and make us range of other areas such as service saw an improved performance.
Were also continuing to quality, environmental compliance and revenues were 332.3 million, an invest in the training and development productivity of our teams.
increase of 0.6% year on year, after ofour people so they can give our Changing Course adjusting for the impact of changes customers the best possible service.
Over the last few years, Severn Trent has inexchange rates, driven by good Delivering a good service and sought to lead the debate on our performance in Europe offsetting a weak 1 valuefor money industrys future by publishing a series of protbefore interest US result.
PBIT Severn Trent Water customers over the papers called Changing Course.
During andtax was 18.0 million, a decline of last year have received high quality water, the year, we published our latest paper 26.5%, onaconstant currency basis, good overall service and value for money, making the case for a new system of duetoinvestments in new business with the lowest average annual water water trading to allow water to be opportunities, a change in product mix and sewerage bill in the UK.
However, shared across water company inour water purication division and werecognise that we can do better in boundaries as an economic and economic conditions.
Interest in our new the way in which we deal with customers environmental alternative to developing BALPURE ballast water treatment if they have reason to contact us.
products was greater than expected, with initial orders generating 5 million Whilst complaints have signicantly We were therefore delighted to see inrecorded orders.
fallen and our new processes and strong UK Government support for systems mean that we handle customer increasing interconnection and the Summary enquiries efficiently, we do not always trading of bulk supplies of treated water This has been another good year for make it easy enough for customers to in its Water White Paper, Water For Life, Severn Trent.
Weve improved our deal with us or resolve their problems at published during the year.
With last operational performance and the the first time of asking.
This is an area of years drought conditions in parts of efficiency of our investment, allowing us focus for us and at the end of the year England, including the Midlands, to deliver sustainable returns to our we were seeing positive signs that the continuing into the new year, far sighted shareholders and the lowest cost of changes we are putting in place are ideas like this will become a necessity water and waste water services to our making a difference.
asEngland and Wales addresses its customers.
Im particularly grateful to all water balance.
I am also pleased to see the continued of the staff at Severn Trent for their improvement in the level of service we contribution to our success.
contribution to our su Boosting the economy provide to our customers.
In other areas, andemployment Severn Trent Water has met its leakage Severn Trent contributes signicantly to targets and signicantly reduced the economy.
We build much needed interruptions to supply.
Andrew Duff infrastructure and finance it efficiently, Chairman soits not a burden on the public sector.
Health and safety Our business provides many job There is nothing more essential than opportunities and boosts the economy.
thehealth and safety of our customers, employees and contractors.
Im therefore Im also delighted that we provide long particularly pleased that, across the term careers for the young people of our company, we reduced the number of region.
Our apprenticeship programme is employee lost time injuries for the third going from strength to strength, helping successive year.
Our annual employee young people into work and making sure survey showed that95% of our people that we have the skills well need in the were clear about how to do their jobs future.
We currently have 81 apprentices safely and 89% believed that we give across customer service, water and them the right support to do so.
