Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 $ERXW 6KDQNV Chairmans statement Our investment programme is generating good The Groups strategy of providing returns and we have delivered earnings growth despite continued tough economic conditions.
Inparticular, activity levels in the Benelux region sustainable waste management have remained slow.
However, our business centres on making more from waste and solutions has continued to gain wehad another good year in this respect.
Ourrecycling and recovery rate reached an traction thisyear.
all-time high for the Group at 78%.
This is an industry-leading level of recycling and reects ourstrategic focus on sustainable alternatives tolandll and mass incineration.
We have continued to make investments in new infrastructure during the year, as we have throughout this recession.
This ongoing investment has been enabled by managements continued actions on trading and operational gains, together with tight cost and cash management.
The combination of new facilities coming on line, and lean operations, will put us in a strong position as underlying economies improve.
We were disappointed not to progress a number of UK municipal waste contracts, however our PFI portfolio has performed very well.
We achieved financial close on the 750m Barnsley, Doncaster and Rotherham contract in March 2012 and our existing PFI businesses have continued to perform strongly with significant improvements in trading margins to the 9%10% range.
This represents a significant turnaround from the loss making position just three years ago and we are confident the gains will be sustained.
Our Benelux business produced a robust performance in tough markets with Hazardous Waste delivering strong profit gains from international contract growth.
This helped offset domestic price pressures in the Solid Waste business resulting from lower volumes and incineration overcapacity, particularly in theNetherlands.
The industry in which we operate continues to evolve at pace.
The challenge of protecting the environment and developing new sources of energy, while stimulating economic growth is intensifying.
At the same time, society needs to deal with waste in a more responsible way than simply burying or burning it.
Shanks is well placed to provide both cost-effective and sustainable waste management solutions.
In our treatment processes we also produce valuable products, including green energy, recovered fuel and recyclates that minimise our reliance on nite raw materials.
We therefore continue to invest in sustainable facilities and technologies that will meet future needs and improve the world we live in, as well as generate strong returns forshareholders.
LQDQFLDO SRVLWLRQ At the year-end the ratio of core net debt to EBITDA stood at 1.7 times, well within our $GULDQ $XHU Group Chairman banking covenant test of 3 times and our target $ERXW 6KDQNV Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 of less than 2.5 times.
This has been achieved &RUSRUDWH RYHUQDQFH 8QGHUO LQJ through operational delivery and robust cash The Board is committed to the highest standards management.
Following there-nancing last year HDUQLQJV SHU of corporate governance.
Details on our which extended our debt prole, we now have VKDUH IRU WKH processes and approach, including those relating funding in place with maturities in the three to six to the role and effectiveness of the Board and year range, at an average cost of 5%.
Thisstable HDU JUHZ compliance with the Governance Code are set and exible funding structure is anessential E WR out in the Governance section on pages 68 to 74. platform upon which tobuild our future growth.
&RUSRUDWH 5HVSRQVLELOLW DUQLQJV SHU VKDUH DQG GLYLGHQG I am pleased to report continued progress in Underlying earnings per share for the year grew 7.
2p delivering against our nine clear Corporate by 11% to 7.2 pence.
Consistent with our stated Responsibility commitments.
These include policy of maintaining dividend cover between quantied targets for carbon avoidance, employee 2and 2.5times, the Board will be recommending wellbeing and recycling and recovery rates.
a final dividend of 2.35 pence per share, payable Further details are given on pages 38 to 41 of this on 1August 2012 to shareholders on the register report.
Our ongoing focus in these areas has once on 6 July 2012.
It remains the Boards intention to again been recognised by Shanks inclusion in the pursue a progressive dividend policy as earnings independently assessed FTSE4Good Index.
Shanks has one of the lowest reported accident 3HRSOH gures in the waste industry.
However we will not be satisfied until we have zero accidents and this The Board was pleased to appoint Peter Dilnot as remains a key goal.
Our Group-wide Action on the Groups new Chief Executive, who joined us Safety initiative has been led strongly by the from Danaher Corporation on 1 February 2012.
Groups senior management and significant time We would like to express our appreciation to Tom has been invested in conducting safety audits Drury, Peters predecessor, for his leadership and and improvements throughout our operations.
contribution during his four years as Chief Executive.
The initiative has raised the overall performance We would also like to thank Chris Surch for his role of health and safety across the Group and has as Acting Chief Executive until Peters arrival.
been instrumental in reducing our RIDDOR rates Once again, on behalf of the Board, I would liketo by 13% this year.
We have made progress, but thank all Shanks employees for their tremendous will continue and intensify our efforts in this area.
efforts in providing excellent services to our customers during another challenging year.
6XPPDU Ourpeople are the key to our future success and We are pleased with the progress made on under Peters overall leadership we are increasing executing our strategy this year.
The underlying the focus on developing the Groups teams and growth from our investment programme remains capabilities.
To improve understanding of what strong and the executive management are taking Shanks does for its people and their contribution positive action to build a leaner and more focused to the Group, we have introduced a new section business.
We will up the pace of our execution on Our culture and people in this report see further in the year ahead.
This should deliver pages 34 to 37. short-term earnings growth with significant It is increasingly important for us to understand the acceleration once economic conditions improve.
full range of our peoples capabilities, skills and Shanks Group uses sustainable and cost-effective perspectives.
We have many talented people in the technologies to make valuable products from Group and embracing diversity further will help waste.
In doing so, we can deliver solutions create a stronger team.
Managing and building a tosocietys environmental challenges while diverse workforce is not only the right thing to do, generating good returns for our shareholders.
it is also valuable for our business.
By effectively harnessing all of our peoples talents we will be Thank you for your continued support.
more innovative and serve our customers better.
On 14 May 2012 the Board announced that Chris Surch, Group Finance Director, will be leaving the Company with effect from 31 August 2012, to join FirstGroup plc as Group Finance Director.
Wewill be sorry to see Chris go, but we can see that this is an exciting new challenge for him andwe are grateful to Chris for the significant contribution he has made over the last three years.
A search for his $GULDQ $XHU successor has commenced.
