Chairmans review At Shire we have always embraced change as an opportunity to become even better.
Looking ahead, we are well prepared to enjoy the next chapter of growth in our ongoing story.
Matthew Emmens Chairman We have enjoyed another strong year at Shire.
This is particularly 2012 highlights pleasing, given the backdrop of challenges across the pharmaceuticals industry and the world economy.
We have enjoyed another strong year Over the years we have established a fantastic record of growth, We have a solid foundation for built on the vision and leadership of successive Chief Executives and the talent, skills and dedication of all our employees.
Our going forward success is a credit to both the individuals involved and the unique We are well positioned for continued culture of Shire.
global growth Focusing on patients We continue to follow our strategy of focusing on meeting the needs of selected groups of patients with conditions where we have products and expertise.
We have always had this specialised approach and continue to believe it is the right strategy for the future.
But around this core principle is the need to adapt and evolve.
We are never complacent and we will continue to change, to keep the Company competitive, keep it growing and moving forward.
This is everyones job in Shire.
Change is our strength The ability of the Company to change is its greatest strength.
It has enabled Shire to progress from a small company only offering one treatment in one market to becoming a multifaceted specialist company offering patient solutions around the world.
For us change is the responsible thing to do.
By changing in the right way we maintain and live up to our role as an industry leader but more importantly offer patients medicines and hope not there before.
4 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Overview Change has also been a feature of the Board in recent years.
We now have a complex multinational business and the Board has evolved accordingly.
We have the right balance of skill sets and experience to enable continued success.
Membership includes pharmaceutical backgrounds, as well as those with depth in finance, international banking, private equity, medicine and science.
Courage and wisdom Change takes courage its a key outcome of our brave culture.
You need to know what to change and how to change it and you need to have the right people in place, with the right attitude at the right time.
Speaking of the right people, we have been very fortunate to have had Angus Russell as Chief Executive over the last several years his contributions have been many.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank Angus for his excellent leadership that has brought the Company to where it stands today and we wish him and his family well in his retirement.
With the retirement of Angus, I am confident that his successor, Dr. Flemming Ornskov, will lead us to the next level of success and international growth.
Flemming comes with an impressive set of skills and considerable international experience, including working with both large and small companies.
And his background as a physician will be a great asset to ensure we keep our patient focus.
I look forward to working closely with Flemming in the months and years ahead.
We also welcomed Dr. Steven Gillis to the Board of Directors this year, he brings deep technical and scientific knowledge as well as an entrepreneurial approach.
Continuing to grow and succeed Looking ahead, we have a sound strategy and we are committed to continue to grow internationally, to increase our patient focus and add even greater value.
For us, a changing world is a good thing.
Its an opportunity to see the world differently: to seize the initiative and ultimately strengthen the business and ensure continued growth and success.
W We e e em mp pllo oy y o ove v r 5,300 Lead pe peo ople in ple A Acting like a leader 2 29 9 coun count tr riie es m means being responsible b by taking ownership and in nuencing in our own w way, being prepared t to go first, to speak u up and to c challenge the s status quo.
S S Sh Sh Sh Sh Sh hire iiiire re re re e e plc plc plc plc plc plc plc plc lc lc lc lc lc c c c c c c c c A An An An An An An An An n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n nnu nua nua ual R l R l R Re ep ep ep epo po po o ort rt rt rt rt t 20 20 20 20 01 01 1 1 12 2 2 2 2 5 5
