Directors report | Business review | Chairmans statement 14 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BY ANY STANDARDS, AN INCREASE OF 11% IN REVENUE AND 17% IN ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT IN THE CURRENT CLIMATE IS A FINE PERFORMANCE.
I concluded my statement last year with the expectation that we would achieve growth in sales and adjusted operating profit this year with the latter weighted towards the second half.
I am therefore pleased that we have been able to report results throughout the course of the year that have met those expectations, despite the enduring challenges of subdued economic growth and continued pressure on consumer disposable incomes in the worlds developed economies.
By any standards, an increase of 11% in revenue and 17% in adjusted operating profit in the current climate is a ne performance.
This resulted in an 18% increase in adjusted earnings per share to 87.2p.
Charles Sinclair AB Sugar delivered a first-class result, Chairman exceeding last years record profit following the investment made in recent years.
The business benefited from an excellent UK campaign, a strong European commercial market and better sugar yields across southern Africa.
Primarks rate of growth increased this year with sales of 3.5bn, more than double those of five years ago.
It was particularly exciting to see new store openings in Germany greeted with the same degree of customer enthusiasm as that experienced in the UK, with Berlin setting a new Primark record for sales made on the first day of trading.
ABAgri also had a very good year.
In recent years this business has evolved successfully from selling traditional animal feeds in the UK to producing high-value premixes, enzymes and technical ingredients and providing value-adding advisory and marketing services to the global agricultural market.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Business review | Chairmans statement 15 This year was not without its challenges, Employees however, as evidenced by the results of The trading environment for many of our FOLLOWING LAST our Grocery and Ingredients business businesses has been difficult this year and, segments.
Although Twinings Ovaltine while credit is clearly due to those who delivered another good result with have made progress, those working in YEARS CASH continued growth, particularly in its the businesses most affected by adverse developing markets, a mix of strong market conditions are, perhaps, all the more OUTFLOW, THE competition, a continued strain on deserving of our thanks and appreciation consumer spending and high costs for for their strenuous efforts.
On behalf of LOWER LEVEL OF a number of commodities led to lower shareholders, I thank all our employees profitability in both of these segments.
for the contribution they have made A combination of management action to the groups success in the past year.
CAPITAL INVESTMENT to reduce the cost base together with Primark has created 10,000 new jobs increased investment in marketing and new TOGETHER WITH THE across the UK and continental Europe product development, enabled most of the this year at a time of high unemployment, businesses in these segments to enter the particularly for young people.
The average HIGHER PROFIT AND new financial year on a sound footing.
It number of people employed by the was, nevertheless, disappointing that earlier group worldwide increased during the this year we announced that these actions LOWER WORKING year to 106,000. were not sufficient to avoid a non-cash impairment of the Don KRC assets in Dividends CAPITAL RESULTED Australia.
However this business has already I am pleased to report that a final dividend made substantial operational improvements of 20.0p is proposed, to be paid on and a recovery plan is in place.
It is noteworthy 11 January 2013 to shareholders on the IN A STRONG CASH that even if adjusted earnings are reduced register on 7 December 2012.
Together by this exceptional charge they still show with the interim dividend of 8.5p paid on FLOW THIS YEAR.
6 July 2012, this will make a total of 28.5p for the year, an increase of 15%.
Recent years have seen substantial capital Following last years cash outow, the investment in the food businesses with a Outlook lower level of capital investment together Global economic uncertainty looks set to number of projects spanning several years.
with the higher profit and lower working These have now largely come to an end remain a feature of the new financial year capital resulted in a strong cash ow and our capital expenditure was lower as a and in recent months we have seen an this year.
Even taking into account the result.
Investment during the year included increase in some of our commodity costs, acquisition of Elephant Atta for 34m, construction of the relocated sugar factory notably cereals.
We expect a reduction in net debt at the year end was 224m at Zhangbei in China and a new yeast plant profit from AB Sugar, as a result of lower lower at 1,061m.
As we continued to pursue EU production, to be more than offset by the big retail expansion opportunity in further growth at Primark and some recovery Directors continental Europe, capital expenditure in Grocery.
We therefore expect the group As announced last November, we on Primark reached 326m last year, to make some further progress in this new welcomed Emma Adamo to the board at and we expect a high level of expenditure financial year but, in contrast to last year, the conclusion of last years annual general on Primark to continue.
this will be weighted towards the first half.
Emma was educated at Stanford University and INSEAD and is a director of Charles Sinclair Wittington Investments Limited.
Chairman Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012
