marketplace and sustainability financial review corporate accounts and overview strategy and performance business segment review review and principal risks governance other information section 1 overview 5 Chairmans statement Our financial strength and confidence in continued strategic progress enabled the Board to review the dividend policy during the year.
Board changes We were very pleased that Julie Brown joined us as Chief Financial Officer in February 2013.
She brings top-level financial expertise, commercial experience and a deep knowledge of the healthcare sector.
Julie replaces Adrian Hennah who left with our very best wishes and thanks for his significant contribution to Smith & Nephew.
We have also welcomed two new Non-Executive Directors during 2012.
Ajay Piramal is one of Indias most impressive businessmen and Baroness Bottomley brings a wealth of experience from her successful career across both private and public sectors.
We said farewell to Rolf Stomberg and Dear shareholder, Genevive Berger, who we also thank for their valuable Smith & Nephew made good progress in 2012, both input.
financially and strategically, as we delivered on our In April, we shall welcome Michael Friedman to our commitments to reshape the Company.
Board who is renowned for his US healthcare expertise, Our underlying revenues were up 2% to $4,137m, with in particular gained leading the prestigious City of Hope reported revenue reflecting the successful transaction cancer institution in California.
Trading profit was up 6% underlying at $965m, giving an 80 basis points increase in trading Thank you profit margin, which was up at 23.3%.
Free cash flow, at $637m, was again healthy, demonstrating the vitality of My Board colleagues and I visited a number of our global ourbusiness.
We welcome these opportunities to meet our employees, and would like to thank everyone at This performance shows the effects of the major strategic Smith & Nephew for their continued dedication to serving programme announced last year to make Smith & our customers.
Nephew fit and effective for the future.
Throughout the year we made great progress driving efficiencies and We are also fortunate to meet and hear from shareholders liberating resources.
This has allowed us to invest to regularly, both institutional and private.
Your support and realise the opportunities we see in our higher growth feedback are both appreciated, and continue to inform markets and sectors.
We have achieved all this and maintained our commitment Smith & Nephew is evolving.
We are already seeing the to health and safety, ethics and the environment.
material benefits of our choices and actions.
There is much more to come and we look forward to continuing tobuild ever more value for you into the future.
Enhanced returns for shareholders Our financial strength and confidence in continued strategic progress enabled the Board to review the dividend policy during the year.
As a result, we increased the level of the Interim Dividend payment by 50% to 9.9 per share.
The Board is pleased to propose a Final Dividend for the year of 16.2 per share, also up 50% on 2011.
We intend to pursue a progressive Sir John Buchanan dividend policy going forward.
Chairman 015914 Smith&Nephew AR12 p1-09 Working Copy.
indd 5 26 02 2013 09:26 6 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2012 Strategy and performance 2 This section outlines the Groups growth strategy, and what has been done to deliver against thisstrategy.
Creating sustainable value 7 Chief Executive Officers review of strategy 8 How the Group measures its strategic performance 16 015914 Smith&Nephew AR12 p1-09 Working Copy.
