Chairmans statement Despite another year of challenging economic conditions, Smiths Group again delivered a generally strong performance by exploiting the benefits of its broad portfolio of businesses serving diverse markets, sectors and geographies.
Revenue grew across all divisions while margins improved in all but Smiths Interconnect.
Our successful self-help programmes are delivering leaner business structures, enhanced global procurement, and improved information systems that have helped offset the impact of squeezed government budgets and weak or zero growth across much of the world.
The seemingly interminable Eurozone crisis and the continuing fallout from the 2008 financial collapse have continued to sap business confidence worldwide, serving only to underline the importance of maintaining our focus on greater operational efficiencies and accelerated revenue growth.
Our efforts to manage and improve those business areas within our control continue to make impressive headway.
The Company continues to battle headwinds from legacy issues: quantitative easing is putting pressure on cash-ow in relation to pension funds and the unpredictable nature of the US legal system is making product liability management a priority.
Nonetheless cash generation has remained very strong.
Investing in new products Investment in research and development, the lifeblood of a technology company like Smiths Group, now totals some 117m a year.
This Donald Brydon supports our strategy of channelling funds towards the high-margin Chairman products that will drive future sales.
The year has seen the launch of a number of exciting new products.
These included a revolutionary checked baggage scanner which combines X-ray technology with CT Computed Tomography.
Smiths Detections XCT scanner has now been certied by the EU and is due for US certication later this year.
Smiths Medical has introduced a more sophisticated, but user-friendly, version of its safety catheter.
The ViaValve protects not only against needlestick injuries but also blood contamination, a telling advantage as countries tighten their health safety regulations.
In the fast-moving world of communications networks, Smiths Interconnects new Kaelus lter allows greater two-way broadband trafc by minimising the breadth of the electronic median needed to prevent interference between outgoing and incoming data.
Such breakthroughs highlight our strongly market-orientated R&D culture, focused rmly on products that generate the best returns and hold the most promise for long-term revenue.
Consequently, Smiths Group is well placed to capitalise on the sales growth opportunities that will surely emerge when the global economy nally recovers on a sustainable basis.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 14 Expanding in emerging markets and through acquisitions Headline revenue As western economies stagnate, the drive to expand our geographic Up to 3,038m footprint in the emerging, fast-growing markets of Asia and Latin America continues apace.
7% Smiths Medical has boosted sales and marketing in selected Read more on page 19 emerging markets with 250 additional staff and Smiths Detection has and in note 1 on page 102 opened its first X-ray production facility in Malaysia to meet the rapidly increasing demand from the Asian aviation market.
These moves help maintain a momentum already underpinned by the bolt-on purchases of a number of companies with significant presence in emerging markets and the integration of Smiths Detections distributors in India and Brazil.
The Board visited Brazil in May to learn first-hand about the market opportunities for John Crane, Smiths Medical and Headline operating profit Smiths Detection.
Up to 554m Adding complementary technologies is another of our core strategic criteria, exemplied by Smiths Interconnects $235m purchase of 7% Power Holdings Inc. PDI, a leading designer and manufacturer of Read more on pages 19 and 50 specialist power distribution systems.
and in note 1 on page 102 and note 3 on page 106 The recent disposal of our stake in Cross Match Technologies for $70m underlined our strategy of managing our portfolio more actively through acquisitions that meet our strategic objectives, as with PDI, and disposals that realise additional value for our shareholders.
Changes to the Board On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Stuart Chambers for his Statutory revenue valuable contribution over the past six years, particularly as Chair of Up to 3,030m the Remuneration Committee.
Anne Quinn, a non-executive director since July 2009, will assume what is an ever more demanding role in 7% the current corporate environment.
Read more on page 19 and I also welcome Tanya Fratto to the Board.
A qualied electrical in note 1 on pages 104-105 engineer, Tanya brings a wealth of skills and international experience, particularly of operating in the US and in taking a range of new products to market.
She will also serve on the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
With solid backgrounds in energy, defence, healthcare, international manufacturing and finance, your Board of Directors possesses an impressive bank of expertise as bets a global and inclusive company like Smiths Group.
Statutory operating profit Down to 407m The appointment of Tanya has the added bonus of lifting the representation of women on the Board to 25%, a central aspiration of the recent Davies Report.
-7% We have included for the first time in this annual report statements Read more on page 19 and from the Chairs of the key Board committees setting out their key in note 1 on page 102 and activities during the year.
note 4 on page 107 Managing talent and promoting responsibility Below Board level, recruitment and development of our people is equally imperative to the long-term future of the Group.
We have two major new programmes designed to accelerate our employee development: a global Horizons programme for emerging talent at junior levels and a senior Leadership Development programme, Aspire2, which will be operational this year.
These are another sign of our determination to continue raising the performance bar at all levels.
The steady improvement in our business operations over the past four years has been matched by our safety record, driven by a continued focus on promoting a culture of responsibility.
Lost time and recordable incident rates declined again and the trend is the same in the key environmental metrics of energy, greenhouse gas emissions, waste generation and water consumption.
Detailed information on health, safety, environment and business ethics are contained in our corporate responsibility report.
Much as I would like to close my statement on an optimistic note, realism must prevail.
The outlook for the global economy remains gloomy with few convincing signs of a sustained recovery.
Nonetheless, much has again been achieved in a difficult year and great credit goes to Philip Bowman and our employees.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank our colleagues for their efforts in producing results that so clearly demonstrate their commitment to the long-term growth and prosperity of Smiths Group.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 15 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview
