14 GROUP OVERVIEW chairmans statement I am delighted to report the Groups strong operational and financial performance.
Growth has been achieved across the business with revenue and EBITDA growing impressively.
The Group has continued to deliver strong cash generation and our balance sheet remains solid.
Our industry-leading position, as the consumers champion, offering an unmatched range of products at the best available prices ensures we are well placed for the future.
We are constantly improving our business: enhancing the quality of our stores, investing in staff training and expanding our range Employee bonus share scheme of products.
The Employee Bonus Share Scheme has been a great motivator We are particularly pleased with the growth of our online business.
I believe this to be a pre-eminent reward scheme We have already announced the construction of an additional 1m in the UK, and am looking forward to August 2012 when c. 2,000 of sq.
ft of warehousing at our Shirebrook headquarters to cater for our staff will receive their share awards as the first part of the 2009 the increased demand and are actively exploring ways to improve Employee Bonus Share Scheme vests.
I am also very pleased that and extend customer interface with our systems.
these results show that we have achieved the first EBITDA target in the 2011 Bonus Share Scheme, which covers the four full Our newly created Premium Lifestyle division is already benefiting years 2012-15. from our systems and processes, and, although it will take some time to fully integrate these businesses, we are targeting returning On behalf of the Board I should like to thank all of our staff for their them to profit in FY13.
substantial contribution to our success.
Our investment in our Brands division gives us the means to expand our licensing business and gain a greater share of specic, if sometimes niche, markets.
Super-stretch bonus Dividend share scheme When deliberating on whether to make a dividend payment in respect of the Year, the Board assessed a variety of potential As the Company achieved the super-stretch FY12 Group investment opportunities and the Companys financial performance.
underlying EBITDA target, first announced in December 2011, Although FY12 results and cash ow performance were ahead of we shall be seeking shareholder approval at the 2012 Annual managements expectations as at December 2011, which means General Meeting for a Super-Stretch Executive Bonus Share that the balance sheet is stronger than originally expected, there are Scheme Super-Stretch Scheme for Mike Ashley, the Companys a number of inorganic growth opportunities under review.
This being the case, the Board believes that it is in shareholders best interests for the Company to maintain maximum exibility in As announced in April 2012, the Board increased the underlying the near term and therefore it has decided not to return any cash EBITDA targets for this Super-Stretch Scheme in light of the at this time.
The terms of the Super-Stretch Scheme are: s Mr Ashley will be granted eight million shares, which will vest in conclusion 2018, if two performance criteria are met: On behalf of the Board, I conclude by thanking all our the Company meets very stretching Group underlying EBITDA employees for their substantial contribution to our success.
This before all bonus schemes costs targets in each and all of the has been achieved in an extremely tough global economic and following three years: and retail environment.
the Companys net debt EBITDA ratio is at 1.5x or less in FY15.
Keith Hellawell The new targets for Group underlying EBITDA before the schemes Non-Executive Chairman costs are: 19 July 2012 s FY13: 270m 2011 Employee Bonus Share Scheme: 250m s FY14: 290m 2011 Employee Bonus Share Scheme: 260m s FY15: 340m 2011 Employee Bonus Share Scheme: 300m 15 bonus share scheme key performance indicators The charts below highlight the motivational impact of the Bonus Share Scheme: Salaried staff turnover Pay versus turnover Store stock loss cost Energy consumption per since FY09 cost index since the index since the FY09 sq.
