Chairmans statement The Group has delivered another strong set of results, achieving We are pleased to have been selected as a shortlisted bidder for growth across its bus and rail businesses in the UK and North each of Greater Western and Thameslink as part of the latest America.
We have met the challenges in our sector and the wider round of rail refranchising.
Our joint venture, Virgin Rail Group, economy and driven the business forward by developing has submitted an innovative and value for money bid for the innovative products and new ideas to make public transport new Intercity West Coast franchise.
Our focus continues to be on safe, We have invested further in our online retailing capability during good value, high quality bus and rail travel.
the year to support our fast-growing Internet sales.
This has High fuel prices and motoring costs have resulted in commuters, included a new website and related systems for our business customers and leisure travellers switching from the car megabus.
com brand as we expand to cover new locations in the and airlines to our better value bus, coach and rail services.
As UK, North America and in mainland Europe.
well as building on our record of strong operational delivery, we Revenue for the year to 30 April 2012 was 2,590.7m 2011: are investing in improved customer service.
Operating profit before intangible asset expenses technology to deliver quicker and smarter service information, and exceptional items was 237.2m 2011: 240.2m.
Earnings making our services easier to use.
per share before intangible asset expenses and exceptional items At the core of the Group are our regional bus operations in the were 6.7% higher at 25.4p 2011: 23.8p.
UK where we have achieved consistent organic growth over In line with the Groups strong performance, the Directors have several years.
Our devolved management teams understand their proposed a final dividend of 5.4p per share.
This gives a total local commercial markets and have achieved good financial dividend for the year up almost 10% at 7.8p 2011: 7.1p, in returns.
We have maintained our leading position as the UKs addition to the c. 340m of cash paid to shareholders during the best value major bus operator, despite cost increases and year.
The proposed final dividend is payable to shareholders on reduced Government spending on public transport.
In London, the register at 31 August 2012 and will be paid on 3 October our turnaround plan for the business we acquired in late 2010 is 2012. progressing well and we have won new contracts at more acceptable levels of profitability.
We have strong management teams at Group, divisional and regional operating level.
During the year, we put in place a North America is the fastest growing division in the Group and succession plan at our UK Bus division which will ensure a we are excited by the next phase of our growth plan for our smooth transition of responsibilities ahead of the retirement of budget coach brand, megabus.
com is a the Divisions current Managing Director in 2013.
We have also relatively small part of the Group, it offers good growth potential made key senior appointments at our South West Trains, East in North America and we have a clear plan to roll-out our Midlands Trains and Sheffield Supertram rail businesses, which services to new parts of the United States.
demonstrate the breadth of management talent we have across In May 2012, we agreed to acquire selected businesses and assets the Group.
"from Coach America, Inc. ""Coach America"" and we expect to Stagecoach has made a good start to the financial year ending complete the acquisition shortly."
This will allow us to acquire 30 April 2013.
Current trading is in line with our expectations selected businesses and vehicles at attractive prices in markets and the Group remains in a strong financial position.
These businesses will benefit from both our management expertise and ability to invest for growth.
This summer, we look forward to playing a key role in the The businesses to be acquired in Texas and California in successful delivery of the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic particular will give us an extended geographic footprint to Games, including providing transport for athletes and the media.
accelerate our growth strategy for megabus.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank our employees in In UK Rail, our franchises are continuing to deliver good revenue the UK and North America who make possible the many growth, supported by high levels of operational performance and customer journeys on our regular buses and trains every day.
customer satisfaction, and our East Midlands Trains franchise Looking forward, I am confident the Group will continue to returned to profit in the second half of the year.
In partnership deliver for our customers and shareholders.
with the Department for Transport, we have announced new investment in extra capacity for our biggest commuter network at South West Trains.
In addition, South West Trains new alliance with Network Rail is a major step forward for the industry, Sir George Mathewson offering the prospect of a more efficient railway, a better service Chairman for passengers and a better deal for taxpayers.
We believe this 26 June 2012 approach can be a model for the future.
