This year saw the benefits we expected from both our revised plan and new corporate structure start to come through.
We completed the majority of the development at London Southend Airport for our Air division and our growing Biomass business made a useful first time contribution.
New operating efficiencies within the Transport & Distribution division were implemented in a difficult trading environment.
The Groups Estates division closed a significant acquisition and Infrastructure & Civil Engineering continues to perform well.
May 2011 also saw the business raise 114.5m net through a Placing for investment in support of our four year plan.
Chairmans Statement Performance Group turnover rose from 500.4m to 551.9m and underlying Jesper Kjaedegaard has decided to retire from the Board as a profit before tax was 35.2m compared to 34.5m in the previous Non-Executive Director and consequently he will not be seeking year.
Group profit before tax rose from 29.5m to 30.5m, despite re-election at the Annual General Meeting in June.
The Board very challenging market conditions.
thanks him warmly for his contribution both to the Board and the business over a number of years.
Non-Executive Director, Paul The Air division made a small loss as we completed the investment Orchard-Lisle, will replace Mr Kjaedegaard as Chairman of the in the new facilities at London Southend Airport.
Stobart Biomass grew strongly during the year, making a maiden underlying profit contribution of 1.2m.
Outlook In Transport & Distribution, underlying pre-tax profits fell from 34.2m to 27.4m, as customers were affected by recessionary In May 2011 the Group embarked on a four year strategy to realise headwinds.
Nevertheless, improved fleet utilisation and greater substantial shareholder value.
Our new business structure has operational efficiencies from the introduction of new information settled down well and each division has excellent growth systems saw an improvement in margins.
prospects, despite the continuing economic uncertainty.
The Estates division made an important normalised pre-tax profit There is a high level of interaction between the divisions which is contribution of 12.4m.
The new information systems now embedded in the Transport & Distribution division are also being deployed in Finally, the Infrastructure & Civil Engineering division more than the other divisions to extract further cost benefits and efficiencies.
doubled its normalised profit contribution to 4.4m.
Our management team is highly motivated and closely focussed on achieving the four year plan outlined in May last year.
We Dividend remain a dynamic company and our strong, experienced team is The Group continues to maintain a dividend policy that balances ever-ready to spot and capitalise on opportunities as they arise, both growth in earnings and the investment needs of the business.
ensuring we are fully capable of generating growing returns for shareholders in 2012 and beyond.
An interim dividend of 2.0p was paid on 9 December 2011.
The board is proposing a final dividend of 4.0p per ordinary share, for a total dividend for the year of 6.0p, in line with previous years.
The final dividend will be paid to shareholders on 6 July 2012.
Rodney Baker-Bates I Non-Executive Chairman I 18 May 2012 Normalised comprising the underlying operating profit of 40.0m 2011: 39.6m less share based payments of 0.4m 2011: 0.5m less finance costs of 6.4m 2011: 5.5m plus finance income of 2.0m 2011: 0.9m.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 3 Rodney Baker-Bates, Non-Executive Chairman Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 4
