SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 03 3 Chairmans Statement The last year has clearly been a difficult one for The changes to the executive team will also ensure that SuperGroup.
We have delivered a strong performance the board can be more effective in underpinning the in Group revenues, but profits have fallen considerably exceptional entrepreneurial skills and passion in the short of expectations.
Whilst the tough and volatile business with a more structured and disciplined approach.
economic environment has not helped, our problems We will continue to review the composition of the board have been largely self-inflicted.
The underlying issue as the Group develops and to ensure diversity and the is that our management and operational capability has appropriate mix of skills.
The board also has a key role in fallen behind the needs of a rapidly growing business.
ensuring that the internal forecasts and external guidance Since becoming a public company in March 2010 we the company gives are more accurate in the future.
have invested substantially in the infrastructure of the business.
However, revenues have grown by 125% over I would like to thank everyone who works for SuperGroup the last 3 years, the UK Retail store base has grown from for their continued hard work and commitment during this 42 to 79 and the number of international franchised and difficult and, at times, stressful year.
I am optimistic that licensed stores increased from 29 to 101.
Clearly, keeping the changes we are making will ensure that SuperGroup pace with this level of growth would always have been a remains a fulfilling and enjoyable place to work as well as challenge, but we should have done better.
delivering financial performance which is in line with the expectations of our investors.
Communications with the City have proved to be challenging and have highlighted the need for a thorough Peter Bamford review of the Groups forecasting and review processes.
Chairman Shaun Wills was appointed as Chief Financial Officer at 11 July 2012 a time when the Group came under scrutiny following a number of forecasting issues that came to light towards the end of the financial year.
Since his appointment he has commenced a thorough review of the finance department looking at skills, competencies and systems.
Shauns experience in leading finance teams in the fashion retail sector is key to developing a professional team that will operate at a level that would be expected.
Importantly though, the fundamentals of our business remain intact.
Our products are in demand and all the indications from in-depth research we have carried out on the Superdry brand are that it is well-defined, clearly understood by customers and in good health.
Julian Dunkerton and James Holder are focusing their talents on developing our ranges, whilst Theo Karpathios continues to build our international presence.
As a board we are committed to growing SuperGroup in a controlled and measured way.
Through the key management appointments made towards the end of the year, particularly Susanne Given as Chief Operating Officer and Shaun Wills as Chief Financial Officer, and a continued programme of investment in systems, we are taking the steps required to build the operational capability that will enable the Group to realise the full potential of our brand.
21339.04 12 07 2012 Proof 3 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction 04 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 21339.04 12 07 2012 Proof 3 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 05 Performance Business Review 07 - 16 Financial Review 18 - 21 Risk 22 - 25 Operating Responsibly 26 - 27 21339.04 12 07 2012 Proof 3 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction 06 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 21339.04 12 07 2012 Proof 3
