Overview Chairmans statement As Synergy Health celebrates its 20th anniversary, I am pleased to report that the Group has continued to grow and prosper despite challenging conditions in the UK andEurope.
Notwithstanding these headwinds, we have continued to achieve good organic growth, aswell as expand our geographic coverage as part of our strategy to become aleading global provider of outsourced sterilisation andother niche services.
Results Reported revenues for the year were 312.0 million 2011: 287.3million, up 8.6%.
Underlying organic revenue growth on a constant currency basis was 5.4%, which is in line with expectations after allowing for a 53 week comparator last year.
Adjusted operating margins were up 0.7% to 15.7% 2011: 15.0% resulting in adjusted profit before tax increasing by 13.4% to 43.4 million 2011: 38.3million.
Four acquisitions were made during the year and the costs of these were expensed as non-recurring items and acquisition-related costs.
In addition, we closed and consolidated four facilities during the year, sustainably reducing operating costs.
The combined effects of the acquisitions and the facility closures resulted in non-recurring costs of 3.5 million.
After taking account of amortisation, non-recurring items and acquisition-related costs, profit before tax decreased by 11.6% to 32.5 million 2011: 36.7 million.
Last years profit before tax benefited from an exceptional gain of 4.7 million, due primarily Robert E Lerwill to the recognition of insurance proceeds arising from the Dunstable Chairman insurance claim.
Acquisitions As part of our strategy to expand the geographic coverage of ourApplied Sterilisation business, we acquired BeamOne LLC BeamOne in the US, Sinagama II Technologies Sdn Bhd Sterilgamma in Malaysia, and LEONI Studer Hard AG LSH in Switzerland.
These three acquisitions are consistent with Synergys strategy to expand its Applied Sterilisation business internationally.
We also acquired MSI Surgical Solutions LLC MSI, a small hospital sterilisation business in the US, effectively accelerating our plan to enter the US market one year earlier than anticipated.
The four acquisitions had a combined consideration of 84.0 million including deferred consideration and were funded from operating cash ow and an increased utilisation of our existing debt facilities.
Net debt for the year increased by 61.2 million to 173.5 million 2011: 112.3 million, and we remain well within our bank facilitycovenants.
Our focus is on the provision of nicheoutsourcing services that create signicantvalue for our customers.
12 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements Synergy has announced today that it has entered into a Merger The Board takes its Corporate Governance responsibilities very Agreement with SRI Surgical Express, Inc SRI to acquire its seriously, and I can confirm that the Board is compliant with fully-diluted share capital for US$3.70 per share, valuing SRI at theprinciples of the UK Corporate Governance Code relating to US$25.1million 16.2 million.
The consideration, including the leadership and effectiveness.
The Board also continues to ensure assumption of its net debt, is approximately US$38.5 million that there is clear distinction between the Board and the Executive 24.9million.
SRI is a NASDAQ-listed service provider of sterile leadership of the Company lead by the Chief Executive officer, gown rental, instrument set rental and instrument processing DrRichard Steeves.
The acquisition will provide Synergy with scale, broad Detailed terms of reference for the Board and its committees clearly market access and infrastructure in an attractive core service set out their respective responsibilities.
There continues to be a marketfor us.
rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors.
The effectiveness of the Board, its committees, and EPS and dividend Directors is assessed annually through a formal evaluation process.
Adjusted basic earnings per share before intangibles, amortisation, Further details of how we have applied the principles of the Code in non-recurring items and acquisition-related costs were 60.32p this regard are set out in the Corporate Governance Report and the 2011: 53.54p, an increase of 12.7%.
After taking account of Directors report.
amortisation, non-recurring items and acquisition-related costs, basicearnings per share were 44.51p 2011: 52.10p, a decrease Corporate responsibility of14.6%.
The Board recognises that Synergys ability to achieve its financial The Board is proposing a final dividend of 11.18p, which together objectives is based not simply on how Synergy makes its customers with the interim dividend of 6.82p would give dividends for the year feel, but also how the wider communities in which it operates feel totalling 18.00p 2011: 15.84p representing a 13.6% increase.
The publics perception of Synergy is determined Ifapproved, the dividend will be paid on 6 September 2012 for by what we are able to give back to those communities.
Details of the shareholders on the register at 10 August 2012.
Groups approach to Corporate Social Responsibility are given in the Operating review.
Our people Outlook The translation of our vision and values into reality is only achievable through the inspiration and diligence of our 4,600 employees across I am proud of what Synergy has achieved since I joined the Board the Group worldwide.
We continuously strive to attract, develop, and inJanuary 2005.
We are in a strong position and well prepared to retain the best people who wish to share in the mission, values, and tackle the challenges ahead.
Our decision to invest in Asia and the success of the Group.
Americas has proved an effective strategy to offset more challenging conditions in the UK and Europe.
The decision to bring forward our On behalf of the Board, I would like to welcome all new employees to investment in the hospital sterilisation market in the US increases our Synergy, in particular those based in the Americas, Switzerland and exposure to what we believe will be a fast growing market.
Malaysia who joined the Group through acquisitions during the year.
The Board would further like to thank all our employees around the We have to acknowledge that Europes difficulties could worsen world for their dedication and commitment to making 2012 another inthe coming year, with many EU countries mired in recession.
successful year for Synergy Health.
Weremain confident that our strategy to expand internationally adequately addresses these risks, and as a result we are cautiously optimistic that our current growth rates will be sustained, especially The Board given our clear objectives, strong management, and talented Liz Hewitt joined the Board as a non-executive Director on employees.
We anticipate continued good underlying earnings 1September 2011 and is a welcome addition to the team.
Liz is growth in this new financial year.
achartered accountant and has become Chairman of the Audit Committee as well as being a member of both the Remuneration and It just remains for me to express my appreciation to my fellow Board Nomination Committees.
Liz has previously held senior roles at Smith members for their contribution and support, not just during this year & Nephew plc and 3i Group plc and is also a non-executive Director but since I have been Chairman, and to say how grateful I am for the and member of the Audit Committee of Novo Nordisk A S. confidence of our shareholders, customers and suppliers.
As announced earlier this year, I retire from the Board on 7 June and I save my final words for our employees.
In the challenging global am handing over to Sir Duncan Nichol.
Duncans years of service on economic climate of recent years, everyone within Synergy has the Board, together with his broad business experience, ensures that shown resilience and dedication, and there is so much enthusiasm there will be continuity of leadership.
The Board plans to review its and commitment for what we do that it is impossible not to be membership during the year taking into account the Groups strategy inspired.
I have greatly enjoyed my time at Synergy, and I wish the of expanding internationally.
Group and all our employees every success in the future.
The Board has always recognised the paramount importance ofhaving a wide range of views reected at Board level and the Robert Lerwill Companys commitment to diversity and the blend of the right skills Chairman and experience is shown in the make up of the Board whereby women comprise one third of its members.
The Board hopes the 7 June 2012 Group should be in a position to maintain this level of representation when renewing Board membership over the coming years.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012 13
