Overview Synthomer plc Annual report 2012 07 Chairmans statement Overview Integration process and synergies In a challenging environment, Synthomer delivered a resilient set of results The integration of PolymerLatex is now essentially complete.
Synergies in 2012, achieving a second successive year of record profit before tax.
delivered in the year were 19 million, a year-on-year improvement of This was achieved despite poor economic conditions in Europe, weakening 16 million over the 3 million delivered in 2011.
At the beginning of of the euro against sterling and challenging trading conditions for our Asian 2012 we committed to a higher synergy target of 25 million, and we nitrile latex business, where additional capacity and competitive behaviour remain confident of delivering the balance of the synergies in 2013. impacted our performance.
Balance sheet 2012 was the first full year of trading since the transformational acquisition Net debt was slightly lower than the start of the year at 156 million.
of PolymerLatex in March 2011 and the completion of our divestiture This represents a net borrowing to EBITDA ratio of 1.2, which the Board programme.
The Group benefited from increased scale, an enhanced considers to be a prudent leverage position.
product portfolio, stronger market positions and greater efficiencies delivered from the PolymerLatex integration.
To reect the Groups Dividend subsequent transformation into a focused specialty chemical company, The Board has recommended a final dividend of 3.3p per share, making we changed the Groups name to Synthomer plc towards the end of a total dividend for the year of 5.5p.
The Board committed to this level of the year.
We trade under the Synthomer brand around the world and dividend in our interim results announcement on 28 August 2012, together the name is widely recognised and respected by our customers.
with an undertaking to move the dividend cover to three times by 2015.
The full year dividend of 5.5p represents an increase of 57% over the Full year performance previous year.
During the year, Group sales declined by 12% to 1,111.8 million 2011 pro-forma 1,268.8 million.
Volumes were 5% lower than Safety, health and environment the previous year, as a result of weaker European demand.
The Group is absolutely committed to the continuous improvement of its performance in respect of safety, health and the environment.
I am pleased Operating profits were broadly at at 109.0 million 2011 pro-forma that almost all of the metrics that we measure in this area showed good 109.7 million.
The benefit of synergies and margin management offset the improvement over the prior year.
adverse impact of the poor economic conditions in Europe, the weakness in the euro and the challenging trading conditions in our nitrile latex business.
People The Group has achieved a great deal in recent years with its transformation Group profit before tax was 98.1 million 2011 pro-forma 96.0 million.
to a focused specialty polymers business.
None of this could have been Despite the economic difficulties of recent years, this is the 6th consecutive achieved without the hard work and dedication of the Groups employees year that we have increased underlying Group profit before tax.
and I thank all of them for their support and hard work during this period.
Earnings per share were 22.0p 2011 underlying 18.8p, an increase of Board composition 17%, with the benefit of the first whole years trading since the PolymerLatex We have strengthened the Board this year with a number of appointments.
Just Jansz and Jinya Chen respectively bring extensive knowledge of the Chemical Sector and Asian markets and operations.
Ishbel Macpherson Strategy who joined the Board in May 2012 has indicated that, in order to focus in We continue to focus on being a leading producer of aqueous polymers.
other areas, she does not intend to stand for re-election and I should like Our strategy is to deliver growth through geographic expansion in emerging to thank Ishbel for her contribution during her time with us.
markets, where mega-trends including population growth, urbanisation and increasing wealth are driving demand for our products across the Current trading and outlook region.
In these high-growth regions, we are able to benefit from the We have made a solid start to the year.
Nevertheless, we expect the leading technologies, R&D and manufacturing capabilities which we have macro-economic environment in Europe to continue to result in challenging developed in European markets to give us a strong competitive advantage trading conditions through 2013.
Our expectations for the Asian nitrile in new geographies.
market remain unchanged, with improvements expected from the end of this year.
With our non-nitrile capacity in Asia fully utilised, we will continue to Our European business remains highly cash generative, allowing us to invest in capacity in emerging markets to build our platform for future growth invest in emerging market opportunities.
Our new 70,000 tonne nitrile latex beyond 2013.
We expect demand growth in our emerging markets to capacity expansion in Pasir Gudang, Malaysia, which was completed at remain strong and overall the Board remains confident in the Groups the end of the year and was commissioned during January 2013 represents long-term prospects and strategy.
We anticipate having SBR latex manufacturing capability in Malaysia from the middle of this year, something we have been targeting for several years.
We continue to look for further investment Neil Johnson opportunities to expand our footprint in Asia.
Chairman 14 March 2013 08 08 Synthomer plc Annual r Synthomer plc Annual repor eport 2 t 20 01 12 2 Innovation Lithene ultra L Liithene thene plant, Stall plant, Stalliingbor ngborough UK ough UK During the year, the Group made a substantial investment to improve the performance of its Lithene products for our customers.
Lithene liquid polybutadienes are produced at Synthomers Stallingborough, UK plant.
Lithenes are sold globally for use in a diverse range of applications, including automotive sealants, mould release products, coating additives, rubber modiers, electrical encapsulants and fragrance gels.
Lithene products are part of the Groups Performance Polymers business segment.
The new improved products are being sold under the Lithene ultra brand.
Product characteristics of the new range of products include low VOC content, low odour and in certain application areas the new range can deliver performance improvements such as improved curing and higher strength.
Automotive sealants Rubber modication Printing plates Economy, safety and renement are key Synthetic rubbers are an important Lithene products are a major drivers in automotive design.
Lithene ultra component in many cables for demanding component in many Flexographic products provide an unseen contribution applications such as power transmission printing plates contributing to print to all of these when formulated into and oil well control systems.
Lithene ultra quality and plate durability.
With the high performance sound deadening polybutadienes are designed to work constant growth in Flexographic printing and structural sealants.
Their unique in these specialised rubbers to enhance applications from labels to high quality polymer structures form the basis of physical properties, ensuring performance exible packaging across all ink custom formulations able to exceed and durability in increasingly harsh technologies, the wide range of demanding global automotive standards, operating environments.
Lithene ultra products provides global while reducing vehicle weight and printing plate manufacturers the exibility lowering cabin air emissions.
to design advanced plate solutions.
