Business Review: Chairmans Statement We are making steady progress towards our objective of delivering sustainable value for our shareholders Overview Safety Tate & Lyle has continued to make progress We have no higher priority than safety during the year, delivering a good financial and are committed to providing safe and operational performance and achieving and healthy working conditions for all a number of important milestones on our our employees and contractors.
the year, we implemented a number of improvements to our safety processes Having refocused the Group through the based on recommendations from the exit from Sugars during the last financial third party audit conducted last year.
year, we have delivered against the objectives we set on two major initiatives While the Board is pleased to report approved by the Board last year.
an improvement in the overall safety performance, with a reduction in both In March 2012, the Board attended the the recordable incident rate and lost-time opening of our global Commercial and Food accident rate during the year, we continue Innovation Centre in Chicago, USA, a facility to look at ways to further improve safety that is designed to transform our product standards of all those who work at development capability and the way we our sites.
In September 2011, our new global Shared Service Centre Board composition and diversity in dz, Poland became operational and We were very sad to announce the death since then has taken on responsibility for of Dr Barry Zoumas in August 2011, a processing financial transactions for our non-executive director of the Company European and US businesses.
and Chairman of the Companys Research I am also pleased to report that in March Advisory Group.
Barry had served on the 2012 we successfully restarted production Board since 2005 and made an invaluable at our SPLENDA Sucralose facility in contribution to the Board and the Group McIntosh, Alabama, a project that was and I know I speak for the whole Board delivered ahead of schedule.
Key to this when I say he is sorely missed.
Sir Peter Gershon success was the return of over 75% of On 1 April 2012, we welcomed Dr Ajai Puri Chairman the former operators and technicians to the Board as a non-executive director, whom I am delighted to welcome back Chairman of the Companys Research to Tate & Lyle.
As well as demonstrating Advisory Group and a member of the the importance we place on successful Corporate Responsibility, Remuneration project execution, this project is a good and Nominations Committees.
Ajais example of the new capital asset detailed technical knowledge and business management disciplines put in place experience within the speciality food and across the Group in 2010. beverage industry will be of significant benefit to the Group.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 10
