Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 Chairmans statement Creating value and driving increased returns for all our stakeholders across the cycle.
motivation of our employees, which is crucial as we pull together to achieve our common goals.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank our employees for their dedication and commitment.
During 2012 we conducted our first employee survey for a number of years.
The main highlights are covered in Pete Redferns commentary on page 10, but we were particularly pleased to note that 99% of our employees agree we take health and safety seriously and 94% of our employees are proud to work for Taylor Wimpey.
As you would expect, there are however areas we can improve and we intend to focus on these during 2013.
Corporate responsibility Our size and substance demands a responsible approach to business.
As one of the largest homebuilders in the UK, we have social, economic, ethical and environmental responsibilities.
We have a responsibility to do the right thing and whilst we do not get everything right, this is a principle that we strongly embrace.
Furthermore the Board recognises that being a socially responsible company adds to and enhances the Companys overall value.
The impact our business activities have on the environment and the communities in which we operate is very important to us, and of course, to our stakeholders.
We are therefore delighted with our inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index as well as the FTSE4Good Index.
Our 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report will be available from March on Taylor Wimpey has delivered another year plc.
co. uk  and I encourage everyone to read it as it seeks to set out what we do, how we do it of significant profit growth in 2012. and why, as well as our key areas of focus.
Shareholder value Kevin Beeston Whilst driving in-year performance, we remain rmly focused on the Chairman long term strategy for the business, knowing that this is what drives sustainable value for shareholders.
The successful implementation and ongoing execution of our value focused strategy has allowed us to In 2012 the Company has: build on the improvements which we have delivered consecutively over the last three years.
We continuously review our strategy to make sure t Increased adjusted basic earnings per share by 124% that it remains appropriate and aligned to creating and delivering value to 4.7p 2011: 2.1p to shareholders and other stakeholders.
t Increased tangible net assets per share to 61.5 pence We are delighted that our all-employee share ownership incentive 2011: 57.3 pence schemes are helping our staff to acquire their own personal stake in the business.
During 2012, 1,694 employees participated in one or t Proposed a final dividend per share of 0.43 pence both of our all-employee share plans, representing 48.5% of eligible 2011 final: 0.38 pence employees.
The Board encourages such participation and alignment 2012 performance Total shareholder return 2012 has been another year of significant progress for Taylor Wimpey, Source: Thomson Reuters with further improvement in all our strategic objectives.
It is particularly 120 pleasing that against a backdrop of a at housing market, we have been able to exceed our expectations, delivering an increase in Group 100 operating profit of 44.3% to 230.1 million from 159.5 million in 2011.
80 Delivering on our commitments This period of success is another step on our journey as we continue to 60 deliver on the strategy that we clearly set out in 2011, which rightly sets us challenging targets and ambitions.
Over the course of 2012 our 40 performance has continued to gain momentum.
It was encouraging to see first-hand on my visits to our business units this year the difference 20 that the internal strategy roll out has made to the understanding and 0 Tangible net assets per share is dened as net assets, excluding goodwill and 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 intangible assets, divided by the number of shares in issue at the period end.
Taylor Wimpey plc Sector Peer Group FTSE 250 Index Housebuilders Index Operating profit is dened as profit on ordinary activities from continuing operations before finance costs and exceptional items, after share of results of joint ventures.
4 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 with shareholders interests and has made considerable efforts to Diversity achieve a broad spread of participation, which currently includes 51% Taylor Wimpey operates in diverse communities.
We believe that of male employees: 49% of female employees: and 31% of weeklyembracing this diversity will enable us to succeed through a workforce paid employees.
More details of our share schemes can be found on that is inclusive, creative and representative of our communities.
We page 48. also acknowledge that we must continue to promote diversity in order to create an organisation that attracts, supports and promotes the Corporate governance broadest range of talent.
Further information on our diversity policy As a Board, we continue to rmly believe that good corporate as well as the number of women at senior levels and other diversity governance is essential and it remains a top priority.
Your Board benchmarks can be found on pages 32 to 33.
We believe that works well and is effective.
establishing an organisational culture with diversity as a core value will better enable individuals to reach their full potential and provide However, governance should not be confined to the boardroom a better service to our customers.
and therefore strong corporate governance and risk management are essential.
The way in which we run our business is of paramount Board changes importance to us and is what enables us to successfully deliver our We announced on 1 March that Baroness Dean of Thornton-le-Fylde business plans and objectives.
We have systems in place to identify, would be stepping down from the Board as an Independent Non analyse and manage key risks arising from both our operations and Executive Director after nine years of committed service following the the wider macro economic environment, and develop continuously conclusion of the 2013 Annual General Meeting on 25 April 2013. improving business methods.
The policies and guidelines we have Brenda has been an outstanding member of the Board and has offered in place set standards concerning ethics, sound business practices invaluable advice on a very wide range of matters during her time on and wider governance and can be found on our Web site: the Board and, on behalf of shareholders and the Company, I thank plc.
Following Brendas retirement, I am delighted that Baroness governance of companies has continued to attract attention throughout Margaret Ford of Cunninghame will be appointed to the Board as an the year.
In September 2012 the Financial Reporting Council FRC Independent Non Executive Director following the conclusion of the issued a revised UK Governance Code UKGC which the Board AGM.
Margaret brings with her a wealth of relevant experience from welcomed.
The Board considered the UKGC early in order to ensure her time as Chair of English Partnerships and of the Olympic Legacy compliance with it as soon as practicably possible and ahead of being Company, not to mention her wider business and public sector formally required to do so.
On the same date, the FRC issued a revised experience and we look forward to her joining the Board.
Margaret will Stewardship Code which the Board also welcomed.
The Board very also be a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
much values the dialogue which it regularly has with shareholders.
The size and structure of the Board and its Committees are reviewed Executive remuneration has also continued to be in the spotlight.
We believe we have an excellent balance, with an appropriate have a strong track record of taking a considered approach to this and mixture of skills and experience, which will continue to be the case we again consulted very constructively with our major shareholders, following the above change.
During the year a Board Evaluation took and their representative bodies, on remuneration.
The 2012 place in line with the UKGC and details of both the process and the Remuneration Report is set out on pages 41 to 56. key outcomes are set out on page 33. Dividend The foundations for growth that have been laid and strengthened Given the current outlook of the UK housing market, and the strength over the past few years are supporting the successful implementation of the Groups asset base, I am pleased to confirm that the Board will of our strategy.
As we look forward to 2013, we are confident that we be recommending the payment of a final dividend for the year of 0.43 will continue to build on our success and deliver increased value and pence per share 2011: 0.38 pence per share.
Combined with the returns for our shareholders.
interim dividend of 0.19 pence per share 2011: nil this gives a total dividend for the year of 0.62 pence per share 2011: 0.38 pence per share.
Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 21 May 2013 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 19 April 2013.
This dividend will be paid as a conventional cash dividend but shareholders are once again being offered the opportunity to reinvest Kevin Beeston all of their dividend under the Dividend Re-Investment Plan, details of Chairman which are contained in the Shareholder Information section.
Corporate governance Electronic communications Strong corporate governance and risk management are essential in challenging We make our Annual Report available electronically to those shareholders who market conditions.
have not requested a paper version.
This has three key benets: More information on our approach is contained within my statement on page 30 and the t A significant reduction in printing and postage costs, without reducing the level Corporate Governance Report on pages 31 to 36, which confirms that the Company was of information available: fully compliant with the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code.
t Faster access to information: and Shareholder information t Reducing the amount of resources consumed, such as paper, and lessening the impact of printing and mailing activities on the environment.
Full details of the facilities available to shareholders can be found on page 120 of this Annual Report and Accounts and at: We also encourage shareholders to elect to receive notication of the availability of Company documentation by means of an e-mail.
Shareholders can sign up for this facility by logging onto our Web site at: plc.
htm Taylor Wimpey plc plc.
