Chairmans statement We enjoyed a good year of progress in 2012 John Hughes, CBE Chairman Our Board Biographies of all our Board members as well as Committee reports canbe found in the Governance review.
See pages 40-41 4 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Our full governance review, including a report from the CSR committee, I am pleased that TelecityGroup is commences on page 38. continuing its excellent track record Looking forward, 2013 again promises to be an exciting year for our business.
We will continue to develop and expand TelecityGroup, in reporting a strong set of results.
focussing on controlled, sustainable and profitable growth by investing capital in projects with high expected returns, as we expand across Europe in response to customer demand.
We enjoyed a good year of progress in 2012 in terms of enhancing TelecityGroups longer-term growth platform, with the opening of Our expansion roadmap is designed to provide our customers, investors newdata centres and major expansions in key internet hub locations and employees with visibility over our longer-term development, with across Europe.
Although the identication and construction of new 135MW of announced customer power, versus the 86MW of customer sitesis often challenging, these facilities now help underpin the digital power that was operational at the end of 2012. economy by providing growth capacity in core markets for several years into the future.
Finally, I would like to thank our employees, customers, suppliers and shareholders for their ongoing support as we continue to develop Indeed, it was great to see TelecityGroups importance to the UK digital Europes leading carrier-neutral data centre business.
economy highlighted during the year by ministerial openings of our agship London site expansions, with the Communications Minister EdVaizey MP opening the Powergate site in July and the Minister of State for Business and Enterprise, The Rt.
Michael Fallon MP, opening our Harbour Exchange site in December.
In addition to our organic platform expansion in 2012, we enhanced ourEuropean footprint through acquisitions, securing a leading position in the promising Finnish market.
The integration of our new businesses inHelsinki has progressed well and I welcome the new employees to ourteam.
John Hughes, CBE A full discussion of our performance in 2012 starts on page 32.
Chairman I am pleased to report back to you with good progress on our Corporate 12 February 2013 and Social Responsibility CSR and governance objectives.
Following the establishment of a Board level CSR committee, we have made headway against a range of short-term and long-term targets.
These relate to areas including managing our energy efficiency, reducing our overall environmental impact and enhancing quality standards, customer satisfaction and employee engagement.
We also saw the Groups commitment to clarity and transparency in our reporting recognised, receiving the award for Best Board Disclosure in the FTSE 250 category at the ICSA Hermes Transparency in Governance Awards and the Most Effective Overall FTSE 250 Annual Report award from the Investor Relations Society.
Opening of Harbour Exchange data centre expansion Minister of State for Business and Enterprise The Rt.
Michael Fallon MP ofcially opened the new expansion at Harbour Exchange in London.
Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 5
