BUSINESS CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am delighted to report a further year of significant achievement for the Company, in which we have seen strong growth in the number of services we are providing and an improvement in the quality of our customer base.
As a result, we have seen revenue and profitability both climbing to record levels.
RESULTS Pre-tax profits increased by almost 12% to 30.7m 2011: 27.5m on revenue up by 12.6% to 471.5m 2011: 418.8m : earnings per share for the year were 33.8p 2011: 30.1p.
The rise in revenue is due to strong organic growth in the number of customers using our services, the progressive improvement we are seeing in the quality of our customer base and a modest increase in energy prices at the start of the autumn, partially off-set by industry-wide reductions to gas prices at the end of February and a significant fall in the average amount of energy used by our customers during the year caused by the swing from an exceptionally cold winter last year to a particularly warm winter this year.
We are particularly encouraged by the 18% growth in the number of services we are providing, which reached 1,381,023 2011: 1,171,136 by the year end an increase of almost 210,000 services during the year.
This has been driven by a doubling in the proportion of new Gold Status customers taking at least four of our core services Gas, Electricity, Home Phone, Mobile and Broadband to almost 50% during the course of the year, and means that the average number of services taken by each residential Club member has increased to 3.63 2011: 3.43.
Residential Club membership increased by almost 14% during the year to 333,497 2011: 293,292 and business Club membership grew by 9% to 26,649 2011: 24,506.
These two Clubs which trade under the Utility Warehouse brand now account for 86.7% 2011: 85.6% of our total customer base.
The net investment within our Customer Acquisition operating segment increased to 8.9m 2011: 5.1m reflecting the faster rate at which we are signing up new customers and services: the impact of this on our profits for the year was tempered by the 3m marketing support payment we received from npower.
Strong cash generation during the year and the impact of our new supply agreement with npower enabled us to move from a net debt position of 13.1m to a net cash position of 0.9m at the year end.
This has been achieved despite the purchase of a new headquarters office building, which we anticipate being able to occupy in around two years time following an extensive planned refurbishment programme.
In line with previous guidance, we are proposing a final dividend of 17p 2011: 14p, bringing the total for the year to 27p 2011: 22p : this represents an increase of 23% compared with last year.
We anticipate further increases in dividends in future as our earnings continue to grow.
We were delighted to receive a number of further endorsements from Which?
magazine during the year recognising the value we offer and the quality of service provided by our UK-based customer service team.
This is a reflection of our continuing focus on delivering the best possible service, which has been assisted by the consolidation of all customer-facing staff into Network HQ, our head office building in north-west London, at the start of the year and the impact of our new Customer Service Director who joined us last April.
7 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED ENERGY SUPPLY ARRANGEMENTS The new energy supply arrangements with npower which we announced 12 months ago have been successfully implemented.
As a result, we have seen a substantial reduction in our peak working capital requirements and a corresponding improvement in our year end net cash position.
We intend to take full advantage of the commercial opportunity offered by these new supply arrangements to improve our competitive position over the medium term, notwithstanding that profit growth in the short term will be adversely affected by the high level of customer acquisition costs associated with this strategy.
OPUS Our share of the profits from Opus Energy Group Ltd Opus, in which we maintain a 20% stake, increased during the year to 2.7m 2011: 2.4m.
This excellent result reflects a continuing strong trading performance, and the successful progress they are making in supplying gas alongside electricity into the small business and corporate sector.
Their revenues increased by around 37% to just over 270m 2011: 197m and profit before tax increased from 16.7m to 18.0m.
We remain encouraged by the resilience of their business model and the strength and experience of their management team, and expect to receive a dividend of approximately 2.2m in July 2012.
Our shareholding in Opus is valued on our balance sheet at 6.2m in line with standard accounting policy, notwithstanding our belief that its market value is substantially in excess of this figure: it remains our intention to maintain our stake in this rapidly growing, profitable and highly cash generative business for the foreseeable future.
WORKING CAPITAL Our balance sheet at the year end shows a net cash position of 0.9m: this is a significant improvement on our net debt position of 13.1m at the end of last year, and has been achieved notwithstanding the purchase of a new headquarters office building shortly before the year end for 6.6m.
Our strong cash generation during the year primarily reflects the assumption by npower of responsibility for funding the working capital requirements associated with providing energy to budget plan customers, pursuant to the terms of the new supply agreement which we entered into with them last May.
DIVIDEND The final dividend of 17p per share 2011: 14p will be paid on 3 August 2012 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 20 July 2012 and is subject to approval by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting which will be held on 18 July 2012.
This makes a total dividend payable for the year of 27p 2011: 22p.
We anticipate that further growth in earnings from their current level will be reflected in a corresponding rise in the level of distributions to shareholders, subject to any retentions required to fund an increase in the working capital requirements of the business as it continues to grow.
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT Ongoing focus on higher quality customers Customer quality remains a core focus for the business, and I am therefore delighted that the steps we have taken are delivering solid and measurable results.
The proportion of new residential Club members taking at least four of our core services Gas, Electricity, Mobile, Home Phone and Broadband rose progressively from 22% in March 2011 to almost 50% in March 2012 as we identified and removed various barriers to sale.
This proportion has increased still further since the year end following the introduction of Gold Status, which provides an exclusive package of additional benefits to our most valuable customers.
8 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS Churn within our residential Club fell during the year to around 1.4% per month 2011: 1.7%, reflecting the higher proportion of homeowners, an increase in the average number of services being taken, and increasing penetration of our CashBack card: we expect to see a modest further reduction in our churn over the course of the current year as the overall quality of our customer base continues to improve.
We continue to invest significant resources installing prepayment meters at properties where the occupiers are unwilling to pay for the energy they are using by any other means, and installed 6,842 of them during the year 2011: 5,690.
This took our base of prepayment meters to 22,477 2011: 15,741 representing approximately 3.5% of the energy services we supply, and is expected to lead to a reduction in bad debts in due course as this ongoing programme leads to a lower proportion of delinquent energy customers next winter.
Distribution Channel The number of new distributors joining the business remained constant throughout the year at around 1,000 per month, taking the total number of registered distributors at the year end to slightly over 37,000 2011: 31,459.
We launched a number of changes during the year to help new distributors get started more quickly, including making attendance at one of our College of Excellence training courses a mandatory requirement, and the introduction of a new mentoring scheme.
In January 2012 we adjusted the compensation plan in a number of key areas with the intention of securing its long term sustainability, increasing the level of personal commission, removing seasonal fluctuations in group commission, and capping the commission payable at each level of our leadership structure.
Our new website was introduced in November and has received a warm welcome from distributors.
It incorporates an online application form which significantly speeds up the application process, reduces errors, and enables us to make seamless enhancements to our tariffs and or services in future: we are delighted that around two-thirds of all new applications for residential Club membership have been received through our website in recent weeks.
Confidence and morale within the distribution channel has never been so high, as reflected by the consistently high level of activity we have been seeing since the New Year, when we announced a new opportunity for them to earn share options in the Company.
Premises & Systems We anticipate outgrowing our existing offices in approximately two years time, and have therefore recently purchased a new headquarters office building.
Although in need of extensive refurbishment, this will in due course provide us with sufficient space in which to achieve our medium term ambition to build a substantially larger business.
From a systems perspective, we have the capacity to manage a substantial increase in our current customer numbers, without the need for any material further investment.
OUTLOOK We held our annual sales conference over the weekend of 24th and 25th March, shortly before the year end, with a record attendance of over 6,000 distributors.
At this event we announced a number of important initiatives which received a positive reaction from those present.
Whilst it is still too soon to assess their full impact, recent activity levels have been extremely encouraging.
Our intention is to continue to build upon the momentum which the business has developed over the last few years, to further increase both the quality and quantity of new customers being gathered, and we anticipate service numbers this year within our residential Club will grow by around 20%.
9 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED The additional investment in customer acquisition costs required to fund this continued rapid growth, and the absence of the 3m one-off marketing support contribution we received from npower last year, is likely to restrict any profit increase for the current year to around 10%: this is below the level which would otherwise have been expected given our service level growth this year.
However, the benefits of this enhanced rate of high quality growth will start to come through from next year, when pre-tax profits are expected to increase by not less than the service level growth achieved this year.
Within the energy sector as a whole, significant investment is needed over the next decade to renew and extend the distribution network, replace nuclear and coal-fired generating plant that is approaching the end of its useful life, roll out smart meters, and encourage the take up of energy efficiency and renewable energy programmes.
Notwithstanding the small reduction in retail energy prices we saw during the latter part of this winter, we expect the cost of these initiatives, combined with rising wholesale energy commodity costs where the forward gas price for the coming winter is 15% higher than last year, will lead to a progressive increase in retail energy prices over the coming years.
We remain the UKs only fully integrated multi-utility provider, offering customers consistent value across a wide range of services with the added convenience of receiving a clear and concise integrated bill each month.
Our distribution channel continues to demonstrate its ability to gather high quality new customers in increasing numbers, and the recent rise in the proportion of new members with Gold Status is particularly encouraging.
Our current market share of around 1.5% of UK households demonstrates the scale of the organic growth opportunity available to us, and the combination of our route to market and unique customer proposition gives us a significant competitive advantage.
Our management team remain clearly focussed on reaching our medium term target of one million customers in due course, and to delivering the significant shareholder value which achievement of this goal would create.
The steadily improving quality of our customer base gives us good visibility over future revenues and margins on the various services we provide.
This gives us confidence that our earnings for the current year will still be comfortably ahead of the level we have just reported, notwithstanding the increasing investment we are making in growing the business.
It only remains for me to thank my boardroom colleagues for their support and all our staff and distributors for their loyalty and hard work during the past year, and to wish each and every one of them success in the years to come.
Charles Wigoder Executive Chairman 22 May 2012 10 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
