CHAIRMANS STATEMENT FOCUSING ON EXPLORATION-LED GROWTH Your Board believes that the major opportunities and challenges facing Tullow are to maintain our success in exploration: to optimise our portfolio of exploration, appraisal and development assets: to continue to develop trusting and mutually beneficial relationships with our key stakeholders: and to build a strong multi-disciplinary team focused on success without compromising the Groups entrepreneurial culture.
Over the past year your Company has achieved significant success in delivering our exploration-led growth strategy and made good progress towards achieving our vision of becoming the leading independent oil company by creating shared prosperity for our shareholders and our host countries.
Industry-leading exploration-led growth In 2012, we invested close to $1 billion in exploration and appraisal, drilling 46 wells with a success ratio of 74%.
The discovery of a new oil basin in Kenya the fourth major basinopening discovery by Tullow in the past seven years was the highlight of the year and significant success was also achieved in Uganda and Ghana.
There were also some disappointments, particularly the Zaedyus-2 well offshore French Guiana, which failed to intersect oil but nevertheless added significantly to our knowledge of this new oil basin.
The exploration pipeline has been refreshed with five new country entries, creating future opportunities in our core plays in Africa and the Atlantic Margins.
High-quality, oil-focused production Simon Thompson Chairman Jubilee field production issues, offshore Ghana, were successfully and cost-effectively remediated in 2012.
The field is currently producing around 110,000 bopd and the total well During my fir st year as Chairman, production capacity is now over 120,000 bopd.
There was a slight shortfall in overall Group production versus our target for 2012 I have visited Ghana, Kenya, Uganda, due to the enforced shutdown of Tullows non-operated South Africa and Ireland.
I have met production in the Caister Murdoch System CMS area of the UK in early December 2012 following a third-party safety incident.
politicians, NGOs, partners, shareholders As a result, Group working interest production averaged and employees to ensure that their 79,200 boepd, which was broadly similar to 2011.
Production guidance for 2013 is in the range of 86,000 to 92,000 boepd.
views help inform our decision-making This guidance includes gas producing assets currently held about the business.
Following the proposed sale of these assets, Tullows production will be predominantly focused on higher-margin, low cost-per-barrel light oil.
Steady progress in Uganda In February 2012, we signed two Production Sharing You can now watch Simons video Agreements with the Government of Uganda and completed interview online to find out more about the $2.9 billion farm-down of two-thirds of our Ugandan licences the shape of our business, governance to CNOOC and Total.
During the course of the year we largely and responsibilities.
completed the current phase of exploration activity and made Video online steady progress with our partners and the Government in shaping a common vision for the development of the countrys www.
com ARA2012 chairmans statement oil industry.
However, much work remains before a final investment decision can be taken.
12 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts BUSINESS REVIEW More information 44 Risk management 86 Chairmans introduction to 1 corporate governance 88 Board objectives and performance Well-funded and strong balance sheet The farm-down of Uganda transformed Tullows balance sheet 2012 GOVERNANCE HIGHLIGHTS and high-value production growth in Ghana underpins strong 60% of our total workforce has participated in operational cash flow for the Group, approaching $2 billion per Code of Business Conduct training and this work annum.
In November 2012, Tullow extended the final maturity of continues in 2013: its $3.5 billion Reserves Based Lending credit facility to 2019 and took the opportunity to create a more flexible facility to better Women now make up 18% of your Board as we serve its funding needs.
continue to address the legacy of poor gender diversity in the oil industry: Increasing reserves & resources Two new Directors were appointed, broadening your In November 2012, we submitted a Plan of Development PoD Boards skills and experience to reflect the evolving needs for the  TEN project in Ghana, of the Group: with first production targeted for approximately 30 months after PoD approval.
Group commercial reserves have Following a review of risk management, a new EHS increased to approximately 390 mmboe due to the transfer of sub-committee of the Board has been established TEN contingent oil resources.
Group contingent resources have to enable greater focus on these issues: also been enhanced following discoveries in Kenya and Cte We have overhauled and simplified our remuneration dIvoire and appraisal success in Uganda.
At the end of 2012, policy after consultation with major shareholders: and total commercial reserves and contingent resources were 1,203 mmboe.
We have increased engagement with employees, politicians, NGOs, partners and shareholders, in order Active portfolio management to ensure that their views are taken into account in We took a decision to exit Bangladesh and Pakistan and expect Board discussions.
to complete these disposals by the end of 2013.
We also announced our intention to sell our gas assets in the UK and Netherlands sectors of the Southern North Sea.
These assets Board changes have served Tullow well, providing vital cash flow to fund our Non-executive Directors David Williams and Steve McTiernan ambitious exploration programme, but they no longer fit with retired after six and 10 years respectively of exceptional service our strategy of pursuing big oil exploration opportunities and to Tullow.
In 2012, Steve Lucas and Anne Drinkwater joined can no longer compete for capital effectively with other projects the Board, bringing valuable financial and industry experience.
David Bamford has taken over as Senior Independent Director.
Solid financial performance An exceptional team of people Sales revenue grew by 2% to $2.3 billion 2011: $2.3 billion I would also like to thank all of our employees and contractors, due to higher sales volumes.
Average oil prices were in line ably led by Aidan Heavey and the Executive team, for their with 2011.
Profit from continuing activities before tax increased continuing hard work and commitment.
At each engagement by 4% to $1,116 million 2011: $1,073 million.
The $701 million across the Group in 2012, your Board and I have been impressed pre-tax gain on the Uganda farm-down was largely offset by the sense of pride and responsibility amongst our staff, as by an increase in exploration write-offs, which amounted to we set about building an oil industry in new regions of the world.
$300 million for 2012 activities, coupled with a further asset In this years report we have taken the opportunity to highlight write-down announced at the half year, giving a total write-off some of the Tullow teams at work across the business, of $671 million 2011: $121 million, and higher operating costs underlining the central role that people play in our success.
Profit from continuing activities after tax declined 3% to $666 million 2011: $689 million and A clear strategy and a positive outlook basic earnings per ordinary share from continuing activities In the Chief Executives review on pages 14 to 16, Aidan has decreased 5% to 68.8 cents 2011: 72.5 cents.
In view of Tullows reaffirmed our clear and consistent exploration-led growth intensive exploration campaign in 2013, the Board intends to strategy and the role of production and asset monetisation in maintain the final dividend payment of 8.0 pence per share, funding our exploration programme and selective developments.
bringing the total payout for the year to 12 pence per share.
Looking to the future, the outlook for the oil price is good, our Details of the AGM are set out on page 125. exploration and development pipeline remains strong, and production growth is back on track.
We start 2013 with a real Corporate responsibility and shared prosperity sense of excitement and focus on the delivery of our explorationNew EHS key performance indicators emphasise preventative led growth strategy.
actions, including major reviews of well engineering, process safety and asset integrity.
Good work continued in encouraging local entrepreneurs to enter the supply chain and we continue to invest in the development of local communities, particularly through capacity-building, scholarships and local employment opportunities.
Stakeholder engagement activity increased Simon R Thompson substantially during the year, in order to foster a better Chairman understanding of the oil industry and to solicit feedback on how we can improve our performance.
