Chairmans statement Navigating through challenges Dear Shareholders, The past year has been a period of change and readjustment for the Board and ABG as a whole.
While the financial and operating results for the year were disappointing, the Board has approved a number of initiatives which should positively influence future performance.
The years most notable event was the decision by Barrick to seek a purchaser for its shareholding in the Company.
This process, and the associated due diligence, diverted a significant amount of Board and seniormanagement time and also impacted relations with the Tanzanian government and local communities.
Although the sale process was ultimately unsuccessful there were several positive outcomes.
In particular, the intense due diligence process and associated learning have been incorporated into several initiatives which were underway prior to the Derek Pannell, Acting Chairman of the Board Offer Period as part of a major review of the Companys structure and costs, culminating in the Boards request for management to perform an New projects such as Buzwagi typically take some five years to consistently Operational Review.
The key objectives of this are to drive improved reach full nameplate capacity, so it was gratifying to see this mine really returns from the asset base and enhance the certainty of performance perform in the last quarter of the year after months of suffering regular delivery in the future.
power interruptions and lower recoveries.
On the operations front, whilst we fell short of production targets for North Mara experienced certain setbacks in its community engagement theyear as a result of challenges faced in our operating environment, programme during the prolonged Offer Period, but at the end of the year nevertheless we progressed certain key objectives.
and beginning of 2013, with strong support from local authorities, the Throughout the year we increased our focus on upgrading the production situation improved markedly, allowing these programmes to regain potential at Bulyanhulu, with the advancement of the Bulyanhulu CIL traction.
In this context, ABG is developing a multi-pronged social Expansion project that will add a further 40-50 thousand ounces to annual programme to improve the balance between the illegal miners, the local production, as well as progressing plans for the development of the Upper communities and the operating constraints of the mine.
In future, this East Zone, which has the potential to add a further 90 thousand ounces of willbe a key factor in determining the success of the mine, the creation production per annum.
Though the poor performance at the end of the year ofcommunity wealth and associated stable employment and improved associated with the paste backfill system and a loss of qualified personnel localinfrastructure.
in the face of proposed pension legislation changes was disappointing, we Our efforts to add meaningful reserves to Tulawaka during the year were are undertaking a number of actions to prevent a repeat of this and to unsuccessful and as a result of this we have taken the decision to phase out progress this world class asset generally.
Lastly, from a growth perspective, we have continued to make good progress across our brownfield exploration programme and made significant additions to our greenfield projects through the acquisition ofAviva Mining Kenya Limited.
Not only does this provide significant additions to our exploration pipeline, it also provides the opportunity todiversify both ABGs geographical and political exposure.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Final dividend for 2012 INDUSTRY GOLD PRODUCTION While our operational and financial performance in 2012 has been lower metric tonnes than the previous year, we recognise the importance of rewarding ongoing 3,000 support from our shareholder base.
For this reason, the Board has recommended that the total dividend for 2012 be maintained at the 2011 2,800 level, comprising a final dividend of US12.3 cents per share, such that the total dividend payable in respect of 2012 is US16.3 cents per share.
2,600 2,400 Board composition We saw a number of further changes to the Board through the year with 2,200 Aaron Regent and James Cross retiring as Non-Executive Directors and Kelvin Dushnisky, Senior Executive Vice President, and Rick McCreary, 2,000 Senior Vice President, Corporate Development, joining as Barrick 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 nominee Non-Executive Directors mid-year.
Source: GFMS Following the expiry of the Offer Period to which ABG was subject during the latter half of the year, the Company is now in a position to review Attributable gold Revenues US$m Total dividend US Board composition generally in order to build on the strengths and calibre production Oz of our existing Board members.
In this regard, for a variety of personal 626,212 US$1,087 US16.3 cents reasons I have, after three years with ABG, decided not to stand for re-election as a Director at the forthcoming AGM and therefore will also step down as Acting Chairman.
I would like to thank my fellow Directors and ABG management for their support and friendship during my time with ABG.
Mr Dushnisky will succeed me as Chairman to lead the Board and I am confident that he will provide strong leadership going forward.
Outlook Looking forward to 2013, ABG will continue to look to optimise its portfolio and drive returns for all stakeholders through the implementation of the Operational Review.
Undoubtedly the year will bring new challenges, but I am confident that the Company will meet any such challenges head on.
Finally, on behalf of the Board I extend my gratitude to all of our employees for their hard work and commitment over the past 12 months.
Derek Pannell, Acting Chairman of the Board Annual Report and Accounts 2012 7
