Overview Chairmans statement Generating long term shareholder value Dear shareholder, I was recently asked about what had attracted me to join UBM.
The main reason was the chance to chair the Board of an exciting global media rm, in an industry that is changing fast and creating opportunities for innovation and development.
The second reason was the quality of the business itself.
UBM has successfully transformed from being largely print-focused into a quality events-led marketing services and communications business.
The breadth of its operations in the global market is impressive with exposure to both the US and faster-growth Emerging Markets, most notably China.
Finally, given my career in media and international businesses, the role at UBM is one to which I can bring relevant and useful experience.
Introducing Dame Helen Alexander In the months since I joined I have been struck by a number of different aspects of UBM.
Its active and open approach to Skills and experience stakeholder engagement in particular ts with my personal Dame Helen is also chairman of the Port of London Authority and Incisive Media.
She is deputy chairman of esure Group Holdings, a nonphilosophy.
I have been able to speak with many of UBMs executive director at Rolls-Royce Group plc, and senior adviser to Bain customers, to visit employees and to meet a number of Capital.
She was President of the CBI 2009-2011, and Chief Executive of shareholders.
I am keen that this engagement should continue.
the Economist Group until 2008, having joined the company in 1985.
I have been touched by the welcome I have received and She has also been a non-executive director of Centrica, BT and Northern Foods.
She is Chancellor of the University of Southampton, and a board impressed by the energy of the people which makes for an member of the Grand Palais in Paris.
The Companys initiatives on leadership and development show how seriously it takes the principles of Read more on page 44 investing in people.
The Company continues to work on further improving UBMs diversity.
Women already make up a large proportion of our workforce, 55% in 2012, and we are determined that this diversity should be better reected across 2012 has been a year of operational and strategic progress.
Meanwhile the global breadth and Underlying revenues rose 6% while continuing fully diluted depth of our operations ensure that we employ people from adjusted EPS increased by 3.3% to 49.8p.
The Board is a wide range of national and ethnic backgrounds.
UBM has recommending a final dividend of 20.0p, bringing the total a strong culture of collaboration which is underpinned by a dividend for the year to 26.7p up 1.5%.
For 2013 we expect focus on achieving results.
to see further growth, led by Events and PR Newswire.
On 5 February 2013, we announced the proposed disposal I have found a cohesive and collegiate Board, with a culture of a portfolio of Data Services businesses Delta.
This of challenge and debate.
Most important, there is strong and transaction will simplify UBM and enable us to focus on further relevant experience around the table.
There have been a number developing it as a fast-growing and increasingly profitable of changes during the year.
I would like to take this opportunity events-led, marketing and communications business.
It is a to thank John Botts, the outgoing Chairman, who was a member business I am excited to be part of and I look forward to seeing of the UBM Board for over 14 years.
I would also like to thank further progress during 2013.
Alan Gillespie for having chaired the Remuneration Committee for four years.
Having joined as a member of that Committee I look forward to working with Greg Lock, its new Chairman.
I intend that we should engage fully with our shareholders, and that we create a clear and simple remuneration framework which is closely aligned with performance.
The other notable change relates to UBMs return to a UK tax domicile following Dame Helen Alexander the shareholder vote in November 2012.
Chairman I am keen to make sure that the Board works effectively and serves stakeholders as well as it possibly can across all areas of responsibility.
The governance section of our report see See explanation of UBMs business measures on page 42. page 46 sets out some of the developments in this vital area.
2 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
