02 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Chairmans statement The Group will continue to differentiate itself from its competitors through its technical innovation and the high standards of behaviour for which Ultra is known.
Dear shareholder I am pleased to report that Ultra has successfully managed a year of challenging market conditions where expenditure in the Groups main defence markets continues to be under extreme pressure as governments address their budget deficits and debt levels.
Through Ultras robust strategic review process, the Group was able to recognise the tightening of defence budgets and has reacted by positioning itself into areas of preferential spend within these markets.
At the same time the Group has made good progress in adjacent, non-defence, security, transport and energy markets so that, in 2012, revenue from its traditional defence markets represented less than 60% of the Group total.
Ultras recent investments in new products and acquisitions have enabled the Group to achieve this repositioning to provide both a degree of resilience to tough market conditions and a platform for future growth.
The Groups overall performance in 2012 underlines the resilience of its business model and this is explained in more detail on pages 12 to 17.
Douglas Caster CBE, Chairman Ultras strategy is constantly to increase its share of the markets in which it has positioned itself and the Group continues to focus on those specialist sectors within the markets where customers preferentially target their expenditure.
An important role of the Board is to participate fully in robustly reviewing and testing the Executive Directors strategic plans for the Group, to ensure that they deal not just with the particularly challenging short-term market conditions, but also fully address the need to continue to position for medium and long-term growth.
It has long been a core part of Ultras strategy to acquire companies that bring world leading niche technologies and market positions to the Group, in addition to supplementing its organic growth.
The Board plays a key role in reviewing any potential acquisition to ensure that it is complementary to the existing portfolio, Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2000 Ultras track record of KPI delivering above average 1800 shareholder returns 1600 since otation pence 1400 FTSE all share price index FTSE 100 price index 1200 FTSE all share aerospace defence 1000 800 600 400 200 0 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 achieves an appropriate strategic t, is Ultras major programmes are reviewed by business conduct and corporate valued sensibly and will add to future the Board, during both the bid and governance.
This report contains a specic shareholder value.
In 2012 Ultra completed execution phases.
section devoted to the framework and three acquisitions: GigaSat, Barron McCann processes that are in place to maintain the In Ultra, risk is assessed and managed at and RFI.
These businesses augment Ultras high standards of governance that the the most appropriate level of the business.
existing specialist capabilities in Board requires of Ultra.
Further detail about Those risks that are identied as strategic in communications, cyber & security and how the Board provides effective leadership nature are elevated to the Board where power markets, all of which have been on these matters can be found in the they are subjected to formal scrutiny to identied as future growth areas.
sustainability section on pages 38 to 39 ensure that the appropriate mitigations are and the governance section, starting on Another core element of Ultras strategy is in place.
In addition to assessing specic page 44 of this report.
continued investment in the development risks, the Board will also regularly assess of new, differentiated offerings, particularly and confirm the status of the overall I should like to nish by thanking, on where the Groups specialist domain business, with a focus on the Groups behalf of the Board, all of Ultras employees knowledge provides competitive competitive strategies, business for their continued hard work, engagement advantage.
As with acquisitions, the Board performance, regulatory and compliance and passion in what has been a challenging takes a key role in reviewing, testing and measures and the financial performance year.
With so many committed, approving all major investment cases.
Further information on how professional and enthusiastic people includes conrming that the Groups Ultra manages risk is available in the risk supporting the Groups management, I am resources are being focused and prioritised management section of this report on confident that Ultra is better placed than in an appropriate manner, that risks are pages 40 to 43. most in addressing the current market identied and mitigated and that the uncertainties and ensuring that growth The Group will continue to differentiate return is viable.
Such developments are continues into the future.
itself from its competitors through its reviewed regularly against performance, technical innovation and the high standards time and cost criteria to ensure that the of behaviour for which Ultra is known.
The Group is managing its resources and overall Douglas Caster CBE Group remains committed to achieving and level of risk appropriately.
In the same way, sustaining high standards of ethical Chairman KPI Key Performance Indicator, see pages 10 and 11 for details 7.
