06 Chairmans Statement Anil Agarwal A Transformational Year Overview Vedanta has made significant progress in the execution of its strategy this year, delivering production growth and increasing Reserves and Resources across the portfolio, completing two acquisitions, and announcing a consolidation and simplication of the Group.
Over the years, Vedanta has become a world-class, diversied resources company, and this year we added oil & gas to our portfolio.
Robust Financial Results Despite volatile economic conditions across the world, Vedanta increased volumes across most of its commodities and successfully integrated recent acquisitions, which contributed to our strong EBITDA growth, up 13% to US$4.0 billion.
This was partially offset by higher operating costs and increased export duty rates on iron ore. Net debt rose to US$10.1 billion, 31 March 2011: US$1.97 billion and gearing increased to 35% reecting Vedanta has made significant progress in the the investment of US$8.67 billion in execution of its strategy this year, delivering Cairn India Limited Cairn India, but we continued to maintain a strong and production growth and increasing Reserves and liquid balance sheet and robust credit metrics.
Free cash ow remained Resources across the portfolio, completing two robust at US$2.5 billion, ahead of last years US$2.4 billion even though acquisitions and announcing a consolidation this only included approximately four and simplication of the Group.
months of cash ow from Cairn India.
Strong Operational Performance Record production of rened zinc, lead including silver, power, aluminium, alumina and increased contributions from our recent acquisitions of Zinc-International and Cairn India assets were the key drivers of our strong operational performance as our growth projects started to yield results.
The ramp up of the silver-rich Sindesar Khurd mine and the new silver renery delivered an impressive 35% increase in silver production for the year, with production reaching a new high of 7.8moz and a US$210 million contribution to EBITDA.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 07 The Group contributes 20% of Indias During the year, we acquired iron Jharsuguda power plant and lead crude oil production, reducing ore deposits in Liberia in Western smelter at Dariba signicantly the requirement for imports and Africa, with Reserves and Resources boosted our power generation and foreign currency expenditure.
In this estimated at over 1 billion tonnes.
financial year, we contributed US$4.4 We intend to bring these assets, billion, including US$2.4 billion of which comprise brown eld as well Our newly acquired assets Cairn for the full year, to the Indian as green eld sites, into production performed well, with Cairn India exchequer towards direct and indirect over the next two to three years.
driving production forward by 21% taxes, royalty, cess on oil etc.
With this acquisition, Vedanta will to an average of 172,887boepd become a significant player in gross with current capacity now Key Strategic Developments the upcoming West African iron at 175,000boepd following the Growth ore hub catering to the seaborne ramp up of the Mangala and We continued to focus on extending iron ore trade.
This acquisition is a Bhagyam elds in Rajasthan and our existing resources and growing logical and strategic t with Sesa Zinc-Internationals output was well our assets organically, investing Goas existing iron ore business and ahead of the last year at 444kt.
in projects that expand our high is expected to create significant quality asset base and increase our long-term value for shareholders.
This performance is the result of production volumes.
During the the hard work and commitment year, we invested US$2.4 billion in Long-term Value of our 32,000 employees across our organic growth programme, We have maintained our position the organisation and on behalf of increasing production of zincas a low cost producer through our the Board, I would like to thank lead, silver, copper, aluminium, culture of continuous improvement.
them for their contribution to power and oil & gas.
As well as major investment projects, this excellent performance.
a myriad of small projects have been We have successfully completed the implemented across all our businesses Market Conditions integration of the assets acquired to reduce energy consumption, Despite volatile global market from Anglo American last year, now improve productivity, debottleneck conditions, demand for commodities our Zinc-International segment.
The processes and increase efficiency.
remained strong throughout the assets we acquired also included year, driven by economic growth and the Gamsberg deposit in South To ensure the long-term future urbanisation in emerging economies, Africa, which is one of the largest of the Group, we aim to grow our which account for approximately 80% undeveloped zinc deposits in the Reserves and Resources R&R at of our revenues.
With a resource base of a faster rate than we deplete them, were strong in the first half of FY 2012, 186mt deposit, Gamsberg has the through exploration and acquisitions.
but corrected in the second half of the potential to deliver over 400ktpa Exploration focus yielded excellent year, with the end result that prices for over a mine life of more than 20 results during the year particularly silver moved up substantially, iron ore years and a feasibility study is for zinc, oil & gas and iron ore. showed a healthy increase, zinc prices under way to scope the project.
fell and copper, aluminium and lead In line with our strategy to simplify were marginally ahead of the previous We extended our resources portfolio our corporate structure, towards year.
Oil prices increased over the year.
into oil & gas with the acquisition the end of the year we announced a of the controlling stake in Cairn merger of Sesa Goa Ltd and Sterlite Growth rates in India, our home India for US$8.67 billion, nanced Industries India Ltd to create Sesa market, moderated to 6.9% due to equally from our own resources and Sterlite Ltd, and a consolidation of higher ination.
Demand for natural acquisition debt.
Cairn India is the the Vedanta Group.
As part of the resources however continued largest private crude producer in India.
Group consolidation, Vedantas its upward trend, particularly for Its world class assets in Rajasthan stake in Cairn India and Vedanta aluminium with India projected to currently contribute more than 20% Aluminium will move under Sesa become the second largest consumer of Indias production.
Sesa Sterlite Ltd is expected of aluminium in Asia during CY 2012. carry gross recoverable oil Reserves to be one of the worlds largest Over the long term, we believe that and Resources of approximately one global diversied natural resources the increasing size of the domestic billion barrels and have a potential majors, ranked by EBITDA.
market in India and favourable to produce roughly 40% of Indias demographics will continue to oil production.
The acquisition of a drive robust economic growth.
controlling stake in Cairn India has added an additional high quality asset Vedanta is a significant contributor in an attractive natural resources to the Indian economy and segment and will contribute to the government exchequer.
We meet earnings prole of the Group.
82% of Indias zinc consumption and approximately 40% of its aluminium, copper and lead requirements.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 vedantaresources.
