Message from our Chairman It gives me great pleasure to introduce the first Annual Report & Accounts We have of Vesuvius plc.
assembled Our new company is the result of a detailed strategic review by the Board of Cookson Group plc, which concluded that a separation of Cooksons main a highly businesses would be in the interests both of its shareholders and of those experienced respective businesses.
That separation took effect on 19 December 2012 resulting in the creation of Vesuvius plc, comprising the Engineered Ceramics Board of and Precious Metals Processing businesses of the old Cookson.
Alent plc, which comprises Cooksons other businesses, is now listed on the Stock Directors, Exchange in its own right and is run as an entirely separate business.
committed to I was honoured to be asked to join the Board of Vesuvius and to serve as its the highest first Chairman.
Our company is a global leader in metal flow engineering, principally serving the steel and foundry industries.
We enjoy clear market standards leadership in the majority of the industry segments we serve.
We have operations in 30 countries worldwide, with almost half our revenues of corporate generated in developing markets.
Our businesses are technology-led, governance, innovation-focused, with an increasingly important service dimension.
Our products and services are critical to our customers efficiency and therefore and benefit profitability.
Our financial profile is strong, with a robust balance sheet and a flexible business model that has enabled the delivery of good levels of profit from a very and cash over the cycle and in the face of changing market conditions.
strong executive RESULTS management End-market trends in Vesuvius major steel and foundry markets were very challenging during the latter part of 2012.
As a result, our performance team led in the second half was substantially below that of the first half, leading to pro forma headline earnings per share of 29.4 pence, down from the 41.0 by Franois pence for 2011.
In response to those difficult conditions, decisive action Wanecq.
was taken throughout the business, involving significant cost reduction and the permanent closure of three facilities.
Our flexible business model JOHN McDONOUGH allows management to continue to respond as necessary without affecting the underlying strength of our businesses, meaning that our competitive position entering 2013 remained very strong.
Since the year end we have announced the closure of our Solar Crucible business and also the disposal of our Precious Metals Processing division, enabling management to focus wholly on our core business of molten metal engineering serving the global steel and foundry industries.
DIVIDENDS Dividends will play an important part in delivering superior returns to our shareholders.
Vesuvius is an inherently cash generative and wellinvested business and we aim to deliver long-term dividend growth whilst taking account of underlying earnings, cash flows, capital expenditure requirements and the prevailing market outlook.
As set out in our documentation relating to the demerger, the Board has recommended a final dividend of 9.5 pence per share.
The final dividend, if approved at the Annual General Meeting AGM, will be paid on 27 June to shareholders on the register at 17 May.
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 06 Overview RETURN OF CAPITAL The Board is responsible for setting Group strategy As a result of the disposal of our Precious Metals and charging the executive with the delivery of that Processing division, the Board intends to return the strategy, including the management of resources majority of the net proceeds to shareholders through an and associated risks and controls.
The Board has on market repurchase of shares, demonstrating our desire implemented a robust governance structure to to exercise strong capital discipline and generate superior manage those risks as described in the Governance returns.
Our strong balance sheet and cash generation Report on pages 64 to 99.
Good corporate allows us to do this and remain able to fund attractive governance is central to the delivery of sustainable future growth opportunities.
BOARD AND GOVERNANCE We have complied with the UK Corporate Since my appointment as Chairman, I have Governance Code throughout 2012 and continue undertaken a thorough induction to the Company to strive to evolve our governance arrangements to and its products and services.
I have visited many of comply with emerging best practice.
our major manufacturing and R&D Centres in China, Poland, Germany, Belgium and the United States, and ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING met large numbers of our people.
Our 2013 AGM will be held on Tuesday 4 June 2013 and the Notice of the Meeting and explanatory notes We have assembled a highly experienced Board of accompany this Annual Report.
I look forward to the Directors, committed to the highest standards of opportunity to meet our shareholders at the AGM.
OUR PEOPLE As previously announced, Jan Oosterveld and John The Companys long-term success is dependent upon Sussens will retire an Non-executive Directors at this the diversity, dedication and commitment of all our years AGM.
Both served as Non-executive Directors people.
We have invested in the development of our of Cookson for over eight years, and I am very people and in succession planning.
We have ensured grateful to them for their contribution to the creation that all our people share a common set of values.
of Vesuvius plc and for the continuity that they have Leadership from the Board on corporate responsibility provided.
is important and paramount amongst the Boards priorities is the safety and well-being of all our people John Sussens will be succeeded as Senior and of the communities in which we operate.
We Independent Director by Jeff Hewitt and as Chair have made further good progress on Health and of the Remuneration Committee by Jane Hinckley, Safety both in terms of safe working practices and the who was appointed as a Non-executive Director in reporting of performance.
PROSPECTS Nelda Connors was appointed to the Board as a NonAfter many years as a division of a diversified group, executive Director on 1st March 2013 and Rachel and following months of intensive work on the Fell was replaced as Company Secretary by Richard demerger process, Vesuvius now stands to benefit Malthouse with effect from 21 March 2013 whilst significantly from being a stand-alone, wholly focused she takes maternity leave.
global leader in metal flow engineering.
The markets we serve have long-term growth dynamics, and we We will therefore go forward after the AGM in 2013 are strongly positioned to leverage our significant with a slimmed down Board of seven Directors.
presence in the worlds developing economies.
I have got to know our executive management team JOHN McDONOUGH CBE led by Franois Wanecq and am confident that we Chairman have a talented team in place to deliver our strategy.
com Stock Code: VSVS 07 Image: Cross section of ultra-high density refractory Vesuvius R&D Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 08
