Directors Report: Overview of Weir Chairmans Statement Lord Smith of Kelvin The Weir Group continued to perform well during 2012, borne out by revenues which grew 11% to 2.5bn and record pre-tax profits from continuing operations, before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation, of 443m, a 12% increase on 2011.
We are proposing a final dividend payment to shareholders of 30.0p per share, making 38.0p for the full year, an increase of 15%.
In 2013, we plan to continue the double digit dividend growth rate which we have delivered every year since 2005.
This will be the 30th consecutive year of dividend growth for the Group.
The 2012 performance was delivered against a background of testing conditions in the North American oil and gas pressure-pumping sector, one of our main served markets, and a significant contributor to the Groups growth in recent years.
Focused, but diversied To my mind, this tells us a number of important things about the Group.
First, there are strong benets in the diversity of our chosen markets, ensuring in 2012 that difficult upstream oil and gas pressure-pumping conditions could be offset by the performances of our Minerals and Power & Industrial divisions.
This diversity extends not only to our markets and divisions, but also to our operating geographies and our ability to drive revenues from both original equipment manufacturing and aftermarket support.
This provides stable and more predictable earnings even in times of market volatility.
Secondly, it highlights the ongoing relevance of the Groups strategic pillars of innovation, collaboration, global capability and value chain excellence.
This means that, despite operating in diverse sectors, all divisions benefit from an increasing number of cross-divisional technological and operational initiatives, providing consistency across the Group and ensuring a return greater than the sum of the parts as we reap the benets of common supply chains and a Group-wide low cost footprint.
A STRONG PERFORMANCE FROM A FOCUSED, YET DIVERSIFIED GROUP 4 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Dividend per share p I 38.0p 5p II 40 38.0p 33.0p 30 27.0p III 20 10 2010 2011 2012 IV Finally, in addition to organic initiatives, the Group The Boards work programme during 2012 was continues to benefit from its strategy of accelerating extensive, providing a good overview of market growth through acquisition.
In 2012, Seaboard and conditions and operational priorities.
As happens Novatech contributed positively with Seaboard annually, we visit the Groups operations to develop establishing the Groups position in the pressure control further our understanding of the business.
In December, we announced the acquisition of we spent time in Texas at our largest pressure-pumping Mathena, Inc, expanding our pressure control offering business, SPM.
These trips are invaluable to every into the drilling phase of the wellcycle, and completed Non-Executive Director, providing a chance to truly the sale of non-core LGE Process.
get under the skin of the Groups activities.
Once again, the quality and commitment of our people was selfStrategic momentum has also continued in the important evident, with a growing number taking advantage area of innovation during 2012 with a number of new of the opportunities provided by the Groups recently product launches and also tangible evidence that the introduced learning and development framework.
The infrastructure put in place by the Group to develop quality and commitment of Weir employees was also new technology and establish a sustainable pipeline matched during the year by my fellow Board members.
of innovation is bearing fruit.
More details of the strategy I would like to thank them for their contribution.
Earlier in action during 2012 are given in the Strategic Review.
this month, we announced the appointment of a new Non-Executive Director.
Charles Berry joins the Board Our wider commitments on 1 March 2013 and will add great experience and The Group makes a significant economic contribution knowledge of international energy markets.
to the communities where it operates.
Since the launch of the new strategy in 2010, we have provided nearly If 2012 has taught us anything, it is that a challenge 3,000 new jobs worldwide.
Weir also supports businesses in one of our markets does not prevent the delivery of in 89 countries and every continent through its supply a strong performance from the Group.
And as Weir continues to grow, the Board and market exposures, combined with the growing is focused on ensuring that the Groups social and capability of the business, enable value creation in lower environmental responsibilities are met fully.
Together with a proven, tested support our own people and those in the communities strategy and business model, the Group approaches which surround our operations, the actions we deploy 2013 with confidence and a number of opportunities to mitigate and minimise our environmental impacts to continue to grow and develop the business.
and the example we set in the way we do business are fundamental to maintaining our licence to operate.
Lord Smith of Kelvin This year, the rollout of the Weir Environment, Health Chairman and Safety system marks an important step towards 27 February 2013 world class safety standards across the Group and the introduction of a behavioural safety system at the beginning of 2013 recognises the emphasis placed on establishing a strong culture of risk assessment across the business.
Each of our businesses aims to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions through a number of initiatives.
Our emissions by turnover remained constant on the 2011 performance.
We remain committed to reducing our carbon intensity and an action plan developed towards the end of the year provides a strong platform to enable the Group to take the next steps on its sustainability journey.
Finally, the Weir Code of Conduct continues to inform employees of the right way to do business: ethically and with integrity.
Training on the Code is mandatory.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 5
