Directors report and business review Chairmans statement Chairmans statement We continue with our strategy to create shareholder value, by growing our Travel business, both in the UK and internationally, and strengthening our core categories across the High Street business.
I am pleased to report another year of good performance across the Group in challenging economic conditions.
We expected the economic environment to remain challenging and we planned accordingly, and as a consequence, the Group has once again demonstrated its resilience and ability to deliver in a tough trading climate.
We continue with our strategy to create shareholder value, by growing our Travel business, both in the UK and internationally, and strengthening our core categories across the High Street business.
Walker Boyd Performance Chairman The Group remains highly cash generative with a strong balance sheet as we continue to focus on profitability and cash generation across both businesses.
Total revenue for the Group was down two per cent at 1.24bn, with like-for-like sales down five per cent 1 and strong free cash flow of 91m.
Group profit before tax was 10per cent ahead of last year at 102m.
This performance has led the Board to recommend a final dividend of18.6p.
During the year we have returned 50m of cash to shareholders via a share buyback.
On23 August 2012, the Company also announced its intention to instigate a further sharebuyback programme of upto50m.
The Travel business has delivered another good performance with further profit growth.
Despite the economic climate and soft passenger numbers we have continued to grow, demonstrating the strength of the divisions business model.
We have made further good progress in both our established and developing channels and continue to identify opportunities for growth in the UK, opening 35 new units during the year.
In our international markets, the WHSmith brand and offer continue to be well received and we have demonstrated we can add value and deliver improved performance in each location.
We have made further good progress in a number of regions, including Australia, India, South-East Asia and the Middle East and we now have 62 units open in international locations, including airports, railway stations, hospitals and shopping malls.
Around two-thirds of these are operated as franchises.
1 Net cash flow from operating activities adjusted for capital expenditure, pension deficit funding, and net interest received.
See Group cash flow statement and Note 22 on page 65.
WH Smith PLC 4 Annual report and accounts 2012 1 Overview 2 Directors report and business review 3 Governance 4 Financial statements High Street has delivered another robust performance with Management changes further profit growth, in what continues to be a challenging Following the announcement that Kate Swann will, afternine trading environment.
We continue to make progress with our years, step down as Chief Executive of the Company, the Board strategy to build authority in our core categories, whilst would like to thank Kate for her outstanding contribution to rebalancing the mix of our business and reducing our presence in WHSmith.
The Board is particularly grateful to her for her vision, Entertainment.
We saw further improvement in gross margin dedication and leadership which has seen WHSmith grow from during the year and successful cost control continues with 17m strength to strength and deliver exceptional shareholder value.
of savings delivered during the year, 5m ahead of our original She has built an excellent management team and has put in place plan, from across the business.
Cash generation in the division a robust and proven strategy which will continue to deliver for all continues to be strong and we continue to invest in the High our stakeholders.
We wish her well for the future.
Street estate and opened 12 new stores during the year.
People My sincere thanks go to all staff across Without the ongoing loyalty and support of our management the Group: in these challenging conditions teams, staff and suppliers, we could not have achieved these we rely more than ever on their continued results.
My sincere thanks go to all our staff across the Group: inthese challenging conditions we rely more than ever on their commitment.
continued commitment, and it is their hard work and dedication that has enabled us to deliver this set of results.
I am delighted that Steve Clarke, Managing Director of the High Sustainability Street business, will be Kates successor.
Steve has been The difficult economic climate has not lessened our commitment instrumental in the development and execution of our successful to good corporate responsibility CR.
In fact, it has increased our strategy that has led to our outstanding performance.
Steve has focus on those environmental efficiencies which can also help to the qualities and experience to lead the Company and continue to cut operational costs, and on building strong and mutually deliver superior shareholder returns over the years to come.
He beneficial relationships in the communities in which we operate.
will be ably supported by Robert Moorhead in his new role as In the year, we have made notable improvements in energy Group Finance Director and Chief Operating Officer and by the consumption through the roll-out of a programme of lighting rest of the Companys senior team.
upgrades across our High Street estate, cutting our greenhouse Jeff Harris, who had served as a non-executive director, retired gas emissions and reducing costs at the same time.
We regularly from the Board on 10 July 2012.
On behalf of the Board, I would benchmark our CR performance against our peers and were like to thank Jeff for his valued contribution to the Group.
pleased to continue to be awarded the Platinum ranking inthe Business in the Community CR Index.
Whilst we believe that the Group is well-positioned for the year ahead, we expect the economic environment to remain challenging and we therefore remain extremely focused on implementing our strategy.
Walker Boyd Chairman 11 October 2012 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2012 5
