co. uk Chairmans statement I am pleased to report another good set of results for Whitbread, with double-digit revenue and profit growth, as well as 15% growth in both EPS and dividends during the year.
We are focused on putting the customer at the heart of everything we do.
We continually develop our products and services while investing in our brands to build ever stronger consumer propositions, all the time keeping a tight control on costs.
This has enabled us to perform well in tough market conditions giving us the confidence to expand in line with our ambitious growth plans.
In a challenging hotel market, the increasing strength of the Premier Inn brand and our dynamic pricing system have ensured we continue to outperform competitors.
The sharper focus in our restaurants business delivered a turnaround in performance in the second half of the We are focused on year.
Costa remains one of the success stories of the UK high street with like for like sales growth of 5.5%, putting the customer at while some 22% of total system sales now come from its international businesses.
the heart of everything It has been a record year for expansion in our main we do.
We continually growth engines of Premier Inn and Costa.
We opened 4,430 new rooms 31 hotels, 12 restaurants, over 330 develop our products Costa stores around the world and now have 1,192 Costa Express machines.
This puts us well on track to achieve and services while the 2016 milestones we laid out last April.
Overseas, Costa continues to build presence in some 25 countries investing in our brands and in the year we celebrated our 100th store in China.
Premier Inn is developing a capital right strategy to to build ever stronger expand in the emerging budget hotel markets of the Middle East, India and Asia Pacific.
As we invest in growing our brands the focus is very much on delivering good returns that create substantial shareholder value.
To further this end, we are proposing to introduce a ROCE measure to our senior management long-term incentive plan for 2012 13.
2 Dividend Earlier this month we announced a change of As we said at this time last year, we have re-balanced responsibilities for Christopher Rogers, who will the interim and final dividend payments to reflect become Managing Director of Costa with effect from the earnings profile during the year more closely.
1 August 2012 when John Derkach leaves us to The Board recommends a final dividend of 33.75p become Chief Executive of Tragus.
Christopher joined per share, making a total dividend for the year of Whitbread as Finance Director in 2005 and has played 51.25p per share, up by 15.2%.
a key role in the Companys transformation over the last seven years.
Prior to joining Whitbread, he had The final dividend will be paid on 13 July 2012 to developed a wealth of experience in consumer-facing shareholders on the register at the close of business businesses such as Kingfisher, where he held product on 18 May 2012.
Once again, a scrip dividend alternative marketing, commercial and finance roles.
Christopher will be offered and further information on how has served on the Costa Management Board since shareholders can elect to participate in the scrip it was formed in 2008 and has played an active role dividend scheme is available from the registrars in Costas development.
We have started the search or on the Companys website.
process for a new Finance Director.
Board Governance During the year, we appointed two new non-executive As Chairman of the Company, I believe that corporate directors, Susan Hooper and Susan Taylor Martin.
governance is not simply something for the Board to They are both highly talented multi-lingual executives consider as an agenda item at our monthly meetings.
Each of them brings a Corporate governance affects all aspects of our different range of skills to the Whitbread Board as we operations and I am pleased with the high standards continue to grow our market-leading businesses both we maintain in this regard.
On pages 28 to 34, there is in the UK and selectively around the world.
a comprehensive report which sets out our approach to governance.
Susan Hooper is an experienced international leisure sector executive holding the position of Chief Executive People at Acromas Travel where she has been responsible The dedication and energy of our employees is a key for the Saga, AA and Titan Hi Tours holiday and part of our customer heartbeat strategy, which is travel businesses since 2009.
Her other leisure described in more detail later in this report.
I would like and consumer experience includes Senior VP, EMEA to pay tribute to the tremendous contribution of our at Royal Caribbean Cruises International, where she people and the high quality service they provide to also represented them on the board of First Choice our customers every single day of the year.
On behalf Holidays PLC, and senior roles at Avis Europe.
Her of the Board and the executive team, I wish to express appointment was effective from 1 September 2011. our thanks to each of them for their hard work this year and the contribution they have made to our Susan Taylor Martin has held executive roles in rapidly overall performance.
She was appointed President, Media at Thomson Reuters in July 2011 and has held a number of other roles at Thomson Reuters during a period of extensive technological innovation and corporate change.
These roles included, President, Global Investment Focus Accounts and Managing Director, UK and Ireland within Thomson Reuters Markets.
Prior to that she was Global Head, Corporate Strategy for Reuters, which she joined in 1993.
Her appointment Anthony Habgood was effective from 1 January 2012.
