2 Business and strategy review Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Chairmans statement Introduction from the Chairman Sir Ian Gibson Chairman See our report visit: www.
co. uk corporate ar2012 Group highlights Against the backdrop of a very challenging environment for the Underlying profit before tax consumer, where value, freshness 935m and quality are key, I am pleased to report another year of good Underlying earnings per share progress for Morrisons.
25.6p Record numbers of customers Final dividend per share visited our stores, demonstrating 7.53p that Morrisons unique offer is in tune with the needs of consumers in these Profit share pool for colleagues uncertain times.
The delivery of good 49m earnings growth and the resultant increase in the dividend demonstrates Raised for Save the Children charity resilience of our business model 2.3m in a tough economic environment.
Business and strategy review Performance review Governance Financial statements Investor information Annual report and financial statements 2011 12 3 At the start of the year, we outlined a range of initiatives to we operate.
During the year, we have continued to undertake grow our sales profitability, make our business more efficient research projects through the Morrisons Farming Programme, and develop further growth opportunities that would deliver have been enthusiastic supporters of the Governments Public enhanced value to shareholders.
The management team has Health Responsibility Deal and have made good progress made good progress in all these areas and we are on track towards our long term energy reduction targets.
Our Lets to deliver our vision to make Morrisons Different and Better Grow programme, now in its fifth year, continues to help than Ever.
school children throughout the UK to get out of the classroom and learn about the food cycle first hand.
Results Profit before tax was 947m, an increase of 73m 8% when It is a source of pride that our colleagues and customers compared with 874m last year.
Underlying profit before tax, always go out of their way to support our charitable activities, which we regard as the true measure of business performance, and I am delighted that Save the Children was selected by was up 8% to 935m.
Statutory basic earnings per share our colleagues, for the second successive year, as our charity increased by 11% over the previous year to 26.7p, with partner.
Specifically, we have helped fund its award-winning underlying basic earnings per share up by 11% to 25.6p.
Families and Schools Together FAST programme across the UK, which is designed to give the most disadvantaged children Our policy is to increase the dividend in line with underlying a chance of a better future.
With an array of fundraising earnings growth subject to a minimum increase of 10% in each activities, we have raised 2.3m for FAST this year, successfully of the three years to 2013 14.
In line with this policy, the Board funding 24 programmes, as well as Save the Childrens is therefore recommending a final dividend of 7.53p per share, emergency appeals in Japan and East Africa.
to bring the total dividend for the year to 10.7p, an increase of 11% on 2010 11.
The dividend is covered 2.4 times by Industry recognition underlying earnings.
Morrisons commitment to providing customers with an outstanding shopping experience and making it a great place Cash flow from operations of 1,264m was up by 123m 11%, to work for colleagues has again been recognised with numerous when compared to the previous year.
Capital expenditure and industry awards.
These included nine The Grocer Own Label investments of 901m was 306m higher than the previous Food and Drink Awards, Fresh Produce Retailer of The Year year.
This was the result of a planned acceleration in our store multiple category at the Retail Industry Awards and Employer opening programme, the addition of a new regional distribution of the Year from both Retail Week and The Grocer Gold Awards.
centre at Willow Green, Bridgwater, and investments to support our expansion ambitions for online shopping and vertical Our colleagues integration.
We expect capital expenditure to be higher in These awards are testimony to the passion and hard work 2012 13 as we continue to invest for future growth.
368m of our 131,000 colleagues, who are making Morrisons was invested into our equity retirement programme, and Different and Better than Ever for our customers every day.
we are on track to meet our objective of returning 1bn to shareholders over the two years to March 2013, in addition I am delighted that our growth during the year will provide to normal dividends.
a profit share pool for them of 49m, an increase of 8% over last year.
These investments, together with an increased dividend payment, resulted in a rise in net debt to 1,471m 2010 11: We continue to invest in training and skills.
Our award-winning 817m, to leave gearing at 27%.
At this level it remains Morrisons Academy provides specialist training to help low for the sector.
At the year end the Group had undrawn, colleagues develop new skills or work towards a nationally committed facilities of 725m and a credit rating of A3 from recognised qualification such as QCF.
This is a strong investment grade which is only held were successfully accredited during the year and, at the time by two other European retailers.
of rising youth unemployment, I am pleased that 40,000 of our colleagues are aged 16 to 24.
Community and the environment Our customers expect us to trade responsibly, and we are On behalf of the Board, I want to express our thanks to every committed to managing resources carefully, maintaining one of our colleagues for their dedication, professionalism ethical standards and working with the communities in which and service throughout the year.
We are committed to making food shopping fresh, friendly and affordable It underpins our unique promise to every single household in the UK the best service and the freshest food for less.
