Wolseley plc 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Chairmans statement with net cash of 45 million at 31 July 2012 Results and strategy In summary 31 July 2011: net debt of 523 million.
I am pleased to report another year of Ournancial strength will stand us in Strong financial progress for Wolseley in which we have goodstead in these uncertain times.
results and cash delivered improved trading profit and strong generation.
An important theme of the past year has free cash ow generation.
We have achieved been the further work undertaken by the this against a tough economic backdrop, Executive and the Board in rening our Further clarification particularly in Continental Europe, and I am strategy and its execution.
In particular, of our strategy and immensely proud of the hard work and ineach country we are now beginning to commitment to achieving these goals shown business model.
define more precisely the inherent strengths by my colleagues around the Group.
of our business models which drive Increased total Our fundamental strategy is unchanged competitive advantage in our local markets.
dividend to 60p andour core focus remains on delivering Over the medium term we will progressively 2010 11: 45p.
shareholder value from our strength and move our business units to a local service thesignicant growth opportunities in the common process business model, with distribution of plumbing and heating and Proposed capital coreprocesses being developed to building materials.
Since Ian Meakins was achievebenets of scale, productivity and return of 350 million.
appointed as Group Chief Executive three efficiencies.
You can read more about our years ago, he and his Executive team have progress in Ians review on pages 8 to 11. made excellent progress in refocusing Wolseley through top-down resource Dividend increase allocation on those businesses where we have or can create market leading positions.
Our commitment to creating shareholder Our objective is to improve and expand value remains strong.
This year, we rebased ourmarket leading businesses through our dividend with an interim dividend execution of bottom-up business unit increase of 33 per cent.
The Board is now strategies to make sure we grow these proposing a final dividend of 40pence businesses faster than the competition.
This brings the total A number of disposals of non-core dividend for 2012to 60 pence 2010 11: businesses have been made, which 45pence costing 172million, which is allowusto focus all our resources on our ayear on year increase of 33 per cent.
I am pleased to say that we are broadly at the end of the Special dividend major disposal process and today 86per cent of Wolseley revenue comes from The Board is committed to a progressive businesses which are either number one dividend policy.
ornumber two in their markets.
We have During the year, cash proceeds from the sale also continued to place a great deal of of businesses and other assets amounted to emphasis on strong cash generation and 317 million.
These proceeds are surplus to our balance sheet remains one of the the reinvestment requirement of the Group strongest in the industry.
During the year we and therefore, in line with theCompanys completed the deleveraging of the business policy, we are proposing aspecial dividend Our strategy is unchanged and our core focus remains on delivering shareholder value.
Overview Performance Governance Financials Information Wolseley plc 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 to shareholders of 350million which is At this time, we have one woman on the expected to be paid inDecember.
The Board, Tessa Bamford, due to the recent special dividend and associated share departure of Karen Witts.
In light of her consolidation will be subject to shareholder recent appointment as Finance Director of approval at the AGMon 29 November 2012.
Kingsher plc, Karen stepped down from Our clear strategy, theBoard in order to avoid any risk of a focused set of conict of interest.
We thank her for her Governance, Board market leading contribution to the Board and wish her well composition and changes businesses and in her new role.
Central to the effective management of the strong balance As a result, there are likely to be further business and maintaining the confidence changes to the Board through 2012 and sheet will enable ofour shareholders are high standards of 2013.
We will continue to refresh the team further progress.
As Chairman, I seek toensure it operates with a broad and to ensure that the Board is as effective as diverse range of complementary skills and possible and I believe strongly that this is specialised knowledge to take the Company thecase.
An externally facilitated Board forward.
We shall always consider the evaluation was conducted this year, in line benets of greater diversity while ensuring with the requirements of the UK Corporate that the best person is recruited to the Governance Code.
This years third party relevant role.
review indicated that the Board and its Committees are operating effectively to high People standards of governance.
It found that the It is important to thank all our employees Board had an open and transparent style whose tremendous hard work has been ofdiscussion, with good engagement and thedriving force behind our performance.
contribution from all members, particularly Wolseley is very much a people business on strategic planning and risk management.
and success is absolutely a team effort.
A more detailed overview of the evaluation Asyou will see in the following pages, the process, together with details of the overall theme of this years annual report is outcomes and actions to be taken, Best customer service, every day and the arediscussed further on page 72. strong service ethic of our people and their During the year, the Board and I through dedication to serving our customers well is theNominations Committee gave a great central to the delivery of our strategy.
deal of attention to its future composition, As we look to the future, concerns over with anemphasis both on executive and thehealth of many of the worlds major non-executive succession planning.
Itis difficult to predict took into account the tenure of Andrew Duff, how strong these economic headwinds our Senior Independent Director and could become, but we approach 2012 13 Remuneration Committee Chairman, which with the confidence that our clear strategy, we expect will come to an end in 2013. focused set of market leading businesses Wehave identied the balance of skills, and strong balance sheet will enable further experience, capabilities, independence, progress.
I believe that challenges will diversity and knowledge required on the present opportunities and that Wolseley Board and its Committees against which iswell placed to make the most of them.
The Board composition today provides abalance of operational expertise, deep knowledge of our principal end markets, andCity and financial experience.
As mentioned last year, we welcomed the findings and recommendations of Lord Gareth Davis Davies report, Women on Boards.
Chairman Corporate governance See page 62
