How we behave and how were rewarded Directors report Letter from the chairman of the Compensation Committee Dear share owner outcomes for the four LEAP awards that vest in each of 2014-2017 will be measured on a common he outcome of the 2012 Annual General currency basis only, with no application of a fairness Meeting vote on the Compensation review to take account of currency movements Committee Report was disappointing for during the five-year performance periods.
For the Tthe members of the Committee and the new LTIP, the TSR outcome will be measured half Board.
The vote indicated that the changes which incommon currency, half in local currency, to reflect were made to the CEOs compensation in 2011, the division of opinion amongst share owners as to andour engagement on these changes with share the appropriate measure.
owners and representative bodies, fell short of the The changes to the Executive Remuneration expectations of a majority of them.
Policy and the proposed LTIP were framed against Therefore, following the 2012 AGM, the chairman the background of WPPs significant growth in size, of the Company and I began a series of meetings with complexity, and share owner value since 2007, share owners and representative bodies to listen to andits strong relative TSR performance against their issues and concerns so that the committee itscomparators since that date.
They were also couldformulate proposals to address them.
structured to be consistent with WPPs overall The dialogue with share owners has been philosophy of executive compensation: that it should extensive: we have engaged with our largest share be substantially oriented towards performance-based owners and the representative bodies numerous compensation: that a substantial proportion of times.
Their input and approach have been very thatcompensation should require long performance helpful and constructive.
In formulating changes periods: and that it should be consistent with, which the committee has made to remuneration and, indeed, reinforce, the Groups strategy.
policy in general, the CEO remuneration package, The CEOs remuneration opportunity is now and the design of a long-term incentive plan.
We consistent with the lower levels which prevailed appreciate the time they have devoted to this matter.
inthe2007-2010 period, 2007 being the last year Details of these changes are set out later in this priorto 2011 in which changes to his remuneration report.
Among the key changes which have been opportunity were implemented.
This reduction in made or which are proposed are the following: noway reflects the committees or the Boards view the CEOs remuneration package has been ofthe importance of the CEO to the Company and reduced through adjustments to base salary, itssuccess and his unique mix of skills, and for pensionallowance and shortand long-term whichnumerous share owners have expressed their incentiveopportunity: appreciation.
Nevertheless, the changes we have made the short-term incentive plan for executive were designed to be responsive to an environment directors has been restructured, where appropriate, inwhich moderation of executive compensation to emphasise Groupfinancial performance: isconsidered necessary and appropriate.
a new long-term incentive plan is being proposed The Group performed at record levels in 2012 to share owners for approval at the AGM.
As before, inwhat proved to be a very challenging general it is based on a five-year performance and vesting economic environment.
Because of equally challenging period, but performance will be assessed against: performance criteria, short-term incentive payments three measures relative TSR: earnings per share were at or just above target levels.
growth: and average return on equity, rather than For the five years to year-end 2012, WPPs relative TSR alone: and TSRperformed strongly relative to its comparators.
