06 Introduction Chairmans Statement Atkins is an international engineering consultancy company with strong leadership and management, delivering both an excellent service to our clients and a strong financial performance.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Introduction 07 Full biographies of our Board of Directors can be found on pages 58-59 www.
com investor-relations Performance People Also in September 2011, we welcomed I am pleased to report that the Group Atkins is a people business, and I would Rodney Slater as a non-executive director.
delivered good results for the year like to thank our employees in all areas Mr Slater is based in the United States ended 31 March 2012 in an economic of the Group for their hard work and and was formerly the secretary of environment that continues to be dedication over the past year.
It is a transportation under president Bill Clinton challenging.
This is testament to the combination of our colleagues technical between 1997 and 2001.
Mr Slaters full breadth and depth of the services we excellence and outstanding regional biography can be found in the Board of offer across the world.
It is our geographic and sector capabilities that enables directors section pages 58 to 59. presence and the broad mix of work that us to deliver these results, despite the we do that have continued to give the challenging economic environment.
Dividend Group resilience at a time when many I would also like to welcome new arrivals The Board is recommending a final of our markets still experience uncertainty.
to the Group: those who are just starting dividend of 20.75p per ordinary share in their careers, those who have moved respect of the year ended 31 March 2012, We ended the year in line with to Atkins for personal development making the total dividend for the year expectations having improved turnover and those who have joined us 30.5p 2011: 29.0p, an increase of 5.2%.
and maintained underlying profit before through acquisition.
If approved at the Companys annual tax as we continue to balance our general meeting, the dividend will be Board of directors geographic footprint.
It is particularly paid on 31 August 2012 to ordinary pleasing to report that we have As chairman of the Board, I am shareholders on the register on 27 July successfully integrated our PBSJ responsible for ensuring its effective 2012.
Further details regarding dividend acquisition which is the largest in the management and processes.
I have payments can be found in Investor Groups history.
In the first full year that set out my commitment to excellence Information page 158. we report results for this new business in governance in the Corporate in North America, we have achieved good Governance Report pages 64 to 72.
Outlook margin progression in our consultancy The Groups geographic and sector business which confirms that our Dr Uwe Krueger succeeded Keith Clarke diversication continues to provide integration strategy and operational CBE as chief executive officer in August resilience, which is reected in the efficiency measures are working.
He has reviewed the Groups results we have reported for the year strategy and concluded that overall it ended 31 March 2012.
Atkins is I remain confident that our multi local remains appropriate.
He has identied positioned to deliver further growth presence, together with the mix of skills three strategic priorities to accelerate in the year ahead.
and expertise that we provide to our the growth of the Group: operational clients increasingly complex engineering excellence, portfolio optimisation and Allan Cook CBE challenges, places us in a strong position sector focus.
We are making good Chairman to provide effective solutions, as clients progress against these priorities.
13 June 2012 put greater emphasis on planning and design disciplines to optimise value from Sir Peter Williams, non-executive director their infrastructure programmes.
and chairman of the Remuneration Committee retired from the Board of We continue to work with governments Atkins in September 2011.
I would like around the world to offer expert opinion to thank personally Sir Peter, on behalf about how growth can be achieved of the Board, for the seven years of through investment in infrastructure and dedicated service he gave to Atkins.
securing vital energy supply for the future.
I am pleased to report that our existing We have worked with country leaders non-executive director, Dr Raj Rajagopal and their cabinets through one to one has taken over from Sir Peter as chairman briengs and by attending a number of the Remuneration Committee.
of trade visits, in particular to the Middle East and Asia Pacic regions, where Corporate Governance Report.
Pages 64-72 there continues to be strong growth potential for the Group.
Pages 58-59 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Introduction
