CHAIRMANS LETTER BAE Systems has delivered a robust performance in a challenging environment.
Dick Olver Chairman COMMITTED TO ENHANCING SHAREHOLDER VALUE BAE Systems has delivered a robust performance in a challenging The Board reviews this strategy regularly and refreshes those environment.
The combination of rapid changes in defence priorities actions that are required to deliver the strategy.
That review around the world, together with the economic pressures that considers many options, including the prospects for constrain government customers, has hindered growth but I believe transformational transactions.
It was against this backdrop that the 2012 stands out as a year of validation of the direction and stature option regarding a possible merger with EADS emerged.
The merger discussions were at no time seen as a replacement for It is this consistently robust performance which enabled the Group the Groups established strategy.
BAESystems remains focused on to explore the possibility of a merger opportunity with EADS.
The its strategy and prospects for the business remain good.
In merger held the prospect of creating a combined business that particular, the outlook in international markets remains buoyant as would have been a global technology leader across both the evidenced by a two-fold increase in international order intake outside commercial aerospace and defence sectors and which, we believe, the US and UK markets in 2012.
Further opportunities to mitigate or offset likely pressures on sales growth in US and UK markets would have delivered significantly enhanced value for shareholders.
Behind that consistent operational performance lies a soundlybased strategy that has been forged over the past decade and which BAE Systems is committed to enhancing shareholder value by has enabled the Group to develop as one of the global leaders in maximising earnings performance.
Efficiency measures continue to defence, aerospace and security.
be implemented, aimed at delivering affordable solutions for customers and attractive returns for shareholders.
BAE Systems today operates with a broad base of business across multiple international markets.
The Group has a large order backlog The combination of the Groups focus on cash generation and its of platform programmes addressing all three defence domains of air, capital allocation policy provides opportunities for further enhanced sea and land.
In addition, the Group has expanded to provide a range shareholder returns and, in February 2013, the Group announced a of services-based capabilities, complementing and, to a large extent three-year share repurchase programme of up to 1bn.
In addition to derived from, its products-based positions.
More recently, this accelerated return to shareholders, the Groups capital BAESystems has expanded its services offering into the provision of allocation policy will continue to reflect pension obligations, capabilities for government intelligence communities as well as business development needs for the longer term and dividends.
commercial customers seeking cybersecurity solutions.
4 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 Dividend pence per share Dividend pence Governance Transparency is a critical element of good 25 governance and in the Governance section 20 19.5 18.8 of this report on pages 76 to 117, I and 17.5 16.0 other directors report on how we have 15 14.5 discharged the important responsibilities 10 the Board has for the stewardship of the Company.
5 0 08 09 10 11 12 The Board has recommended a final dividend of 11.7p per share making a total of 19.5p per share for the year, an increase of 4% over 2011.
See page 80 for the Chairmans corporate governance letter BAE Systems places great importance on the way it conducts its extensive industrial experience.
The Board is grateful to him for his business.
Alongside strategic and operational progress, the Group support and, more generally, his contribution to the development of has also made huge strides over recent years in establishing high the Group.
As I near the start of my tenth year as Chairman, one of Nick Roses The path to establishing high standards of governance has followed tasks as the Boards new Senior Independent Director is to manage a complex and at times arduous journey.
Rather than addressing the the succession for my own role.
It is important that this process is cosmetics of issues as they have arisen, we have sought to drive driven by the objective of finding the right person, not just by the fundamental culture change throughout the organisation.
Notwithstanding the undoubted challenges the future process can never be considered to be complete and best practice holds, I believe I will be handing over the tiller of a well-managed, in governance will always remain an objective, but I believe strong and successful company, that is operating to high standards BAESystems is justified in now being regarded as a leader in this of governance.
Dividend The Board has recommended a final dividend of 11.7p per share Consistent with the drive for continuous improvement, the Groups core governance procedures and policies were again reviewed and making a total of 19.5p per share for the year, an increase of 4% over updated during the year.
At this level, the annual dividend is covered 2.0 times by underlying earnings 2011 2.1 times excluding the UK tax The Group continues to pursue an integrated approach to agreement benefit.
Subject to shareholder approval at the 2013 performance in all aspects of its business life.
This Total Annual General Meeting, the dividend will be paid on 3 June 2013 to Performance approach includes the setting of financial and holders of ordinary shares registered on 19April 2013. non-financial objectives for management.
Further details of this Total Performance approach, and the way it embraces all employees, can be found on page 17 of this report.
BAE Systems recognises the benefits derived from drawing on the talents of a diverse workforce.
One important element of this is the Groups drive, through a structured programme of initiatives, to attract more women into the workplace.
Although there is still much to do in this regard, across industry as a whole, the early stages of progress are now apparent within BAESystems and are expected to Dick Olver provide the foundations for a better gender balance in future years.
Chairman In addition to this progress, and consistent with our commitment to improve diversity, the Group again met its aspirational goal set pursuant to the Davies Report, with women representing more than 25% of the composition of the Groups Board.
Directors In May, Michael Hartnall, a non-executive director, stood down from the Board having served nearly nine years in that capacity.
As previously announced, Sir Peter Mason stepped down as the Boards Senior Independent Director in January 2013.
Nick Rose, a non-executive director, succeeds Sir Peter as the Boards Senior Independent Director.
Sir Peter will step down from the Board at the Annual General Meeting in May 2013.
Sir Peter has been a great asset to the Board, over many years, sharing his wise counsel and BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 5 STRATEGIC REVIEW In this section: Chief Executives review 8 Key Performance Indicators KPIs 13 Our Strategy 16 Our business model 17 BAE Systems is focused on delivering sustainable growth in shareholder value.
This section provides an overview of how we do it.
6 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 Strategic re Strategic revie view w Creating cost-effective precision rockets takes some of the sharpest minds around The Advanced Precision Kill Weapon System is a laser-guided rocket that provides a low-cost surgical strike capability.
The Group produces the mid-body guidance kit, which changes a standard unguided rocket into a precision laser-guided missile.
