Overview | Chairmans Welcome Chairmans Welcome Balfour Beattys success is very much dependent on its people, and never more so than in challenging times.
Against this challenging economic We closed the year reporting background, our Professional Services revenue, including joint ventures andInfrastructure Investments businesses and associates, of 10,896 demonstrated resilience and strength.
million, down 1%, and profit Throughout the year, we maintained our fromunderlying operations relentless focus on operational efficiency.
We have made progress in restructuring of309 million, down 7%.
both the UK and US construction Weretain astrong balance sheet businesses, which helped to offset with a neutral cash position, someof the impact of volume and marginpressure.
We have concluded despite working capital anoperational and strategic review of our impactsreecting reduced Mainland European rail business and will volume and changing mix be divesting all of this business over time.
As you will read later in this report, in Our UK and US construction businesses thenear term we are addressing current were held back by tough economic market conditions by seeking additional conditions in 2012.
But as a Group we efficiencies while continuing to focus on were able to mitigate the impact through customer value.
We expect this focus will our diverse portfolio, ongoing operational also address some of the operational efficiency and focus on new growth issues we have experienced in certain geographies and market sectors.
For mid to long term growth we are also stepping up Tough trading conditions persisted in implementation of our strategy to target mostof our major construction markets, growth geographies and market sectors.
particularly in the second half of the year.
You can read more about this on pages US construction markets remained 10and 11. depressed, the performance of our UK construction business was weaker than Board anticipated and structural problems in We have made a number of boardroom Mainland European rail markets added changes over the past year.
announced in January 2013 that our Chief Executive, Ian Tyler, would hand over to Andrew McNaughton at the end ofMarch 2013.
Over his eight-year tenure Ian led a transformation of the business: ithas trebled in size, extended its global reach and capabilities, and in particular developed a strong professional services business following the acquisition of Parsons Brinckerhoff in 2009.
He will remain with the Group until 30 April 2013 to ensure a smooth transition.
Andrew McNaughton has an excellent understanding of all areas of the Group and is supported by a strong team.
In hisprevious capacity as Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Operating officer hehas already shown that he has both theskills and the experience to take on the leadership of the business.
Andrew has been instrumental in developing the strategy that we are now implementing.
Itis encouraging that Balfour Beatty has the depth of management talent to ensure a smooth succession with a high calibre internal candidate.
04 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Overview | Chairmans Welcome During the year we also announced the Australia and one in Indonesia.
Every retirement in June 2012 of Deputy Chief fatalaccident is subject to a thorough Executive Anthony Rabin, who had been investigation and review by the Balfour with the Group for 17 years.
Lessons learnt are shared Independent Director Robert Walvis across the Group to help improve future retired from the Board at the end of performance and our focus in this area theyear after over 11 years service.
We were pleased to welcome our first As a consequence, in 2013 and beyond female non-executive to the Board with we are reinvigorating our Zero Harm the appointment of Maureen Kempston efforts, setting clear health and safety Darkes in May 2012.
Until her retirement expectations for all of our businesses, at the end of 2009, Maureen was group redoubling our efforts to pursue the vice-president for General Motors elimination of fatal risk and increasing the LatinAmerica, Africa and Middle East level of personal accountability for safety.
After qualifying as a lawyer Read more about this on page 48. she joined General Motors in 1975 Dividend andheld a series of increasingly senior The Board believes that it remains roles there.
In the third quarter appropriate to retain our longer term policy Within the senior executive ranks, after of progressive dividends.
In recognition of of2012, we launched almost 40 years of distinguished service, shorter term earnings pressure, we are our global intranet.
Brian Osborne retired from the Group at proposing to hold the final dividend at 360 is now the end of 2012.
Brian had worked in 8.5p per ordinary share togive a total various parts of the business in roles that dividend for 2012 of 14.1p an increase available to over included managing director of Balfour of2% on 2011.
70% of our online Beatty Civil Engineering, Group managing Looking forward employees worldwide director for civil engineering and most Looking forward we can point to a number and is designed to recently International Business director.
We expect to see enable more effective Our people and reputation the full impact of our efficiencies coming Balfour Beattys success is very much through in 2014.
We believe our transition collaboration and dependent on its people, and never more to focus on growth geographies and knowledge sharing.
so than in challenging times.
In some sectors will position us well for the More employees areas ofthe business, our people have midterm.
willreceive access had to contend with tough markets whileadapting to ongoing internal during 2013. change.
Iextend my thanks to all of themfor theircommitment, dedication and skillinhelping us navigate todays business environment.
As the Group embarks on its new strategic direction, collaboration and Steve Marshall knowledge sharing assumes ever greater Chairman importance.
Our capacity to harness the wide range of skills, knowledge and human potential across the business is key to securing competitive advantage.
Another crucial concern is the safety of our people, our suppliers and the general public.
In 2012, the Group Accident Frequency Rate AFR improved to 0.16 2011: 0.17, where the AFR is a ratio relating the number of major injuries to the total hours worked.
There were significant improvements in many parts of the Group in relation to safety, however it is with deep regret that there were eight employee fatalities during 2012 three in theUK, two in North America, two in Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 05
