CHAIRMANS STATEMENT DELIVERING VALUE Capco is well positioned to maintain its momentum following a year of progress and value creation.
Ian Durant, Chairman TOTAL RETURN DIVIDEND Capcos strong performance in 2012 continues the positive momentum generated since the Company was established in 2010.
Over this period, the Company has delivered market 22.6% 1.5p leading returns to its shareholders as a result of a focus on executing its strategy of unlocking value across its business supported by eff ective capital management.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN At the asset level Covent Garden has performed well with the continued evolution of the tenant 300 mix and expansion of the estate through key acquisitions.
An equity placing in September 250 raised 149 million of new capital to support this strategy.
Key planning milestones for the Earls Court Masterplan have been achieved 200 alongside formal planning consent and the formation of a joint venture to develop the 150 Seagrave Road project.
This year has also seen continued reallocation of capital from non-core 100 assets, particularly from GCP, to Earls Court and Covent Garden.
50 The Olympic Games were a highlight of 2012, and I am pleased that our Earls Court venue 10 May 2010 31 December 2010 31 December 2011 31 December 2012 was the host of the successful volleyball tournament which attracted over half a Capco FTSE 350 Real Estate Index million visitors.
Engagement with the communities in which the Company operates complements the strategy and has been an area of much activity during 2012.
Our entrepreneurial and diverse company culture is essential to the creative approach to place-making and the Corporate Responsibility CR strategy.
Events such as 6 OUR STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE GOVERN OUR BUSINESS OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the Poppy Appeal in Covent Garden and the The Audit Committee has had a busy year of develop, strengthen and create depth in ongoing Earls Court Education Project show diligent oversight of the controls, risks and management capability.
commitment to embedding the CR strategy reporting, thus assuring the Board that the MOVING FORWARD inthe areas in which the Company operates, Companys reporting is balanced, consistent In 2012 London took its place on the world whilst initiatives including volunteer days and compliant.
The Remuneration Committee stage as host city of the Olympics and centre areundertaken by staff throughout the year.
has committed much time and eff ort to its of the Queens Diamond Jubilee celebrations, review of Executive remuneration in 2012, RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS and its success under the spotlight has and I am grateful to the Committee members In 2012 Capco delivered strong results enhanced its standing as a global city and an for their contribution.
The Committee has withatotal return of 22.6 per cent.
EPRA attractive location for investment.
The global had a diffi cult job in reconciling the views of adjusted, diluted NAV per share was the main capital ows into London have underpinned aminority of shareholders and its conclusions component of this, rising from 167 pence to the central London real estate markets despite are described on pages 59 to 75.
203 pence driven by the increase in valuation the continued poor macroeconomic outlook of the assets which were up 16.7 per cent on a As stated in the 2011 report, the diversity for the UK, but Londons safe haven status like-for-like basis.
Total shareholder return andcomposition of the Board have should not be taken for granted.
It should be noted that these beenreviewed and we were pleased to Nevertheless, as we move forward I am results have been achieved with exceptionally welcomeDemetra Pinsent who joined as con dent that Capcos strategy to unlock low leverage: at December 2012 the Groups aNon-executive Director in May.
Demetra value from its core estates whilst maintaining LTV was 10 per cent.
isa former partner of McKinsey & Co and a strong financial position will enable was leader of its European Apparel, fashion I would like to thank the Executive ittocapitalise on opportunities for its and luxury goods practice for five years, Directorsand all staff for their hard work shareholders and continue to achieve advising leading high street, aspirational andcommitment over the past year which marketleading returns.
and luxury retailers and brands.
hascontributed to this strong performance.
The Groups ongoing strategy was a focus of The Directors propose a final dividend debate and discussion for the Board during of1.0pence per share, bringing the total the year, and the business model focusing on dividend paid and payable for 2012 to central London retail and residential property 1.5pence per share.
was affi rmed whilst keeping an open mind on GOVERNANCE opportunities to allow the business to develop Ian Durant The Board has established an open culture further.
People development and succession Chairman which encourages dialogue and debate planning have also been a focus of the Board.
between the Executive and Non-executive Iam grateful to the Non-executive Directors 28 February 2013 Directors.
The values of the Board in regard to who are participating in a mentoring both governance and corporate responsibility programme with senior members of the are embedded throughout the Group.
management team below Board level to Commitment to Corporate Responsibility CR Our entrepreneurial culture encourages a creative andholistic approach to place-making, which takes into consideration our impact on the environment and on the local communities where our estates are based.
CR has become embedded into the fabric of our day-to-day work.
For more about the speci c initiatives that illustrate our strategy, including the Apple Market Challenge pictured right, please see our dedicated CR section on pages 42 to47.
