REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GROUP OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT his has been a year ofrapid progress and wehave again delivered T on our key objectives ofincreasing profitability and reducing overall indebtedness.
Profit before tax and exceptional items increased by 159.3% to 110.7m and net debt reduced bynearly 50% to 167.7m.
This hasbeen achieved against achallenging backdrop of economic and consumer uncertainty, coupled with continuing restrictions on the availability of adequate mortgage finance, particularly with higher loan to value LTV products.
ANOTHER YEAR The market The UK housing market has remained broadly stable, although OF SUBSTANTIAL there were regional variations in demand andpricing.
Whilst the countrys housing needs continue PROGRESS to grow, the number of new homes being built will only see a sustainable increase with a step change inmortgage lending.
Some progress was made This has been a year of significantly during the year in terms of the improved financial performance for the availability of finance for our customers, with higher LTV in the Group, and we continue to lead the industry new build sector seeing a gradual in levels of quality and customer service.
The launch in July 2011 of the Government-backed FirstBuy shared equity scheme has helped to stimulate improved demand from first-time buyers.
The launch, in March 2012, of the Government-backed NewBuy mortgage indemnity scheme should ensure that this progress continues by effectively increasing to 95% the LTV available to buyers of new homes.
Our performance During the year we made significant financial and operational improvements across every aspect of our business.
Wehave further increased our capability and our efficiency.
Weare financially stronger and the quality of our land bank has improved.
Theobjectives of rebuilding profitability and reducing overall indebtedness, independent 06 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 1.
The Manning five bedroom showhome at Newberry Corner, Churchinford.
A small development set in anattractive village in the Blackdown Hills, Taunton.
For the third consecutive year theGroup has been awarded Home Builder Federation 5-Star status.
This is the highest achievable level in terms of customer satisfaction and recommendation.
1 offurther market improvement, profit growth was the increased continuing to reduce overall challenging, is a great credit areprogressing well.
proportion of completions from indebtedness.
to the management of the Ensuring that we achieve newer, higher margin land.
There thebest price for the homes that the period 4,381 completions The Board isa wealth ofexperience within we build remains a priority and is 35% were on newer, higher In April 2012, Richard Akers joined the leadership team, ably dependent on getting the location, margin land and in 2012 13 we us as a Non-Executive Director.
supported by our employees product mix, design, branding, expect this to increase to just over He has broad business experience across the country.
Onbehalf quality, marketing of our homes 50% ofcompletions.
The land we and a deep knowledge of the ofthe Board Iwould liketo thank and customer service absolutely have bought since re-entering the property market from a them for their commitment and right.
We have continued to invest land market in 2009 currently commercial and retail perspective, outstanding contribution to the in all of these areas and our meets or exceeds the minimum complementing the existing Groups performance.
industry leadership inthe way hurdle rates set on acquisition skillsof the Board.
oursites are managed and the namely, a 20% gross margin and In July 2012, Clive Fenton The future customer ratings we achieve have a25% return on capital based on resigned as a Director of the Inevitably there is ongoing been externally acknowledged.
Company and we appointed economic uncertainty in the UK For the third consecutive year Steven Boyes to a new role market and as such we do not theGroup has been awarded Dividend policy ofChief Operating Officer expect to see significant growth Home Builder Federation HBF No dividend will be paid in respect responsible for housebuilding incustomer demand over the 5-Star status.
This is the highest of the 2011 12 financial year.
However, the strategy achievable level in terms of However, the Board recognises the Board in 2001, is one of the weare pursuing is capable of customer satisfaction and the importance of bothcapital most experienced housebuilding delivering significantly enhanced recommendation.
In addition, growth and dividend income executives in the UK.
returns without an improvement under the National House-Building toour existing and potential In July 2012, we also announced inmarket conditions.
Council NHBC Pride in the Job shareholders and iscommitted that Bob Davies, after eight years We operate throughout scheme our site managers have tore-introducing thepayment of of service, will step down as a GreatBritain and across a broad won more quality awards than any dividends.
Assuming a continuing Non-Executive Director at the spectrum of the market.
We are other housebuilder for the eighth stable housing market, the Board Annual General Meeting AGM able to deliver a wide range of consecutive year.
expects to recommence dividend inNovember this year.
Subject housing projects from traditional Our new house types are payments, with a conservative totheir election and re-election at housing to complex high-rise evenmore in tune with customer dividend cover, by proposing the AGM, Mark Rolfe will take over apartment buildings, such as those preference and our sales teams afinal dividend in respect of the as Senior Independent Director we build in London.
We believe are supported by an enhanced financial year to 30 June 2013, and Richard Akers will take over that this capability, coupled with online sales and marketing payable in the final quarter of as Chairman of the Remuneration our focus on improving the capability.
The Board intends to Committee.
Iwouldlike to thank efficiency of everything we do and to the principles of getting it right adopta progressive dividend Bob for the outstanding having the best people to deal with first time, enhancing the customer policy as profitability grows, with contribution that hehas made an increasingly complex regulatory experience and reducing the cost the aim, over time, of achieving a tothe Group during a period and planning environment, offer us of doing business.
target dividend cover of around ofimmense change.
Investing in land In addition, we remain Our employees forhigherreturns committed to operating with The rapid progress we have made Bob Lawson The primary driver of the Groups anappropriate land bank and this year, in a market that remains CHAIRMAN BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 07
