Chairmans Statement IPD total return stated above.
The portfolio continues to be in the top quartile over one year and top decile over three and five years within the IPD benchmark.
The share price total return during the year was 8.2 per cent and the share price at the year-end was 103.7p, representing a premium of 5.0 per cent to the NAV per share of 98.8p.
Despite disappointing UK economic growth and concerns regarding the Eurozone, the UK commercial property market in aggregate delivered modest total returns throughout the year.
Performance was driven by income returns and capital values moved lower during the year.
All sectors saw performance weaken in 2012 compared with the previous year but the deterioration was most pronounced for the retail sector, reflecting Chris Russell Chairman structural as well as cyclical factors.
The market was polarised, with Central London shops and offices out-performing their regional counterparts and prime property generally out-performing secondary.
Occupiers were cost sensitive and rental growth was Introduction patchy at best.
Activity was subdued and generally I am pleased to report that F&C Commercial lease driven.
Investors remained cautious, favouring Property Trust had a successful year in 2012, prime buildings, established locations and assets making good progress in a number of key areas.
with longevity and security of income.
The Company delivered a positive net asset value NAV total return, outperforming its performance The Company sold two Central London properties benchmark index: the portfolio continued to record during the year: 84 Eccleston Square, London SW1 top quartile performance: it made opportunistic was sold for 49.0 million, and 385 389 Oxford disposals of two Central London properties and Street, London W1 was sold for 28.1 million.
In exchanged on a third: it made a forward each case the sales were for an amount in excess commitment to purchase a significant property in of the most recent valuation, demonstrating a strong Aberdeen, a transaction that should complete later demand from overseas investors for Central London in 2013: and it issued a large number of new shares properties.
In addition, during the year the Company at a premium to NAV.
exchanged contracts to sell Charles House, 5-11 Regent Street, London SW1 for 36.0 million, In addition to this, the Company has recently won compared with the last external valuation of 34.4 Best of Class awards from both Investment Week million.
The sale completed on 5 April 2013. and the Investors Chronicle.
Although there were no acquisitions completed during the year, the Company has continued to Review of the Year invest in the existing portfolio including the ongoing The Companys NAV total return for the year was 4.4 development of student accommodation at Burma per cent, comparing favourably with a total return of Road, Winchester, the final stage of which is due to 2.8 per cent from the benchmark Investment complete later in 2013.
In addition, at the end of July Property Databank IPD Quarterly Universe.
The 2012, the Company agreed a forward commitment ungeared total return from the property portfolio was to purchase four pre-let office blocks in Aberdeen for 5.7 per cent, again comparing favourably with the approximately 94 million.
The office blocks are being the latest practicable date prior to the preliminary announcement of the annual results and proposed adoption of the new dividend policy, which were announced on 3 April 2012.
4 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited currently being developed and are expected to be representing 9.4 per cent of the issued share capital completed between October and November 2013. at the beginning of the year for a net consideration This purchase will provide the Company with of 65.3 million.
Since the end of the year, the exposure to one of the most buoyant office markets Company has issued a further 14.0 million shares for in the UK as well as an attractive long term and a net consideration of 14.1 million.
All new shares were issued at a premium to the most recently secure income stream.
The overall net initial yield of 6.8 per cent is above the average yield of the announced NAV.
Once complete, the acquisition is expected to increase the Companys Borrowings and Cash Balances level of dividend cover.
At the end of the year, the Companys borrowings were represented by 230 million of Secured Bonds Full details of the major property management which have been assigned an Aaa rating by activities undertaken during the year are contained Moodys Investor Services and mature in 2015, and within the Managers Review.
a 50 million secured bank loan which is repayable The following table provides an analysis of the in 2017.
The Companys gearing, net of cash, as at movement in the NAV per share for the year: 31 December 2012 was 15.0 per cent.
This compares with 25.4 per cent at the end of the Pence previous year.
Had the Company been fully invested at 31 December 2012, the level of gearing would NAV per share as at 31 December 2011 100.5 have been 27.8 per cent.
Realised gains on sale of properties 1.5 Unrealised decrease in valuation of direct During the year, and as part of the funding of the property portfolio 1.7 commitment to purchase the office blocks in Aberdeen, the Company entered into a new 30 Movement in interest rate swaps 0.1 million committed bank facility which will mature on Premium on shares issued 0.3 30 June 2015.
The facility will be drawn down on Net revenue 4.3 the purchase of the property.
Dividends paid 6.0 The Company had cash balances of 153 million as NAV per share as at 31 December 2012 98.8 at 31 December 2012.
This amount has increased further following the sale of Charles House as described above.
Approximately 64 million, plus Dividends costs, is expected to be required to fund the Twelve monthly interim dividends, each of 0.5p per purchase of the office blocks in Aberdeen and some share, were paid during the year maintaining the cash is required for normal working capital.
The remaining balance provides the Managers with an annual dividend of 6.0p per share and providing a opportunity to consider attractive investment dividend yield of 5.8 per cent based on the year-end share price.
Barring unforeseen circumstances, the opportunities through new acquisitions and to Board intends that dividends in 2013 will continue to continue to invest in the existing portfolio.
be paid monthly at the same rate.
Real Estate Investment Trusts REIT Regime Issue of New Ordinary Shares The Board has for some time been monitoring During the year, the Company announced that it changes to the REIT regime, particularly how these changes might impact the Group, and will continue would be prepared to issue new Ordinary Shares at to keep the situation under regular review.
In the a premium to NAV, on a non pre-emptive basis meantime, the Board is satisfied that it continues to under existing authorities if it was in the be in the Company's interests to maintain the shareholders and Companys interests to do so.
subsequently issued 64.2 million Ordinary Shares Annual Report and Accounts 2012 5 Chairmans Statement continued Chairmans Statement continued Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12.30pm on Thursday 23 May 2013 at Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St. Peter Port, Guernsey.
Outlook The economy is predicted to see a slow but sustained recovery on consensus forecasts.
Downside risks remain and the adjustment period is likely to be prolonged.
The upturn in the property market is expected to be gradual and to broaden as excess capacity is absorbed and occupier demand recovers, with performance being primarily income driven.
Although London and the South East may continue to out-perform the regions, stock selection, asset management and the quality of the income stream will be major factors in determining performance and enhancing dividend cover.
Chris Russell Chairman 23 April 2013 6 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited
