Grainger plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate governance Chairmans Introduction The board of Grainger is Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The governance rules applicable to all UK companies admitted committedto maintaining high tothe Ofcial List of the UK Listing Authority are set out in the standards of corporate governance.
UKCorporate Governance Code the Code, published by the FinancialReporting Council.
The board fully supports the principles The directors and I see this set out in the Code and confirms that it has complied with all of theprovisions of the Code throughout the financial year ended asfundamental to effective 30September 2012. management of the business This report sets out Graingers governance policies and practices and includes details of how the group applies the principles and anddelivery of long-term complies with the provisions of the Code.
Composition and independence The board reviews non-executive director independence on an annual basis and takes into account the individuals professional characteristics, their behaviour at board meetings and their contribution to unbiased and independent debate.
All of the non-executive directors are considered by the board to be independent.
We are aware that, for some investors, length of non-executive directors service beyond nine years will prejudice their independence.
John Barnsley, the senior independent director, has served on the board since February 2003.
The board and myself believe that John Barnsley continues to Robin Broadhurst Chairman exercise a degree of rigorous enquiry and intellectual challenge in respect of his role as non-executive director and as such continues to regard him as independent.
His continuity of service has been, and continues to be of considerable benefit to the company through a period of significant change in both the executive and non-executive directors and provides an important knowledge link with the past and an in-depth understanding of the company which is considered to be highly beneficial to the board.
Further, this enhanced duration of service is complementary to the longer term business cycle applicable to the Grainger business model.
53 The board consisted of a majority of independent non-executive Shareholder engagement directors excluding the chairman throughout the year.
The board regards it as important to maintain an active dialogue Biographical details of all the current directors are set out on with our shareholders.
Further details regarding this engagement pages 50 and 51. with our shareholders are set out on page 58.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, allthe directors, with the exception of Henry Pitman who is retiring from the board, will stand for re-election at the AGM.
Diversity Grainger believes that a diverse culture is a key factor in driving its Robin Broadhurst Chairman success, and supports the Davies Reports aspiration to promote 6 December 2012 greater female representation on listed company boards.
As at 30 September 2012, the Grainger board had two female non-executive directors, Baroness Margaret Ford and Belinda Richards, representing 20% of board membership.
Margaret and Belinda bring invaluable skills to the composition of the board, and as and when board appointments arise, we will look to follow the procedures recommended by the Davies Report and by the Governance Code to maintain a balanced board.
Board evaluation As reported last year, an independent evaluation of the Grainger board was carried out in 2011.
Thisyear I have personally carried out an evaluation of the board, considering the recommendations from 2011.
Further details are available on page 57.
