Directors Report 06 Chairmans Statement Chairmans Statement Results Against a backdrop of softer than In 2012 our businesses continued to demonstrate their anticipated markets throughout the year underlying strengths.
Group revenue increased by 2% and a weak fide-icing season, BBA Aviation and underlying operating profit declined by 2% to $195.4m 2011: $198.9m due principally to a weak fide-icing season delivered a resilient performance in 2012. with strong operational improvement broadly offsetting We made good strategic progress and market decline.
continued to deliver operational improvement, structural cost reduction Despite the reduction in underlying profit and higher net interest reflecting the cost of BBA Aviations new long-term and good cash conversion.
We continue bank and private placement debt facilities, adjusted earnings to invest in our employees and their per share remained unchanged at 29.0 due to a reduction development and made some changes inour tax rate.
to our organisational management We made good strategic progress on a number of fronts in structure at the beginning of 2013 to 2012.
In Flight Support we extended our FBO network, accelerate our growth and operational adding six locations and a line maintenance business, in addition to securing substantial lease extensions.
have a number of major capital investment projects now underway at key Signature locations.
ASIG entered Canada Michael Harper with the C$27m acquisition of PLH Aviation Services and Chairman Dryden Air Services and delivered good contract wins as well as adding innovative technical services.
In Aftermarket Services we continued to add engine authorisations and new licences and have added significant capacity at our Chatsworth facility to support rapidly growing demand for legacy electronics products.
A new RTC with extensive Honeywell engine support capabilities was opened in Singapore during the year.
The Groups major structural cost reduction and operational initiatives for 2012 were delivered to plan with good operational improvement achieved in 2012 and incremental benefit expected in 2013.
The cash generative nature of the business was once again apparent in 2012.
Free cash flow in the year was good at $121.2m 2011: $185.8m given much increased net capital expenditure relating to growth projects and lease extensions.
Net debt increased marginally to $416.4m 2011: $403.6m but our balance sheet remains strong with net debt to EBITDA at 1.6x, giving us ample scope to take advantage of further investment and acquisition opportunities as they arise.
Directors Report 07 Chairmans Statement Employees Organisational change The Board values the commitment, hard work and We continue to see significant potential for further enthusiasm of our employees and would like to thank them improvement in our businesses through additional for their continued contribution.
They have enabled the operational synergies, increased cross-business coGroup to deliver the operating and financial results we operation, and the sharing of best in class process and achieved in 2012.
While it is disappointing that the rate of practice across the Group.
With effect from 1 January 2013, progress to our goal of zero health and safety incidents has we consolidated the operational management of our Flight slowed, we recognise the achievement of 160 of our Support businesses under one management team headed reporting locations remaining accident-free throughout the by Michael Scheeringa, previously President of Signature, and our Aftermarket Services businesses under a team year.
You can read more about our progress on CSR matters headed by Peg Billson, previously President of Legacy on pages 46 to 49.
This organisational change is expected to enhance our market and customer focus, to develop and deploy Outlook our human resources more effectively and to accelerate Our major markets are broadly stable despite the subdued the delivery of these cross-business and operational global macro-economic backdrop.
Although we have yet to improvement opportunities.
see any material effect on B&GA flying, economic indicators in the USA are slowly beginning to improve.
We are also Dividend carrying good underlying momentum into 2013 which, The Board is recommending a final dividend of 10.45 2011: together with the incremental contribution from 9.95, taking the full year dividend to 14.65 2011: 13.94. acquisitions, means we therefore continue to anticipate This is a 5% increase and reflects the Boards progressive making good progress in 2013. dividend policy and continuing confidence in the Groups medium-term growth prospects.
Over the longer term, the underlying strengths of BBA Aviations market-leading businesses, the potential for further Corporate governance and the Board operational improvement, a strong balance sheet and the The Board firmly believes that good corporate governance is Groups unique position in markets where leading indicators a major contributor to maintaining and sustaining the support medium-term recovery and structural growth delivery of strong Group operating and financial potential, give us continued confidence in our ability to performance.
In our Corporate Governance Statement on generate superior through-cycle returns.
pages 55 to 62 you can read in greater detail about the ways in which we have applied the principles of the UK Corporate Michael Harper Governance Code.
Chairman In April 2012 we welcomed Susan Kilsby to the Board and more details about the process of that appointment and the Boards approach to its progressive refreshment are also set out in the Corporate Governance Statement.
