Chairmans Revenue growth and margin statement improvement in key transactional markets together with robust Property Management and Consultancy operations underpinned the Groups strong performance in 2012 and demonstrated the benefit of the acquisitions and recruitment activities of recent years.
Peter Smith Chairman 12 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 Our business Our governance Our results Results Dividends The Groups underlying profit before tax for the year increased by An initial interim dividend of 3.3p per share 2011: 3.15p 21% to 60.8m 2011: 50.4m, on revenue which improved by amounting to 4.1m was paid on 15 October 2012, and a final 12% to 806.4m 2011: 721.5m.
The Groups reported profit ordinary dividend of 6.7p 2011: 6.35p is recommended, making before tax increased by 36% to 54.2m 2011: 40.0m.
the ordinary dividend 10.0p for the year 2011: 9.5p.
In addition, a supplemental interim dividend of 6.0p 2011: 4.0p is declared, Overview based upon the underlying performance of our Transaction 2012 demonstrated the importance of Savills position in the Advisory business.
Taken together, the ordinary and supplemental prime markets of the worlds key cities and the benefits of the dividends comprise an aggregate distribution for the year progressive growth strategy we have pursued in recent years.
of 16.0p per share, representing an increase of 19% on the Our Transaction Advisory revenue grew by 13%, our Consultancy 2011 aggregate dividend of 13.5p.
The final ordinary dividend business revenue by 20% and our Property Management revenue of 6.7p per ordinary share will, subject to shareholders by just under 8%.
The principal commercial markets in which we approval at the Annual General Meeting on 8 May 2013, be paid operate experienced a strong finish to the year, including a record alongside the supplemental interim dividend of 6.0p per share performance in Asia, and our Residential business continued to on 13 May 2013 to shareholders on the register at 12 April 2013. benefit from a strong market in Prime Central London.
Board and governance In Continental Europe, despite economic turmoil continuing to In January Tim Freshwater joined the Board as a Non-Executive affect our predominantly transaction orientated businesses, Director and member of the Audit Committee, Remuneration revenue increased by 7% and we reduced overall losses by Committee and Nominations Committee.
In April, Clare 27% in weak markets.
Hollingsworth joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, member of the Audit Cordea Savills, the Groups Investment Management business, Committee and Nominations Committee.
The Board has already delivered a good performance across its European platform benefited greatly from Tims experience of Asian markets and increasing assets under management by 29% and winning some Clares knowledge of the service sector.
high quality mandates, which drove an increase in revenue of 13%.
On the retirement of Timothy Ingram from the Board in May, Business development Martin Angle became the Senior Independent Director.
Savills strategy is to be a leader in the key markets in which we operate.
Our global strategy is delivered locally by those close The Board believes that its Directors and the Groups to the market with flexibility to adapt quickly to changes in management team should reflect the diversity of Savills circumstances and opportunities.
They are supported by our international business and that both are representative of the regional and cross-border specialists.
Over the last few years Groups culture and the markets in which we operate.
We will we have added smaller acquisitions, teams and individual continue to appoint those whose skills and experience we believe hires in to our strong core business, particularly when markets will make a real contribution to the continuing success of Savills.
People At the beginning of 2012 we completed two small acquisitions: On behalf of the Board, I wish to express my thanks to all our Gresham Down Capital Partners LLP, a Central London people worldwide for their hard work, commitment and continued commercial investment business and International Property Asset focus on client service, enabling the Group to deliver a strong Management GmbH an asset management business in Germany.
Aside from buy-outs of minority interests and other deferred payments on past acquisitions and senior recruitments, the year Outlook was largely one of consolidation to ensure delivery of the benefits We have made a strong start to 2013, particularly in the UK and of the business development activities of prior periods.
The Asia, and we expect to make further progress across the Group in overall margin improvement in the year, benefiting from stronger the year ahead.
We anticipate delivering continued improvements transactional markets and market share gains, shows that our in our businesses in Continental Europe and the US although business performance is on the right trajectory.
we are mindful of the risk of further weakness in some of these markets.
Our Investment Management business has a good In the UK in 2012 we took the decision to prepare our two hitherto pipeline of funds to invest through its European platform.
In Asia, separate operating companies, Savills L&P Limited essentially whilst we anticipate that the most recent in a succession of control our residential agency and development businesses and Savills measures imposed in mainland China and Hong Kong will have Commercial Limited, for formal merger into one entity.
This took an impact on transaction volumes towards the second half of the effect on 1 January 2013 when Savills UK Limited, trading simply year, the medium and long term characteristics of these markets as Savills, came into being.
In conjunction with the merger, the remain compelling.
decision was taken to move the two head offices in the West End of London into one new head office at 33 Margaret Street.
This will In summary, we have started 2013 more strongly than last take place during May and June 2013.
The benefits of this merger year and we are confident in the Groups prospects for the are more associated with client service improvements than with coming period.
cost savings, but we have rationalised our leases in the UK and Peter Smith eliminated a small number of duplicated support roles, giving rise Chairman to an overall restructuring charge of 4.0m in the year.
We have also continued to strengthen our cross-border investment capability, particularly in Hotels and Retail in the Asia Pacific region, to ensure that we continue to deliver a world class service to both our global and local clients.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 13
