18 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Chairmans Statement We have a very solid platform from which togrow our NAV further in 2013.
This, together with our robust business strategy, provides us with the confidence toface market challenges head on anddeliver strong revenue streams.
bIll SHaNNON, Chairman CONTINUING THE DISCUSSION HaS THE bUSINESS CHaNGED IN THE laST 12 mONTHS?
Q: Our results prove that our retained strategy of adding significant value to our 5,800 acre land bank and A: our1.1bn portfolio of assets is a successful one and we do not envisage changing our approach in the yearahead.
We remain a UK-wide business and the benefit our land bank affords us is an ability to move with market demands and focus on those opportunities that generate the most value at any one time.
Last year we saw good opportunities coming through in the residential market and the London and South East region and during 2012 have progressed many of these, including New Covent Garden Market.
DO yOU SEE aNy ImprOvEmENT IN THE ECONOmy aND wHaT arE THE OppOrTUNITIES Q: fOr ST. mODwEN?
We see further improvement in the South East as a whole and some recovery in the regional A: housebuilding market, with better housing sales achieved across the country as initiatives to improve this market start to takeeffect.
This presents obvious opportunities for St. Modwens residential business which continues to flourish and for the business as a whole as we prepare our sites for development and continually add value toour portfolio.
wHaT arE yOUr vIEwS ON THE rETaIl markET aND THE CONTINUED DISappEaraNCE Of Q: SOmE wEll-kNOwN braNDS frOm OUr HIGH STrEETS OvEr THE laST 12mONTHS?
This does remain a difficult market and it is disappointing to have to say goodbye to some familiar faces A: onour high streets.
However, out of the recent round of retail administrations, we have been fortunate that only one unit across our portfolio has been affected.
Our schemes act as the catalyst for wide scale, comprehensive regeneration in the areas across the UK that need it the most.
Bringing investment, growth and a better environment for businesses and the community, these projects mostly provide space for the value retail sector which is currently benefitting from peoples changed attitude to spending.
19 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 th It is with great pleasure that I am able to General Meeting to be held on 27 March DIvIDEND report another strong set of results, with 2013.
I would like to thank both Katherine As a result of a successful 2012, your increased profits across the Group.
and David for their contributions during Board is recommending a 10% increase in their time on the Board and wish them well the final dividend for the year to 2.42p per Profit before all tax increased to 52.8m for the future.
The search to identify a share 2011: 2.20p, making a total 2011: 51.7m with shareholders equity Senior Independent Director is underway distribution for the year of 3.63p 2011: net asset value per share growing 8% to and an announcement will be made 3.30p.
This final dividend will be paid on 251p per share 2011: 232p after paying induecourse.
th 4 April 2013 to shareholders on the dividends of 3.41p per share during the th register at 8 March 2013. year 2011: 3.10p.
pEOplE I am extremely pleased to be announcing We are very fortunate to have a team of STraTEGy this positive set of results and two major such dedicated and highly skilled Our strategy of adding significant projects.
Thefirst was our signing in individuals working throughout our Group.
long-termvalue to the properties that we January 2013 of the development It is their hard work and dedication that has control is working and is delivering good agreement with the Covent Garden Market delivered these strong results for your quality returns, despite the challenging Authority CGMA to redevelop the 57 acre Company and ensures St. Modwen environment in which we are operating.
New Covent Garden Market site in Nine continues to outperform.
I would like to Through our market-leading expertise, Elms, London.
This 2bn, landmark, take this opportunity to thank our people weadd value through remediation, multi-phased project underlines our for making St. Modwen such a success.
management of the planning process, growing presence in the London asset management and development.
marketplace and is set to deliver attractive prOSpECTS Inparticular, our regional teams focus revenue streams and NAV growth over the onopportunities where our regeneration coming years.
Whilst I obviously cannot predict how the expertise enables us to generate UK economy will develop in 2013 and what Secondly, we have just agreed terms with profitsboth in commercial impact this may have on the property Swansea University for the provision of the .
sector, our track record demonstrates the 150m first phase of the New Science and success of our strategy and the ability of Innovation Campus.
Located on our 65 our management team to deliver strong GOvErNaNCE aND acre site, this major project comprises shareholder returns through the application THEbOarD 700,000 sq ft of development including of their specialist real estate skills.
430,000 sq ft of academic space, The Board is committed to maintaining associated retail space and 899 student high standards of corporate governance.
Furthermore, with our presence in London apartments.
The University has already Inthe Corporate Governance section of and the South East now significantly secured funding for the academic space this report we describe the structures and increased by the New Covent Garden and St. Modwen has secured the pre-sale measures in place which are designed to Market project, combined with the ongoing of 50% of the student accommodation ensure the continued effectiveness of the success of our residential business, we are toamajor institutional investor.
Board and we report on our compliance in good shape to benefit from future growth inaccordance with the UK Corporate in these markets.
At the same time, across Both deals demonstrate key facets of our Governance Code.
the UK, we can see attractive opportunities expertise: the former, a testament to our to generate further value from our assets track record of regenerating complex and As we continue to grow and expand our and development pipeline and in particular, brownfield sites and the latter, a clear portfolio of development schemes and look forward to starting on site with illustration of our ability to extract maximum manage our income producing investment theSwansea University Campus in April value from our land bank.
This expertise, assets, we are placing increased emphasis ofthis year.
the revenue generated by our income on deepening further the property expertise producing assets and the success of on the Board.
We believe this will be an We have a very solid platform from which ourgrowing residential business, is why invaluable resource to the Company in the to grow our NAV further in 2013 and wehave again delivered a very strong next stages of its evolution.
This, together with our robust setof results.
business strategy, provides us with the We were therefore delighted to welcome confidence to face market challenges head In October we raised 80m from a Kay Chaldecott to the Board as a on and deliver strong revenue streams and successful retail bond issue, enabling us non-executive director in October 2012. returns intheyears ahead.
todiversify our sources of funding without Kay spent 27 years at Capital Shopping increasing our gearing.
With a duration Centres Group PLC and her knowledge ofseven years, this bond provides us with and experience ofthe UK property industry a longer term facility, and diversifies is already bringing additional and relevant ourfinancial structure.
th As announced on 29 January 2013, Bill Shannon Katherine Innes Ker, an independent Chairman th non-executive director, and David Garman, 4 February 2013 the Senior Independent Director, will retire from the Board with effect from the conclusion of the Companys Annual Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview
