Chairmans Statement I am pleased to announce increase due to significant overseas investment and the the Annual Results of the current perception that London is a safe haven: Company for the year to The portfolio is overweight in shopping centres compared to 31 December 2012.
Rental and capital values have been the the year, against a subject of downward pressure due to negative consumer persistently difficult and investor sentiment.
A spate of retail administrations has economic background, the also undermined this sub-sector.
However, it should be Companys property highlighted that this part of the portfolio is crucial for portfolio and income base diverse income generation and the performance of other increased through selective parts of the overall retail portfolio, such as retail warehouses, acquisitions and successful have held up well: asset management initiatives.
Transaction costs on the purchase of a portfolio of three multi-let industrial estates in February 2012: Economic Background Swap and working capital movements.
The Office for National Statistics reported that UK GDP fell by 0.3% in Q4 compared to growth of 0.9% in Q3.
As a result economic The share price total return of 2.5% was better than the NAV total growth was effectively flat over the year, undershooting most return and reflected the discount at which the Companys shares forecasts made at the beginning of 2012.
Despite the continued traded to NAV in the year narrowing from 8.4% to 5.5%.
The share improvement in headline unemployment statistics, the underlying price has continued to improve since the year end and, currently economy remains sluggish and, given the disappointing Q4 trades at around par to NAV.
figures, the outlook for 2013 is at best, challenging.
In addition, the majority of Government spending cuts are still to be An analysis of the portfolio, its performance, successful asset implemented and any recovery can always be threatened by management activity and future strategy are detailed in the global events.
Commercial Property Market Significant Property Transactions There can be no doubt that the commercial property market has As highlighted in the interim report, the Company purchased a been affected by the travails of the wider UK economy.
The portfolio of three multi-let, principally industrial estates from Segro divergence of performance between prime and secondary for 63.5 million, including acquisition costs, in February 2012 properties, and between London and the rest of the UK, has reflecting a net yield on cost of 7.3%.
They provide a reliable continued: investors are showing little appetite for risk due to the stream of income given the institutional quality of the tenants.
ongoing economic uncertainty which has resulted in capital value This acquisition continues to support the Companys strategy of falls over the past 12 months across most sectors.
This is focusing on high quality, income-generating properties which highlighted by a total return of 2.4% in the IPD benchmark for offer the opportunity to create uplifts in capital value and income 2012, all of which has been driven by income, which produced through successful asset management initiatives.
6.0% compared to a capital return of minus 3.4%.
The Company sold Sovereign House, Slough, at a price of 8.6 million in September 2012.
This price was in line with the Net Asset Value NAV Share Price Performance expected September valuation and eliminated the Companys Over the longer term, the Company has continued to outperform exposure to an asset that would have required significant capital the property market.
The NAV total return of 6.7% and share price expenditure with limited return prospects.
total return of 36.3% over five years compares well to the IPD benchmark 1.7% and the FTSE Real Estate Investment Trust Index Borrowing -25.9% over the same period.
In addition, the Company has The industrial portfolio purchase referred to above was financed outperformed its immediate peer group in the AIC Direct Property by a further 60 million drawdown of the Barclays Bank loan.
The Sector, which returned 32.9% over five years on a share price remaining 30 million of this loan facility was drawn down in basis.
November 2012 along with an interest rate swap agreement However, the Companys NAV total return for the year was minus resulting in all borrowing facilities being covered by interest rate 1.0%, with the underperformance relative to the IPD benchmark swaps.
The Company has significant cash resources to act quickly being attributable to the following factors: and strategically in relation to acquisition or asset management opportunities, while still maintaining one of the lowest gearing Compared to the benchmark, the portfolio is underweight in levels in the Companys peer group of 21.3%.
The blended interest Central London offices where values have continued to rate across the Companys two facilities is an attractive 3.85% UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 5 Chairmans Statement continued based on current margins, comparing favourably to the net yield Outlook on the purchase detailed above.
In the short term, the UK economy is expected to deliver anaemic growth as evidenced by the Bank of Englands recent downward Dividends revision of its 2013 growth forecast to 1.0%.
This forecast continues to assume that the Eurozone sovereign debt crisis is The Company declared and paid the following dividends during more or less contained, which is an important assumption given the year: the Eurozones role as the UKs principal export market.
Most Payment Date Dividend expectations for a return to growth rely on improving business 2012 Rate p confidence translating into increased private sector investment that offsets the impact of reduced Government spending.
4th interim for prior period Feb 1.3125 Property valuations are expected to remain under pressure, 1st interim May 1.3125 particularly in the retail sector, with little capital growth expected 2nd interim Aug 1.3125 outside Central London in the next twelve months.
Given this, the key to positive performance will be the successful implementation 3rd interim Nov 1.3125 of asset management initiatives and preserving and growing Total 5.2500 income where possible.
The Board believes that the Companys portfolio is well placed to achieve both of these objectives.
The On 1 February 2013 the Company declared a 4th interim dividend Company has considerable cash resources which can be utilised for the year of 1.3125p which was paid on 28 February 2013. for income enhancing acquisitions or asset management opportunities.
In addition, the portfolio is of a prime nature and The yield on the Companys shares as at 31 December 2012 was has a strong and well diversified tenant base which offers the 8.0% which is significantly higher than the yield on the IPD potential for additional income generation.
In a low interest rate benchmark of 6.3%, the FTSE Real Estate Investment Trusts Index environment, these factors should ensure that the Company yield of 4.2% and also the FTSE All-Share yield of 3.6%.
remains an attractive proposition for investors.
Board Changes Christopher M. W. Hill On 1 February 2013 the Board announced the appointment of Mr Chairman Ken McCullagh as a non-executive Director.
Mr McCullagh, who 20 March 2013 resides in Dublin, is a Chartered Accountant with extensive experience in the property industry and brings skills that will both complement and enhance the Board.
Mr Keith Dorrian will be retiring from the Board at the Annual General Meeting in June.
He has been a very valuable member of the Board since the Companys inception in 2006 and I would like to express the Boards thanks to him for his extensive contribution during that time.
6 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED
