Chairmans statement 2 012 was another excellent year for UNITE, as evidenced by strong results for all of our key business performance indicators.
Phil White CBE Chairman Together with dividends, this equates to a 11.3% total return on XBT BOPUIFS FYDFMMFOU ZFBS GPS equity for the year and, importantly, this performance was based UNITE, as evidenced by strong results on sustainable improvements to our operating platform which have translated into strong customer satisfaction and advocacy.
for all of our key business performance As a result of the significant earnings growth in the year and indicators.
profitability, high occupancy, high cash conversion we have increased our dividend meaningfully, to 4.0 pence for the full year 2011: 1.75 pence.
At this level the rental growth and important margin dividend is covered more than two and a half times from operating improvements meant that Net Portfolio cashow and we intend to maintain cover at around this level in the coming years.
$POUSJCVUJPO JODSFBTFE UP b Alongside this strong financial and operating performance we NJMMJPO GSPN b NJMMJPO JO BOE continued to have some important successes in further strengthening the Groups financial position.
"New debt facilities, most notably adjusted earnings per share increased a 120 million ten year senior debt facility with Legal & General UP QFODF GPS UIF ZFBS and a 90 million new issue of unsecured bonds to retail investors, contributed to a significant improvement in the maturity, diversity ""EKVTUFE ""7 QFS TIBSF JODSFBTFE and cost proles of our debt facilities, while 128 million of non-core UP QFODF QSJNBSJMZ BT B SFTVMU asset disposals in late 2011 and throughout 2012 enabled us to reduce leverage to 52% loan-to-value."
In September we also of rental growth, retained earnings extended and expanded our joint venture relationship with GIC RE, one of the worlds largest and most respected real estate investors.
The new JV relationship provides much greater visibility of the Groups nancing and returns for the coming years, and allows us to accelerate our London development activity at a time when returns remain compelling.
We also continued to improve our portfolio quality meaningfully through our on-going development activity and the successful conclusion of our targeted non-core asset disposal programme.
As at 31 December 2012, 90% of our portfolio was classied as core 2011: 82% and 45% was in London 2011: 45%, increasing to 50% when built out.
As development and disposal activity continues in 2013 both of these measures will continue to improve.
2012 also saw some changes to the non-executive composition of our Board.
Nigel Hall retired from the Board at the May AGM, with Manjit Wolstenholme taking on the role of Chair of the Audit Committee.
In February 2013 Andrew Jones, Chief Executive of London Metric, joined our Board as an additional Non-Executive Director while Stuart Beevor, currently UNITEs Senior Independent Director, will be stepping down from the Board in May 2013 following nine years service.
I would like to thank Stuart for his valued contribution during his time on the Board.
08 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 O Ov ver ervie view w Strategy Business Governance Financial Other review statements information As a business working in partnership with the Higher Education A s a business working in sector, we realise the value of a University education: it provides a unique opportunity for intellectual development and wider partnership with the Higher enrichment, as well as often being the best route to a more certain future.
It is important that UNITE is clear in the contribution it makes Education sector, we realise the to the sector, beyond simply the provision of accommodation, and in 2012 we launched The UNITE Foundation, a grant-making value of a University education: trust funded entirely by profits from UNITE.
The Foundation supports the twin objectives of widening participation in Higher it provides a unique opportunity Education and promoting student engagement with their local communities and made a promising start in 2012. for intellectual development The UK Higher Education market has been through a period of transition following the various Government policy changes that and wider enrichment, as well came into effect during 2012 and our business has weathered this uncertainty well.
Recent Government policy announcements have as often being the best route been supportive of the sector and 2013 14 application numbers are encouraging.
However, the wider economy remains unsettled to a more certain future.
and it is important that our business remains appropriately agile in order to respond proactively to market developments.
With a clear strategy in place, a healthy, cash generative and efficient operating business, a well-positioned property portfolio and a sustainable capital structure I am confident that our business is well equipped for the future.
Phil White CBE Chairman 6 March 2013 T Th he e U UN NI IT TE G E Gr ro ou up p p pllc c A An nnual nual Repor Report t and and Ac Acc co ounts unts 2 20 01 12 2 09 09
