Highlights CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am delighted to report a strong performance again this The decision for businesses such as Berkeley to invest is nely year.
Basic earnings per share have increased by 67.8%, balanced despite the sound long-term fundamentals for our balance sheet remains strong and forward sales stand residential property in London and the South East of England.
Growth requires a stable political and economic environment with well-considered policies that welcome inward investment Last year Berkeley put in place a ten-year framework to and give businesses the confidence to invest and grow: it is return 13 per share by September 2021 with the essential that Londons competitiveness on a world stage is overwhelming support of shareholders and has been laying preserved.
Unnecessary bureaucracy, over-zealous regulation the foundations to ensure that we retain a strong, sustainable and taxation policy, and a negative rhetoric that undermines business, which can endure well beyond this period.
This confidence, create barriers to the delivery of new housing set of results demonstrates that we have embarked on this in which will pose an unwelcome drag on growth.
Indeed, the right way, delivering solid performance whilst remaining there are indications across the wider industry that the recent focused on the long-term success of the business.
upturn in construction levels is beginning to stagnate.
Against a backdrop of a challenging economic outlook, To remain a truly successful and sustainable business, we both in the UK and abroad, creating the conditions in which must respect and impress our customers, investors, partners, businesses can stimulate growth has become a political contractors and the communities within which we operate.
New housing is uniquely placed to deliver This can only be done with the right people working at the growth: it is a sector that delivers employment both during heart of any business, and I continue to admire the passion, and after the development process and stimulates activity dedication and hard work of all of our employees at Berkeley.
throughout the supply chain in manufacturing and service I, along with the rest of the Board, am grateful above all for industries.
Since repositioning its strategy in February 2009 their loyalty, and the stability that this brings to the company.
following the collapse of Lehman Brothers and at the height of the banking crisis, Berkeley has invested over 1 billion The Board has positioned Berkeley to give it the best in new land and a further 2 billion breathing new life into chance to prosper and thrive with a truly sustainable disconnected communities and delivering new homes.
With the right conditions, both this same period, we have created over 6,000 new jobs in economically and politically, I am confident that Berkeley delivering new housing across our sites: a contribution to will achieve this, but this confidence must inevitably be the economy which should not be overlooked.
tempered by the need to react to prevailing market conditions, however they develop.
We have achieved this over a period in which the industry has seen unprecedented change, with the removal of the South East Plan, the introduction of the National Planning Policy Framework and the implementation of changes to the way in which new housing contributes to local communities through the introduction of the Mayoral Community Infrastructure Levy alongside Section 106 contributions.
Whilst I support the joint Tony Pidgley objective of these initiatives to increase local engagement and Chairman supply, the implementation of these new policies has created numerous practical issues that have yet to be resolved.
These include the role that localism plays in development on a large scale and how to ensure that the delivery of new housing is commercially viable in an environment where planning authorities and government place ever increasing financial burdens on developers.
Berkeley has been laying the foundations to ensure that we retain a strong, sustainable business.
