4 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Chairmans statement A clear and concrete set of measures to maximise shareholder value.
In my first statement to you last year, I said that our strategy would be to retain our financial strength, to continue to take a measured and highly selective approach to investment and to keep an absolute focus on improving every aspect of our business.
Ithas undoubtedly been a challenging year for 3ibut we have stuck firmly to this agenda.
We have retained our financial strength, realised more than we have invested and made a number of improvements to 3i, especially in our Private Equity business line.
We have also, following a rigorous process that considered a strong field ofboth external and internal candidates, announced the appointment of a new Chief Executive, SimonBorrows.
Simon will succeed Michael Queen, who in March this year, after almost 25 years at 3i and three as Chief Executive, announced his intention to leave the Company.
Michael has given tremendous service to 3i.
His leadership through the period of the global financial crisis in restoring 3is financial strength, his founding of our highly successful Infrastructure business, his actions to reduce costs and the strong management team he has put in place are just some of his many achievements.
Currently Chief Investment Officer, Simon has beena member of the Group Board since he joined 3i in October 2011.
Prior to that, he was Chairman of Greenhill & Co. International LLP, having previously been Co-Chief Executive Officer ofGreenhill & Co. Inc. a leading independent investment bank listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
Before founding the European operations of Greenhill & Co. in 1998, he was the Managing Director of Baring Brothers International Limited.
He is also a non-executive director of TheBritish Land Company plc and of Inchcape plc.
Overview Strategy, Business Business review Risk Corporate Governance Financial statements Portfolio and other model and KPIs responsibility information 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 5 The Board therefore intends to distribute to Simon has already made a significant positive shareholders, whilst gearing remains less than impact as Chief Investment Officer, bringing a fresh 20%, further amounts such that the aggregate focus and discipline to 3is investment processes levelof distribution by the Company, including the and to our approach to asset management.
dividend, represents at least 15% and up to 20% of His immediate priorities as Chief Executive will be gross cash realisations.
Incremental distributions to pursue a clear and concrete set of measures will be either through special dividends, the use of that he and the Board have agreed to maximise the standing share buy-back authority, or by way shareholder value.
These will include determining ofother capital distribution methods.
the best shape and investment strategy for the business going forward and ensuring that the The Board expects to implement this new policy operating costs of the Group are consistent with progressively in the light of the performance of this.
A key component of this will be improving thebusiness, progress in implementing the Chief thefocus and discipline around the Groups Executives strategic mandate and the strength assetmanagement approach and investment ofthe Groups cash flow.
In the next 12 months capabilities, to the benefit of the Groups itregards the reduction of gross debt to 1billion shareholders and co-investors.
He will continue asa priority.
In view of the uncertainty generated tochair 3is Investment Committee.
by the difficult conditions in the banking and M&Amarkets in Europe, the projected flow In our pre-close briefing statement in March, we ofrealisations in the current financial year said that we expected a more positive economic isexpected to be lower than those in 2011 12. outlook to result in a stronger overall performance from our Private Equity portfolio, although the The Board will inform shareholders on the effect of this improvement in sentiment was progress that it is making towards this new unlikely to have an impact upon our results for distribution policy, as well as in reducing gross thefinancial year to 31 March 2012.
It is clear debton a half-yearly basis.
thatuncertainties over the environment remain, We were pleased to welcome Martine Verluyten especially with respect to the Eurozone.
It is early tothe Board during the year.
Martine, who is based days but the performance of our recent Private in Brussels, joined the Board as a non-executive Equity vintages is more encouraging, as can be Director in January 2012.
She was formerly the seen from the additional disclosure that we have Chief Financial Officer of Umicore and brings a provided on the portfolio this year.
wide range of international and financial experience.
At the time of our half-yearly results in November In summary, this has been a challenging year for 2011, the Board declared an interim dividend of 3iand the stability of the Eurozone remains central 2.7pand announced its intention to significantly to the outlook.
Whatever the environment, I and the increase the total dividend for the year to 8.1p, Board believe that we have a clear set of measures 125%higher than the previous year.
The Board to maximise shareholder value and returns for the istherefore recommending a final dividend co-investors in our funds.
of5.4p, subject to the approval of shareholders attheAGM.
In addition, the Board has decided Sir Adrian Montague tofurther strengthen its distribution policy Chairman inordertogive shareholders a direct share in 16 May 2012 thesuccessof the Groups realisation activities byadopting a policy of returning a share of grosscash realisations.
For more information, go to: Governance p65
