6 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Chairmans statement The Company delivered steady NAV growth this year in challenging conditions.
This stable performance builds on a strong track record for the Company which, in its five years of existence, has delivered annualised returns to shareholders of 9.4%, including the payment ofa 5% dividend in each year.
Peter Sedgwick, Chairman 8 May 2012 3i Infrastructure plc 3i Infrastructure or The acquisition of LNI was a key achievement Corporate governance the Company delivered a stable financial inthe implementation of 3i Infrastructures performance for the year to 31 March 2012, strategy of building its portfolio of core and Board supported by strong returns from the European infrastructure assets.
The investment in LNI, The Company aims to uphold the highest assets in the portfolio.
These were partly which owns Finlands second-largest electricity standards of corporate governance and offset by weaker returns from the 3i India distribution network, as well as a smaller complies with all applicable provisions of the Infrastructure Fund the Fund, whose financial district heating business, enhances the sector UK Corporate Governance Code, updated and and geographic diversication of our portfolio, performance was affected by a number of reissued in June 2010.
Many of the provisions of and provides exposure to relatively low risk market and macroeconomic factors.
Most the revised Code, such as shareholder approval revenue streams and good ination linkage.
notably, the portfolio generated strong income, of Directors remuneration and the annual which fully covers the total dividend and the In addition, LNI is expected to contribute strongly re-election of all Directors, were voluntarily operating costs incurred during the year.
to portfolio income from the next financial year.
adopted early by the Company, and at the last This performance builds on a strong track The Company also sold investments, generating Annual General Meeting, held on 5 July 2011, record for the Company which, in its five years proceeds of 133 million during the year.
These the shareholders of 3i Infrastructure approved of existence, has delivered annualised returns include 86 million from the sale of the three the re-election of all Directors to the Board, as to shareholders of 9.4% and, importantly, has remaining holdings in the junior debt portfolio, well as changes to their remuneration which delivered its 5% dividend objective in each year.
and 47 million from the repayment of all of the took effect in October 2011.
2 outstanding I vendor loan notes and a portion The Board continues to maintain a regular of the shareholder loan to Eversholt Rail Group.
Performance dialogue with shareholders and is aware of any The junior debt portfolio divestments were The total comprehensive income attributable concerns as they emerge.
Philip Austin Senior well timed and protected the net asset value to the equity holders of the parent the total Independent Director and I are always available over a period of volatile market conditions.
return, on a consolidated IFRS basis, totalled to meet with shareholders, and will continue This portfolio was built during the course 55 million in the year to 31 March 2012.
On an toensure that concerns are listened to and of 2008 and 2009, at a time when the market investment basis, which the Board also uses thatthe Board continues to act in the interest for M&A transactions was largely closed.
to monitor investment performance, the ofall shareholders.
The Company was able to acquire these total return totalled 56 million, or 5.6% on holdings at a significant discount to their par shareholders equity.
This return was supported Pipeline and outlook value, with the expectation that they would by the strong income generated from our Markets remain volatile and conditions for deliver equity-like returns to maturity and European portfolio assets, which totalled investment are challenging.
However, the highlevels of cash yield.
These investments, 73 million in the year, which was indicative infrastructure asset class has continued to now fully realised, generated an IRR of 11.6% oftheir resilient operational performance.
perform robustly relative to other asset classes throughout the holding period, demonstrating The strong performance of most portfolio and has remained attractive to debt providers.
3i Infrastructures ability to deploy its financial assets, however, was offset by mark-to-market The Investment Advisers track record of resources exibly to take advantage of declines in the valuation of Adani Power, held investment and returns puts the Company in marketopportunities.
through the 3i India Infrastructure Fund, as well astrong position to continue to invest profitably as by foreign exchange losses from the rupee in the year to come.
Warrants and exposure through the Fund.
The Investment Adviser is focusing on bringing cashbalances the Thameslink transaction to a financial close, Dividend and is pursuing a number of opportunities.
The warrants issued by 3i Infrastructure to the Based on the strong levels of income generated However, it retains its prudent investment subscribers of its Initial Public Offering expired during the year, the Board proposes a final approach and pricing discipline, so that the in March 2012.
The Board was pleased that only dividend of 2.97 pence per share which, added Company can build on the strong returns a few of the warrants issued at IPO remained to the interim dividend of 2.97 pence per share already achieved in its five years of existence.
paid in January 2012, brings the total dividend Importantly, the conversion of these warrants for the year to 5.94 pence per share, meeting has allowed the Company to raise 70.4 million our 5% dividend objective.
in new equity, of which 64.4 million was raised during the financial year under review, Investment activity providing liquidity to invest in the current The Company invested a total of 204 million market.
As a result of the investment and during the year.
Most of this amount 195 realisation activity described above, as well as million was invested in a 39% holding in the new equity raised through the conversion Lakeside Network Investments LNI, with the ofthe warrants, 3i Infrastructure currently has balance drawn by the Fund to finance the second cash balances of 173 million to invest, much tranche of the investment in GVK Energy Limited.
reduced from 310 million at the half year.
Investment Advisersreview 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 7 Investment Advisers review
