Chairmans statement Roger Cornick Chairman Dividend The year ending 30 September 2012 was, in general, another The Board is recommending a final dividend of 7.1p per share, period of economic and market uncertainty, nevertheless, making a total payment for the year of 11.5p per share, an Aberdeen managed a number of notifiable achievements.
We increase of 28% on the total payment for 2011.
The Board saw net revenue and underlying pre-tax profit increase by 11% remains committed to a progressive dividend policy.
and 15% respectively, and the net cash position grow to 266.4 million by the year end.
A 21% increase in underlying earnings New business per share has enabled us to propose a total dividend for the New business totalling 36.0 billion was added during the year, year of 11.5p per share, a 28% increase on 2011.
Over the year, with two-thirds of those flows being into pooled funds.
By our share price rose steadily, resulting in a year end market contrast, over 50% of outflows, also 36.0 billion, were from capitalisation of 3.7 billion.
In March, Aberdeen was promoted lower margin segregated mandates.
As a result, 45% of our to the FTSE-100 index for the first time in its 29 year history.
year-end assets under management AuM is invested in pooled These results are directly attributable to the strong investment funds 2011: 40%.
Gross inflows were sourced from investors performance that is the product of a disciplined and rigorous in Continental Europe 36%, the UK 23%, the Americas investment process, illustrating that the Group flourishes when 25%, Asia Pacific 15% and the Middle East 1%.
Consistent with recent years, the major inflows were into Financial highlights our global emerging market GEM, Asia Pacific and global Net revenue for the year of 869.2 million was 11% higher than equity products.
We continue to work to moderate the scale in 2011, reflecting healthy growth in recurring management of inflows to GEM, as we are committed to avoiding any fees, supplemented by increased performance fee income.
The dilution to the quality of the portfolios.
We also saw healthy quality of income remains high, with recurring fees accounting interest in our emerging market debt EMD and Asian fixed for 94% of net revenue and the blended average fee rate rising income capabilities, both higher margin products.
Indeed, our to 45.1 basis points 2011: 41.2 basis points.
flagship EMD fund passed the $2 billion milestone during the year.
However, overall fixed income flows remained negative, Operating expenses increased by 9%, with some controlled primarily due to outflows from the more traditional developed addition to headcount in distribution and additional resource market strategies.
We also experienced net outflows from the committed to the promotion of the Aberdeen brand and solutions business.
Although our property funds reported a positioning of our product range to satisfy existing and small net outflow, we have strengthened our global property expected investor trends.
platform with expanded multi manager teams in Asia and the Underlying operating profit, which is stated before amortisation US, and have added specialist distribution capabilities in both of intangible assets, increased by 14% to 352.7 million 2011: regions.
309.3 million and the operating margin improved further to Our equity teams again delivered consistent outperformance 40.6% 2011: 39.5%.
Underlying earnings per share increased against their respective benchmarks over both the longer by 21% to 22.6p 2011: 18.7p.
and shorter term and, in due course, once sentiment towards Operating cashflow was strong, and this enabled us to grow the Eurozone improves, we believe that our pan-European the net cash position to 266.4 million 2011: 127.5 million equities team will attract interest from investors.
Fixed income at the year end.
We will use 80 million of this cash to pay the performance remains generally above benchmark over five proposed final dividend, but will achieve our aim of meeting years, although a few strategies underperformed over one year the regulatory capital requirements, without reliance on the as the teams believe government bonds remain overvalued and consolidation waiver, by the end of 2012.
The capital position so favoured a short duration stance.
has been strengthened further since the year end, with the holders of 65 million of convertible bonds having elected to convert their holdings to ordinary shares.
2 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Dividend 11.5p 28% Within solutions, performance was good in fund of hedge funds The Board FoHF although it was a mixed year for new business with On behalf of the Board as a whole, I would like to thank all our outflows from the multi manager capability, which continues staff for their continued hard work and dedication which is at its transition following the acquisition of the RBS business.
the heart of these results.
Nevertheless, we continue to widen the appeal to our existing During the year, I was pleased to welcome to the Board a new investor and consultant base.
independent non-executive director, Richard Mully, and shortly after the year-end, Rod MacRae, our Global Head of Risk, joined Business development as an executive director.
Gerhard Fusenig resigned from the Our distribution efforts included the launch of a number of Board in March following Credit Suisses sale of its shareholding, funds in various jurisdictions, led by multi asset, FoHF and EMD and I would like to record the thanks of the entire Board for his capabilities.
Among these was a diversified growth fund in the considerable contribution over the last three years.
UK, a multi strategy fund in Luxembourg and an emerging markets bond fund in the US.
Giles Weaver will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in January, following twelve years In early October, we announced the opening of a new office in service.
I would like to place on record the thanks of all of his New York to support our expansion in North America.
The office colleagues for his valuable contribution and commitment will serve as a business development and marketing centre throughout that period.
I would expect to announce the and complements our existing North American headquarters appointment of a further independent non-executive director, in Philadelphia.
In addition, we added business development as part of the ongoing refreshment of the Board, in due course.
staff in Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, Miami, San Francisco and Toronto.
Outlook Our main focus is on markets with the largest asset pools, It is perhaps unwise to anticipate an end to the uncertainty particularly the Americas and Europe, and Aberdeens marketing engendered by the global economic and political backdrop, but and sponsorship programmes continue to gain traction in I do believe that our clients and shareholders will be well served these key geographies.
As well as our continued sponsorship by the long term investment philosophy and rigorous process of of Cowes Week, Aberdeen was also the main sponsor of this our teams.
While equity based products continue to generate years Scottish Open golf tournament, as part of a three year healthy sales, we are confident that our sustained efforts in agreement.
connection with other asset classes will make an increasingly important contribution to the Groups performance in the Earlier in the year, the Group won a number of awards.
included the Investment Week Fund Manager Group of the Year as well as Investment Trust Group of the Year from both What Investment and Money Observer.
Around Europe Belgium, Finland, Italy, Norway we were named best Speciality Equity House, while in France we received an award for Best Equity R C Cornick Manager.
Finally, our EMD, multi asset, FoHF capabilities were Chairman also recognised at various award ceremonies.
Most recently, Aberdeen was named Best Overall Group at the 11th Annual European FoHF Awards.
In preparation for the Retail Distribution Review, the Group launched unbundled share classes in our UK and Luxembourg fund ranges ahead of the 31 December deadline.
