Business Review Chairmans Statement WERE A BUSINESS WITH STRONG MOMENTUM.
AND THE OPPORTUNITIES IN FRONT OF US ARE HUGE.
Gerald Corbett Chairman A business primed for growth A unique product with a sustainable competitive advantage in order to create and maintain its market leading mobile products.
Betfairs Betting Exchange offers customers consistently better value We spotted the opportunity in the mobile space early and as a result, and a differentiated betting experience than traditional betting operators.
we are well positioned to capitalise on the growth opportunities that These features provide us with a unique customer proposition that is the surge in mobile betting affords us.
best in class and, as a result, Betfairs customers spend more money and are more loyal than the average customer in the online betting industry.
Track record of growth, no debt and a healthy balance sheet While we diversify our portfolio to include betting products that Since its inception barely a decade ago, Betfair has consistently delivered complement our core Exchange, competitors face a difficult challenge growth and strong cash ow generation.
The opportunities open to the in adding an Exchange to their existing product suite.
With the Exchange business via mobile, product diversication and regulation, present a at our core, Betfairs aim is to become a one-stop-shop for customers strong case for this trend to continue.
In a strained macroeconomic looking to gamble online and we are far better positioned to do this than environment, Betfair remains debt-free with 135m of cash in the bank.
This solid financial footing provides the business with the exibility and agility required to act decisively and seize opportunities as and when A world class technology infrastructure they arise.
Betfairs recently completed re-architecture programme has provided the business with a technology framework that is well positioned for more Committed, talented and passionate employees rapid product enhancement and international expansion.
Three years of Throughout our ofces around the world, Betfair boasts a group of financial investment are now primed to pay off via a proprietary platform employees who share a commitment to delivering growth and a passion that is more efficient, has greater stability and is quicker to roll out into for the best in class product that is at the centre of our business.
With Breon Corcoran arriving as our new CEO in August, our experienced Leaders in mobile betting and driven management team will continue to lead a business that is The popularity of mobile betting and the evolution of mobile commerce focussed on carving out a future for Betfair that is as successful as its past.
provides the online gambling industry with tremendous growth Across our Group, we possess people with the skill and motivation opportunities and Betfair is a leader in this eld.
The first betting operator required to make Betfair the worlds number one global online sports to launch applications for the iPhone and iPad, Betfair has made betting operator.
substantial investments in its in-house mobile development team Related information: P43 Corporate governance Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 10 2012 Overview Pages 01 09 Business Review Pages 10 37 Governance Pages 38 57 Financial Statements Pages 58 100 Care for our customers, ensuring they are betting in a safe and sustainable DEAR SHAREHOLDER, fashion is of paramount importance to this business and player protection is a key pillar of our business strategy.
In the last year, we launched a Overview Responsible Gambling micro-site providing customers with a range of I feel privileged to be writing this letter to you for the first time as tools, resources and contact information aimed at helping them gamble Chairman of Betfair.
Since arriving in January, I have been greatly responsibly.
Alongside this we continue to invest in research with impressed and enthused by what I have encountered.
Betfair is a growing, academic institutions such as Oxford University, aimed at enhancing our innovative and ambitious business driven on by people who are as proud understanding of problem gambling and developing the way we and the of its history as they are excited by its future.
industry as a whole attempt to tackle it.
Over time, products, strategy and personnel may change, but our Betfair endured a difficult start to life as a plc and like many in its sector, founding commitment to operate in a transparent and responsible the share price has signicantly underperformed.
Some of the public fashion will not alter.
comment we attracted in the aftermath of our oat was far from polite, however sentiment surrounding our business is slowly improving.
Board and governance A corner has been turned and today we are a business with real The past year has been one of transition for our Board.
In our first full year as a public company, we achieved Core founder Edward Wray stepped down as Chairman leaving behind him a Betfair revenue growth of 6% 349.5m and Adjusted EBITDA growth truly remarkable legacy.
On behalf of everyone at Betfair Id like to take of 15% 92.1m in what remains a challenging economic environment.
this opportunity to thank Ed.
His achievements are significant and I am Betfair remains debt free with 135m of cash in the bank.
In January, David Yu stepped down from the Board having been at The performance of Betfairs core product, the Betting Exchange, has been Betfair since 2001, serving rstly as CTO, then COO and lastly as CEO.
Our Exchange is a product that customers want and our focus has Throughout his time at Betfair, David was a driving force behind the been on ensuring that we can deliver this to them across the multiple channels Companys scaling of new heights and we thank him for his decade and platforms that they want to use.
The Exchange is at the heart of our of success and dedication.
It gives us a truly unique position, and is the basis of our success.
Josh Hannah, whose contribution to Betfair, like Davids, spans almost the The growth weve seen in mobile betting over the past year has been lifetime of the company, has indicated that he intends to step down as a significant and is testament to the strategic and executional qualities of Non-executive Director during the first quarter of 2013.
As Betfair has those in our business who saw an opportunity early and went on to deliver grown, Joshs experience and expertise have proven invaluable and we it.
Mobile betting is the fastest growing facet of our industry and we are a thank him for all he has done.
Stephen Morana has been leading the business as our Interim CEO since Our technology re-architecture programme which began three years Davids departure and he and his executive team have done a good job ago has been delivered on time and on budget, resulting in a website that during this transitory period.
As a result, our incoming CEO, Breon offers a more robust back-end and a quicker, higher performing front-end.
Corcoran, will be joining a business in August that is in sound shape: The greatly enhanced technical foundation that this project has provided growing, profitable and generating cash.
There is much to be done, us with has already enabled some significant product updates in recent but we start from a position of some strength.
months and will provide us with a stable and scalable framework in the Dividend and share buy-back years to come.
We have made a significant investment in our I. T. The Board is recommending the payment of a final dividend of 7.0 pence infrastructure and our priority now is to earn our return.
Together with the interim dividend of 3.2 pence per share, in the full financial year, the total dividend to be paid is 10.2 pence per This improved product offering has been supported since December by share.
This represents a payout of 20% of Core Betfair earnings per share.
Our Dont Settle for Less advertisements, The final dividend will be payable, subject to the approval of shareholders which feature prominently in this report, communicate Betfairs USP of at our Annual General Meeting on 11 September 2012. better value in a manner that is clearer and more impactful than anything weve done before.
In style and tone, the advertising reects a renewed During the last financial year, we returned 50 million of cash to our confidence in the business and has helped drive additional revenue and shareholders through a share buy-back scheme.
Our strong cash enhance brand awareness.
generation enabled us to undertake and complete this while continuing to invest signicantly in the business.
Our prudent approach to regulatory compliance is a strategy that is slowly Outlook bearing fruit.
In the last year we attained new licences in Denmark and The new year has begun well, with Betfair enjoying some special Germany while making significant strides towards launching a Betting momentum from the Euro 2012 football tournament.
This event has given Exchange in Italy, a market of huge potential for us.
Progressive regulatory us a great opportunity to showcase our new and improved website, and steps are being made elsewhere in Europe.
There are many challenges the launch of our integrated xed-odds product is giving customers even ahead and the journey will not be smooth, however I am confident that more reason to do all of their betting with Betfair and even fewer reasons over the long term our Exchange will benefit from the market liberalisation to bet anywhere else.
which we anticipate taking place throughout the world.
Product development, international expansion, a focus on efficiency and We are a company in transition.
From private to public, entrepreneur led earning a return on the investment weve made are at the heart of our to professionally led, an international business with a strong technology agenda.
This is being driven by our team of committed employees around pedigree competing in a dynamic new industry.
The pace of change will the world.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank them for their not slacken and the opportunities are huge.
Together, we look to the coming 12 months enthused and optimistic about the opportunities that lay ahead.
Responsibility and integrity In November, we signed a Memorandum of Understanding MoU with the International Olympic Committee ahead of London 2012, followed closely in January with the signing of our 50th MoU with the RFU.
Milestones such as this highlight our industry-leading approach to working with stakeholders from across sport to safeguard the integrity of the markets were offering our customers.
Chairman Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11
