Chairmans Statement Review of 2012 Performance The history books will record 2012 as an excellent year for UK smaller companies.
Larger companies, as represented by the FTSE 100, gave a total return including reinvested dividends of 10.0%, while the FTSE AllShare, which is also heavily weighted towards large companies, gave a return of 12.3%.
Meanwhile, the Numis Smaller Companies Index excluding Investment Companies NSCI XIC, your Companys benchmark, gave a return of 29.9%.
Over the same period, your Companys net asset value total return was 31.9%, while the share price return including reinvested dividends was 43.9%.
Returns of this magnitude require a health warning.
They are unlikely to be matched in 2013.
Importantly for your Company, the year witnessed a stirring in the fortunes of value investing within the NSCI XIC, your Companys investment universe.
Over the five calendar years from 200711 inclusive, value stocks within the NSCI XIC underperformed growth stocks by 9.4% p. a..
In 2012, there was a reversal of this trend.
The year also saw exceptionally strong relative performance from the FTSE SmallCap Index, which beat the FTSE 250 Index for only the second year out of the last nine.
This, too, is important since your Companys portfolio is positioned towards the lower end of the capitalisation range.
The Managers report expands in more detail on these themes and the interconnected influences of style and size.
While 2012 witnessed a rebranding of your Companys investment benchmark which is now known as the Numis Smaller Companies Index excluding Investment Companies, Shareholders should be aware the underlying data series and index methodology remains unaltered.
Since your Companys formation in 1990, the NSCI XIC has risen by 10.8% p. a.
By comparison, your Companys net asset value total return has increased by 13.3% p. a.. Dividends In 2012, the dividend experience from investee companies in general, continued to be positive.
Your Companys investment objective is total return orientated rather than income orientated.
However, as value investors, your Board and the Managers are acutely aware of the importance of the role that income plays in generating long term returns for both UK equities in general and your Company specifically.
In this context, your Board is pleased to declare a second interim dividend, in lieu of a final dividend, of 15.25p.
This results in total dividends for the year of 22.25p, representing an increase of 7.2% on 2011.
Based on the year end share price of 695.5p, your Companys shares deliver a 3.2% yield.
Your Board remains committed to a progressive dividend policy.
The level of your Companys revenue reserves, after adjusting for payment of the second interim dividend, amounting to 32.1p per share up from 28.1p as at 31 December 2011, provides a degree of flexibility going forward.
The second interim dividend will be paid on 28 February 2013 to Shareholders on the register as at the close of business on 8 February 2013.
The ex dividend date is 6 February 2013.
Your Company operates a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
Details of the DRIP, including the Form of Election, are available from Aberforth Partners LLP or on its website, www.
Gearing Your Board regularly reviews the level of gearing with the Managers and is comfortable that your Company has access to sufficient liquidity for both investment purposes and also to fund share buy-ins as and when appropriate.
As at 31 December 2012, gearing was 5.9%, with 47m of the 100m facility utilised.
The decision to remain geared is based upon attractive valuation levels, described in greater detail in the Managers Report.
As has been highlighted in recent Annual Reports, this should also be viewed in conjunction with the strong balance sheets of the underlying investee companies currently held in your portfolio.
During the year, the level of gearing ranged from 5.8% to 11.2%.
Share Buy-In Authority and Treasury Shares At the Annual General Meeting in March 2012, the authority to buy-in up to 14.99% of your Companys Ordinary Shares was approved.
During the year, 446,000 Ordinary Shares were bought-in at a total cost of 2.6 million.
Consistent with your Boards stated policy, those Ordinary Shares have been cancelled rather than held in Treasury.
Once again, your Board will be seeking to renew the buy-in authority at the Annual General Meeting on 7 March 2013.
Your Board keeps under constant review the circumstances under which the authority is utilised in relation to the overall objective of seeking to manage the share price discount relative to the net asset value.
Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 3 Chairmans Statement Board Changes Hamish Buchan, who has been a Director since November 2003, will not be standing for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Hamish has been a valued member of your Board and we will all miss his insight and invaluable contributions.
We wish Hamish all the very best for the future.
We are delighted to appoint Paul Trickett as a Director of your Company with effect from 30 January 2013.
Pauls career in the financial industry extends over 25 years.
He has extensive knowledge of the investment world and we look forward to working with him.
Regulatory Developments The regulatory environment in which your Company operates continues to change.
The Retail Distribution Review RDR came into effect on 1 January 2013 with several commentators forecasting an increased level of interest in investment trusts from the investor adviser community.
Later in 2013, and subject to consultation, we will see The Alternative Investment Fund Managers AIFM Directive come into force.
Your Board and the Managers continue to monitor all major regulatory developments and their impact on your Company.
Summary Performance within the NSCI XIC over the recent past has been highly polarised, with larger growth stocks driving the indexs returns.
This has been detrimental to the relative performance of your Company, given its value investment orientation and its size positioning towards the lower end of the available range of market capitalisations.
It is therefore encouraging that 2012 saw a shift in these recent trends in favour of both style and size.
However, since the global financial crisis in 2008, we have witnessed such periods before, only for them to fade and for larger growth leadership to resume: it would therefore be unwise to proclaim the return of value investing based solely upon the trends of any one calendar year.
Regardless of what 2013 brings, your Board remains confident in ASCoTs style positioning, which has become increasingly uncommon within the small cap market over recent years.
Stockmarket history supports the eventual revival in fortunes of both value investing and the small companies effect.
These have been the two cornerstones of your Companys strategy since its creation in 1990 and have no doubt been crucial in attracting investors to become shareholders in ASCoT.
Therefore, your Board takes comfort from the Managers unswerving application of their value investment philosophy and is also encouraged by the alignment of interests represented by their significant shareholdings in your Company.
Finally, your Board and I very much welcome your views and are always available to talk to Shareholders directly.
My email address is noted below.
Professor Paul Marsh Chairman 29 January 2013 paul.
co. uk 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Aberforth Partners LLP Information Aberforth Partners LLP the firm act as investment managers and secretaries to the Company.
The predecessor business, Aberforth Partners, was established in 1990 to provide institutional and wholesale investors with a high level of resources focused exclusively on small UK quoted companies.
Since then funds under management have grown to 1.7 billion as at 31 December 2012.
The firm is wholly owned by six partners five investment managers including three founding partners, and Alan Waite, who is responsible for the firms administration.
Six investment managers work as a team managing the Companys portfolio on a collegiate basis.
The founding partners have been managing the portfolio since the Companys inception in December 1990.
The partners each have a personal investment in the Company.
The biographical details of the investment managers are as follows: Andrew P Bamford BCom Hons, CA Andy joined Aberforth Partners in April 2001, became a partner in May 2004, and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Industrial Transportation: Technology Hardware & Equipment: Travel & Leisure: and a proportion of Support Services.
Previously he was with Edinburgh Fund Managers for 7 years, latterly as Deputy Head of UK Small Companies, with specific responsibility for institutional clients.
Prior to joining Edinburgh Fund Managers he was a senior investment analyst with General Accident for 2 years supporting the head of UK Smaller Companies.
Before joining General Accident, he was a Chartered Accountant with Price Waterhouse.
Euan R Macdonald BA Hons Euan joined Aberforth Partners in May 2001, became a partner in May 2004, and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Industrial Engineering: Life Assurance: Nonlife Insurance: Software & Computer Services: and a proportion of Support Services.
Previously he was with Baillie Gifford for 10 years where he managed portfolios invested in small companies both in Continental Europe and in the UK.
Keith Muir BEng Hons, CFA Keith joined Aberforth Partners in March 2011 and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Automobiles & Parts: Chemicals: Construction & Materials: Electricity: Fixed Line Telecommunications: Gas, Water & Multiutilities: Household Goods & Home Construction: Industrial Metals & Mining: Leisure Goods: Mining: and Mobile Telecommunications.
Previously Keith was an Investment Director with Standard Life Investments for 13 years and spent the last 9 years as a senior member of the Smaller Companies team with associated portfolio management responsibilities.
Prior to that he gained experience with Southpac, Scottish Equitable and Murray Johnstone.
Richard M J Newbery BA Hons Richard was a founding partner in May 1990 and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Alternative Energy: Beverages: Electronic & Electrical Equipment: Food & Drug Retailers: Food Producers: General Industrials: General Retailers: and Personal Goods.
Previously he was with Ivory & Sime for 9 years where he managed international portfolios for a range of clients including those with a small company specialisation.
David T M Ross FCCA David was a founding partner in May 1990 and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Real Estate Investment Trusts: Real Estate Investment & Services: and Financial Services.
Previously he was with Ivory & Sime for 22 years, the last two of which were as Managing Director.
He was a Director of US Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc and served as a member of the Executive Committee of the Association of Investment Companies.
Alistair J Whyte Alistair was a founding partner in May 1990 and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Aerospace & Defence: Health Care Equipment & Services: Media: Oil & Gas Producers: Oil Equipment: Services & Distribution: and Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology.
Previously he was with Ivory & Sime for 11 years where latterly he managed portfolios in Asia.
Prior to that he managed portfolios with the objective of capital growth from smaller companies in the UK and internationally.
Further information on Aberforth Partners LLP and its clients is available on its website www.
co. uk Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 5
