Admiral Group plc 06 Annual Report 2012 Chairmans statement sense to grow in the up-cycle and refrain from chasing Profit before tax Return on capital themarket down in the down-cycle.
This is even more thecase for a player such as Admiral that has a significant 344.6m 60% combined ratio advantage over the market as a whole and 2012 344.6m 2012 60% can, therefore, afford to raise rates less quickly than the market as a whole when the cycle turns up.
The UK market 2011 299.1m 2011 59% reached its low point in 2009, a year that saw a totally unsustainable overall market combined ratio of 127%, Earnings per share % of customers andthen raised rates significantly over the subsequent whowould renew two years to reflect the increasing cost of claims, in particular those relating to bodily injury.
By contrast, in following a claim 2009 Admiral had achieved a combined ratio of 94% and was, therefore, able to take advantage of these market 95.1p 90% conditions to add material growth to its UK motor book, 2012 95.1p 2012 90% finishing 2011 almost 60% larger than two years previously.
Similarly in 2012, as the second largest UK private motor 2011 81.9p 2011 91% insurer, we have not sought to add to the downward In my statement last year I commented that I was very pressure on prices but have been content to hold our confident, given the quality of our management and share broadly steady.
our staff, that 2012 would demonstrate their capability and commitment to put the 2011 issue of higher than Admiral has always had a low appetite for risk.
This is expected claims behind us and restore lost shareholder demonstrated by the fact that we reinsure 75% of our value.
This confidence has, I believe, been fully justified book either through co-insurance or quota share: we with pre-tax profits 15% higher at 345m: reserve onlyinvest in the highest quality assets with no equity releases from the 2010 and 2011 years: and a share price exposure: and when we enter new markets we do so that was 36% higher at the end of the year than the start.
slowly through organic growth, adopting a test and learn approach.
Nowhere is this low risk appetite more evident This level of profitability delivered a 60% return on capital than our approach to reserving against motor claims.
We employed and supported total dividends of 90.6 pence establish initial reserves at the prudent end of potential per share, which represents a distribution of 95% of outcomes, reviewing how claims develop in subsequent ourearnings.
Our normal dividend, growing in line years and releasing parts of the reserve to profit as and withour growth in profits based on a 45% pay-out ratio, when justified.
In our reserving we seek to reflect not only amounted to 42.7 pence per share, whilst our available what we know but what may happen, such as potential surplus, after taking into account our required solvency, changes to discount rates and increasing numbers of provision for our overseas expansion plans, and a margin periodic payment orders.
Our approach to reserving for contingencies, made possible a further special isconservative: how conservative will vary with our dividend of 47.9 pence per share.
assessment of the level of uncertainty and volatility towhich our business is exposed.
Our UK Business UK motor insurance is cyclical.
As rates harden and Currently the UK motor market is undergoing significant profitability improves so too interest in growth increases change the implementation of the EU gender directive: amongst insurers, raising marketing spend: developing the OFT referral to the Competition Commission: the new offerings: and, in turn, leading to lower prices to grow banning of referral fees: and the emergence of telematics share.
This phase continues until the market recognises offerings are all potentially disruptive events.
Admiral that the new business it is attracting is unprofitable for has, however, built its business to embrace and profit most, leading to a further turn.
It makes good economic from change, rather than fear it and we have been as transparent as we can as to the likely effects of these changes on our business.
The management team has developed a flexible responsive, low-cost, data-rich business model that allows the effect of change to be identified quickly, measured accurately, and responded to effectively.
By seeking to minimise bureaucracy, Alastair Lyons, CBE encourage individual managers to use their initiative, Chairman and avoid management by committee which leads to an absence of decision-taking and the abrogation of responsibility, we aim to react more quickly than our competitors to changes in our environment.
Through our all-employee Free Share scheme we seek to motivate all of our people to work together to achieve the best outcome for what is their business, creating a total alignment between their interests and those of our Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2012 07 For more information: Corporate Responsibility Go to page 24 Governance Go to page 29 shareholders.
We were, therefore, delighted to be named atour 2012 AGM although he continues to bring his best large UK workplace by the Great Place to Work knowledge of our business and his wise counsel to bear Institute in 2012. through his chairmanship of our principal UK-regulated operating subsidiaries.
May I take this opportunity to The customer is at the centre of everything we do.
thank Keith for everything that he added to our debate We design our products and processes in order to during his time on the Board.
meet their needs better than our competitors, and we arenow pleased to be able to offer our UK customers I would also like to extend this thanks more generally household insurance alongside motor insurance.
We seek to all of our Non-Executives for the time they give and the feedback after every interaction in order to learn how we commitment they make to our business.
As our business can improve our service.
Last year we received over expands and broadens, and against the backdrop of 140,000 individual items of feedback in the critical area challenging economics and a demanding regulatory of claims processing over 90% of those claiming under environment, what is expected of Non-Executives, and their policy said that they would take motor insurance in particular Committee Chairs, bears little relation to from us again.
All departments have quality scores the position that existed when Admiral floated in 2004. against their relevant key performance indicators, and During 2012 all Non-Executives visited at least one of compete to win Quality Awards.
For customer-facing our overseas businesses in addition to the normal Board departments these quality measures underpin the process.
It is only by such active engagement with regulatory assessment of our compliance with the thebusiness and the opportunity to spend time with principles of Treating Customers Fairly.
We fully support management across many levels that Non-Executives initiatives that can reduce the overall cost of providing cangain a real understanding of its underlying health motor insurance, in turn making possible a reduction in andpotential.
In a business that has sustained profitable the premiums insurers have to charge their customers.
growth as its objective the depth and breadth of Minimising the potential for fraudulent claims and management is both the key enabler and the potential reducing incidental claims costsboth have their part greatest inhibitor.
Our Board, therefore, aims to assess to play.
not only the plans for immediate succession but, at least as, if not more, importantly, the emerging bench strength Admiral Overseas for five to 10 years time.
Throughout 2012 we have had We have continued to grow our overseas businesses three senior managers join the Board in each of its at the measured pace dictated by a strategy of organic meetings in order to broaden their understanding of growth and within the constraints of the challenging the Groups strategy and Board process and contribute economic environment, particularly as affects southern actively to Board deliberations.
We are still very much at the stage of learning how best to compete in each of these markets and shall Thank You focus in the near term on building the businesses that we A business is only as good as its people and every have established over the past six years.
When each year individual has their particular contribution to the success I visit our international operations I always know that I am of the whole.
It is, therefore, everyone in Admiral across in Admiral, testament to the effectiveness with which our all the various markets and functions that now make up can-do culture, management ethos, and approach to our our Group that I must thank for what has been achieved customers and employees have been exported.
Whilst there are many elements to why Admiral is different, for me the most significant is that the We are already seeing the results of investing in price management team has been successful in designing comparison in new markets in order to kick start the a business where the overwhelming majority of those I process of change to more active switching of car meet enjoy coming to work and through enjoying what insurance provider by consumers.
Market data shows they do, and the environment within which they work, price comparison growth in Italy, Spain and France and are more successful in what they do.
It is, therefore, we are delighted to see others being attracted by our nosurprise that the average length of service of our initiative to establish their own price comparison sites in 20most senior UK managers is 13 years in a company markets where we provide motor insurance the launch thatis itself just 20 years old.
I am confident that this of Les Furets in France is a case in point.
The more impact depth of focused knowledge and commitment within price comparison can have the stronger the potential asupportive environment will lead to a continued for direct insurance in these markets.
strong performance within our markets.
Our Board Over the past couple of years we have added to our Board beyond its normal size in anticipation of three of our Non-Executive Directors reaching the end of the nine years following which they are no longer regarded asindependent under the UK Corporate Governance Code.
By structuring this overlap we aim to maintain the Alastair Lyons, CBE continuity of Board process and the strength of personal Chairman interaction which underlies the effectiveness of the Board 5 March 2013 as a team.
The first of these, Keith James, stood down
