06 Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com CHAIRMANS STATEMENT ANDREW GOULD CHAIRMAN I would like to congratulate Chris Finlayson onhis appointment as our new Chief Executive.
The Board was unanimous that Chris has the right skills for the next stage of BG Groups evolution and the delivery of its growth projects.
This has been a challenging year overall isimproving and the focus onAustralia and emerging markets should also see a boost.
Brazil will be relentless inthecoming year.
InEurope, economic uncertainty persisted, with Greece, Spain, UK and Italy still Production was impacted by unexpected New Chief Executive appointed inrecession.
shutdowns and delays in the North Sea, reservoir On 13 December 2012, Chris Finlaysons decline inEgypt, and the Groups strategic appointment as Chief Executive was announced Following the Arab Spring of 2011, there has decision tolower its rig count in the USA, due following arigorous and comprehensive been continued political and social uncertainty to the lowUS gas prices.
This caused us to revise selection process that encompassed both in Egypt, with parliamentary and presidential our production outlook for the year and for 2013. internal andexternal candidates.
I would like elections and political debate on constitutional tocongratulate Chris on his appointment.
There has also been further unrest in Despite these setbacks, I am pleased to say TheBoard was unanimous thatChris Tunisia.
BG Group has reassessed the security BGGroup has made good progress in advancing hastheright skills for the next stageof of itsoperations in North Africa, and is keeping the delivery of its growth programme in BGGroups evolution and thedelivery thesituation under review.
TheBoard visited Australia and Brazil, and with its successful ofitsgrowth projects.
Egypt in September to gain agreater first-hand exploration programme, particularly in Tanzania.
understanding of the socio-political challenges Chris has more than 35 years experience in and their significance for the Groups current BG Group made total operating profit of $8 billion theoiland gas industry and, during his time andfuture activities within thecountry.
In view of this progress, theBoard atRoyal Dutch Shell plc, he held a number of has recommended a final dividend of 14.26 cents senior leadership positions in exploration and Continued growth in energy demand 9.03 pence per share, taking the full-year dividend production, and LNG.
He has an outstanding Given the prospect of continued economic to 26.14 cents 16.67 pence per share, an increase track record of delivering large-scale projects growth in emerging markets, particularly of10% on 2011.
Further details are set out in and in the optimisation of production and inAsia, BGGroup believes that the global the Financial review on pages 26 to 31. operational performance.
He has also worked demand for gas will grow at a compound rate successfully with joint venture partners, of2.7% per annum through to 2020, asChina My first impressions national oil companies and governments and India more than double their share of I have now been Chairman for nearly a year.
Asa result, theGroup struck by the Groups ability to remain commercially expects gas to increase its market share, agile and flexible in its choices of which business Volatile macro-environment andLNG toplay an increasingly important lines to follow.
This is particularly evident in the While the economic slowdown continues rolein the global energy mix.
creation of a flexible, global LNG portfolio and toaffect industrialised countries, emerging the ability to trade it to maximum advantage.
markets are still doing well overall.
China In the USA, BG Group believes that the supply appears to have recovered from a slowdown of lower-cost energy, in the form of both gas The commitment to exploration has been, earlier in 2012 and should see relatively robust and oil, may become a catalyst for an industrial andremains, fundamental to the success ofthe growth in 2013, on the back of increased renaissance.
By 2025, we expect that US LNG Group.
Thecapability to execute ourdevelopments tradeand manufacturing.
As a result, other exports will represent some 10% of the global Unless otherwise set out in this statement, financial information for the Group and its business segments is based on BG Groups business performance.
For a reconciliation between business performance and total results, see note 1 on page 93 and note 9 on page 103. Business review Chairmans statement continued 07 Good progress on growth projects Den Jones, BG Group Financial Controller, Full-year dividend per share This disappointing production performance whoacted as Fabios Alternate Director during overshadowed the good progress that has Fabios leave of absence, has been appointed as been made on growth projects.
Den will continue tofulfil 26.14 cents the role of BG Group Interim Chief Financial In Australia, we remain on track for first LNG Officer pending the conclusion ofasuccession 2011 23.76 cents in2014.
Earlier in the year, due to local market process for the role of CFO.
effects, the increased costs of compliance with regulatory processes and some scope change, At the beginning of 2013, Philippe Varin 10% we announced a cost overrun.
This underlying retiredafter almost seven years, and cost increase, combined with the 20% appreciation theBoardannounced the appointment of of the Australian Dollar, led to a revised budget LimHaw-Kuang as a Non-Executive Director.
for the Queensland Curtis LNG QCLNG project Iwould like to thank Philippe for his advice 2011-2014 of $20.4 billion.
andsupport over theyears, and I am delighted Full details on page 103 towelcome Haw-Kuang to the BG Group However, more than half of the two-train Board.
Haw-Kuang has extensive experience project hasnowbeen completed, as has more across theinternational oil and gasindustry, than 60% ofthe scope required to fill the including long service as asenior executive firsttrain.
Intotal, 94%of the project is now inChina, theworlds fastest growing LNG market, and this will not overwhelm the covered by contracts and other agreements, energymarket.
In addition to US LNG, such that the Group remains confident that global markets will require substantial itwill deliver Phase 1 of the project ontime Sir Frank Chapmans legacy volumes from other sources.
Sir Frank Chapman stepped down as Chief Executive on 31December 2012.
We owe The price of oil fluctuated by 20-25% in 2012, In Brazil, we made good progress on both SirFrank an enormous debt of gratitude driven by a number of factors, from the schedule and cost in developing the Groups forwhat has been achieved while he was eurozone crisis to sanctions in Iran.
The price Santos Basin interests.
Drilling momentum leading the Group.
ofBrent crude was stable for the last three continued and drilling costs, which account for months ofthe year, ending close to where about half of project capital expenditure, have He has delivered an amazing exploration track itstarted.
This suggests that strong supply continued tofall.
Additionally, contracts are in record and developed a differentiated and anddemand fundamentals will continue.
place for 90% of the next four leased and eight highly valuableLNG model.
During his time locally purchased floating production, storage with theGroup, our resource base has grown Reflections on a challenging year and offloading FPSO vessels, and costs are from 1.2billion barrels of oil equivalent boe The year started well for BG Group, with four tracking on or under budget.
in1996 to more than 18.5billion boe at the new projects being brought onstream in the endof 2012. first quarter.
However, the Groups production Balance sheet was then impacted by a number of events, BG Group has improved its balance sheet Frank has transformed the Group from a particularly in Egypt and the UK.
The Group made excellent progress struggling offshoot of a former state company with its portfolio rationalisation programme with amarket capitalisation of some $14 billion In Egypt, BG Group has seen production decline in2012.
in2000 into an internationally diversified inrecent years, due to wells experiencing exploration and production company, with water break-through.
In 2012, new wells were This programme is refocusing the Groups aspecialism in gas, capitalised at around drilled and a compression project completed, portfolio on its core strengths in exploration, $60billion.
but unfortunately compression led to higher production and LNG.
BG Group has now water production and lower gas volumes completed or reached agreements on a This phenomenal growth isunderpinned by thananticipated.
number of transactions which will release alegacy of opportunities still to be realised, an expected $8.1billion of capital by the end about which I know Chris is veryexcited.
The UK was impacted by the shut-in of the Total of 2013.
This will significantly exceed its operated Elgin Franklin field, due to a well control two-year $5 billion target.
Summary issue, and the delayed start-up of the non-operated It has been a challenging year, with good Jasmine field.
Two-thirds ofthe 2012 shortfall BG Group has reduced gearing from 27% progress continuing to be made with our was from these assets.
Buzzard suffered from attheend of 2011 to 24% at the end of 2012, megaprojects in Australia and Brazil.
Ihave ashutdown that extended from30 to 65 days while atthe same time increasing its cash nodoubt that BG Group has a very bright dueto scope growth andproblems with balance to$4.4 billion.
The Board On BG Groups UK operated assets, limited There were a number of changes to the Board Andrew Gould off-shore accommodation has meant that, during the period under review.
Chairman beyond carrying out safety critical maintenance, theGroup has been unable to complete all In September, Fabio Barbosa was granted leave themaintenance improvements necessary ofabsence for medical treatment in Brazil.
Hehas now stepped down as Chief Financial Officer CFO, and has been appointed In the USA, in response to low gas prices, Chairman ofBGSouth America.
BGGroup reduced its drilling activity to five rigs in2012, and recorded a non-cash post-tax I would like to thank Fabio for his excellent work impairment of $1.3 billion in the second quarter.
as CFO over the lasttwo years, inparticular his efforts in strengthening ourbalance sheet.
