Accountability Defining and accepting responsibility and delivering on our commitments.
Chairmans Review Dear Shareholder BHP Billiton also remains committed to making a positive contribution to our communities through capital The past year was characterised by continued high levels investment, supporting local industry and creating jobs.
of volatility and uncertainty in the worlds economy.
Expanding on that commitment, this year we once again The debt issues of the Eurozone remain a global concern.
contributed one per cent of our pre-tax profit to community European governments continue to take action to address programs by voluntarily investing US$214 million.
This included these challenges, but until they are resolved, we expect a US$65 million contribution to BHP Billiton Sustainable the political and financial conditions of the region to remain Communities, our UK-based charity, and a US$149 million volatile.
While there are some signs of improvement in the investment in health 8 per cent, education and training United States economy, a recovery will only continue provided 18 per cent, community infrastructure 25 per cent and there are no large external shocks.
Furthermore, China and other initiatives 49 per cent.
This was in addition to the other emerging economies have also seen subdued growth US$11.9 billion in taxes and royalties paid to governments as they face cyclical and structural pressures.
in the jurisdictions where we operate.
In the midst of these challenges in the global economic Tragically, this year three of our colleagues lost their lives environment, I am pleased to report that BHP Billiton performed at work.
No fatality is acceptable and on behalf of the well this past financial year.
BHP Billitons Underlying EBIT Board, I offer our condolences to their families, friends margin remained at a robust 39 per cent, despite weakness and colleagues.
This is a stark reminder that we must in commodity markets and industry-wide cost pressures.
remain vigilant about safety and continue to live our values.
These results were underpinned by the execution of our Supporting our communities is part of Our BHP Billiton Charter diversified strategy.
value of Sustainability, which also includes putting the health and safety of our people first and being environmentally Your Board is confident that our commitment to invest in responsible.
These are set out in Our Charter, which is the high-return growth opportunities will continue to create foundation for everything we do at BHP Billiton.
Our largely brownfield projects in execution will continue to drive momentum in our major Lastly, it is important to note that as part of our Board businesses and create value for our shareholders in the near succession, in June 2012 Mr Pat Davies was appointed to term.
Moreover, the continued urbanisation and industrialisation the Board as a Non-executive Director.
Pats appointment of developing economies should support both demand is a welcome addition to an already strong Board, providing for our products and the long-term growth of our strong corporate experience in the natural resources sector across pipeline of development projects across diverse commodities a number of commodities and markets.
In summary, while we continue to live with the uncertainty Recognising these opportunities, we will continue to prioritise of the global economic environment, we expect the demand investment where a sustainable competitive advantage exists, from emerging economies, our disciplined approach to capital including geopolitical and fiscal stability.
Our project approvals management and our value-focused strategy to maintain process will ensure that we allocate capital in a disciplined our momentum in delivering strong results long term for our fashion, while the quality and diversity of our asset portfolio shareholders.
On behalf of the Board and everyone involved will continue to drive strong returns.
in the Company, I would like to thank you for your ongoing support of BHP Billiton, as we continue to deliver on our Investing in high-return projects, while maintaining a strong commitments to you, our shareholders.
balance sheet, underpins our ability to pay a dividend that grows over time.
This financial year our progressive dividend increased to 112 US cents per share.
Over the last 10 years, we have returned approximately US$54 billion to shareholders through dividends and share buy-backs.
That represents around 30 per cent of the Groups current market capitalisation.
Moreover, our unbroken dividend generates a yield that is well in excess of our peer group.
Jac Nasser AO Chairman 6 | BHP BILLITON SUMMARY REVIEW 2012
