24.0 23.0 23.0 20.0 17.0 Chairmans statement Expanding our scope 2012 Highlights r Return on equity of 17.4% 2011: negative 8.6% r 2012 total dividend increased by 4.3% to 24.0p 2011: 23.0p r Total shareholder return 2008 2012 of 170% r Organisational change to improve oversight of a larger Group structure and systems appropriate to the broader Dividend per share Results and dividend geography and business mix which Amlin has Last year was a less extreme year for Amlin developed in recent years.
The creation of the in terms of catastrophe claims, with a generally Underwriting Practice Boards, the migration of more favourable trading environment.
In contrast Amlin Europes Benelux businesses onto Amlins to 2010 and 2011, catastrophe claims were business platform and further embedding of concentrated in the US, with Hurricane Sandy enterprise risk management practices across the proving the worst storm to hit the North-eastern Group, are all aspects of this process, which will United States in more than seventy years, causing contribute to better communication and estimated insured losses of $25 billion for the co-operation between businesses, as well as market as a whole.
Amlins share of this loss is enhanced efficiency across the Group.
estimated at 141.6 million, part of total large catastrophe claims for the year of 152.3 million, The benefit of a co-ordinated approach across net of reinsurance, compared to divisions was evident in the re-underwriting of  OKNNKQP KP| Amlin Europes marine account, which was assisted by Amlin Londons marine underwriters.
Amlins result for the year benefited from a strong Amlin Europes achievement of an underwriting overall underwriting result, helped by improving profit in 2012 is a reflection of this teamwork, as trading conditions in key lines of business, 08 09 10 11 12 well as the commitment and hard work of Amlin notably catastrophe reinsurance and UK fleet Europes management and employees.
The motor and the achievement for the first time of combination of Amlin Corporate Insurance and modest full year underwriting profits at Amlin Amlin France to create Amlin Europe gives Amlin Europe and Amlin Re Europe, which continued a substantial platform from which to further to develop satisfactorily.
The overall result was develop our Continental European insurance enhanced by a very creditable investment return presence in the future.
in current market conditions of 4.1%.
Amlin London and Amlin Bermuda put in strong Pre-tax profits of 264.2 million, with a return on performances, with reinsurance overall remaining equity of 17.4%, have encouraged the Board to profitable despite the impact of Hurricane Sandy resume our progressive dividend policy with a claims.
In a generally improved trading proposed increase of 4.4% in the final dividend environment, most of Amlin Londons diverse to 16.5 pence per share 2011: 15.8p.
The final insurance portfolio also performed well.
Once dividend will be paid on 23 May 2013, subject again Amlins superior claims service was to shareholder approval, to shareholders on recognised, with global broker Willis citing Amlin the register on 12 April 2013. as one of the top five performing UK insurers in respect of claims handling for Hurricane Sandy.
Strategic progress During 2012, the business made significant Amlin Re Europe, which started underwriting in progress in further developing a management October 2010, had another successful year, 10 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements In 2012 we experienced a more favourable trading environment in which Amlin achieved a strong financial performance.
We also made further progress towards becoming an integrated international business, capable of delivering consistently high standards of performance across the Group.
Richard Davey Chairman generating a combined ratio of 99%, having tangible benefits which considerably outweigh Amlin Underwriting Limited, where his profound reached 206.5 million of gross written premium the cost.
We also continue to invest in high knowledge of the Group will be invaluable.
We continue to expect that Amlin Re calibre people across a range of disciplines to Finally, I pay tribute to Roger Taylor, my Europe will become an important longer-term ensure that we are resourced to support a larger predecessor.
Roger became Chairman in 1998, earnings stream for the Group.
and has seen the Company grow from its origins Amlin UK continued to benefit from improving in Lloyds to the successful international Group Outlook market conditions and increased gross written you see today.
An investment of 100 in Amlin As market conditions improve for much of premium by 19.3% to 372.6 million in 2012, when Roger became Chairman would now have a Amlins portfolio, we are benefiting from the contributing 14.1 million to Group value of 526, outstripping the FTSE250 over the investments in new teams, niche acquisitions underwriting profits.
The creation of and better operational capabilities made in recent shareholder value over this period is a remarkable Amlin UK, Amlin Europe and Amlin Re Europe, years.
We continue to focus on optimising Amlins achievement, given some of the severe events, with their relatively low exposure to catastrophe capabilities, while maintaining strong cross-cycle such as 9 11 and Hurricane Katrina, during this risk and consequent lower volatility earnings, are performance and building for the future.
Roger should be thanked by all important elements in Amlins diversified diversity of the business, with three well shareholders for his commitment and dedication.
Increased earnings from these capitalised underwriting platforms operating I am honoured to succeed him and am thriving areas will further enhance capital efficiency across a range of business lines and markets, on working with Charles Philipps and his talented across the Group, as well as creating scope to gives us valuable flexibility to manage exposures and stimulating executive team.
further increase our appetite for catastrophe risk.
and the cycle, as well as creating more I look forward to the current year and future of opportunities for profitable growth.
Amid continued uncertainty in financial your company with confidence.
markets, the Groups security as a counterparty Governance and the Board is paramount to our clients.
While the Groups The Boards performance was reviewed capital position remained strong despite the externally during the year, and the results of extraordinary claims of 2011, it has been this review were broadly positive and are further enhanced by the return to profit in referred to on page 66.
I welcome Shonaid 2012, with available capital of 1.75 billion.
Jemmett-Page and Julie Chakraverty as This is 372.5 million in excess of managements Non-Executive Directors, who will bring us fresh view of the capital required to operate our talent and expertise.
underwriting businesses, and will support expected growth of more than 10% in 2013.
I should thank Nigel Buchanan for his nine years of exceptional service to the Group, both Effective risk management is also important, and generally and also in his particular role as Senior the Groups continued commitment to a market Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit leading risk management capability was Committee.
We have all appreciated his sage recognised externally during the year with counsel and he has made a valued contribution Standard & Poors upgrade of Amlins Enterprise Risk Management rating to Strong.
Our to the Groups development.
I am delighted that Richard Davey he has agreed to stay with us as Chairman of Chairman investment in this area continues to generate Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 11
