Chairmans Statement As shareholders will be aware, global economies are currently facing On behalf of the Board I would like to thank him for the service and many challenges, not least of which centre round the European debt contribution that he has given to the Group during this period.
crisis and the contraction of trade around the world.
Such conditions Although the Group saw a modest fall in earnings per share, as against create great uncertainty, which in turn lead to considerable market last year, the Board remains confident about the future and the growth volatility.
Against this background Ashmore has had a year of of the operations and the Directors are recommending a final dividend consolidation, one in which it has been able to use its specialist of 10.75p a share for the year to 30 June 2012, which, subject to knowledge and skills to enhance its scalable operating platform.
This shareholders approval, will be paid on 7 December, to those is a key component for achieving success in any asset management shareholders on the register on 9 November.
This makes a total dividend business and the Chief Executive Officers report and Business Review for the year of 15.00p a share FY2010 11: 14.50p a share.
which follow provide details of what has been achieved.
While the challenges facing the global markets look likely to continue, In financial terms, the Group has produced a solid performance.
Ashmores investment team will continue to strive to produce top class The closing level of AUM was US$ 63.7 billion, marginally down from investment performance, through its exclusive focus on the Emerging last year, which reflects the impact of difficult and volatile market Markets.
The distribution and support teams will also seek to win, serve conditions.
Despite this, a number of the asset classes have grown and retain the assets of the Groups diverse and growing client base.
As against last year the Groups revenues have fallen very marginally, largely due to the anticipated reduction in Looking back over the year there is much that has been accomplished, performance fees.
This fall was mitigated to some extent by increased but there are always areas where improvements can be made and the Group remains totally committed to achieving the highest standards and management fees.
levels of excellence in everything it does.
A little over a year ago the Group completed the acquisition of AshmoreEMM and after a considerable amount of planning the The Board is grateful to everyone across the Groups global offices for business has been successfully integrated into the Group and the their hard work and commitment over the past year.
new equity team is operating well.
Looking forward, the Group is determined to grow its equity footprint and the experience which Michael Benson AshmoreEMM has developed over many years will provide a sturdy Chairman platform to help achieve this.
The Board continues to place great emphasis on all issues surrounding corporate governance and it welcomes the appointment of Simon Fraser, who joined the Group as a Non-executive Director in February this year.
He has had a long and extensive career in the field of investment management and his experience will be very helpful to the Board.
We are looking to appoint a further Non-executive Director in due course.
Jonathan Asquith, who has been on the Board since September 2008, will retire and not seek re-election at the AGM.
Demonstrable progress in raising and retaining assets, utilising specialist knowledge and skills to invest.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 3
