4 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Chairmans statement Dear shareholder Management is demonstrating professional execution as well as prudence.
I am confident John McFarlane Chairman about the future of Aviva.
It is managements Mark has started very strongly.
His focus going We have since exited seven of the most material view, endorsed forward is on cash flow, earnings growth, and red cells on time and at respectable prices, by the Board, reducing leverage.
This has my full endorsement better and faster than was generally expected and with firm as well as that of the Board.
of us and action is being taken on the balance.
regulatory support, Specifically, we announced the disposal of the that we prioritise Strong progress and momentum in US business, our stake in Delta Lloyd, and a the reduction reshaping the Group number of smaller interests around the world, of internal and In mid-2012, we launched a radical repositioning the settlement of our dispute with Bankia in external debt of the Group, setting out a relatively ambitious Spain, a significant reduction in our exposure over dividend programme to bring the Group to a stronger, to Italy and Spain, and the exit of large bulk preservation.
more stable position with improved earnings purchase annuities in the UK.
performance and operating cash generation We also targeted improvement by the end in 2014 and beyond: of 2013 in 27 amber cells, through revenue increase, cost reduction, loss mitigation, or Refocus on core, exit 16 non-core segments, capital reduction.
Seven of these have been and turnaround 27 segments brought to green status.
As we stand, we Reduce exposure to southern Europe and now have nine red cells, 20 amber cells and capital hungry segments 22 green cells.
Improve productivity, performance and We also reshaped our top management team, operating capital generation particularly with the appointment of a strong Strengthen economic capital and reduce and decisive CEO, and made progress in the leverage renewal of the Board.
As it turned out, we have had a very active Reducing leverage period, but achieved a great deal in a short time.
The announced sale of the US, though Boosting capital was our main initial priority strategically imperative, nevertheless resulted and I am pleased we were able to increase the in a sharp reduction in net assets per share economic capital surplus substantially by 3.5 and a consequent increase in tangible leverage billion from the end 2011 130% coverage to a from 41% to 50%, which is high relative to the pro-forma level of 7.1 billion 172% coverage, sector.
We have therefore revised our forward within our stated target range.
plans to bring this to below 40%, by increasing retained earnings and by reducing debt.
Our achievements in 2012: Narrow focus Build financial strength Improve performance In March 2012 Shareholder Announced plan John McFarlane announced new consultation to remove the assumed executive operating targets on remuneration regional layer role in May 2012 for 2012 announced of the business at the AGM Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 5 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Chairmans statement continued On 1 January 2013, we began the simplification Zero bonuses for Executive Directors Key statistics in 2012 of the Groups legal structure to improve While we appreciate the considerable progress governance over the UK general insurance that has been made on a number of fronts, business.
This, when completed by the end we do not believe the overall situation of the of May 2013 is expected to formalise an interGroup warrants bonuses for executive directors 1, 888m divisional balance of around 5.8 billion in the for 2012 or pay rises for 2013.
Adjusted operating form of a collateralised loan.
In response to profit before tax on these pressures, we have decided to bring Improved outlook a continuing basis down the level of both internal and external The turnaround programme continues apace.
debt to lower, more prudent, levels.
We are taking decisive action on costs and in improving business performance.
2013 though 1, 427m The decision to reduce the dividend remains a transitional year through significant Adjusted operating profit At the same time, constraints, including restructuring charges and the loss of earnings before tax on a continuing regulatory, on capital and liquidity, are putting from subsidiaries earlier disposed.
basis after integration and greater demands on resources, as does our We have forward business plans to 2015 that restructuring costs transformation programme, particularly this are robust, show significant improvement, and year.
While central liquidity balances are likely that the new dividend level is cash covered.
to improve with the settlement with Bankia and Increased retained earnings and stronger the completion of the sale of the US business, liquidity should also permit reasonable reduction 3bn loss Group resources nevertheless contain insufficient in internal and external debt levels, thus bringing Overall, an IFRS loss after provision for unknown risks, our desire to overall leverage to a more reasonable level.
tax primarily driven by pay down internal and external debt, and to Management is demonstrating professional the write-down from the maintain prudent capital and liquidity levels.
execution as well as prudence.
I am confident disposal of our US business In the circumstances therefore, we have taken about the future of Aviva, and for our prospects the difficult decision to reduce the dividend to going forward.
a level that can be cash covered in 2014 and 19p to enhance the availability of resources for important long-term structural requirements.
Total dividend Accordingly we declared a final 2012 dividend of 9 pence per share, bringing the full-year dividend down by 27% to 19 pence from 26 pence and the final by 44% from 16 pence.
John McFarlane I regret this has become necessary, but can Chairman assure shareholders we took this decision only after examining scrupulously all alternatives.
The need to ensure that the current and future dividend is sustainable and covered by operating cash generation is fundamental.
The broad transformation of the Group in the midst of continuing economic uncertainty also requires that we maintain and grow the level and flexibility of capital and liquid resources.
New plan of Focus, In September 2012, Mark Wilson Agreed to Reduced Strengthen, Perform shareholding announced the sale appointed as transfer Aseval announced on in Delta Lloyd of our business in CEO to start in to Bankia for 5 July 2012 to under 20% Sri Lanka January 2013 500 million
