Overview: Chairmans statement Welcome to Bank of Georgia Holdings In 2012, Bank of Georgia Holdings has made strong progress in a number of areas that underpin future growth in its revenues, earnings and delivering value to its shareholders.
The Board is delighted with the Groups progress in a year in which it delivered record earnings of GEL 179.6 million.
Our executive management team, led by Irakli Gilauri, has developed and implemented a growth-focused strategy that is generating high levels of business and earnings growth, with strong profitability and returns whilst maintaining a conservative balance sheet with high levels of capital and liquidity levels that are substantially in excess of minimum regulatory requirements.
This strategy clearly works and, as a result, the Group continues to get stronger and stronger.
On behalf of the entire Board, I thank Irakli and the management team for plotting and maintaining the sound Neil Janin strategic course with challenging goals for Bank of Chairman of Bank of Georgia Holdings Georgia.
Iraklis personal integrity and commitment to the values of the Group are clearly recognised, highly regarded and reflected throughout the organisation.
In my letter to shareholders last year I talked about Four reasons why we are the Georgias recent progress in the eradication of corruption and in delivering market-oriented reforms that have leading bank in Georgia underpinned Georgias macroeconomic development over the last decade.
Our values drive our business continued to be delivered throughout 2012 and into 2013, notwithstanding a period of uncertainty around the time 2.
Our products and services are of the countrys parliamentary elections in October 2012. right for the market we are in In 2012, Georgia remained firmly on the path of economic growth, recording an estimated 6.1% real GDP growth during the year.
This economic growth reflects three main 3.
We have a strong and robust pillars: Georgias economic liberalisation and strong fiscal and monetary framework, ongoing macro-economic governance structure stability and Georgias welcoming business environment resulting from recent growth oriented reforms.
O ur Executive Management team is focused on For more information about the delivering results market overview see Pg 18 2 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Growth in tourism continues to be an important driver In December 2012, the Parliament of Georgia approved of Georgias economic progress, with the number of Georgias state budget for 2013.
The budget revenues foreign visitors growing by 56% to a total of an estimated areprojected at GEL 7.4 billion, while the total state 4.4 million visitors in 2012 compared to 2011.
Net remittances expenditure budget including acquisition of non-financial and foreign direct investment remained robust and are assets is expected to be GEL 7.9 billion.
Theforecast expected to continue to be so into2013 and beyond.
In budget deficit, as a percentage of GDP, is2.9%, and January and February 2013, the number of foreign visitors Government debt to GDP is targeted to be33.1%.
Real continued to increase significantly with 37%year-on-year GDP growth is budgeted to be c. 6%, andaverage inflation growth compared to January and February 2012. is expected to be c. 3%.
Georgia benefits significantly from its liberal economic Whilst 2012 was another year of economic progress in Georgia, policies and its positioning as the logistics andtourism it is in the political sphere that a truly remarkable breakthrough hub for the Caucasus region.
The countrys Liberty Act was achieved.
Following the victory of the Georgian Dream ensures the continuation of the countrys credible fiscal coalition in the October 2012 parliamentary elections, there and monetary policy framework.
With effect from 2014, was a relatively smooth transition to a Government run by the Georgias government expenditure as a percentage of Georgian Dream coalition a rare democratic achievement GDPwill be capped at 30%, the budget deficit as a among former members of the post-Soviet CIS.
The new percentage of GDP will be capped at 3%, and overall Government is now clearly up and running, progress is being Government debt to GDP will be capped at 60%.
demonstrated in many areas and it is encouraging to see good In addition, recent growth oriented economic reforms, levels of inward investment continue, high and growing levels of such as eradication of regulation and red tape and tourists visiting Georgia and, perhaps most notably, significant eradication of administrative corruption, among others, signs of a substantial improvement in both diplomatic and will continue to benefit the economy for years to come.
economic relations with Russia over time I believe this will be extremely beneficial to the people and economy of Georgia.
2012 was also a breakthrough period in the Deep and Whilst the last October elections plainly represented a significant Comprehensive Free Trade Area negotiations with the source of uncertainty for businesses and consumers in Georgia, European Commission, which is now expected to lead having seen these more recent developments in the country, it tothe successful conclusion of negotiations during 2013, feels like this period of uncertainly is now behind us.
andto the initiation of free trade with the European Union within two years.
For more information on our Group performance see Pg 28 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 3 Overview: Chairmans statement continued Our values keeps us one step ahead Team Spirit Respect To build long-term To achieve outstanding results client relationships together, as one, united and based on consideration, uncompromising team professionalism and trust Values Passion Innovation Courage To be pro-active, To explore new areas, take To think outside result driven and reasonable risks and make the box, constantly constantly the best opportunities come true challenge the status quo and to come up with fresh ideas Throughout 2012, Bank of Georgia has remained firm The Group recognises that we live in a time when the andtrue to its core values and principles.
Among the external environment constantly challenges us to develop many reasons why Bank of Georgia continues to be, innovative solutions that drive both value for our customers by any measure, the leading bank inGeorgia, I would and sustainable profits for our shareholders.
Many of the highlight these: ways in which the Group is responding to this challenge are explored in greater detail in the Chief Executives statement Our key values drive our business and elsewhere in this Annual Report.
I will mention only a few Our products and services are appropriate for the of the key areas of progress made by the Group.
In Retail markets in which we operate Banking, our Express Banking strategy is revolutionising We have a strong and robust governance structure, and Georgian financial services markets and is increasingly been Our executive management remains clearly focused on used to bring more, previously unbanked, customers into delivering high quality, sustainable, results.
4 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Managements focus on cost efficiency and delivering Finally, our listing on the premium segment of the London positive operational leverage is also an important strategic Stock Exchange in February 2012 has achieved its key priority.
By constantly looking to improve efficiency, and objectives.
The average daily liquidity of Bank of Georgia focusing on leveraging new technologies and efficiencies Holdings shares has increased substantially, the Group has such as Straight-Through Processing, the Bank again improved access to global capital markets and we have delivered revenue growth that is more than double the experienced a significant diversification of our institutional rate of expense growth.
shareholder base, with particularly noticeable increases in our UK and US shareholder bases.
The value of these In a maturing financial services market, which we expect improvements was both demonstrated and further enhanced tobe characterised over the next decade by falling interest in March 2013 by the successful placement of a 10% equity rates, management has made reducing the Groups cost holding by East Capital Financials Fund, which is in the offunds a priority.
Over the last 12 months this has been process of closing.
highlighted by a strong focus on reducing deposit rates across all business sectors, as well as the issuance ofa The Board believes that both Georgia and Bank of five-year Eurobond in July 2012 which, when combined, Georgiaremain well positioned to build on thesuccesses supported both a significantly reduced cost of funds and, of 2012, in 2013 and beyond.
The Bank of Georgia business consequently, an increase in the Banks net interest margin.
model has a demonstrated flexibility and ability to generate This emphasis on strong balance sheet management will, high quality organic growth in a number of different economic Ibelieve, continue to support strong margins over the environments.
Georgias economy is in good shape and I next few years.
cannot think of a bank better placed to take advantage of the opportunities that will arise in our core businesses Our strong earnings performance and level of profitability over the next few years.
has produced high rates of internal capital generation.
Our capital ratios substantially exceed our current capital requirements and proposed future needs.
This has enabled the Board to recommend a more than doubled dividend of GEL 1.50 per share, and announce an expected dividend Neil Janin payout ratio going forward of 25%-40% of earnings.
Chairman of Bank of Georgia Holdings 10 April 2013 For more information on For more information on our Governance see our Social Responsibility see Pg 68 Pg 66 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 5
