Business review Chairmans statement I am pleased to report that your company performed very strongly in 2012, delivering a return on average shareholders equity of 19%.
Consistent high quality underwriting performance, for which Beazley is increasingly recognised, was once again evident in a combined ratio of 91%.
Earnings per share rose to 42.4c and net tangible assets per share rose 18% to 218.9c.
Beazleys share price climbed 29% during the course of the year and we also delivered a dividend yield of 5%.
The board is pleased to announce a second interim dividend of 5.6p per ordinary share plus a special dividend of 8.4p per ordinary share.
Together with the first interim dividend of 2.7p this takes the total dividends declared in 2012 to 16.7p per ordinary share 2011: first interim dividend of 2.5p, second interim dividend of 5.4p, totalling 7.9p.
Dennis Holt The backdrop to Beazleys consistently strong performance has Chairman been a set of priorities that is simple to articulate but demanding to execute.
It comprises three elements: prudent capital allocation to achieve a well diversied portfolio that is resistant to shocks in any individual line of business: the creation of an environment at Beazley in which talented individuals with entrepreneurial spirit can build successful businesses: and the ability to scale our operations to ensure that client and broker service keeps pace and wherever possible improves as the company grows.
All insurers must strike a balance between profitability and growth.
I believe we struck this balance successfully in 2012, managing our capital efficiently to optimise investor returns while ensuring that we have the resources available to take advantage of growth opportunities.
This is not a new story at Beazley: effective capital management has long been important to our success.
During the year we generated $12.9m of gains through a liability management exercise, buying in 47.3m of our existing subordinated debt.
We opened a new chapter last September, when we became the first insurer to launch a xed rate bond issue for retail investors on the London Stock Exchanges order book for retail bonds, raising 75m.
The board has discussed future capital needs in light of our growth plans and supported by our new internal model designed for the Solvency II regulatory regime has concluded that it is appropriate to declare a special dividend.
We also discussed making fuller utilisation of our debt capacity in the Beazley 14 Annual report 2012 Business review Beazleys high quality underwriting performance in 2012 is evident in a combined ratio of 91% and a return on equity of 19%.
future as this leverages the capital efficiency of the Lloyds In recent years, our industry has been exposed to expanded platform where we place 98% of the risk we write.
We have made significant investment in dividend we propose above will ensure that the groups equity our systems and processes to meet this challenge and as a capital does not grow beyond our medium term needs.
result our organisation is ready to operate under the Solvency II At the same time, the surplus capital we are retaining, backed regime as and when it is enacted.
We also pay close attention up by our unutilised debt capacity and strong earnings to developments in corporate governance standards following generation, afford us significant exibility to take advantage the banking crisis.
Board changes To what uses will these resources be put?
In particular we are Beazley has an admirable track record and I was delighted to be not relying on the insurance cycle to move in a particular asked to become chairman at last years AGM.
My predecessor, direction, nor on a hardening market to achieve our growth.
Jonathan Agnew contributed signicantly to Beazley from its Events such as superstorm Sandy will have repercussions on otation in 2002 and the board is grateful for his wisdom and premium rates that are increasingly localised and short-lived as commitment.
capital ows in and out of insurance markets ever more efficiently.
Nevertheless, market conditions will affect the pace There are two board changes in prospect during 2013.
First, we at which we are able to grow and the particular lines of business are very pleased to report that Angela Crawford-Ingle will join that we grow.
We are confident that if market conditions remain the board as a non-executive director at the AGM, subject to as they are we will still nd opportunities to grow.
Angela will replace Gordon Hamilton as one of our non-executive directors.
She was a former partner at Beazley has an additional strength in that our skilled  in their financial services division.
underwriting enables us to achieve higher returns than the Gordon will step down at the AGM having completed two three average in many of the markets in which we operate.
The year terms during which he made a considerable contribution to marine team at Beazley, for instance, have shown this Beazley.
consistently, achieving a combined ratio averaging 75% over five years.
Second, Jonathan Gray, who has led Beazleys property division since 1992 and served as a director of Beazley since 2001, has Returns on innovation can also be high where demand for expressed his desire to resign from the board of Beazley plc in a new solution is strong and we believe our ability to meet July 2013.
Jonathans contribution to Beazleys success to date customer needs in these situations differentiates us from our has been enormous.
He will remain as a director of the groups competitors.
A challenge, historically, for insurers is that policy Lloyds managing agency, Beazley Furlonge Limited, and will wordings can be copied rapidly, but the technology, media and continue to guide the development of Beazleys open market business services team at Beazley has delivered an innovative property business at Lloyds, a eld in which his expertise is product that is difficult for competitors to replicate.
the success of Beazley Breach Response BBR is smooth and effective coordination between all of the response services that clients need in the event of a breach involving large volumes of personal customer data.
In 2012, this task was entrusted to a Beazleys vision is to become, and be recognised as, the new dedicated business unit, BBR Services, which will help to highest performing specialist insurer.
The board is satisfied that differentiate our BBR product even more.
the strategic approach currently in place should continue to deliver steady and measurable performance against this To accommodate the different approaches that will bring objective.
success in different markets, Beazley has needed to be operationally exible.
It has also needed to maintain excellent broker relationships.
In both of these areas significant progress has been made in 2012, which is detailed on pages 12 to 13 Dennis Holt and 49 to 50 of this report.
Chairman 6 February 2013 Beazley Annual report 2012 15
