Corporate Governance Statement Chairmans introduction The Board Corporate governance is the process by which the board of Board composition directors of a company looks after shareholders interests and by The Board currently consists of five non-executive Directors, all of which it seeks to enhance shareholder value.
Shareholders hold the whom are independent of the Companys Investment Manager.
directors responsible for the stewardship of a companys affairs, MrSage acted as Senior Independent Director until his retirement delegating authority and responsibility to the directors to manage on 9 August 2012, at which time he was replaced by Mr Buchan.
the company on their behalf and holding them accountable for its The provision of the UK Code A.
2.1 which relates to the performance.
combination of the roles of the chairman and chief executive does not apply as the Company has no executive directors.
The The Board is ultimately responsible for framing and executing the Directors biographies, on page 18, demonstrate a breadth of Companys strategy and for closely monitoring risks.
We aim to run investment, commercial and professional experience which our Company in a manner which is responsible and consistent with enables them to provide effective strategic leadership and proper our belief in honesty, transparency and accountability.
In our view, governance of the Company.
good governance means managing our business well and engaging effectively with investors.
We consider the practice of good Board independence and tenure governance to be an integral part of the way we manage the The Boards individual independence, including that of the Company and we are committed to maintaining high standards of Chairman, has been considered and con rmed, and this financial reporting, transparency and business integrity.
independence allows all of the Directors to sit on the Companys various committees.
The Board is of the view that length of As a UK-listed investment trust company our principal reporting service will not necessarily compromise the independence or obligation is driven by the UK Corporate Governance Code contribution of directors of an investment trust company, where the UK Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June continuity and experience can add signi cantly to the strength of 2010.
However, as listed investment trust companies differ in the Board.
It is considered that Mr Barby and Mr Buchan, who many ways from other listed companies, the Association of have each served as a Director for over nine years, continue to be Investment Companies has drawn up its own set of guidelines, the independent in both character and judgement and that there are AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code issued in no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect the October 2010, which addresses the governance issues relevant to judgement of any Director.
investment companies and meets the approval of the Financial Reporting Council.
The Company does not have a chief executive as day-to-day management of the Companys affairs is delegated to the This report, which forms part of the Directors Report, explains how Investment Manager.
None of the Directors has a service contract the Board deals with its responsibility, authority and accountability.
The terms of their appointment are detailed in a letter sent to them when they join the Board.
Copies of these Corporate Governance Compliance Statement letters are available on request from the Companys registered The Board has made the appropriate disclosures in this report to of ce and will be available at the Annual General Meeting.
ensure the Company meets its continuing obligations.
It should be noted that as an investment trust, most of the Companys Directors appointment, retirement and rotation day-to-day responsibilities are delegated to third parties, the The Board notes the recommendations of Lord Davies of Abersoch Company has no employees and the Directors are non-executive.
in his report Women on Boards published in February 2011.
Thus, not all of the provisions of the UK Code are directly applicable Our Company is highly specialised and our priority to shareholders to the Company.
is to have a Board with the specialist abilities and technical mining experience to look after the Companys investments.
In addition, The Board considers that the Company has complied with the the Board should be able to demonstrate with conviction that any recommendations of the AIC Code and the provisions contained new appointee would make a meaningful contribution.
We also within the UK Code that are relevant to the Company throughout focus on diversity in its broadest sense, in terms of expertise, this accounting period, except where explained below, and this geographic background, gender and race.
The Board should have a statement describes how the relevant principles of governance are blend of skills and attributes that is appropriate to its needs: we applied to the Company.
believe that gender is an important element and one we should aspire to on the basis that the expertise is available.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2012 29
