Business Review: Executive Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report that your Group has been able to make Dividend further progress during yet another year which has presented many The Board is proposing a final dividend of 3.6p per share, to be challenges both here in the UK and across the globe.
To make approved at the AGM in February 2013 and paid on 8 April 2013. progress in this environment continues to reassure us that the This will bring the total dividend for the period to 7.15p per share services we provide remain relevant and valuable to our clients.
Total income for the year rose by 2.1% to 269.5m and profit We have been able to maintain the dividend over the last four before tax excluding redundancy costs, additional FSCS levy, years, a period of great uncertainty in financial markets, which has acquisition of subsidiary costs and amortisation of client also coincided with a requirement for considerable investment in IT relationships by 8.3% to 42.9m.
The Board, however, is very conscious of the need to return to a progressive dividend policy and has thus proposed a Funds under management at the year-end were 25.9bn up by small increase in the dividend.
The most significant rise was the 16.7% growth of our discretionary funds to 18.2bn.
During the same Regulation period the FTSE 100 rose by 12.0% and the APCIMS Private Regulation continues to be a significant factor impacting us and all Investor Series Balanced Portfolio rose by 10.2%.
Recurring other businesses in the financial sector both in the UK and income as a percentage of total revenue improved from 61% to overseas.
This year in particular has seen much work being done to 68% and operating margin from 15% to 16%.
ensure that your Group is fully ready to meet the demands of RDR which comes into force on 1 January 2013.
We welcome the increased emphasis on professionalism and transparency that the We have made good progress in implementing our strategic review RDR will require within our industry.
The advent of the Financial and the FSAs Retail Distribution Review RDR, which we believe Conduct Authority in the spring will bring further change.
gives significant competitive advantages to larger businesses such as ours.
Strategy 2012 has been a remarkable year for our country with the Our strategic review in 2011 established the objectives of successful London Olympics and the celebrations of Her Majesty broadening the services that we offer our clients, improving our The Queens Diamond Jubilee.
Brewin Dolphin marked its 250th standards and upgrading our systems.
Implementation of this anniversary in 2012.
This was celebrated in a number of ways, strategy is now well under way.
The greater efficiencies that result including our very successful garden, which won best in show at from this programme will improve the return to our shareholders.
This anniversary has been a special opportunity to raise the profile of Brewin Dolphin throughout We have led the industry by being more transparent about charges.
We believe strongly that transparency and competitive single pricing are important for the confidence of all private investors.
Our Branches Providing high levels of personal service to our clients has been and Board Changes will remain core to our approach.
We retain our belief in our model Robin Bayford is retiring as Group Finance Director on which provides a national presence and, while I think it is unlikely 31December 2012.
Robin has been with the Group for nearly a that the absolute number of our offices will expand significantly, we quarter of a century and has been Group Finance Director since the will continue to look for opportunities to add more depth to some of Group floated in 1994.
His contribution to the Group has been our branches.
We have continued over the year to recruit teams invaluable.
Robin has for many years been actively involved in our and financial planners and have rationalised in some geographic acquisition strategy, which has played such a significant part in the areas where appropriate.
He has been a valued and steady source of advice and counsel to me and to all his colleagues.
We are truly grateful to him for his unique and considerable contribution to the A year ago I reported that we had acquired Tilman Brewin Dolphin fortunes of your Group.
Ltd formerly Tilman Asset Management Ltd in Dublin.
I am pleased to report that this business is fulfilling our expectations and I am delighted that we have recruited Andrew Westenberger who I remain confident that it will continue to make a good contribution joined the Group in September and will be taking on the post of to your Group.
04 Group Finance Director on 1 January 2013.
Andrew brings DEMAND FOR considerable and highly relevant experience to our business.
OUR SERVICES Since the year end Henry Algeo has assumed the role of Group REMAINS FIRM AND Managing Director which will include responsibility for our Investment Management activities.
Henry continues to be Chief YOUR BOARD IS Operating Officer, and in order to make sure that he is fully supported a number of other appointments have been made below CONFIDENT THAT Board level.
OUR STRATEGY During the course of the year the Board was very pleased to be able to welcome David Nicol as a Non-Executive Director.
David WILL ENSURE has broad and relevant experience including holding the position of Chief Operating Officer and Director of Morgan Stanley International A SUCCESSFUL PLC from 2004 to 2010.
He is a Chartered Accountant and will be FUTURE FOR taking over the Chair of the Audit Committee from 1 January 2013.
At that point Jock Worsley will relinquish that role, but I am happy YOUR GROUP to say that he has indicated a willingness to remain a Non-Executive Director until the AGM in 2014.
Since the year end David McCorkell Head of Investment Management has retired and resigned from his position as an Executive Director of the Group.
David joined the Board in 2006 having been a successful and active practitioner.
He had been with the Group and in particular Bell Lawrie since 1986.
He played a very active role as a member of the Board including being heavily involved in the development of the strategy which your Group is now pursuing.
May I, on your behalf, wish him every good fortune and thank him for all his hard work over the years.
Outlook Many of the problems that caused concern in the financial services industry during the past year remain unresolved.
This particularly relates to the Euro and more generally to prolonged economic weakness throughout the developed world.
However, equity markets have remained remarkably resilient and there is some sign of improved trading volumes since the summer.
Demand for our services remains firm and your Board is confident that our strategy will ensure a successful future for your Group.
Jamie Matheson 4 December 2012 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 05
