Chairmans Statement equities relative to the low returns available from cash and fixed interest securities.
A key area of investor focus was on the continuing developments in the Eurozone relating to its sovereign debt and banking crisis.
The European Central Bank has provided significant liquidity assistance by a variety of means to ensure its low interest rates can feed through to the wider economy thus alleviating many of the shorter term concerns, although the situation remains volatile and the outcome is uncertain.
Many governments have continued with austerity programmes to cut their deficits but economic growth forecasts throughout Europe and in the UK have trended downwards as they struggle to stimulate their economies.
Growth has also been slowing in the major emerging markets, including Lynn Ruddick Chairman China which is being impacted by slowing demand from Europe.
The US economy performed more strongly during the year, The Companys net asset value total return for benefiting from stimulus packages and more the year ended 30 September 2012 was 17.3 per robust domestic demand.
cent, matching the return from the composite benchmark index of 80 per cent FTSE All-Share The table below provides a breakdown of the Index and 20 per cent FTSE World ex UK Index.
estimated contributions to the net asset value total return for the year.
As highlighted in last years Annual Report, some minor changes were made to the portfolio following the change of benchmark on 1 October Attribution of Return 2011 to 80 per cent FTSE All-Share Index previously 75 per cent and 20 per cent FTSE Market benchmark return 17.3% World ex UK Index previously 25 per cent.
The Stock selection Company also re-aligned the Global ex UK UK equities 0.2 portfolio to generate a higher level of income.
Global High Yield ex UK equities 1.6 These changes have enabled the Company to Emerging Markets equities 0.3 maintain a meaningful international equity exposure whilst increasing the level of dividend Asset allocation 0.2 income.
Corporate bonds 0.0 Gearing 2.4 Notwithstanding a challenging backdrop, Expenses 0.7 stockmarkets made good progress during the year.
Company balances sheets generally remain British Assets Trust net asset value in good shape and those investors who have total return 17.3% been prepared to enter the market have been attracted by the dividend yields available from Annual Report and Accounts 2012 3 Chairmans Statement continued The largest impact on performance was the to capital.
However, following a review by the benefit of gearing in a rising market.
The UK Board during the year it was decided that, on the portfolio modestly underperformed the FTSE Allbasis of expected returns, these expenses should Share Index as the out-performance of the core be allocated 35 per cent to revenue and 65 per portfolio was more than offset by disappointing cent to capital.
This will take effect from returns from the UK satellite portfolio.
The 1 October 2012. emerging markets portfolio continued to perform well, producing a total return of nearly 19 per Gearing cent, but the contribution was partially offset at As at 30 September 2012, the Companys level the asset allocation level by the overweight of gearing, net of cash, was 16.4 per cent.
This position to this asset class, which was represented by 2.9 per cent of equity gearing underperformed developed markets.
The Global and 13.5 per cent in corporate bonds.
High Yield ex UK portfolio met its objective of The Companys borrowings comprise 60 million generating a higher level of income but produced 6.25 per cent Bonds which are due for a disappointing total return, as explained in more redemption in 2031, and a 60 million bank detail in the Managers Review.
facility which matures in March 2013.
20 million of the bank facility was drawn down at the year Earnings and Dividends end.
It is the current intention of the Board to Revenue earnings per share for the year were seek to put in place a new bank facility when the 6.6p 2011: 5.7p.
The Company benefited from current one matures.
dividend growth within the portfolio, some of which is non-recurring, as well as the effect of the Annual General Meeting portfolio re-alignment described above.
Following representations from a number of Three interim dividends of 1.442p per share were shareholders who live a long distance from paid during the year and the Board recommends Edinburgh, the Companys Annual General payment of a final dividend of 1.786p per share, Meeting this year will be held in London.
It is the payable on 31 January 2013 to shareholders on Boards intention to return to Edinburgh for the the register on 28 December 2012.
This brings following Annual General Meeting.
This years the total dividend for the year to 6.112p per Meeting will be held at 12 noon on Tuesday 29 share, unchanged from the previous year.
January 2013 at the offices of F&C Asset Management plc, Exchange House, Primrose Allocation of Expenses between Revenue and Street, London EC2A 2NY.
It will be followed by a Capital presentation from the Companys lead fund In accordance with the Statement of manager, Phil Doel.
This is a good opportunity for Recommended Practice for the preparation of shareholders to meet the Board and Managers financial statements of investment trust and I would encourage you to attend.
companies, the Company allocates its The notice of the Annual General Meeting is management fees and finance costs to revenue contained on pages 54 to 56 and a Form of and capital in accordance with the Boards view Proxy is enclosed separately with the Annual of the expected long-term split of returns, in the Report.
Shareholders who are unable to attend form of income and capital gains respectively, the Meeting are encouraged to complete and from the Companys investment portfolio.
For a return their forms so as to ensure that their votes number of years such expenses have been are represented.
allocated 25 per cent to revenue and 75 per cent 4 British Assets Trust plc Outlook good returns.
The prospects for earnings and The Eurozone can be expected to remain an area dividend growth have fallen in recent months but of concern for investors in the year ahead.
In the equities remain attractively valued relative to other UK, although there have been signs recently of asset classes and investors are likely to continue improvements in the economy, the government is to seek higher quality companies which pay good not likely to deviate significantly from its austerity levels of dividends.
This should be of benefit to programme in the foreseeable future.
acceptable compromise in resolving the partisan divide over the US fiscal cliff is a necessary precursor to markets sustaining their recent performance.
Whilst we do anticipate positive returns from LynnRuddick equity markets in the medium term, they are likely Chairman 26November2012 to be volatile in the near term following a year of Annual Report and Accounts 2012 5
