04 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2012 Chairmans Statement Your Company continues to focus on investment opportunities with real value and excellent prospects for long term capital appreciation.
This report covers the period from 1 October 2011 to 30 September 2012.
The year under review has again been one in which markets have been difficult for the investment community but the Board is pleased to report that Asset Value Investors have not deviated from their established investment process and style: and in the second half of the year have outperformed the benchmark indices by an encouraging margin.
Our European holding company investments contributed 38% of our net total return for the year, despite the value of the euro declining against sterling: and our Asian holding companies a further 38%.
The overall total return, after taking into account the currency effect and dividend income, amounted to some 75.9m.
Strone Macpherson Chairman For the year under review, the net asset value per share rose by 10.3% on a total return basis.
This compares to an increase in our benchmark the Morningstar Investment Trust Global Growth Index of 13.8%.
While this underperformance is disappointing, there was a marked improvement in the second half of the year, when the Company outperformed the index by over 3%.
Most of the investments which we hold stand at discounts to their stated net asset value, and in the year under review, the average see through discount has narrowed from a peak of around 39% to approximately 30%.
Our investee companies, on the whole, continued to trade well in difficult economic circumstances which was not always reflected in improving share prices.
Nevertheless, improved dividend income generally reflected underlying trading performance.
There has again been good income growth over the year of some 19%.
We are therefore pleased to be recommending an increased final dividend of 7.5p 2011: 6.5p which, together with the interim dividend of 2.0p 2011: 2.0p, would bring total Ordinary dividends for this year to 9.5p, an increase of 11.8% over last year.
In addition, to reflect some exceptional dividend receipts, we are again proposing a special dividend: this year of 3.5p and bringing total dividends for the year to 13.0p 2011: 10.5p.
At the year end net liquidity amounted to some 20% of the portfolio, reflecting the managers cautious outlook.
Further details of the breakdown of performance and changes in the portfolio are set out in the Investment Managers Review on pages 8 to 15.
The share price increased during the year from 423p to 438p.
The share price return of 6.2% again on a total return basis, including re-invested dividends was below the net asset value return, because of a widening discount over the year.
05 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2012 The level of discount has oscillated between 4.5% and 14% and, The overall liquidity of the portfolio at the year end of some 20% is at the year end, was 12.4%.
at the higher end of the usual range and reflects continuing concern about the growing evidence of slowing economic growth in many Recognising the wider discount the Company has, during the second parts of the world and continuing political concerns in the USA, China half of this financial year, bought back a total of 1.985 million shares, and elsewhere.
The solution to the problem of sovereign debt in many at an average discount of 13.8%, adding some 0.8p per share 0.2% countries is far from clear, and the uncertain outlook in China is also to the net asset value to the benefit of all shareholders.
These unsettling the global investor.
That said, the Board believes that your purchases included 1.2 million shares bought at 412.6p at a discount company is well positioned, with good liquidity, to take advantage of of circa 14% through the market from Caledonia Investments plc.
any further difficult market conditions, while pursuing its long term Reflecting a change in its investment policy, Caledonia, until recently policy of investing in quality undervalued assets.
our largest shareholder, has sold its entire holding to a combination of existing and new shareholders.
Strone Macpherson Chairman We will continue to take steps, if necessary, to limit the volatility of 12 November 2012 the discount or premium, as we have done this year.
The Board is therefore once again seeking to renew its authorities to buy back and issue shares.
The Board, meeting as the Nomination Committee, decided to appoint two new directors, Nigel Rich and Susan Noble, both of whom joined the board in March 2012.
Nigel Rich is chairman of Segro plc and a non-executive director of a number of companies.
He brings extensive experience of the Far East from his former executive career as managing director of Hong Kong Land and Jardine Matheson.
Susan Noble was a director and senior European fund manager at Robert Fleming Asset Management, and latterly head of Global Equities at Goldman Sachs Asset Management: she brings long experience of European Equity Investments.
She is a non-executive director of Alliance Trust plc.
We welcome both of them to the Board.
In line with best practice, all of the directors come up for re-election each year.
The Board has completed a further board evaluation, this year internally, and has considered again the directors qualifications, performance and contribution to the Board.
The Board can confirm that they each continue to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role.
The Board therefore recommends that each should be re-elected with the exception of Rosamund Blomfield-Smith, who has asked not to stand for re-election this year.
Rosamund was appointed to the Board in 2003 and has made a substantial contribution to our Board discussions over a long period, and we shall miss her input greatly.
We wish her all success in her future activities.
Between the year end and 6 November, the latest date for which data is available, the companys net asset value increased by 4.1% compared with a benchmark return of 1.3%.
