The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 3 Chairmans Statement The year ended 30 June 2011 was another successful year for City of London.
City of Londons performance was again satisfactory for the year ended 30 June 2012.
We have outperformed both our benchmark and the wider market in each The net asset value total return was 29.2%, exceeding the 26.5% return in 2010 of the last one, three, five and ten year periods.
The dividend was increased, by and importantly the dividend was increased for the forty-fifth consecutive year.
4.1%, for the 46th consecutive year and our ongoing charge ratio remains, at Our total expense ratio remained amongst the lowest in the sector.
City of London has been awarded a gold rating in Morningstars inaugural rating of investment trusts.
Philip Remnant The Markets market conditions, to consider issuance and buy-backs within a The year has been a volatile one with sentiment dominated by narrow band relative to net asset value.
macro-economic issues such as the Eurozone sovereign debt crisis During the year under review, City of Londons shares have been in and the US fiscal impasse.
UK economic growth has been strong demand and have consistently traded at a premium.
disappointing with consumers disposable income under pressure.
Fourteen million shares were issued, at a premium to net asset The FTSE All-Share Index fell by 3.1% during the year.
This issuance has contributed Nonetheless, companies generally appeared to be in relatively good positively to City of Londons outperformance during the year.
In shape compared with consumers and governments, with sound the past two years, City of London has issued 30.24m new shares, balance sheets and strong dividend paying capacity.
Based on increasing its share capital by 14.5%.
valuation measures such as dividend yield and price earnings ratios, Retail Distribution Review RDR equities appeared under valued on a long term basis.
Under the terms of RDR, which takes effect from 31 December 2012, Our Investment Approach IFAs are obliged to recommend suitable products from the entire Our fund manager, Job Curtis, has been managing City of London range of those available, including investment trusts.
They and their for over 20 years.
He manages the portfolio in a conservative way, clients will, therefore, be looking further afield than hitherto for high focusing on companies with cash generative businesses able to grow quality investment opportunities.
Those investment trusts which stand their dividends with attractive yields.
The portfolio is well diversified to benefit from RDR are the larger trusts with a ready, liquid market with at least 80% invested in well known blue chip UK listed in their shares, who have delivered consistently good returns over a companies but it remains biased towards international companies long period of time.
This is exactly what City of London offers.
invested in economies likely to grow faster than the UK.
In times We are actively marketing the City of London investment when savers have difficulty in receiving adequate returns on their proposition to the fund platforms and to the IFA community.
investments, the portfolio aims to provide shareholders with dividends Success in the short term is by no means assured, as the challenges between 10% and 30% higher than the FTSE All-Share Index.
which RDR poses for platforms and IFAs are much wider than this Performance one issue, but the opportunity for City of London to attract Earnings and Dividends additional demand for its shares is significant.
Earnings per share rose by 6.7% to 14.05p, reflecting the increase in The Board the dividends received from companies held in the portfolio.
A fourth At last years Annual General Meeting in October 2011 Simon fide interim dividend of 3.52p per share was paid on 31 August 2012 Zoete retired from the Board.
He had been our chairman for 10 years making the total for the year 13.74p, an increase of 4.1% over the and we thank him for his wise counsel and leadership over that time.
previous year and ahead of the rate of inflation.
Martin Morgan joined the Board on 1 March 2012.
He is chief This means that 323,000 will be added to the Revenue Reserve to executive of Daily Mail and General Trust PLC.
City of Londons unsurpassed record of 46 years of unbroken dividend growth has been achieved by Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at the offices of retaining income from good years in this Revenue Reserve and using that reserve in difficult years.
Henderson Global Investors, 201 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3AE on Monday, 29 October 2012 at 3pm.
All shareholders are most The quarterly dividend rate will next be considered by the Board welcome to attend.
As usual, Job Curtis, our Portfolio Manager, will when the third interim is declared in March 2013. be making a presentation.
Net Asset Value Total Return City of Londons total return was 2.3% which exceeded the 1.2% Outlook average total return for the AIC UK Growth & Income sector and the The global macro economic problems and imbalances are deep negative 3.1% total return for the FTSE All-Share Index.
This seated, with an excess of government and consumer debt at their investment out-performance was principally achieved by our core.
The determination of policy makers to undertake increasingly overweight positions in the consumer goods and utilities sectors and radical attempts to bring about economic growth is yet to be tested by the underweight positions in the mining and banks sectors.
and the deleveraging process is likely to remain protracted.
Expenses Against this backdrop we continue to believe that equities represent There is no performance fee payable for the year.
The ongoing charges good value although market setbacks in the short term are to be ratio, which is the investment management fee and other non-interest expected.
The portfolio is likely to remain defensively positioned, expenses as a percentage of shareholders funds, was 0.45%, which is invested in companies which benefit from international very competitive compared with the OEIC market, with most other diversification and which continue to produce healthy dividend investment trusts and with other actively managed funds.
We believe that a combination of a dividend yield on City of London shares of around 4.5% and of attractive dividend growth Share Issues and Buy-backs prospects from our investee companies is a proposition which will The Boards aim is for our share price to reflect closely its underlying stand our shareholders in good stead, especially when compared net asset value: and also to reduce volatility and have a liquid market in our shares.
Our ability to influence this is, of course, with the paltry rates available in the fixed interest markets and on bank deposit accounts.
We do believe that flexibility is important and that it is not in shareholders interests to have a specific issuance and buy-back policy.
The Board intends, however, subject always to the overall Philip Remnant impact on our portfolio, the pricing of other trusts and overall 24 September 2012
