Chairmans statement I believe that the Group will continue to deliver positive returns in the years ahead.
Underpinned by our continued focus upon excellent customer service, strong cash management and the quality of our global workforce, I look forward to the future with confidence.
Alan Thomson l Chairman Overview A feature of the Boards agenda this year was the commissioning of an externally facilitated review of the Boards performance.
While Against the backdrop of a weak economic environment, particularly the outcome was favourable, it did provide useful insight enabling in Europe, I am pleased to report that Bodycote made further the Board to continue its development.
In line with our strategy to provide thermal processing services on a global scale, we made a number of During the year I met a number of Bodycotes major shareholders acquisitions in the USA at a cost of 84.7m.
These represent the and received positive feedback from them on their views of the first portfolio additions the Group has made since 2008.
Going forward I will maintain this regular dialogue with our forward we will continue to seek out opportunities to expand the shareholders and look forward to meeting increasing numbers Group through a combination of organic growth initiatives in new of you at this years AGM, when there will be an opportunity to markets and technologies while seeking to build new plants and discuss the Groups business and achievements.
Board Changes Despite the adverse movement in exchange rates, headline earnings per share at 37.4p grew by 14.4%, headline operating On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Hans Vogelsang for margins exceeded 16% and operating profits were fully backed by his substantial contribution to Bodycote over the last 10 years, positive cash generation.
The return on capital employed increased particularly as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the to an impressive 19.5%.
Hans will be retiring from the Board on 24 April 2013 at the end of our AGM.
Hans was an invaluable Dividend supporter when in 2007 the Board took the strategic decision to dispose of the Testing division which enabled us to focus on The Board is proposing a final dividend of 8.3p, an increase of revitalising the Thermal Processing business.
His wise counsel will 13.7%, which will be paid to shareholders on 7 May 2013 subject to be missed.
This brings the total dividend for 2012 to 12.3p 2011: 10.9p costing 23.4m, which is a year on year increase of Following an international search led by external consultants we 12.8%.
welcomed Eva Lindqvist, our first female member, to the Board in June 2012.
A Swedish national and a qualified engineer, Eva Governance brings a wealth of skills and international experience, particularly As Chairman, one of my primary responsibilities is to ensure of operating in Asia and North America.
In addition to serving on that the Group operates to the highest standards in all aspects the Nomination and Audit Committees she has agreed to chair the of governance and risk management.
Our aim within Bodycote Remuneration Committee.
is to manage a growing business effectively, while ensuring that proper operating procedures are maintained at all times in each of the 26 countries where we operate.
Transparency is central to this objective and you will find more detail about our approach and progress over the last year in the Corporate Governance section starting on page 38.
This years Corporate Governance report now fully reflects the changes introduced in the UK Governance Code The Code in June 2010.
10 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2012 People Over the past year I have continued to visit our operations around the Group.
Following our first business acquisitions for some years in North America, I was delighted by the welcome extended to the Bodycote team by our new colleagues.
I continue to be impressed by the commitment and professionalism of our employees and their ongoing desire for the Group to grow and prosper.
Our people are undoubtedly our key asset and I am certain that the long-term opportunities for growth mean that our employees will continue to find Bodycote a place where they can enjoy rewarding careers.
On behalf of the Board I congratulate them all for delivering another year of successful trading and financial performance.
Summary As you will read in this Annual Report Bodycote is in very good shape and has once again delivered value in terms of total shareholder return and the Boards recommendation is for a 12.8% dividend increase.
I believe that the Group will continue to deliver positive returns in the years ahead.
A. M. Thomson Chairman 27 February 2013 11 Stock code: BOY www.
com Additional information Financial statements Governance Business review
