DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2012 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS CHAIRMANS STATEMENT were amended to amongst other things, remove the I am pleased to present requirement to put forward continuation votes and to provide Shareholders with the Annual for an exit offer in 2014 as referred to below.
Report and Accounts of Dexion Fuller details of this proposal and the results, including the impact on ongoing charges are set out on page 16 but in Absolute Limited for the year ended summary they were approved virtually unanimously with the 31 December 2012. immediate redemption option being taken up by Shareholders representing 47% of the estimated net assets During 2012, central banks maintained unprecedented of the Company, a substantial proportion of which monetary stimulus programmes and in some cases represented the holdings of short term arbitrageurs.
expanded upon measures already in place.
This resulted in historically low interest rates across developed markets, Those Shareholders who have chosen to remain invested in increased correlations amongst and within securities the Company will be offered the option, in June 2014, of markets, and concerns amongst investors regarding the electing to redeem their Shares for at the lower of i 95% of removal of these measures in the future.
Stimulus efforts their net asset value as at 31 December 2014, and ii the have generally yielded favourable results for the equity and net asset value less the estimated value per Share of the commodity markets, but the desired long-lasting effects illiquid element of the Continuing Portfolio at the time.
Settlement of these redemptions is expected to take place in two tranches, the first of which expected to represent Notwithstanding the continuing challenging economic approximately 95% of the value of the redemption monies environment over the year, the NAV of the Companys is expected to be paid in early 2015.
Shares increased by 6.67%, and the NAVs of the Shares and the US$ Shares increased by 20.28% and 30.95%, However, the 2014 Exit Offers will be subject to a maximum respectively.
The reverse auction redemption offer in July size reflecting the Directors then determination of the 2012 resulted in uplifts to the NAVs of the, and US$ minimum viable size for the Company going forwards.
If the Shares of approximately 0.9%, 14% and 24.1%, 2014 Exit Offer is oversubscribed it will be cancelled and respectively.
The disproportionate impact on the NAV of the instead a resolution will be put forward for the winding up of euro and dollar classes reflects the high level of take up in the Company.
Share buybacks during 2012 resulted in a Other corporate actions took place throughout 2012 as the further uplift to the NAV per Share of approximately 0.4%.
Board distributed redemption monies from the 2011 and Nevertheless the Companys rolling 12 month discount floor 2012 redemption offer portfolios and continued to buy-back provision was triggered on 24 January 2013 for each class Shares when thought appropriate.
of the Companys Shares so requiring a continuation vote for I would like to take this opportunity to thank my fellow each class to be proposed by way of an ordinary class directors for their time and endeavours over the last year.
However, following consultation with major has been a challenge to continue to meet Shareholder Shareholders, the Board put forward a proposal to expectations.
However, the Board believes it has achieved reorganise the Company to become a feeder fund of Aurora key milestones in meeting this goal and I am pleased to note Offshore Fund Ltd. II AOFL II as a means of seeking to that the Company has made a promising start in 2013 with address the prevailing discount to NAV and better positioning the estimated NAV of the Shares showing an increase of the Company to meet the differing requirements of its just over 3.52% as at 12 April.
AOFL II is managed by the Investment Adviser with the same investment policy as the Company.
Finally, I look forward to welcoming Shareholders to the Importantly, AOFL II has an open ended structure which will Annual General Meeting of the Company at 9.30 a. m. on enable the Company, post 31 December 2014, to make 10 June 2013, which will be held at the Companys periodic redemptions, or indeed subscriptions, at the registered office at 1 Le Truchot, St Peter Port, Guernsey.
John Hallam Redemption Offers were put forward in respect of all the Chairman 22 April 2013 Shares in issue and the Companys articles of incorporation 3
