Chairmans Statement Background The year under review was marked by Europes debt problems, a muted US recovery and, as a result, slowing growth in Asia.
Despite these headwinds, I am happy to report that in the 12 months to 31 August 2012, the net asset value of your Company rose 6.7% on a total return basis compared to a 0.3% decline, in sterling terms, in the benchmark, the MSCI AC Asia ex Japan Index.
During the Allan McKenzie year, the share price gained 4.7% to 237.3p.
It is also Chairman pleasing to note your Companys outperformance of 23.5% and 43.5%, relative to the benchmark, over three and five Highlights years respectively.
Net Asset Value Total Return 6.7% compared to a benchmark return of -0.3% Overview Share Price Total Return 4.7% Regional markets suffered losses in the last few months of 2011 as an unfolding debt crisis threatened to engulf Europe.
The new year, however, saw optimism return and equities rebound, helped largely by the massive liquidity injection in Europe and the Federal Reserve's pledge to keep interest rates low.
Nevertheless, renewed speculation over Greeces potential exit from the Eurozone, as well as deteriorating economic data from Europe, the US, China and India, triggered a sell-off in May.
The prospect of further central bank stimulus then led shares to rise again through the summer.
Over the period, China and India were the two worstperforming stockmarkets in the region.
In contrast, the Asean bourses mostly outperformed the benchmark.
Improving economic fundamentals lifted the Philippines, while Malaysia and Thailand were driven by government spending and local consumption.
Singapore, meanwhile, benefited from investors search for safe haven and good dividend yields.
Sluggish recovery in the United States and the turmoil in Europe took a toll on Asias exports, notably from China.
Chinas slowdown, however, was partly the result of previous policy measures aimed at curbing inflation and defusing the property bubble.
Of late, Beijing has reversed policy by boosting liquidity to the banking system.
The same decisiveness cannot be said of India, whose problems have much to do with the slow pace of reforms.
Government proposals to liberalise the retail sector and, later, reduce costly fuel subsidies were derailed by coalition politics.
The majority Congress partys poor showing at key state elections in March underlined its ineffectiveness.
In spite of the above external weakness, certain regional economies were notably resilient.
Indonesia and Thailand were examples of a broader trend, whereby local demand compensated for slowing exports.
The Philippines saw healthy economic expansion thanks, largely, to lower interest rates and improved business sentiment.
Given benign inflation, and to support growth, central banks in China, Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 5 Chairmans Statement continued India, Indonesia, Korea and Thailand also lowered the cost of The Board money and reduced the amount of cash that banks must The Board welcomes greater transparency in the fulfilment of hold as reserves.
Should it be necessary, governments have its responsibilities to shareholders.
New appointments are room to spend more, with under-developed infrastructure an now routinely facilitated by an external recruitment firm.
When appointing a new Director, the Board takes into account the diversity of the Board, the balance of skills, Against a difficult global economic backdrop in general, Asia knowledge, experience and personality to complement the is coping well.
Among your Companys holdings, profits have existing skills of the Board, as well as the ability of a new held up and there were only a few disappointments.
Director to devote sufficient time to the Company to carry out his or her duties effectively.
Gearing As part of a previously stated commitment to an orderly At the year end the Company had in issue 59.8 million of 3.5% Convertible Unsecured Loan Stock 2018 CULS, process of refreshment, the Board was pleased to appoint representing actual gearing of 10.3%.
The CULS provides the Kathryn Langridge as a non-executive Director of the company with long-term structural gearing at an acceptable Company on 29 October 2012.
Iain Watt, who has been a cost and is in line with the Managers long-term investment Director of Edinburgh Dragon Trust since launch, will step philosophy.
The CULS provides holders with an attractive down at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting after yield of 3.5% per annum, as well as capital protection with many years of valuable service to the Board.
The Board joins the liability comfortably covered by the gross assets of the me in thanking Iain for his enormous contribution to the Company of 576 million.
Holders of CULS may convert Board and Company and wish him all the very best for the part, or all, of their holdings into Ordinary shares on 31 future.
January and 31 July each year up to January 2018 at a fixed price of 310.1528p nominal of CULS for one Ordinary share.
In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has endorsed corporate governance procedures whereby all Directors will retire from Discount the Board and submit themselves for re-election on an The discount at which the Companys shares trade relative to annual basis.
The Board recommends that shareholders vote their net asset value, as at 31 August 2012, was 10.4%.
The in favour of the re-election of all Directors at the Annual Board monitors closely the discount level of the Companys General Meeting.
shares and has in place a buyback mechanism whereby the Manager is authorised to buy back shares within certain In line with the recommendation of the UK Corporate limits.
There were no buy-backs of shares during the Governance Code, the Board of Edinburgh Dragon Trust financial year and there have been no buy-backs subsequent underwent an external evaluation during the year.
"from the evaluation confirmed that ""The skills essential for the proper supervision of the activities of the Company The Board believes the authority to buy-back shares for appear to be present and the overall quality of the Board cancellation should remain in place and, accordingly, a appears to be high."
"Board meetings are considered to be of a resolution to renew the authority to buy-back shares for high standard, to be the right number and of the right cancellation will be proposed at this year's Annual General length. """
Annual General Meeting Revenue Account The Annual General Meeting will be held at Aberdeens The revenue return per share was 3.30p, compared to 4.31p London office on Tuesday 11 December 2012 at 12.00 noon in the previous year.
The lower return in the revenue followed by a lunch for shareholders.
This will give account has resulted from a full years interest on the CULS shareholders the opportunity to meet the Directors and being charged and a slightly lower level of dividends, Manager after the formal AGM business has concluded and including special dividends, being received.
It remains the we welcome all shareholders to attend.
The AGM will Boards policy to pay a final dividend marginally in excess of continue to be rotated between Edinburgh and London in the minimum required to maintain investment trust status, successive years.
which may, of course, lead to some volatility in the level of dividend paid.
The Board recommends the payment of a The three-yearly resolution for the continuation of the final dividend of 2.2p per Ordinary share 2011 3.2p Company as an investment trust will be proposed at the which, if approved by shareholders at the Annual General AGM.
Dragon is the largest investment trust specialising in Meeting, will be paid on 14 December 2012. the Asian ex Japan sector.
The Board believes that the 6 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc Company offers investors a broad and marketable exposure Various political risks also lie ahead.
If US lawmakers allow to Asian equity markets, many of which continue to provide tax rises and budget cuts to occur as scheduled on 1 January attractive long-term investment opportunities in the region.
2013 the so-called fiscal cliff the US could well slip into The Board believes that the prospects for Asian markets recession.
An Obama re-election, alongside a Republican remain positive.
Given the Companys excellent long-term majority in the Senate, makes gridlock more likely.
performance, including out-performance over 3 and 5 years, Meanwhile, China is due to hold its once-in-a-decade leadership transition in November.
and that it is managed by one of the leading Asian fund managers, we strongly recommend that shareholders vote in favour of the resolution.
Against this backdrop, your Manager notes that, while corporate earnings growth is expected to be muted, there are few grounds for concern at this point.
Companies have kept Outlook their cost discipline.
Outside certain cyclical sectors such as At the time of writing, central banks have taken concerted mining, there is little evidence of excess capacity emerging.
action to stimulate the global economy.
The European Debt levels are low and cashflow is solid.
We believe your Central Bank and the Federal Reserve surprised investors with Managers conservative stock-picking approach has identified the open-ended nature of their commitments.
However, this companies that can adapt to tough times.
This has certainly latest round of quantitative easing appears a double-edged served your Company well in the past.
While it should be positive for equities in the near term, there are concerns in emerging economies that the influx of capital from yield-seeking investors could stoke inflationary pressures and lift asset prices.
Any downward pressure on the US dollar will make Asian exports less For Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc competitive.
Allan McKenzie Chairman 31 October 2012 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 7
