06 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Economic and market conditions have remained challenging throughout the past 12 months.
However, against this backdrop, the Companys defensively positioned investment portfolio delivered substantial out-performance against the broader market for the year ended 31 March 2012.
More detail on the performance is set out below.
The income generation of the portfolio has continued in good shape and the Board is proposing, subject to shareholder approval, a final dividend of 7 pence per share for the 3 months to 31 March 2012 to make full year Jim Pettigrew dividends of 22 pence per share, an increase of 5.8% over the prior year.
UK Equity Market During the year concerns over austerity measures and the lack of economic growth stimuli in many western economies, oil price worries from political instability in the Middle East, and the ongoing eurozone debt and banking crisis have challenged the UK equity market and financial markets in general.
This has resulted both in periods of high volatility during the year and a FTSE All-Share Index which ended slightly lower in the 12 month period.
A more detailed discussion on the UK equity market and the Companys portfolio is contained in the Managers Report.
Investment Strategy Since the 2008 financial crisis, Neil Woodford and his colleagues have been consistent in their view that the recovery of the global economy was likely to be slower than the markets had anticipated, with a lengthy period of lower growth in the developed world being a distinct possibility.
Accordingly, a defensive portfolio was constructed by the Manager and this investment approach, supported by the Board, has remained in place during the last four years, and continues today.
The central theme behind the construction of our portfolio is the selection of individual stocks based upon fundamental value.
This approach is designed to be resilient in the continuing difficult economic environment, whilst at the same time providing opportunity to participate in long term growth through rising earnings and dividends.
Performance Capital: The Companys Net Asset Value NAV increased by 9.9% valuing debt at par and 10.2% with debt at market value which represents a substantial out-performance against the Companys benchmark the FTSE All-Share Index the Index which fell by 2.1%.
Our portfolio is concentrated in a relatively small number of sectors and its overweight positions in the pharmaceutical and tobacco sectors and the underweight positions in the financials and mining sectors were the main drivers in the Companys investment out-performance in the year.
Total Return: The Companys NAV on a total return basis capital growth with income reinvested increased by 15.2% debt at par and 15.8% debt at market value compared to the Index which increased by 1.4%.
Shareholders Return: The Companys share price including income reinvested increased over the 12 months to 31 March 2012 by 17.6% and this compares very favourably to the 1.4% increase in Index over the same period.
The discount of the share price to NAV debt at par reduced from 2.8% at 31 March 2011 to 0.9% at 31 March 2012: valuing debt at market the shares traded at a premium of 4.0%, an increase from 2.3% at 31 March 2011.
Against peer group: The Companys NAV debt at par performance relative to the 21 investment trusts in the UK Growth and Income sector was ranked 1st in the year to 31 March 2012.
Over a longer time horizon, the Company ranked 10th over three years and 4th over five years.
Gearing The Company continues to have long-term debt amounting to 200 million.
This is all deployed in the market for investment purposes and contributed 1% to relative total return performance against the benchmark in the year.
At 31 March 2012 the gross gearing level was 20.4% compared to 22.4% at 31 March 2011. Dividend Income from the portfolio for the year was 52.9 million 2011 50 million, excluding one-off VAT related income.
THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 07 The Board is recommending a final dividend of 7 pence per share which if approved at the AGM will be paid on 31 July 2012 to shareholders on the Companys register on 15 June 2012.
This would result in a total dividend for the year to 31 March 2012 of 22 pence per share which compares to 20.8 pence per share in the prior year excluding two VAT-related special dividends.
This represents a 5.8% increase over prior year compared to a 3.6% increase in the Retail Prices Index for the same period and demonstrates the Companys commitment to meet its long term objective of providing income growth which exceeds the rate of inflation.
Retail Distribution Review RDR RDR comes into effect on 31 December 2012 and will have significant implications in respect of how financial advice is provided, retail fund platforms operate and financial products are distributed.
Many commentators have suggested that the abolition of commission under RDR should result in more retail demand for Investment Trusts.
The likely beneficiaries of this demand will be the larger Investment Trusts, such as Edinburgh Investment Trust plc, which have good levels of liquidity in their own shares and can demonstrate a strong investment track record, a clear investment strategy and a compelling brand.
With some key aspects of the RDR yet to emerge, the Board is monitoring developments on RDR closely as they evolve to ensure that the Company is positioned appropriately to benefit in the new environment of 2013 and thereafter.
Articles of Association A review of the Companys Articles of Association has been undertaken in light of the full implementation of the Companies Act 2006.
As a result of this review, approval for the updated Articles of Association will be sought from shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in July 2012.
Board During the year there have been a number of changes to the Board.
At last years AGM in July 2011 our former Chairman Scott Dobbie retired from the Board.
Scott joined the Company as a non-executive director in 1998 and became Chairman in 2003.
We thank him for his enormous contribution as a director over these years and his guidance and leadership as Chairman.
We wish Scott all the very best for the future.
Max Ward joined the Board on 8 August 2011.
Max has extensive investment management experience.
He spent a major part of his career as a partner at Baillie Gifford, and is currently Managing Director and portfolio manager of the Independent Investment Trust plc.
Dick Barfield will retire from the Board at the AGM in July 2012.
Dick has played a major role in the development of the Company during his 10 years on the Board, and I particularly want to thank him for his wise council as Senior Independent Director in my first year as Chairman.
We wish him well for the future.
It is envisaged that over the next few years there will be further refreshing of the Board and in this context we support the intention of the Lord Davies Review Women on Boards to encourage diversity.
When appointing a new Director, the Board takes into account the diversity of the Board, balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board as a whole, as well as the ability of a new Director to devote sufficient time to the Company to carry out his or her duties effectively.
Outlook There appears to be no realistic end in sight to the ongoing difficult economic and market environment.
Recent news around concerns over the pace of growth in the global economy, recapitalisation of Spanish banks, and increasing economic and political turmoil in Greece reinforce this viewpoint.
As has been the case in recent years, the relatively concentrated nature of the portfolio may from time to time result in material short term performance deviations from the benchmark.
However, the Board and the Manager continue to believe that in the present difficult market environment the current defensive investment approach provides resilience whilst still providing the opportunity for creating growth in shareholder value over the long term.
Against this background, we see no reason to change the Companys current investment approach.
