Financial performance The Group delivered a 68% increase in profits before taxation to 54.1 million and increased return on capital employed by 2.7 ppts to 7.7% in 2012.
Revenue increased by 17% and the operating margin improved from 10.0% in 2011 to 13.4% in 2012.
These results demonstrate clearly the growth in the business.
The Group continues to be well capitalised with a strong balance sheet with net cash at the end of 2012 of 18.8 million.
Earnings per share and dividends Basic earnings per share for the year have grown by 75% to 30.7p.
Consistent with the intention to increase dividends Malcolm Harris progressively as earnings per share increase, the Board will Chairman be recommending a final dividend of 6.0p per share, which, when combined with the 2012 interim dividend of 3.0p, totals 9.0p for the year, an increase of 80% on the 2011 dividend.
Bovis Homes has made excellent progress The final dividend will be payable on 24 May 2013 to during 2012 with a significant increase in shareholders on the register on 2 April 2013.
It is the profit and a material improvement in returns Boards intention to continue to pursue this progressive for shareholders.
Future prospects The Group has successfully deployed a growth strategy for the The Group invested strongly during 2012 in consented land last four years following the housing market downturn.
This is to support future growth in sales outlets.
The prime nature delivering significant benefits to the Group, despite operating of these new sales outlets is expected to further increase the in a tough economic climate and experiencing a difficult Groups average sales price, profit margins and returns.
The Board is, however, confident of future growth based on People the excellent investments already made and on the assumption The Board of directors has been delighted with the of an ongoing stable housing market.
Future growth in commitment and skill shown by all of the Groups employees shareholder returns is therefore not reliant on a housing in delivering the growth during 2012 and, on behalf of the market recovery.
Board, I would like to thank them all.
The Board would also like to extend its thanks to its subcontractors and suppliers.
The economic backdrop remains challenging and the housing market continues to face constraints on activity, primarily due Corporate governance to the restricted availability of mortgage finance especially for Bovis Homes is committed to high standards of corporate first time buyers struggling to raise the necessary deposit to governance, including those related to the role and allow them to participate in the market.
Consumer confidence effectiveness of the Board and compliance with the UK remains fragile after the negative impacts from the Euro crisis, Corporate Governance Code.
Details are set out in the UK corporate failures and recessionary GDP concerns.
As a corporate governance section on pages 31 to 37. result, house prices remain subdued with nominal house price stability.
Corporate responsibility Against this external backdrop, the performance of Bovis I am pleased to report the good progress against the targets Homes has been very strong.
The Group is now benefiting laid out within our Corporate Social Responsibility report, from the compound positive effects of stronger volumes, in particular the improvements in our health and safety higher average sales price and significantly improving performance, a critical area where the Group will continue profit margins.
This in turn is providing a strong impetus to target improvements.
This progress has once again been to both profits and shareholder returns.
recognised by the Groups inclusion in the independently assessed FTSE4Good Index.
6 | Annual report and accounts | Overview Chairmans statement Overview The Group has achieved excellent progress in 2012 with improved profitability and in positioning the Group for growth Chilton define Chilton, Didcot The Board Summary It is with confidence in the progress achieved by Bovis Homes Bovis Homes is well positioned to grow and drive enhanced that I have decided to retire as non-executive Chairman at the shareholder returns over the coming years, based on stable housing end of November 2013, having been Chairman for five and a market conditions.
The business has delivered an excellent result in half years.
It has been a pleasure and a privilege to chair the Board 2012 and has invested well to provide a strong base for delivering during what has been a challenging period for the industry.
I have continuing improvements in 2013 and beyond.
been fortunate in the calibre of both the executive team and the non-executive directors and I would like to thank them for their collective support during my Chairmanship.
I would also like to thank shareholders for their confidence in the Group and for Malcolm Harris their support.
Chairman Bovis Homes Group PLC | 7
