02 | BUSINESS REVIEW | Executive Chairmans Statement 2 pence per share, payable on 24th May 2013 to shareholders on During 2012 F&C made progress in a number the register at 5th April 2013, bringing the full-year dividend to of important areas: we continued to 3 pence per share 2011: 3 pence per share.
Our dividend cover, implement the strategy set out for the Group relating to underlying earnings per share, has increased to 2.4 times, and the Board will continue to review the dividend level in light of the and its institutional business last year: we progress in the business and our debt reduction targets.
restructured our management team to ensure we have appropriate leadership to take the Market overview business forward: and announced, and Economic growth around the world generally continued to subsequently started to implement, a clear disappoint during 2012, with strict austerity measures across much plan for the profitable growth of our of Europe, including the UK, providing a further obstacle to growth.
Europes sovereign debt-related problems remained to the fore, but consumer-focused businesses.
a number of actions from the European Central Bank allayed fears Since phase 1 of our strategic review was announced, we have over the prospect of a eurozone breakup.
reduced underlying operating expenses by 23.3 million compared to the prior year and have initiated debt buy-backs, repurchasing Equity markets reflected this backdrop.
Volatility was a feature, some 16.7 million of senior and subordinated debt.
Two of our especially in the first six months of the year, before markets rallied strategic partners have indicated that F&C will continue to manage strongly into the year end.
The FTSE 100 returned 10.0 per cent assets beyond the existing exclusivity periods and we have with small and medium-sized UK firms outperforming their larger continued to build our institutional, solutions-led product suite.
Outside of the UK, continental European shares were the standout performer with returns reflecting Phase 2 of the strategic review was announced in May and focused widespread relief at the European Central Banks more pro-active on our consumer and property business activities.
The review actions post July.
outlined our commitment to pursuing strategies for profitable growth Bond markets started the year strongly, though surprisingly, given in each of these areas and building on F&Cs strength in Multithe rally in the equity markets, perceived safe haven bonds have not manager products, direct marketing and consumer brand suffered, although momentum in the latter stages of the year slowed awareness.
We believe that F&C may have some interesting markedly.
This helped higher yield bonds, which have also benefited opportunities in a post-Retail Distribution Review RDR from a narrowing of credit spreads as investors have been attracted environment.
Accordingly, we have enhanced our direct marketing into riskier assets.
capabilities to position the Group to better understand the needs and interests of customers and potential customers and capitalize During 2011, many active fund managers struggled to deliver outon the anticipated increase in self-directed consumer purchases.
performance of their targets, as markets were primarily driven by macro factors and resulting broad-based rotations in the We also made significant progress in developing our management risk-on risk-off trade.
2012, however, saw market participants team.
Richard Wilson, who had been leading our Institutional and begin to refocus their attention on the relative merits of individual Investment Business, was appointed Group Chief Executive at the investments, making it a much better environment for active end of 2012.
This appointment follows a number of other significant fund managers.
Steve Ilott joined the company in March 2012 as Head of Multi-Strategy Investments and Mandy This overall economic backdrop was reflected in the Groups Assets Mannix was appointed as Head of Client Management in July, Under Management AUM, with underlying asset performance creating a single distribution and client servicing function across the contributing 10.1 billion to AUM over the year.
Steve Ilott and Richard Watts were appointed Co-Heads of AUM declined 4.9 per cent to 95.2 billion 31 December 2011: Investment in September 2012.
After leading Thames River from 100.1 billion, principally as a result of net outflows of 13.3 billion inception, Charlie Porter determined that he wished to step down and adverse foreign exchange rate movements of 1.7 billion.
from executive management and his responsibilities were assumed by other members of the management team in H2 2012.
The Board Business flows is confident that there is now a leadership team in place with the right skills to successfully manage and grow the business over the Net outflows during 2012 comprised 11.4 billion of strategic medium term.
partner assets and 1.9 billion from our consumer and institutional business.
Our wholesale division represented the largest contributor Our financial results during this period of significant change were to consumer and institutional outflows.
satisfactory with underlying profit after tax of 37.5 million, compared to 28.4 million in 2011.
This represents underlying 2012 was a challenging year for wholesale, with net outflows of earnings per share of 7.1 pence for 2012 2011: 5.5 pence.
Both the Thames River Global Credit and Global Bond Based on this result, the Board is recommending a final dividend of products suffered significant outflows.
In addition, the Thames River ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 | 03 Multi-alternative division continued to experience outflows, reflecting reporting period.
Whilst the increase in the Groups share price had the significant structural changes in the fund of hedge funds market.
an adverse impact on reported operating expenses, this was offset by related tax deductions included in the years tax credit.
We are encouraged by the performance of the third-party institutional business as the initiatives and structure resulting from The Group also incurred a number of exceptional and non-recurring phase 1 of our strategic review have been implemented.
2012 saw costs which are excluded from underlying results.
These represent gross inflows of 2.9 billion, and withdrawals declined sharply during costs associated with the now concluded F&C Partners litigation: 2012 to 3.6 billion.
Importantly, a significant portion of those assets costs of implementing our back and middle office outsourcing: onewithdrawn represented lower margin cash management and off expenses of implementing our cost reduction programme: and government bond mandates.
the costs associated with the Thames River retention plan and Commutation arrangements.
Offset against these is an exceptional Within our consumer business, retail assets were broadly gain from the reduction in the F&C REIT put option liability.
unchanged over the course of 2012.
Market and economic uncertainty for much of the year dampened investors willingness The Group achieved an underlying operating profit of 71.2 million to commit savings to risk assets, and activity within UK advisory for 2012 2011: 65.2 million.
After net interest expense and tax, channels slowed as advisors prepared for the implementation this resulted in underlying earnings per share for the year of of RDR.
7.1 pence 2011: 5.5 pence attributable to shareholders.
Investment trusts reported net inflows of 20 million for the year, On a statutory basis, which includes non-recurring and other with new share issuance by trusts offsetting share buy-backs during exceptional items, the Group reported a profit after tax of the year.
Strategic partner net outflows were 11.4 billion.
Whilst the business mix of our strategic partners generally implies that there will be Business review recurring net redemptions, this was exacerbated by withdrawals of As indicated in the introduction to this report, 2012 was a year of approximately 1.0 billion in Portugal due to nationalisation of past significant change for F&C, and represented a transitional period as service liabilities in the BCP pension scheme and 5.3 billion in the a number of initiatives were implemented, which should deliver UK, as Friends Life withdrew assets to be managed by their newly further value for shareholders in 2013 and subsequent years.
formed in-house fixed income management team.
We anticipate Despite the significant management attention devoted to the further withdrawals of fixed income assets by Friends Life of development and implementation of strategy, the Group remained approximately 6.2 billion during H1 2013. focused on the delivery of good investment performance and client service: fundamental cornerstones to retaining our existing client Results base and growing our business.
Net revenues for the year were 243.5 million 2011: 267.0 million.
On an asset-weighted basis, relative investment performance Revenues from Thames River, for the reasons mentioned above, fell remains encouraging, particularly across our fixed income by 13.7 million, and strategic partner revenues declined by capabilities, which are, for regulatory and other reasons, increasingly 7.7 million.
The decline in value of the Euro vs Sterling reduced the core asset class for both defined benefit pension schemes and our overall revenues by approximately 6.7 million.
Over three years, 90 per cent of our fixed Net revenues include some 9.5 million of performance fees income and 50 per cent of our equity assets outperformed their benchmarks.
78 per cent of our property assets are above 2011: 11.8 million, with reduced performance fees at Thames benchmarks over three years.
River partially compensated by increases in performance fee income in the rest of the Group.
Based on this performance, we have maintained our strong position Underlying operating costs, excluding amortisation of intangible with investment consultants, achieving a slight increase in individual assets, foreign exchange gains and losses and exceptional items, product buy ratings from 70 in 2011 to 74 by the end of 2012. were 172.1 million 2011: 202.1 million.
Distributions to Thames Importantly, many of these ratings are attached to our solutionRiver members, included in underlying operating expenses, declined based products, such as Liability Driven Investments, equity-linked from 18.3 million in 2011 to 11.6 million in 2012, reflecting the bond funds and annuity-matching funds.
These products represent direct relationship between these expenses and the contribution some of the core building blocks of our institutional growth strategy.
from funds managed by the Thames River investment teams.
Core Looking forward, we will seek to complement these liability operating expenses fell by 23.3 million, from 183.8 million in 2011 management products with revised return-seeking products, tailored to 160.5 million in 2012.
This reflects the successful to the changing needs of defined benefit pension clients.
During implementation of the cost reduction initiatives identified in the 2012 we made significant progress in aligning our investment strategic review, offset by increases in share-based payment costs function resources to these new areas of focus and we will launch arising from the increase in the Groups share price over the related products over the course of 2013.
04 | BUSINESS REVIEW | Executive Chairmans Statement The retail and wholesale market continues to undergo significant Board changes change.
The end of 2012 saw the implementation of RDR in the UK, Ian Brindle and Jeff Medlock have indicated that, with the with its introduction shifting advisers from commission-based to feeturnaround now well underway, they intend to retire from the Board based business models.
In response to these developments we at the Annual General Meeting in May.
Ian and Jeff have made have adjusted the pricing structure on a number of our key significant contributions to the Group and we wish them the very products, including the Lifestyle and Multi-manager ranges.
Both best in their future activities.
these products are well positioned in an environment in which advisers increasingly look to outsource the management of client Summary portfolios to dedicated specialists.
In addition, we have appointed a Head of our direct-to-consumer business, and we are currently Two years ago I wrote that the Group had many inherent strengths, reviewing the product and market opportunities in this area post but that these had not been reflected in its recent financial introduction of RDR.
In doing so, we will be mindful of the long-term performance.
I believe that the effect of the actions taken during needs of our clients in any product proposition that we develop.
the course of 2012 will continue to result in improved financial performance in 2013 and subsequent years, and the Group now has F&C continues to manage significant assets for a number of in place a Chief Executive, management team and the enhanced strategic partners: Achmea The Netherlands, Millennium BCP profitability to capitalize on the opportunities available to it.
Portugal, Friends First Ireland and Friends Life UK.
These assets principally comprise insurance funds, but also include sub-advised As a result of the hard work of restructuring during the last mutual funds and certain pension scheme assets.
These are 18 months the Company is now in a position to invest for growth in generally long-standing relationships which provided us with new markets and capabilities.
This task will fall, in large part, to the exclusivity to manage the assets of the partners for a minimum new management team and in particular to Richard Wilson who period of time.
However, these exclusivity periods are now became CEO on January 1st.
It is the great strength of F&C that it nearing maturity.
has people of the calibre and experience of Richard to draw on.
I have every confidence that they will build on the base that has The Millennium BCP long-term contract terminated in 2011, been established to achieve a leadership position in the industry and although we continue to manage the related assets, the majority of greater returns for shareholders.
which are sourced from an insurance joint venture between Millennium BCP and Ageas.
At 31 December 2012, we managed 11.4 billion on behalf of Millennium BCP.
The Achmea long-term contract matures in October 2013: whilst we will retain a portion of the assets we currently manage beyond that date, the final book of assets we will retain is not yet clear.
We anticipate further clarity will emerge on the future of this relationship over the next few months.
At 31 December 2012, we managed Edward Bramson some 22.7 billion on behalf of Achmea.
Executive Chairman At 31 December 2012, we managed 21.9 billion on behalf of 14 March 2013 Friends Life, of which a portion is under contract until October 2014.
As previously notified, we anticipate that Friends Life will withdraw some 6.2 billion of fixed income assets during H1 2013 and transfer those to their in-house asset manager.
After that withdrawal, remaining Friends Life AUM will be 15.7 billion, of which some 2.4 billion will be invested in fixed income.
We have made considerable progress in streamlining the Group during 2012.
We have reviewed and restructured our investment teams and client service areas, resulting in related headcount reductions.
We have integrated the former Thames River business into the Group and relocated the Thames River personnel to our London Exchange House premises.
We have substantially completed the project work which allows the transfer of our back and middle office to State Streets strategic platform.
