Chairmans Statement I would encourage you to read some of the stock examples detailed in the Managers Report on pages 5 to 9.
PORTFOLIO MANAGER The Board is pleased that Anthony Bolton has decided to extend his minimum tenure to at least April 2014.
DISCOUNT AND PREMIUM The Board believes it is in the best interests of shareholders and of liquidity if the share price of the Company tracks closely the John Owen underlying Net Asset Value, which is published each business day.
Chairman The Board has the ability to issue shares at a premium to NAV and to buy shares back at a discount to NAV for cancellation.
I present the second Annual Report of Fidelity China Special During the year, in furtherance of this policy, the Board authorised Situations PLC.
the issue of 6, 250,000 Ordinary Shares at a premium to NAV and repurchased at a discount and cancelled 2,900,000 Ordinary PERFORMANCE REVIEW Shares.
The Board is seeking shareholder consent to continue During the year ended 31 March 2012 the net asset value of these powers, at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
the Company fell by 18.5%, under-performing the MSCI China benchmark index by 6.
The Companys share price fell GEARING by 26.4% all figures on a total return basis.
This is clearly a On 17 February 2012, the Company entered into a revolving facility disappointing outcome for shareholders.
agreement with Scotiabank Europe PLC for US$150,000,000, which has been fully drawn down.
The US$100,000,000 revolving facility The exposure to small and medium cap stocks was the with JP Morgan Chase Bank has been repaid in full.
largest detractor from performance as these experienced an unprecedented level of volatility during the year under review.
The The Company also uses derivatives to achieve further gearing by Companys decision to use bank borrowings to increase exposure the use of Contracts for Difference on a number of the holdings to the market while valuations remain attractive detracted further in the Companys portfolio, totalling a further 39,329,000 as at from relative performance.
Both of these factors are expected to 31 March 20 12 2011: 38,127,000. enhance the performance of the Company relative to the market in more favourable conditions.
REGULATORY CHANGES FOR INVESTMENT COMPANIES Regulatory changes continue to present a challenge for all For much of the year under review, there was an intense debate boards of UK listed companies.
For UK investment companies, between those predicting a hard landing for the Chinese the two key items are the Alternative Investment Fund Managers economy and those expecting a more benign outcome.
Investors Directive AIFMD and the Retail Distribution Review RDR.
focused on forecasts for an overall slowing of GDP growth in China, despite the fact that expected growth this year is in line It is widely acknowledged that the AIFMD will add to the with the Chinese Governments five-year plan and comfortably complexity of the governance framework for investment higher than the growth rates forecast for the developed companies and substantially increase operational costs.
The Company, advised by the Portfolio Manager, the AIC, FIL and others in the investment trust industry, continue to believes the Chinese Government will take the necessary lobby regulators on the draft proposals, in an effort to make the measures to ensure a stable growth environment, especially in proposed regulations less onerous.
light of the transition of leadership scheduled for late 2012.
With the advent of RDR, Companies will no longer be able to pay Compared to its Western counterparts, the Chinese Government commission on new assets from adviser intermediaries.
This may has more freedom to use the tools at its disposal to manage also mean independent financial advisers will take a fresh look inflation, interest rates, local government and bank debt, credit at the investment trust sector.
expansion, exchange rates, and the property market and we expect it to continue to use these tools to effect the desired soft THE BOARD landing for the economy.
Nevertheless the market impact of The Board is pleased to welcome Elisabeth Scott as a new such measures will continue to be influenced by shifts in global member of the Board as of 1 November 2011.
Ms Scott has risk appetite, especially with regard to the ongoing debt crisis in extensive investment experience, particularly in Hong Kong, Europe.
where she was Managing Director and Country Head of Schroder Investment Management Hong Kong Limited.
The Boards annual due diligence trip to China confirmed its continuing confidence in the long-term prospects for the Chinese The Board wishes to thank Gary Shaughnessy for his valuable economy and in the Companys ability to generate attractive contribution following his decision to resign from the Board on returns to its shareholders over the long-term.
26 March 2012, having left employment with FIL.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2012 3 Chairmans Statement On 21 May 2012, the Board announced the appointment of THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 24 JULY 2012 Andrew Wells, who is FILs Global Chief Investment Officer, Fixed The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Income and Investment Solutions Group, and a member of FILs Merchant Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London Global Operating Committee.
Elisabeth Scott and Andrew Wells will be subject to election at The Board is looking forward to having the opportunity to speak the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and all other Directors to shareholders.
The Portfolio Manager, Anthony Bolton, will also will be subject to re-election at that time, in accordance with be attending in order to give his yearly presentation and to meet corporate governance requirements for FTSE 250 companies.
A biography of each Director is included on page 17. DIVIDEND As the Companys objective is to achieve long-term capital growth, the Board does not expect that dividends will constitute a material element of any return to shareholders.
However, in John Owen CMG MBE DL order to continue to qualify as an investment trust, the Company Chairman is required under Section 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 12 June 2012 not to retain more than 15% of the income it derives from shares and securities.
The Board recommends a final dividend of 0.75 pence per Ordinary Share to be approved by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The dividend will be payable on 3 August 2012 to shareholders on the register on 20 July 2012 ex dividend date 18 July 2012.
Shareholders may choose to reinvest their dividends to purchase more shares in the Company.
Details of the Dividend Reinvestment Plan are set out on page 64.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2012 4
