Chairmans Statement Whilst the primary purpose of our policy is to reduce share price volatility in relation to net asset value, buying in shares at a discount also results in an enhancement to NAV per share.
Your Board has sanctioned share buybacks over the course of 2012 amounting to 2.7% of the issued share capital of the Company, a much lower gure than the 11.6% repurchased in Humphrey van der Klugt 2011.
The great majority of the repurchases took place in the first Chairman half of the year whilst markets were weak.
Further details may be found in the Directors Report on page 19.
I have pleasure in presenting the Annual Report of Fidelity European Values PLC for the year ended 31 December 2012.
I am pleased to report that the lower level of share price volatility relative to the NAV apparent in the second half of 2011 PERFORMANCE has continued into 2012.
Furthermore, the level of discount has narrowed from 14.2% at the start of the year to 9.9% at the year European equities advanced in 2012 following a volatile 2011.
After a dicult second quarter, in which anxieties were once end.
This has given rise to a share price total return of 31.3% for again heightened by concerns over the sovereign debt crisis, 2012, ahead of the NAV total return of 24.7%.
markets turned a corner in July when European Central Bank ECB President Mario Draghi stated that the ECB would do Improved sentiment towards continental European equity markets whatever it takes to save the Eurozone.
Sentiment improved has undoubtedly been a factor behind the narrowing of the further after the ECB announced that it had agreed to an discount.
Re-establishing our historically good performance unlimited bond purchase programme to lower borrowing costs record against the Benchmark Index, under Sam Morses for some indebted Eurozone nations.
Towards the end of the management, has likewise been important.
year, risk appetite increased on optimism that US lawmakers would reach an agreement on budget talks to avert the so-called DIVIDENDS scal cli.
The Board intends to continue with its practice of paying out earnings in full.
The objective is one of long term capital growth Against this backdrop, I am pleased to report that the net asset and we will not seek to inuence the Manager to determine the value NAV per share of the Company returned 24.7% and level of income of your Companys portfolio in any particular outperformed its Benchmark, the FTSE World Europe ex UK year.
Stock selection was the prime driver of performance.
In particular, holdings in the nancials, The Board has decided to recommend a final dividend of industrials and healthcare sectors performed well.
However, 27.75pence per share for the year ended 31 December 2012 2011: 26.50 pence.
This dividend will be payable on 24 May there were some stock specic disappointments, especially in the energy sector, which held back returns.
Overall, the focus 2013 to shareholders on the register at close of business on remains on companies with solid balance sheets and growing 15March 2013 ex-dividend date 13 March 2013. dividends.
Gearing which was held in a range of 5% - 15% during the year, also aided performance.
A detailed review The proposed dividend increase for 2012 over 2011 is therefore of the performance of the portfolio is provided in the 4.7%.
Whilst we emphasise that the increase is a function of stock Managers Review.
All gures are in sterling and are selection and cannot be extrapolated into the future, our on a total return basis.
Portfolio Manager, Sam Morse, continues to focus on companies which are able to grow their dividends as being one of the DISCOUNT MANAGEMENT underlying factors in his stock selection.
A further explanation of The Board continues to adopt an active discount management the investment process can be found on page 16. policy and share buybacks have been made during the year.
PERFORMANCE OVER ONE YEAR, FIVE YEARS AND SINCE LAUNCH TO 31 DECEMBER 2012 ON A TOTAL RETURN BASIS % FTSE World Europe 1 NAV Share price ex UK Index One year 24.7 31.3 17.8 Five years 8.6 6.6 -5.1 Since launch 1991 1,608.6 1,453.8 474.3 1 Data prior to the year ended 31 December 2011 is on a net of tax basis Sources: Fidelity and Datastream as at 31 December 2012 Past performance is not a guide to future returns Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2012 3 Chairmans Statement GEARING The Board has considered the proposals for the election and re-election of all of the Directors and recommends to shareholders The Company gears through the use of long Contracts For Dierence CFDs.
As at 31 December 2012, the level of gearing that they vote in favour of the proposals.
was 11.1% and the Board has been working within a range of 5% 15%.
Gearing made a positive contribution to performance CONTINUATION VOTE during the year, as can be seen from the attribution analysis In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, an on page 17. ordinary resolution that the Company continue as an investment trust for a further two years was passed at the 2011 Annual General It is pleasing to note that the move to using CFDs as a means of Meeting.
A further continuation vote will take place at this years gearing the portfolio, introduced in 2011 in place of traditional bank Annual General Meeting.
The Companys performance record has loans, has been positive.
Operationally it has worked smoothly and been excellent since launch with a NAV increase of 1,608.6% it has been signicantly cheaper for the Company, with finance compared to an increase in the Benchmark Index of 474.3% costs reducing from 2,617,000 in 2011 to just 326,000 in 2012: on a total return basis.
During the past 12 months the Companys and this in spite of gearing levels actually on average being NAV has outperformed the Index by 6.9% on a total return basis higher in 2012. and is also ahead of the Index over 3, 5 and 10 years.
Therefore your Board recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the PERFORMANCE FEES continuation vote.
A further continuation vote will take place at the Annual General Meeting in 2015.
Investment performance was strong during the year and a performance fee is payable, all cumulative past underperformance against the Benchmark Index having been made good.
The base ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING fee paid and payable to the Manager is charged fully against The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at revenue.
The performance fee is charged against capital.
Further Fidelitys oces at 25 Cannon Street, London EC4M 5TA St Pauls or details are included in the Directors Report on page 19.
Mansion House tube stations on Thursday 16 May 2013 at midday.
Full details of the meeting are given on pages 55 to 57 and I look DIRECTORATE forward to talking with as many shareholders as possible on this Simon Duckworth will step down from the Board at the conclusion occasion.
of the business of the Annual General Meeting on 16May 2013.
Simon has served on the Board for just over 10years and on behalf CONCLUSION of the Board I would like to take this opportunity to thank him for his Investors who stayed the course in continental European equities invaluable contribution to the Company.
We wish him well in his have been rewarded with an excellent year.
Indeed, Europe was one of the strongest areas for equity investment in 2012. future endeavours.
In preparation for this, I am delighted to confirm that Marion Sears was appointed a non-executive Director of the Company on 17 January 2013 following a search using an external There are a large number of high quality companies quoted on continental European bourses, many also with extensive businesses agency.
Marion has extensive commercial and investment experience and is currently the Senior Independent non-executive in Asia and around the world.
Value will out: such stocks had Director of Dunelm Group plc, and a non-executive Director of become overly depressed by the waves of poor sentiment Octopus AIM VCT plc and Persimmon plc.
Further details are surrounding the political situation in Europe, low economic growth included in her biography on page 14. and budget deficits which have to be nanced, high unemployment especially in Southern Europe and of course the Euro.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code for Directors of FTSE 350 companies the entire Board is subject to Whilst equities have regained poise, the outlook for earnings and annual election and re-election.
The Directors biographies can be dividend growth is generally muted and one cannot pretend that found on page 14.
The Directors have a wide range of appropriate the underlying political and economic situation in Europe has skills and experience to make up a balanced board for your improved dramatically.
It does seem likely that at some point in Company.
With the exception of Simon Fraser, in the opinion of the 2013 some of the worries will once again come to the fore: and it Board, all other Directors are independent.
follows that we may well see setbacks and volatility ahead.
Our response is to continue to focus on nding and investing in strong Simon Fraser, due to his previous employment relationship with companies which oer fundamental value and the prospect of the Manager and his directorship of another investment trust making decent returns from current valuation levels.
We are fortunate to have a wide choice of investment opportunities managed by Fidelity, namely Fidelity Japanese Values PLC, is deemed non-independent by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board is convinced that Simon Frasers experience serves the Company well: and the Directors support unanimously his continued position as a Director of the Company.
In line with good corporate governance, the Board had an independent, externally facilitated assessment of its performance during 2012.
The evaluation reported that the performance and Humphrey van der Klugt contribution of the Board was eective and all Directors were Chairman committed to their roles.
There were no areas of concern reported.
26 February 2013 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2012 4
