Chairmans Statement On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to report another very successful and busy year for the Company.
The Company has continued to meet its stated objectives and has delivered a total return based on share price for shareholders of 8.0% in the year.
Whilst uncertainty remains over the economic and financial prospects for the global economy, the Companys portfolio of assets continues to perform well which, in turn, enables us to provide investors with an attractive and growing distribution.
Financial Results and Performance Financial Results The Group has been As in previous periods, the Company has prepared pro-forma accounts on an Investment basis treating all 70 holdings successful during the as investments.
profit before tax on an Investment basis was 62.0m 2011: 45.2m and earnings per share on an year in making 33 new Investment basis were 9.8p 2011: 8.9p per share.
This investments and five increase was driven by contributions from new investments, actual ination exceeding the 2.75% valuation assumption incremental acquisitions and valuation uplifts from projects coming out of construction.
Cash received from the portfolio by way of distributions, capital for a total of 236.6m.
After Group costs, net cash inows of 41.0m adequately covered the distributions paid in the year.
The growth in cash generated was in line with our projections, benefitting from acquisitions in the current and the prior year.
On a consolidated IFRS basis, the profit before tax was 84.2m 2011: 38.3m.
profit before tax has increased materially due to gains on finance receivables arising from a 1.0% reduction in UK long term gilt rates which has only partially been offset by adverse mark-to-market movements on interest rate swaps.
The Company has raised a total of 325.9m before expenses in the year: 75.9m through tap issues and 250.0m through the successful C Share capital raising in March 2012 which was oversubscribed.
Total fees accruing to InfraRed Capital Partners Limited the Investment Adviser amounted to 11.1m in the year, comprising their 1.1% per annum management fee 1.5% per annum for HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 7 Chairmans Statement continued assets in construction, the 1.0% fee on the acquisitions made cashow analysis of the future expected equity and loan note and an advisory fee of 0.1m.
The Investment Adviser does cashows accruing to the Group from each investment.
This not receive any fees from, nor are there any contracts with, the valuation uses key assumptions which are derived from a review investment project companies in the portfolio.
For example, of recent comparable market transactions in order to arrive at a directors fees from these companies are for the benefit of the fair market value.
Had these fees been paid to the Investment Adviser, The Directors have satisfied themselves as to the methodology they would have amounted in aggregate to 2.2m, equivalent used, the economic assumptions adopted, and the discount to an additional fee of 0.28% on assets under management.
The Directors have again taken independent believe our approach ensures alignment of interests between third party advice on the valuation carried out by the stakeholders and conforms to our policy of transparency.
The total expense ratio TER for the Group on an Investment The Directors have approved the valuation of 902.0m for the basis was 1.34% being the Groups 10.4m of operational portfolio of 70 investments as at 31 March 2012.
There were no expenses excluding acquisition costs as a percentage of the outstanding investment commitments at 31 March 2012.
Groups 773.7m net assets on an Investment basis.
This compares with 1.20% for the year to 31 March 2011, the The valuation of 902.0m compares as 673.1m as at 31 March increase arising from changes in the growth prole of net assets.
2011, 719.3m as at 30 September 2011, and 889.7m as at 31 December 2011 reported in the Companys IMS of 10 February The Association of Investment Companies AIC is now 2012.
An analysis of the increase in the valuation is detailed in recommending reporting an Ongoing Charges Percentage the Investment Advisers Report.
As at 31 March 2012, using the AIC methodology, the Companys Ongoing Charges Percentage On an Investment basis the NAV per share was 116.3p at 31 was 1.36% there is no performance fee payable to any March 2012 2011: 113.1p.
The Investment basis NAV per service provider.
share after the second interim distribution at 31 March 2012 was 112.8p: an increase of 2.8% over the comparable gure More details of the financial results are set out below.
at 31 March 2011 being attributable to a robust performance from the portfolio coupled with incremental earnings from new Portfolio Performance investments, as described in more detail in the Investment The Groups portfolio continues to perform well, and as at 31 Advisers Report.
March 2012 consisted of 70 PFI PPP P3 projects.
The Kemble The resulting NAV per share on an IFRS basis at 31 March 2012 Water junior loan was repaid in full in April 2011. was 117.0p 2011: 110.4p.
The Group currently has two projects under construction.
On the M80 Motorway DBFO, construction is substantially complete Acquisitions with trafc now using the road, and we expect final construction The Group has made 33 new investments and five incremental completion this summer.
On the Birmingham Hospitals project acquisitions during the year for a total consideration of acquired since the year end, construction will also be nished 236.6m.
Through the portfolio acquisition of 26 operational this summer.
PPP projects in December 2011, the Group acquired its first two The Investment Advisers asset management team continues PPP investments in Ireland.
Further details are set out in the its work across the Groups portfolio of assets, maintaining Investment Advisers report.
dialogue with our public sector clients and partners to nd new Since the period end the Group has acquired two new efficiencies and savings.
Guidance published by HM Treasury investments and a further incremental stake.
These are the has prompted a constructive response from public sector clients.
19.5% interest in the Connect PFI project, a 30% interest in the Birmingham Hospitals project, and a 14% additional stake Valuation in the Colchester Garrison project.
These are in line with our As in previous periods, the Investment Adviser has prepared expectations at the time of the C Share in March 2012 and the a fair market valuation for each investment in the portfolio total consideration was 88.6m.
This leaves around 19m from as at 31 March 2012.
This valuation is based on a discounted the C Share capital raising still to be invested after which the Groups 150m debt facility will be employed.
8 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Distributions On 12 April 2012 the Board declared a second interim change from those we have seen to date, and if they would be distribution of 3.5p per share for the year to 31 March 2012 suitable for the Group.
This brings the total distributions declared for Each of the Groups PPP PFI P3 projects within the portfolio the year to 6.85p representing a 2.2% growth on the prior year.
has matching long term funding in place.
There is therefore A circular has been sent to shareholders offering them the no renancing risk in this regard.
Projects have exposures to opportunity to participate in the Companys scrip dividend banks in the form of interest rate swaps and deposit accounts.
Shareholders need to decide by 12 June if they wish to We continue to monitor and manage these exposures where take up the scrip dividend offer in part or in full.
or scrip dividend will be paid to those shareholders on the The projects in the portfolio rely on partners who contract to register as at 20 April 2012, and will be settled at the end of provide services.
There is a good spread of service partners, June.
As previously announced, Ordinary Shares resulting from which has increased with the new acquisitions made in the the C Share conversion on 26 April are not entitled to this second year.
There are no material performance or credit issues to interim distribution or the scrip dividend alternative.
The Investment Adviser monitors project performance, At the Annual General Meeting AGM in July 2011, and if issues arise, takes action to minimise any impact.
As you shareholders gave the Board the power to offer a scrip dividend would expect for a portfolio of this size, we have a number of alternative and this power runs until the next AGM on 25 investments where there are ongoing construction matters or July 2012.
Based on the level of take-up and feedback from operational issues to be resolved, and the Investment Advisers shareholders, it is the Boards intention to seek a renewal of this team is actively engaged on these, to facilitate timely and power at the forthcoming AGM.
Our investments in Holland and Ireland have not been impacted by the Eurozone crisis and we keep this under careful review.
Risks and Uncertainties Over the last 12 months, there have been a number of Corporate Governance developments in the UK which affect infrastructure procurement.
The Board views such developments as broadly positive given In May 2010, the Financial Reporting Council issued a new the UK Governments recognition that the use of private sector edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code, and in October capital and expertise is essential in delivering the UKs future 2010, the Association of Investment Companies the AIC infrastructure needs.
published its updated AIC Code of Corporate Governance.
This AIC code has been endorsed by the Financial Reporting Council The combination of the HM Treasury PFI guidance issued in July and the Company has chosen to report governance against the 2011, the 2011 Infrastructure Plan and statements made by updated AIC Code.
ministers in seeking new investors acknowledge the importance the UK Government attaches to creating a secure and stable On 30 September 2011 the Guernsey Financial Services environment where clients, contractors and funders are clear Commission the Commission issued the Finance Sector on their respective contractual obligations and returns.
The Code of Corporate Governance.
This Code comprises Principles ongoing public sector consultation on how the current PFI and Guidance, and provides a formal expression of good model can be improved and enhanced is likely to conclude corporate practice against which shareholders, boards and the in the autumn and the findings will be used to determine the Commission can better assess the governance exercised over new procurement model.
companies in Guernseys finance sector.
As the Company reports against the AIC Code of Corporate Governance, it is also deemed Whilst the Group is not involved in bidding for new projects, to meet this Code.
the 2011 Infrastructure Plan and its proposed use of privatesector capital will continue to generate projects and investment As part of good corporate governance, all four directors offered opportunities in the secondary market.
It is too early to say themselves for re-election at the AGM held in July 2011 and were whether, and how, the investment and risk parameters might duly re-elected.
It is proposed to continue with this process of seeking annual re-election, which is more regular than the Companys Articles require.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 9 Chairmans Statement continued The Board declared on 12 April 2012 a Corporate Governance continued second interim distribution of 3.5p per The Board decided in November 2011 to commission a third party to assist in reviewing both the Boards effectiveness and share for the year to 31 March 2012 the level of fees paid to each director for duties performed on behalf of the Company.
Trust Associates were retained by 2011: 3.425p.
This brings the total the Company for this purpose.
Their reports have concluded distributions declared to 6.85p for the that the Board is appropriately equipped, fully engaged and adequately advised to make the necessary decisions to run the year to 31 March 2012 representing a Company.
The remuneration of Directors has been benchmarked and recommendations made for the coming year which the 2.2% growth on the prior year.
Board proposes to adopt, substantially as presented, subject to approval of shareholders at the forthcoming AGM in July.
As part of good governance, we have engaged with the Investment Adviser to review their fees and the services that they provide, particularly in the context of the continuing growth of the Group.
The Board has recognised that the Investment Adviser now provides the Company with a broader range of services than at launch and that such provision has been met from within the existing fee structure.
The Board is also satisfied that the fee structure remains transparent, straightforward and highly competitive for the asset class.
Nonetheless, we are pleased to have reached agreement with the Investment Adviser, in the role as Operator of the partnership, to introduce a further step down in the fee taper when assets under management exceed 1.5bn.
The fee will then drop to 0.9% per annum from the 1.0% per annum applicable to assets above 750m and we will amend the relevant documentation so that this change to the fee structure is in place with effect from 1 July 2012.
Corporate Social Responsibility Public Procurement As noted above, the last year has seen a number of initiatives in relation to UK infrastructure procurement.
These include several Government Select Committee reports and also reports by the National Audit Ofce.
The current consultation being led by HM Treasury aims to deliver the next generation infrastructure procurement model.
As we have previously commented, the UKs PFI model has been adopted by a number of countries around the world who have made modications to suit their own particular requirements.
Such countries procure new infrastructure with political and public support.
The Investment Adviser is tasked with building and maintaining good open relationships with all counterparties to the Groups 10 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 contractual relationships.
For clients, we are engaged in seeking We also remain cautious when considering new investments efficiencies and in facilitating variations, which may include the overseas given the sovereign risk, and whether the return is provision of additional services or assets.
attractive on a risk adjusted basis.
In the UK, where the majority of our assets are located, we accept the need to help our public Investor Communications sector clients nd efficiency savings, but within established Given that the Company has over 4,000 shareholders and a contractual structures.
market cap in excess of 1bn, the Board is keen to maintain and Looking ahead, we remain confident that our investment develop its engagement with shareholders.
Regular and detailed portfolio is of sufficient quality to perform resiliently.
Cash ows feedback from investors is received via the Investment Adviser are generally predictable and, whilst it is acknowledged that the and the broker.
The Directors have also made themselves valuation of the portfolio is in part correlated to the rates that available to major shareholders, collectively and on a apply to long dated government debt, we are not anticipating one-on-one basis, for discussion of key issues and expectations significant uctuations as a consequence.
We are maintaining our target of a distribution of 7.0p per share The Board regularly reviews the level and quality of the for the year ending 31 March 2013 and the Board intends to give information which the Company publishes both on the Company guidance on likely distributions for subsequent years and a total website and in reports and presentations.
Our intention is to return target with the Companys interim results in November.
remain at the forefront of disclosure and transparency for our asset class, which continues to grow in scale and relevance to We have made 88.6m of new investments since the year end investors.
and, have around 19m of C Share proceeds left to invest, and are confident of investing this in the near future.
ESG The Company operates within the Environmental, Social and Governance Policies that have been developed and documented for the Group.
During the year, the Investment Adviser became a subscriber to the UN Policies for Responsible Investment and as Graham Picken a consequence, we are working within this framework to update Chairman our policies for the relevant best practice.
22 May 2012 Outlook The Group continues to look for further acquisitions in the UK and overseas consistent with its publicly stated policy for new investments.
The successful C Share issue and the new Group debt facilities provide adequate capacity to make further investments.
This remains our aim whilst retaining our prudent position on the risk spectrum.
There is a steady ow of new investment opportunities to consider but we will not compromise our strict investment criteria and processes.
The Investment Adviser has seen and declined a number of PPP PFI P3 opportunities as being either too small, inappropriately structured or being beset with operational issues.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 11
