HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Overview continued Group Chairmans Statement which we reached in December, in our Interim Group Chairmans Statement Report.
Management is now delivering the required enhancements to our control framework and on top of this we have significantly augmented the Boards oversight and governance capabilities.
This is dealt with in more detail below.
Encouragingly, there is now growing external recognition of the progress being made in delivering against our stated strategic priorities.
This, together with our overweight exposure to the worlds more attractive economies, contributed to a total shareholder return of 39% over the year 7% from dividends paid and 32% from share price appreciation.
Over the course of the year the market capitalisation of HSBC grew by US$58bn from US$136bn to US$194bn, returning shareholders once again to the position where their company is worth more than its contributed capital.
We 2012 was a year of considerable progress in remained among the highest dividend payers in the delivering on the strategic priorities which the Board FTSE 100, a performance which we know is of great has tasked management to address.
Our decision to importance to our shareholders.
focus on reshaping the Group through targeted The cover to this years Annual Report again disposals and closures and internal reorganisation is illustrates our strategy of connecting customers and paying dividends.
It is bringing greater clarity and markets.
The scene depicted is the cargo terminal at focus and is delivering sustainable cost savings Hong Kong International Airport, which has been while allowing incremental investment to be ranked as the busiest airport for international air available and directed towards the areas of greatest cargo since 1996.
Today the airports trade opportunity.
throughput represents over one third of Hong Kong's This progress is all the more notable given that external trade.
HSBCs connection with trade during 2012, the banking sector, including HSBC, financing and trade services through Hong Kong faced continuing and in many ways unprecedented goes back to our earliest days and remains one of our challenges.
Banking has been given a huge wake-up core strengths.
Projections of trade growth in Asia call and we are determined to play our part in and Hong Kongs role therein reinforce our restoring its reputation and thereby regaining investment focus in this area.
Thus our restructuring agenda is not only justified economically but is helping the Group Performance in 2012 shape its response to the media, the regulatory and There was much to be positive about in HSBCs political challenges, and societal expectations which, performance in 2012.
The majority of our core simply put, all revolve around restoring the trust of businesses in Asia, particularly in Hong Kong, all stakeholders.
From depositors to investors, continued to perform well, achieving good regulators to employees, public policy makers to underlying revenue growth in the year.
Increased consumer lobbyists we need to ensure the business market confidence around eurozone recovery model of banking is fair, transparent, sustainable contributed to a significant turnaround in Global and meeting its core objective of serving society.
Banking and Markets results in Europe.
Targeted Never has it been more important to put the disposals and the continuing run-off from our exit customer first and provide the means and support portfolios in the United States, together with to help them fulfil their financial aspirations and evidence of recovery in many housing areas were ambitions.
That is our prime purpose and one of reflected in significantly lower US loan impairment which we should never lose sight.
Over the last two years the Board was exercised Progress in managing costs to reflect a lower greatly by the major US regulatory and law economic growth environment in developed markets enforcement investigations we faced.
Offsetting these positive factors, background to these investigations, settlement of credit demand remained muted throughout Europe, 4 low interest rates continued to constrain the value of Progress on regulatory reform our liquid balance sheet and customer redress costs 2012 was a further year of progress in delivering key continued to weigh heavily in the UK.
elements of the regulatory reform agenda mandated The Group Chief Executives Business Review by the G20 in response to the financial crisis.
After covers financial performance and progress on a long consultation period, the proposed Liquidity strategy delivery in more detail.
Coverage Ratio within the Basel III framework was recalibrated to better match industry experience, and Reported results include the benefit of profits so strengthen bank liquidity without unnecessarily arising from the significant disposals made in the constraining credit formation.
year as well as bearing the burden of the fines and penalties levied as part of the settlement with US The list of banks to be designated as globally regulatory and law enforcement agencies and significant was announced and, as expected, HSBC increased customer redress provisions in the UK.
was one of four placed in the highest category.
When the Board assesses management performance Good progress was made on clarifying the possible as part of reward measurement, these disposal gains approaches to resolving the failure of a bank with are eliminated but the legal settlement and customer operations in multiple jurisdictions.
One approach redress costs are not.
was directly applicable to the subsidiarised model favoured by HSBC.
Looking through the reported results to underlying financial performance, the Board viewed On structural reform of banking entities, the positively the 2012 outcome.
Liikanen Group in Europe produced its report for consideration while draft alternatives have been Although earnings per share of US$0.74 were proposed in France and Germany.
In the UK, 20% lower than 2011, this largely reflected a the Government substantially accepted the US$9.1bn negative swing in the fair value of our recommendations of the Independent Commission own debt as credit spreads tightened, together with on Banking in a policy paper and a draft Financial a higher tax rate.
Services Banking Reform Bill is expected to be With the Groups capital position strengthened approved in the first half of 2013.
Thereafter, the from retained profits and from capital released from government has signalled its intention to pass the divestments made in the year, the Board has secondary legislation by the end of this parliament approved a 29% increase in the final dividend in in 2015, with final implementation of the new respect of the year to US$0.18 per share, US$0.04 regime by 2019. higher than the final dividend in respect of 2011.
The key structural change being legislated Total dividends in respect of 2012 of US$8.3bn, remains the separation of certain banking activities amounted to US$0.45 per share, US$0.9bn higher for personal and small business customers into a than in 2011.
The Board also intends to increase ring-fenced bank with its own financial and the quarterly dividends in respect of the first three governance arrangements.
The recently appointed quarters of 2013 by US$0.01 per share to US$0.10 Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards in per share.
the UK has reviewed the proposed legislation and Shareholders equity at the end of 2012 stood at inter alia recommended, strengthening the ring fence US$175bn, US$17bn or some 10 % higher than at by empowering regulators to force full separation in the beginning of the year.
The core tier 1 capital the event of attempts to frustrate the objectives of the ratio strengthened from 10.1% to 12.3% and the ring fence.
Group remains on track to deliver compliance with Ongoing work remains extensive.
Major areas the more onerous Basel III requirements in the of policy development covering augmenting loss accelerated timetable being sought by UK regulators.
absorbency through bailing-in certain categories of During 2012, the UK government increased the creditor, addressing the systemic impact of central rate of levy applied on the global balance sheets of clearing counterparties, establishing a banking union UK domiciled banks.
The cost to HSBC of the within the eurozone and revisiting the risk weighting revised levy for the current year was US$571m of of assets to enhance transparency and consistency, which US$295m related to non-UK banking activity.
are among the most important.
The 2012 levy, which is not tax deductible, is the On top of this, the UK Parliamentary equivalent of US$0.03 per ordinary share and, as Commission on Banking Standards is currently indicated last year, would otherwise have been examining all aspects of conduct, behaviour and available for distribution to shareholders or used to strengthen the capital base further.
5 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Overview continued Group Chairmans Statement culture with a view to making recommendations To reinforce the Boards ability to exercise designed to restore trust and confidence in banks.
rigorous governance over these endeavours, we announced the creation of a new Board committee, We are committed to working constructively the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee with public policy makers and our regulators to give on 30 January 2013.
This committee will provide effect to these proposals.
We note, however, two governance, oversight and policy guidance over the areas of concern.
framework of controls and procedures designed to First, it is perplexing that, after the great identify areas where HSBC may become exposed international effort invested in the G20 programme and, through that exposure, expose the financial of sound and consistent global financial regulation, system more broadly to financial crime or system and the extent of reform currently underway, an abuse.
increasing number of countries now appear to Five subject matter experts drawn from the be acting unilaterally, thereby putting globally highest levels of public service will support the consistent regulation at risk of fragmentation and committee.
Their expertise includes the combating balkanising the capital and liquidity resources of of organised crime, terrorist financing, narcotics firms.
trafficking, tax evasion and money laundering as Second, we believe the sheer scale and timescale well as expertise in intelligence gathering and of the reform programme is hampering investors international payments systems.
They will provide line of sight to the long-term returns available.
invaluable guidance and advice, and most importantly challenge, as we strengthen our Resolving these two issues, which will require capabilities and enforce the highest standards.
inter-governmental direction and co-operation, Further details of the background and experience would contribute to enhancing the ability of the of these individuals are contained in the Directors industry to support the economic growth agenda Report.
now being prioritised in most parts of the world.
Recognising the need to augment the Boards Enforcing global standards own experience and expertise we have also added specialist expertise at Board level.
The Board is determined to adopt and enforce the highest behavioural and compliance standards in Board changes HSBC.
For well documented reasons, the last two years have been extremely damaging to HSBCs At the end of 2012 we said farewell to Narayana reputation and to our perception of ourselves.
We Murthy, who stepped down from the Board after serving with distinction for five years.
Narayana, as faced serious failings both in the application of our standards and in our ability to identify, and so co-founder and long-term CEO of Infosys, brought prevent, misuse and abuse of the financial system to the Board exceptional expertise in technology, through our networks.
Our strategy is entirely operational efficiency and outsourcing matters as configured to eliminate the possibility of this well as an in-depth knowledge of India and of happening again.
international business through his experience on many multinational and educational boards.
On We have apologised unreservedly to all our behalf of the Board and shareholders I want to stakeholders and have paid huge penalties both in record our appreciation and gratitude for his monetary cost and reputational damage.
important than apologies, however, are the steps being taken to prevent recurrence.
Management We welcome two new directors to the Board.
under Stuart Gulliver, the Group Chief Executive, Renato Fassbind joined the Board on 1 January is leading the work to simplify business and so and will serve on the Audit and Remuneration reinforce risk management and control.
Renato brings to the Board Our success in meeting our objectives will be considerable international business and financial subject to independent validation not simply through expertise from a distinguished career in industrial, ongoing regulatory review but additionally through service and financial companies.
He is currently the appointment of an independent Monitor who will Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board and a report to both UK and US authorities.
We welcome member of the audit and the compensation the additional rigour this will bring to the process of committees of Swiss Reinsurance Company, upgrading and enforcing our global standards.
a member of the Supervisory Board and audit committee of Khne Nagel International AG 6 and a member of the Supervisory Board of the around the world and, in 2012, 2,717 members of Swiss Federal Audit Oversight Authority.
staff volunteered to support the programme.
Renato stepped down as Chief Financial Officer Importantly in all our community work we and a member of the executive board of Credit increasingly look to involve our staff to reinforce our Suisse Group in September 2010, having served in links with the communities we serve.
In 2012, for that role since 2004. example, 114,982 HSBC colleagues spent 724,650 hours in volunteer activity.
Jim Comey joins the Board today and will serve on the newly created Financial System We also launched the HSBC Water Programme Vulnerabilities Committee.
Jim brings to the Board last year.
This is a five-year, US$100m commitment outstanding governance experience from both the to support Water Aid, WWF and Earthwatch to private and public sectors.
In his private sector roles deliver freshwater and sanitation to poor rural he acted as General Counsel to leading international communities in Asia and Africa, educate local businesses and in public life served at the apex of communities on sustainable water management in law enforcement in the United States.
Most recently, five major river basins around the world, and involve within the private sector, Jim Comey served as more than 7,500 HSBC staff with local conservation General Counsel of Bridgewater Associates, LP and partners to address urban water management issues prior to that as Senior Vice President and General and learn to carry out scientific water research tasks.
Counsel of the Lockheed Martin Corporation.
In public life, from 2003 to 2005, he served as US Looking ahead Deputy Attorney General, where he was responsible It is often said that people come together in for supervising the operations of the Department of adversity, learning lessons from the past and each Justice, and chaired the Presidents Corporate Fraud other to create the bonds that ensure a better future.
From 2002 to 2003, he served as US I believe that this has happened within HSBC.
The Attorney for the Southern District of New York.
last year has been a difficult one for all at HSBC as Fuller details of their background and we addressed the restructuring of the firm against a experience are set out in the Directors Report.
lower-growth economic backdrop and with legacy issues and regulatory challenges imposing a further Social contribution set of imperatives.
Our 270,000 staff have had to face up to bewildering descriptions of HSBC that Much is currently being written and debated about contrasted with the way they conduct their the role banks should play in society.
In large part, relationships with the firms customers and clients.
this reflects the fact that the economic success that underpins a harmonious society depends upon What has been inspirational is how everyone has sustainable financing, confidence and trust in the pulled together, focused on the future and committed financial system.
That trust is founded upon the to do all and everything necessary to restore a broader role that banks play in their local reputation that we all believe can be positively communities.
On behalf of the Board, I want to thank all our employees for that commitment and their Within HSBC, many of my colleagues loyal support.
make tremendous personal contributions to their communities and I want to take this opportunity to I also want to thank our clients and customers, pay tribute to them.
HSBCs outreach in terms of our shareholders, our regulators and those in community investment is primarily in the areas government who believe, as we do, that we will meet of education and the environment and, in 2012, in the commitments we have made to allow us better to financial terms it amounted to some US$120m.
serve the communities who entrust their financial needs to HSBC.
In 2012, we extended our commitment to support disadvantaged and vulnerable young people who are neither in education, employment nor training.
We support local and international charities working in this area, and also run our own staffdriven Future First programme, which helps street children, children in care and orphans to access education.
Initiatives under this programme are D J Flint, Group Chairman developed and supported by HSBC colleagues 4 March 2013 7 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview
