Business Review From the Chairman This success is reflected in adjusted diluted earnings per share for D ear Shareholder 2012 rising to 207.5p, an increase of 7% on last year.
Let me welcome you to the Annual Report for 2012.
This has been The Board has recommended a final dividend of 92.7p per share, a good year for your Company notwithstanding the challenging which will be paid on 8 May 2013 to shareholders on the register economic environment and the adverse impact of exchange rates.
This takes the total dividend for the year to 134.9p, an increase of 7% on last year, and maintains our target of paying Since the Group was first listed in 1912, the business has developed out 65% of sustainable earnings in dividends.
and grown significantly, becoming recognised as one of the UKs leading companies.
Today we are among the top 10 companies The Board also approved the continuation of our share buy-back listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Between the beginning of March and the end of December 2012, almost 39 million shares were repurchased Strong performance at a value of 1.25 billion, excluding transaction costs.
British American Tobacco delivered strong profit growth in 2012, The Board has agreed a 1.5 billion share buy-back programme achieved through good pricing and an outstanding improvement for 2013. in operating margin, partially offset by adverse exchange rate movements.
To grow underlying market share and operating Governance profit, while investing for the long term, is a strong sign of the We are a leading international business, with products sold in 180 efficacy of our strategy.
Difficult trading conditions persist in parts countries around the world.
And, of course, we operate in a highly of the world, particularly southern Europe, but these results regulated sector that many regard as controversial.
Acting responsibly demonstrate the Company is in excellent shape and we remain makes good business sense and we set high standards for ourselves, confident that our strategy will continue to deliver superior our suppliers and our trade customers.
Our values, a key component of our culture, are clearly embraced Delivering shareholder value by our people and we take great care to ensure that they are Our financial highlights indicate how the business is delivering embedded throughout the business.
This needs good governance superior returns.
You can read a full summary of our successful and, for us, this is not simply an exercise in compliance, it is a key year on the following pages.
element underpinning the sustainable, long-term growth of our business.
A full report on our corporate governance is set out on pages 46 to 57.
Historical total shareholder return Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding in British American Tobacco over five years FTSE comparison is based on spot daily values.
300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 British American Tobacco FTSE 100 Over the five-year period our compound growth rate, based on adjusted diluted earnings per share, has been 13.9%.
2 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Business Review Sustainability 2012 highlights British American Tobacco was the first tobacco company to publish a social report and I am proud to say that more than a decade later we maintain our strong reputation for corporate Adjusted diluted earnings per share improved social responsibility and sustainability.
We were selected for by 7% to 207.5p the 11th successive year in the 2012 Dow Jones Sustainability Recommended total dividend for the year Indexes, which recognise economic, social and environmental of 134.9p, up 7% on 2011 performance.
We were also ranked in the top quartile of companies in a study on Transparency in Corporate Reporting: Assessing the Selected for the Dow Jones Sustainability Worlds Largest Companies carried out by Transparency Indexes for the 11th successive year International, a leading anti-corruption organisation.
Share buy-back programme set at 1.5 billion You will see that some of the progress we have made in 2012 for 2013 against our sustainability agenda is discussed in this Annual Report, in particular within our strategic review and our corporate governance statement.
We have also published a separate Sustainability Summary report Sustainability: why it matters alongside our Annual Report.
This outlines our progress and explains how we are developing an ambitious new sustainability agenda that will better measure and address the impact our business has on its environment and stakeholders.
You can download this summary report from our corporate website at www.
On track for further success Reflecting on the success of 2012, let me express my thanks and appreciation to my fellow Directors on the Board, to our Chief Executive, Nicandro Durante, to management, and to all our colleagues around the world.
In particular, I record our appreciation to Sir Nicholas Scheele and Robert Lerwill, both of whom will be standing down as Non-Executive Directors at the end of this years Annual General Meeting, each having served eight years on your Board.
I am delighted to welcome Brigadier General retired Dr Richard Tubb, a US citizen, who joined your Board on 28 January 2013.
Richard is a prominent and well respected expert in the field of tobacco harm reduction and his appointment further demonstrates our commitment to putting science at the heart of our business.
Looking forward, I am confident that we have the strategy, people and resources to continue to deliver high single figure earnings per share growth in the years ahead.
Richard Burrows Chairman British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 3
