46 Directors report Corporate governance a non-executive Chairman, the Group Remuneration Committee.
Each of these Chief Executive Officer, the Group Finance board committees is chaired by a nonstatement Director, the Group Executive Director executive director.
The minutes of the The corporate governance statement details Americas and four independent nonmeetings of each of the committees are ICAPs governance framework and its executive directors.
All ICAPs directors made available to all directors and the board management practices and, together with have a good understanding of ICAPs receives an update from each committee the remuneration report on pages 56 to 64, markets, the regions and regulatory chairman following committee meetings.
sets out how the Company has complied frameworks in which it operates and with the UK Corporate Governance Code its technology.
Details of the skills There are three executive committees for the year ended 31 March 2012.
The UK and experience each director brings to the GEMG, the GOC and the GRACC.
Corporate Governance Code is publicly the board are set out on pages 42 and 43.
These executive committees are mandated available at www.
by and report to the board.
The executive There are three committees of the board committees operate under terms of ICAP is headed by an appropriately the Audit and Risk Committee, the reference approved by the board and minutes experienced board which comprises Nomination Committee and the of the meetings are circulated to the board.
Governance framework Board Approves the Groups long-term objectives, commercial strategy, budget and significant acquisitions, investments and disposals Determines the Groups risk appetite and risk management strategy Approves the membership and terms of reference of board and executive committees Approves changes to capital structure Approves the Groups financial statements and its interim management statements Approves the interim dividends and recommends the final dividend Audit and Risk Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Reviews and challenges the integrity of external R eviews the structure, size and composition Sets remuneration policy and packages and financial reporting of the board and makes recommendations pension policy for the executive directors with regard to any changes Reviews the Groups internal Appoints any remuneration consultants financial controls N ominates candidates to fill board vacancies who advise the committee as they arise Reviews the effectiveness of the Groups Approves contracts of employment with internal and external auditors K eeps under review the leadership terms that exceed certain agreed levels needs of the organisation and considers of duration, notice period or compensation Appoints the external auditors, the Head of succession and development planning Internal Audit and the Global Chief Risk Officer for senior executives Reviews the Groups whistleblowing procedures Reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk management framework Reviews the ICAAP document Reviews major findings and recommendations of internal and external audit reports Global Operating Group Risk and Global Executive Committee Capital Committee Management Group The GOC is responsible for the oversight and The GRACC is responsible for the financial, The GEMG is responsible for day-to-day co-ordination of improvements to the efficiency liquidity and capital structure of the Group operations and supports the Group Chief and effectiveness of ICAPs global operations Executive Officer in the delivery of the and the control and assurance process Groups strategy Non-executive committees Executive committees Full details of the terms of reference for the non-executive committees can be found at www.
com ICAP in 10 Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders ICAP plc Annual Report 2012 Directors report 47 The board policy on the division of responsibilities The Chairman, in consultation with The board is responsible for providing between the Chairman and the Group the executive directors and the Group leadership of the Group and for ensuring the Chief Executive Officer which sets out Company Secretary, sets the agenda Group has the appropriate people, financial the key responsibilities of each role.
All directors receive resources and controls in place to deliver comprehensive documentation prior on the long-term objectives, commercial Six board meetings were scheduled during to each meeting on the matters to be strategy and risk management strategy the year.
Between these meetings, the discussed to enable them to exercise their set by the board.
Details of the business board convened by conference call to judgement in discharge of their duties.
In model and the Groups strategic objectives receive trading reports and updates addition, directors receive management are detailed within ICAP in 10 on pages 2 on current issues.
During the year, the information on a monthly basis.
The board operates in accordance non-executive directors also met without members and other senior executives with an approved schedule of matters the executive directors present.
The attend meetings by invitation to present reserved for the board.
The board specifies following table sets out the number on their areas of expertise within the policies and delegated authorities that all of meetings of the board attended by business.
The table below highlights some members of the Group are required to directors in office at 31 March 2012. of the agenda items considered by the adhere to.
Details of the principal matters board during the year in addition to the reserved for the board and principal terms Board meetings standard items covering their regular of reference of the board committees are review of the business.
Total Attended shown in the table on page 46.
Charles Gregson 6 6 Michael Spencer 6 6 There is a clear division between the role John Nixon 6 6 Iain Torrens 6 6 of Chairman, who is responsible for the Hsieh Fu Hua 6 6 leadership of the board and for ensuring the Diane Schueneman 6 6 effective communication with shareholders, John Sievwright 6 6 and the Group Chief Executive Officer, who Robert Standing 6 6 is responsible for leading and managing the business, within the limits delegated to him by the board.
The board maintains a written Summary of board business during the year ended 31 March 2012 May 2011 September 2011 February 2012 Report and accounts for the year ended Approval of the interim management Approval of the interim management 31 March 2011 statement statement Report from chairman of the Audit Approval of the investment in Japan Approval of the acquisition of Island and Risk Committee Asia Pacific voice presentation Shipbrokers Pte Ltd Going concern paper Review of directors training Board effectiveness review update Final dividend recommendation Post trade risk and information presentation Demonstration of the i-Swap platform July 2011 November 2011 March 2012 Capital structure report Half-year report for the six months Approval of the pre-close statement Board diversity to 30 September 2011 Strategic review ICAP electronic presentation Report from chairman of the Audit Risk review of strategy Update from chairman of the Nomination and Risk Committee Americas voice presentation Committee recruitment of the Interim dividend recommendation Brazil strategic presentation Group Chief Operating Officer Board effectiveness evaluation review EMEA voice presentation Review of directors conflicts of interest and process
