Chairmans statement CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Diluted EPS Growth I am pleased to report another record year for the Group.
We continue to press our case that firms Your Board is sorry to lose him and we are exceptionally grateful 1 Our revenue has increased by 17.3% to 366.8 million such as IG Group, who act as principal, should not be included for the help and guidance he has provided over many years.
He 2 2011: 312.7 million whilst diluted earnings per share in the same compensation category as firms who deal as agents has played a key role in IGs development for over a decade, and increased 15.3% to 37.54p 2011: 32.57p.
has been central to the Companys global expansion.
15.3% We continue to build upon our long history of profitability and BOARD EVALUATION AND COMPOSITION We wish them both the very best for the future.
have not had a loss-making day since 2008.
We maintain a strong As foreshadowed in my statement last year, the Board appointed, Final dividend per share debt-free balance sheet and our capital resources significantly after a detailed review of potential providers, Dr Tracy Long of These changes to our Board mean that after our 2012 AGM exceed regulatory requirements.
We are a highly cash-generative Boardroom Review to conduct a full evaluation of the Board we will be fully compliant with Code Provision A.
3.2 of the business and this both allows for investment in technology and and its subsidiary committees, being Audit, Nomination Combined Code.
16.75p enables us to maintain a high level of dividend payout.
and Remuneration, commensurate with principle A.
6 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
It is again our intention this year to put every Board Director, As a result, at the forthcoming AGM, your Board will recommend with the exception of Nat and Andrew, up for re-election at the Dividend payout the payment of a final dividend of 16.75p per share.
This will Dr Longs review included interviews with all Board members AGM, in compliance with paragraph B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate bring the total dividends for the year to 22.5p, an increase of and the secretariat, and attendance at a Board meeting and Governance Code.
12.5% on last year, and represents 60% of our earnings for the various Board committee meetings.
I am pleased to report that 60.0% year.
Your Board plans to continue with the present policy of no major issues were raised and that her recommendations for REMUNERATION distributing approximately 60% of earnings each year.
improvement will be followed up by the Board.
It is the present The Remuneration Committee, under the chairmanship of view of the Board to continue the practice of appointing an Roger Yates, the Senior Independent Director, has reviewed REGULATION independent firm to conduct a full board evaluation every third the remuneration for senior management during the year.
As a global financial services business that operates in highly year, whilst relying on internal reviews in the intervening period.
regulated markets, we recognise the importance of being in We are continuing with an element of deferral in the Executive compliance with regulatory and legal obligations at all times.
Nat le Roux will step down as Deputy Chairman at this years Directors and Code Staffs bonus structure, reflecting the As the regulatory environment changes, often in reaction to AGM.
Nat began his career with IG in 1992, and was CEO from Financial Services Authoritys remuneration principles and market events, we understand the importance of maintaining 2002 to 2006, prior to taking up his present position.
Nats commensurate with our previous commitments.
There are collaborative relationships with the relevant authorities.
contribution to the success of IG has been immense: your Board no proposed changes this year to the value-sharing plan, our will miss his wise counsel and wisdom.
long-term incentive scheme: however, there have been changes One area of focus has been client money, and during the year to the Executive Directors performance-related bonus scheme, we have strengthened our stewardship of client money, creating In searching for a replacement for Nat, the Board recognises that details of which are set out in the Directors remuneration report.
a Client Money Committee under the chairmanship of our it is important to consider diversity of gender, skills, knowledge CFO, Chris Hill, to ensure that we continue to meet the highest and experience when appointing new members to the Board, CONCLUSION standards of client care in this regard.
A further example is especially following publication of the Davies review on Women We have continued this year with our core strategies, which working with regulators to introduce strict rules regarding the on Boards.
combine technological excellence with client service to drive protection of client money: in Australia we are working with growth in new and established markets.
the CFD Forum to establish best practice in this area which is Andrew MacKay, Director of Corporate Strategy, has decided to substantially higher than present regulation demands.
step down from the Board and leave the Company to pursue As always, our results could not have been achieved without the other interests.
Andrew joined IG in 1999 as Group LegalCounsel relentless focus on client service and commitment from all our I am disappointed to report that, despite our best efforts, and was appointed to the Board in 2003.
He spent three years employees.
I and my fellow Directors would like to express our the Groups annual charges from the Financial Services as Head of Asia Pacific, before his most recent appointment as gratitude to them for their personal contributions to the Groups Compensation Scheme FSCS have remained at the elevated Head of Corporate Strategy.
Jonathan Davie, Chairman 17 July 2012 1 Net trading revenue is trading revenue excluding interest on segregated client funds and is presented net of introducing broker commissions.
All references to revenue in this statement are made with regards to net trading revenue 2 The comparative diluted EPS and the percentage increases calculated thereon are based on an adjusted measure excluding the amortisation and impairment of intangible assets associated with the Groups Japanese business.
Diluted EPS has been presented for the continuing business, excluding the discontinued Sport business 02 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2012 ANNUAL REPORT 03 Chief Executives review CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW European contribution to Group revenue We experienced varying conditions through the year and this Europe saw 26% growth with a 32% increase in active clients, The Monetary Authority of Singapore MAS has indicated was reflected in a range of growth rates across the Group.
For partially offset by a 5% fall in revenue per client.
Germany an intention to reduce leverage on forex from 50 times to 20 1 the year as a whole we increased revenue by 17.3%.
This was and Italy were the strongest-growing in the first half, but in times.
While we do not welcome this development, we believe split into 28% growth in the first half, 1.5% in the third quarter the second half produced weaker growth, while our Iberian that the impact it will have on our revenue will be significantly 19% and then 12% for the final quarter.
High levels of market business accelerated to become the fastest growing of our less than similar changes previously made in Japan, as the MAS volatility in August 2011 resulted in record monthly revenues.
rules are more flexible and recognise the positive impact that This effect was greatest in our southern hemisphere businesses stops have on reducing client risk.
Growth in active clients excluding Japan in Australia and Singapore.
In the northern hemisphere the Singapore achieved 49% growth, mainly driven by a 30% impact was more muted as it coincided with the summer increase in revenue per client.
South Africa produced revenue Several countries in continental Europe have indicated an holidays.
Elevated client activity continued to a lesser extent for of 4.0 million, compared to 2.7 million for the nine months it intention to bring in a financial transaction tax which is similar 11% the remainder of the first half.
As is often the case, this period was included in the prior year.
in style and scope to UK stamp duty.
Initial indications are of prolonged elevated client activity was followed by a more that it will not apply to derivative transactions and, as with UK subdued period as many of our clients reduced their trading There are signs that our Japanese business has stabilised after stamp duty, it may therefore result in a competitive advantage Percentage of clients using mobile technology activity.
This effect was exacerbated by the extended seasonal the leverage restrictions introduced in August.
Revenue per when comparing trading CFDs on individual equities with us holiday period in December and January.
This resulted in a quarter has been steady at around 4.0 million in each of the to trading conventional cash equities.
We continue to monitor muted third quarter.
The year ended on a stronger note with last three quarters.
We have reduced the cost base for this developments in this area closely.
43% good year-on-year growth in the final quarter, particularly in business to a level appropriate for its revenue, and it continues April and May.
to generate a reasonable level of profit.
INTERNATIONAL GROWTH This was the first full year of operation for our Amsterdam There is a trade-off between the number of active clients and Our US business, Nadex, remains a long-term project, but we office, which we opened in May 2011, and our South African average revenue per client, and for the last 18 months our are seeing some very early signs that it is gaining traction, with office, which was established in September 2010 when we focus, particularly in our longer-established markets, has been a steady increase in the number of members trading over the acquired the business and client list of Ideal CFDs.
Both on improving the quality of our client base.
We have sought second half of the year, albeit from a small base.
This growth businesses performed well during the year and by the end to recruit higher-value new clients, and have ensured that our was principally driven by direct client recruitment.
of the year were achieving monthly revenues of 100,000 very largest clients receive a dedicated personal service.
therefore pleased that during this financial year we achieved EXTRABET improvements in revenue per client of 10%, 9% and 30% During July 2011 we closed our Sport business, extrabet, and We intend to continue to expand geographically and our respectively in the UK, Australia and Singapore.
sold part of its client list to Spreadex under an arrangement corporate development team, under the leadership of where we receive a share in the revenue that they generate Andrew MacKay, has developed plans for our ongoing In Europe revenue per client is some 20% higher than it is in from those clients for three years after the sale.
During the year international rollout.
For competitive reasons I believe it our much longer-established UK market, reflecting the relative this arrangement produced income of 1.0 million, which is would be counterproductive to provide further detail until immaturity of our European businesses, where high-value reported within other income.
shortly before any new country is due to go live.
early adopters still raise the average.
Revenue per client in Europe fell by 5% this year in a continuation of what is now a The closure of extrabet has enabled us to focus singleI would like to add my thanks to those of our Chairman for clear trend.
Over time I would expect revenue per client for the mindedly on our core financial business and has had several Andrews contribution to IG over the past 13 years, and established and newer markets to slowly converge.
benefits, including increasing our ability to carry out systems in particular the major part he has played in shaping our maintenance and development over the weekends.
international expansion to date and providing a plan and PERFORMANCE OF OUR MAIN BUSINESS UNITS the infrastructure which will enable us to continue to expand Our UK business continues to deliver good levels of growth, REGULATION AND TAX in the coming years.
with revenue up 15% for the year, driven by a 10% increase in During the year we have seen a focus from a number of revenue per client and a 5% growth in active clients.
regulators globally on client money protection, and also on capital adequacy.
These are both areas of competitive We saw faster growth in Australia, up 22%, driven in almost advantage for us and we welcome this increased regulatory equal measure by growth in active clients of 11% and increased focus.
In Australia a number of competitors have moved to full revenue per client of 9%.
UK-style client money segregation, something we have always offered our Australian clients.
1 Net trading r evenue is trading revenue excluding interest on segregated client funds and is presented net of introducing broker commissions.
All references to revenue in this statement are made with regards to net trading revenue 04 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2012 ANNUAL REPORT 05
