Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Chairmans statement 2012 has been another year of achievement for Sky.
In a challenging In parallel with my appointment as Chairman, Andy Higginson was economic environment, the Company has continued to make strong appointed as the Senior Independent Director and Tom Mockridge progress on all fronts.
More customers are choosing Sky and, at the as Deputy Chairman.
From the Independent Directors, Allan Leighton same time, are taking a greater number of products from us.
Combined and David Evans retired after the 2011 AGM and Dame Gail Rebuck with a strong commitment to operational efficiency, this growth retired in June 2012.
They were succeeded by Matthieu Pigasse, has resulted in excellent financial results and increased returns for Martin Gilbert and Tracy Clarke.
We thank all those Directors for their shareholders, continuing the Companys track record of delivery over considerable contribution over many years, and we warmly welcome recent years.
I would like to thank all our colleagues at Sky for their the three new Board members.
Later this year, Lord Richard Wilson commitment and focus over the last year, without which none of this and Jacques Nasser will also retire, and we are making good progress would be possible.
towards the appointment of their replacements.
This means that the majority of the Independent Directors This sustained performance would be good in any environment will have joined within twelve months.
This is in part due to but it is exceptional in a period when household budgets the delay in replacements caused by the proposed bid by have been under sustained pressure.
It is the result of a clear, News Corporation.
In order to ensure that we have sufficient consistent strategy and first-rate execution by the management Independent Directors with more than three years experience, team.
While we must never be complacent in such a dynamic we have asked Andy Higginson to stay on for two additional and competitive marketplace, the Board is confident that the years beyond September 2013, and I will stay on for sufficient Company is well positioned to continue to take advantage of the time to ensure the necessary continuity.
Through these steps, growth opportunity in home entertainment and communications.
we will safeguard the interests of shareholders by ensuring the necessary balance of experience for a well-functioning Board.
As the Company looks to develop further, we also recognise the importance that customers place on dealing with responsible Finally, in view of the Companys continued strong performance, businesses that have a positive impact on the wider community.
We the Board proposes a 9% increase in the full-year dividend to 25.4 have a very good story to tell, both in terms of our support for the UK pence per share and intends to seek shareholder approval for a creative industries and our contribution to the wider economy.
This further 500 million of share repurchases.
The entire Board and year, a new independent report has measured for the first time the management team remain fully focused on maintaining our strong very substantial impact made by Sky in terms of GDP contribution, performance and I would like to thank shareholders for their employment and tax generation.
In addition, through our Bigger continued support.
Picture programme, we are working with schools to help inspire young people and develop their skills with the opening of our new Sky Nicholas Ferguson Skills Studios experience on our campus in west London, as well as Chairman continuing to develop our work in sport, arts and the environment.
25 July 2012 During the year a number of changes have taken place in the Board.
In April, James Murdoch stepped down as Chairman, while staying on as a Director, and I was asked by the Board to succeed him.
On behalf of the entire Board, I would like to pay tribute to James for the vision, drive and strategic insight he contributed both as Chairman and previously as Chief Executive.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 3
