International Public Partnerships Limited Letter from the Chairman Dear Shareholders, It is with pleasure that I am able to write to you to report another satisfactory year for your Company.
We have seen a high level of investment together with continuing strong performaQFH IURP WKH &RPSDQ V assets.
The prospects for INPP in 2013 and beyond remain buoyant with good opportunities for future investments in the sectors and geographies in which the fund is active.
5 In 2012, the Company provided robust returns to investors of 9.1%.
For an investor who has held shares 6 in the Company since IPO in 2006, the total return to 31 December 2012 was 67.7%.
This compares with a return on the FTSE All Share index of 21.3 RYHU WKH SHULRG VLQFH WKH &RPSDQ V OLVWLQJ WR December 2012 12.5% for 2012 in which the index rebounded strongly.
I am pleased to be able to report the following highlights for 2012: x 146.6 million of capital was invested in a variety of assets, most notably a new investment in the Ormonde offshore energy transmission project and incremental iQFUHDVHV WR WKH &RPSDQ V KROGLQJV LQ Building Schools for the Future %6 projects: x The Northern Diabolo project, a new tunnelled rail connection linking Brussels airport to the new Brussels-Antwerp High Speed rail line, was officially opened on 7 June 2012 by King Albert II of Belgium.
The project is the &RPSDQ V second largest investment representing c. 12 RI, 133V portfolio and the construction was finished on time and on budget: x 7KH &RPSDQ V GLYLGHQG LQFUHDVHG IRU WKH ILIWK VXFFHVVLYH HDU LQ Oine with the target set by the Board and detailed in WKH &RPSDQ V, QLWLDO 3XEOLF 2IIHU LQ x An increase in Net Asset Value 1$9 per share of 3.5% since 31 December 2011.
The Company, through its Investment Advisor, continues to have access to a strong flow of interesting investment opportunities in various OECD geographies and the Investment Advisor is required to give the &RPSDQ ILUVW UHIXVDO RQ DOO TXDOLI LQJ SURMHFWV LW LGHQWLILHV WKDW PHHW WKH &RPSDQ V LQYHVWPHQW FULWHULD Access to this diverse SLSHOLQH LV LQFUHDVLQJO RQH RI WKH &RPSDQ V NH GLIIHUHQWLDWRUV particularly in an environment where the near term volume of new traditional PPP PFI projects in the UK has reduced and competition for assets has increased.
This advantage can be seen as INPP continues to benefit from its leading position within the UK offshore transmission sector.
The Company, in conjunction with its consortium partners, completed investment in a fourth project, and was named preferred bidder on a fifth UK offshore transmission project off the coast of Lincolnshire, which it expects to be able to invest in during 2013.
There have also been a number of opportunities following-on from the BSF portfolio acquired in August 2011.
This has included the acquisition of an income accretive portfolio of assets from a contractor who was not a long-term holder of these assets.
There have also been a number of smaller investment opportunities identified by the Investment Advisor as schemes in development reached financial close.
We believe there are also likely to be further nearer-term follow-on investment opportunities to enhance the &RPSDQ V H[LVWLQJ LQYHVWPHQW LQ the BSFI portfolio.
Internationally we see a continued flow of opportunities, notably in Germany, Canada and Australia and ZH DUH DFWLYHO VXSSRUWLYH RI RXU, QYHVWPHQW $GYLVRUV SROLF WR UHVHDUFK RSSRUWXQLties in other major economies.
Specifically, our Investment Advisor is, as indicated at the time of the capital raising in June 2012, analysing an opportunity to invest in a German government office project before the end of 2013.
5 From 1 January to 31 December 2012 share price appreciation plus income - Bloomberg 5 International Public Partnerships Limited Letter from the Chairman continued Looking ahead there continues to be significant levels of support from investors and governments alike for private investment in infrastructure.
The portfolio is well positioned to take advantage of this and I believe there continues to be the opportunity to make accretive investments for the Company.
Capital Raisings, Acquisitions and Cash Position As previously reported within our interim results, the Company undertook a 200 million capital raising by way of a Placing, Open Offer and Offer for Subscription, that was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 25 June 2012.
It is a measure of support for the Company and the continued investor appetite for this asset class that the original target of 180 million was exceeded and the offer closed oversubscribed.
The raising was predominately supported by existing shareholders but we were also pleased to welcome a number of new shareholders to the register including some international pension funds.
As expected, a significant portion of the net proceeds of the Offer has already been deployed, including the repayment of the 18.1 million balance RQ WKH &RPSDQ V FRUSRUDWH GHEW IDFLOLW drawn at that time.
At the time of the raising, the Company indicated that it had a strong pipeline of immediate, accretive investment opportunities.
The majority of these pipeline investments have already been concluded: x the aforementioned BSF investments, of which a 26.9 million portfolio was acquired from Carillion Private Finance Limited.
An additional 4.0 million was made in follow-on investments emanating from WKH &RPSDQ V LQYHVWPHQW LQ WKH existing BSF portfolio: and x the 115.1 million acquisition of Ormonde UK offshore wind electricity transmission asset.
The Board believes that these assets are important additions to the portfolio and will enhance shareholder returns.
Following the 31 December 2012 balance date, on 10 January 2013, the Company undertook a 40 million capital raise by way of a tap issue.
The issue was oversubscribed and undertaken to provide the resources needed to realise the &RPSDQ V VLJQLILFDQW pipeline of investment opportunities as well as assisting in managing down the SUHPLXP WKDW WKH &RPSDQ V VKDUHV were trading at relative to the NAV.
Following the January capital raising, the Company has access to approximately 86 million of cash available for investment after providing for the forthcoming June dividend payment and a prudent reserve for working capital and a further 100 million available through its corporate debt facility.
Financial Results On a consolidated IFRS basis the profit before tax was 26.8 million 2011: 13.2 million.
On a cash 7 basis, cash of 53.6 million 2011: 44.0 million before distributions was received by the Company from its portfolio of investments.
On a net basis, post one-off transaction costs excluding costs associated with the capital raising, this produced an operating cash surplus of 40.7 million 2011: 30.5 million equivalent to a coverage over the distribution payable for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 1.3 times 2011: 1.5 times.
More details are provided in the Investment Advisors report.
7 6HH WKH, QYHVWPHQW $GYLVRUV UHSRUW IRU DGGLWLRQDO LQIRUPDWLRQ RQ WKLV FDOFXODWLRQ 6 International Public Partnerships Limited Letter from the Chairman continued Investment Performance 7KH &RPSDQ V SRUWIROLR RI 122 infrastructure investments continued to perform well in the twelve months to 31 December 2012.
As at 31 December 2012, NAV per share was 121.0 pence, a 3.5% increase from the NAV per share as at 31 December 2011 of 116.9 pence and an increase of 5.0% on the 115.2 pence per share NAV provided to investors prior to the completion of the 200 million capital raising.
This increase in performance of the portfolio largely reflects the successful conclusion of construction activity on certain investments as well as active ongoing management and underlying macroeconomic changes benefiting the portfolio.
More detailed LQIRUPDWLRQ RQ WKH SHUIRUPDQFH RI WKH &RPSDQ V DVVHWV LV VHW RXW LQ WKH, QYHVWPHQW $GYLVRUV UHSRUW I believe that, other things being equal, there remain good prospects for further increases in NAV in future periods, as projects, currently in construction, move into the operational phase or those which have recently reached completion demonstrate performance during the post construction operational period.
As noted above, one of the &RPSDQ V ODUJHVW DVVHWs representing c. 12% of NAV, Northern Diabolo Project, was officially opened on 7 June 2012, and there is likely to be an associated uplift to NAV for that project over the coming 12-18 months as it settles into operational status and its post-construction risk premium reduces.
Distributions In line with the target established at the time of the IPO, the Company has been able, on a fully funded basis, to increase dividends for the past five successive years.
The Board confirms that it will target a total distribution of 6.15 pence per share for the 2013 financial year.
The Board is now pleased to confirm that a payment of 3.075 pence per share in respect of this target is expected to be paid in October 2013.
The second payment is expected to be made in June 2014.
$ VFULS GLYLGHQG RSWLRQ H[LVWV LQ UHVSHFW RI WKH &RPSDQ V GLVWULEXWLRQV VXEMHFW WR WKH 'LUHFWRUV EHLQJ satisfied that this is in the best interests of the Company at the relevant time.
Subject to shareholders approving the continuation of the option at the forthcoming Annual General MHHWLQJ $ 0 applications for participation in the scrip distribution option will be sent to investors in September 2013 and May 2014.
The Board is committed to directing the CompanyV FRQWLQXLQJ operation in a manner that will ensure that, as far as possible the policy of regularly increasing dividend payments is sustainable in the longer term, notwithstanding the current global economic uncertainty.
Gearing ThH &RPSDQ KDV FRQWLQXHG LWV SROLF QRW WR KROG ORQJ WHUP GHEW 7KH &RPSDQ V LQYHVWPHQWV DUH generally held in special purpose asset owning entities that are financed by a mix of long term matched debt and risk capital.
This asset level debt is non-recourse to the Company and in almost every case is long-term amortising debt upon which a fixed rate of interest or swapped variable rate to fixed rate of interest is payable over the period of the underlying contract.
The &RPSDQ V revolving debt facility is used to acquire new investment opportunities between equity raisings in order to avoid, as far as possible, cash drag and allows the Company to move quickly to acquire attractive investment opportunities as they arise.
In late 2011, the corporate debt facility was GUDZQ WR PLOOLRQ WR SDUWO IXQG WKH &RPSDQ V LQLWLDO LQYHVWPHQW LQ its BSF portfolio investment.
RZHYHU FRQVLVWHQW ZLWK WKH &RPSDQ V SROLF RI only maintaining balances for a short period, the outstanding balance was promptly repaid following the 200 million capital raising undertaken during the period.
7KH &RPSDQ V FRUSRUDWH GHEW IDFLOLW LV WKHUHIRUH FXUUHQWO XQGUDZQ 7 International Public Partnerships Limited Letter from the Chairman continued The Current Infrastructure Market The infrastructure market continues to grow and to receive increased and positive focus from a broad group of investors.
The Board sees this as an encouraging trend, which is also supported by a reasonable supply of investment opportunities, although we have seen increased competition in some sectors over the last 12 months due to growing competition between bidders and new entrants to the market.
There have also been a number of positive developments in government policy during the period which demonstrate continued support for the role of private sector investment in the provision of public infrastructure projects.
In December, in conjunction with its Autumn Statement, the UK Government announced its renewed approach to public-private partnerships PPPs, known as 3ULYDWH LQDQFH or 3.
As expected, existing PFI contracts with government agencies were left largely unchanged with no effecW RQ, 133V existing portfolio.
Going forward, newly procured schemes will be likely to have greater equity participation by the government agency or authority commissioning the works and higher levels of equity are also likely to be required from investors participating in the projects.
There will also be greater transparency in reporting and streamlining of project procurement.
Overall, we believe that the proposed reforms are largely positive for the sector and the Company and demonstrate the importance of the GovernmentV further encouragement of private sector investment in infrastructure.
During the period, an issue that was overhanging the sector was resolved.
The Office for National Statistics conducted a review into the calculation of the Retail Price Index a key measure of inflation upon which many of the ComSDQ V 8.
FRQWUDFWV DUH EDVHG, t concluded that no change to the calculation was required, which is a positive outcome for the sector.
The UK government also provided further encouragement to investors in the sector, announcing in early July that it would provide up to 40 billion of guarantees to support infrastructure projects which are struggling to find finance in adversH FUHGLW FRQGLWLRQV :KLOH WKH QDWXUH DQG TXDOLW RI, 133V SURMHFWV LV high and the Company does not anticipate any significant need to apply for these guarantees, it is a PHDVXUH RI WKH 8.
JRYHUQPHQWV FRPPLWPHQW WR HQVXUH WKDW DGHTXDWH LQYHstment is made into the sector.
Similar levels of support for private infrastructure investment are evident from governments in other jurisdictions in which the fund invests.
For example, in Australia the Federal Government has recently 8 conducted a review into the role of private investment in the sector, concluding that a significant portion of its mature infrastructure portfolio could be divested in order to recycle capital into other under funded forms of infrastructure.
Nevertheless, it must be noted that, in the UK at least, there has been a very marked reduction since 2010 in the number of new projects being brought forward by government under PFI, PPP or PF2 arrangements and we see no real sign of a change in this trend in the near-term.
A corollary of this reduction in supply in the new projects market has been to increase competition for those remaining projects.
This, coupled with continued investor demand for such assets, has resulted in some downward pressure on returns.
As a result, the Company has remained selective in its pursuit of appropriate acquisitions and sought only to focus on new investments that are anticipated to be accretive and to make strategic sense within its overall portfolio.
The Company has also, to an extent, been isolated from some of this increased competitive pressure through investing in alternative assets and sectors which have higher barriers to entry.
The offshore energy transmission assets referred to above are a good example of this.
Looking ahead, the Company continues to expect to invest in other opportunities both in the PFI PPP sector and in the wider utilities sector where the Company and its Advisor believe that appropriate value for investors can be achieved.
8 $XVWUDOLDV 3XEOLF, QIUDVWUXFWXUH Part of the Answer to Removing InfrastruFWXUH 'HILFLW, Australian Government, October 2012 8 International Public Partnerships Limited Letter from the Chairman continued Overall, we continue to be confident of the flow of new infrastructure opportunities in our core geographic markets.
XUWKHU LQIRUPDWLRQ RQ WKH &RPSDQ V LQYHVWPHQW VWUDWHJ DQG SROLFLHV FDQ EH IRXQG Ln the Investment Policy section on pages 28 to 32 of this Report.
Corporate Governance and Board There have been a number of changes with respect to the Board of Directors during the period.
It is with regret that the Board accepted the resignation of non-executive director Carol Goodwin at the end of the financial year.
Ms Goodwin, who had served as an independent non-executive director since 2007, as a member of the Audit Committee and as Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee, advised the Board in the second quarter that, for personal family reasons, she would be resigning as a Director of the Company at the end of the year.
Carol stands out as a shining example of a knowledgeable, effective and dedicated non-executive director and her input, knowledge, experience and business acumen have been key elements in the success and continuing development of the Company.
We thank her for her significant contribution to the Company and I would especially like to record my personal thanks for the way in which she assisted me in my duties.
0V RRGZLQV prior notice of her intended resignation enabled the Board to undertake appropriate succession planning and in recognition of this, following a review and the interview of a number of potential replacement non-executive directors, Ms Claire Whittet was appointed a non-executive director on 10 September 2012, and was appointed to the Audit Committee on 23 November 2012.
0V :KLWWHWV significant experience in the financial sector, particularly within credit markets, together with her knowledge of corporate governance and regulation will be a valuable addition to the Board.
I have also notified the Board of my intention, having reached the age of 67, to retire as Chairman of the Company on 31 December 2013 and I will not offer myself forward for re-election upon my rotational resignation at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
I have appreciated and been thankful for the trust and support of the shareholders, Board members and stakeholders over the last six years and I believe that it is a reflection of this trust and support that enabled us to successfully steer the Company through the effects of the recession on its previous promoter and create the substantial and profitable organisation that exists today.
Whilst it is over 12 months to my intended departure the Board is mindful of planning for my succession too and it is envisaged that the Chair of the Audit Committee, Mr Rupert Dorey, will be appointed to the role of Chairman of the Board upon my retirement from the post on 31 December 2013.
Rupert has been a PHPEHU RI WKH %RDUG VLQFH WKH &RPSDQ V LQFHSWLRQ, has a detailed understanding of the Company and its investments DQG LV IXOO TXDOLILHG DQG DEOH WR WDNH RYHU WKH &KDLUPDQV UROH.
I have no doubt that if he is appointed, the Company will benefit and continue to prosper under 0U 'RUH V OHDGHUVKLS.
It is also envisaged that Mr John Whittle, a qualified accountant and Board member since 2009, will take over the responsibilities of Chair of the Audit Committee.
In the period between now and the end of the year Mr Dorey and Mr Whittle will be shadowing the responsibilities it is intended they will be assuming in 2014.
Reduction in Base Fees The Board is pleased to advise that costs associated with the ongoing management of the Company have reduced.
During the period the Company and the Investment Advisor agreed that from 30 June 2012, the Base Fee payable to the Investment Advisor would reduce to 1% per annum in respect of the Gross Asset 9DOXH $9 RI WKH &RPSDQ V operational projects that exceed 750 million calculated in accordance with the principles detailed in the Investment Advisors report and being those projects that have been certified as being fully operational by the relevant counterparty and senior lender.
9 International Public Partnerships Limited Letter from the Chairman continued For GAV less than 750 million and for non-operational projects the Base Fee payable to the Investment Advisor will remain unchanged at 1.2% per annum.
There will be no change to the Incentive Fee arrangements to the Investment Advisor.
We believe that this is a positive development for the fund and that investors should benefit from efficiencies as the portfolio increases in size.
As noted later LQ WKLV UHSRUW WKH &RPSDQ V Ongoing CharJHV, as defined by the Association of Investment Companies, have reduced as a result from 1.59% for the period ended 31 December 2011 to 1.27% to 31 December 2012.
Directors Fees It is now three years since the Directors fees were last reviewed and, during this period, not only has the Company grown from a market capitalisation of 387 million to 894 million as at the end of 2012, but the responsibilities and time commitment of Directors have been significantly increased.
During the year, the independent Board members met formally on 23 occasions see page 54 and this level of commitment reflects the complexity, value and volume of the new investment opportunities that the Board reviews and the ever increasing regulatory and compliance obligations on the Company.
Examples of the latter include changes to London Stock Exchange Listing Rules, the introduction of IFRS Accounting Standards to the accounts of the GroXSV VXEVLGLDULHV DQG DQWLFLSDWHG QHZ UHJXODWLRQV VXFK DV $, 0' At the current time, gross aggregate Directors fees are limited E WKH &RPSDQ V DUWLFOHV WR 250,000 per annum.
At the AGM the Company will be asking shareholders to approve an increase in this limit to 350,000 which comfortably exceeds the current or proposed levels of remuneration for the Board but allows scope for the appointment of additional directors which is particularly desirable to facilitate future Board succession planning and allow an overlap between the appointment of any new Directors and the retirement of any outgoing Directors.
The increase will enable the Company to ensure that the Board remuneration, composition and succession planning can be sustained for the foreseeable future.
In making this request the Board feels it appropriate to detail its intention with regard to the fees payable to Directors with effect st from 1 January 2013 and they are as follows: Position Current Future Number Chairman 47,000 60,000 1 Audit Chairman 37,000 50,000 1 Independent Directors 32,000 37,500 2 Non-independent Director 32,000 32,000 1 Total Proposed Board Annual Fees 180,000 217,000 These fees include an allowance for the attendance of independent directors at the key board committees which comprise the audit committee and the management engagement committee.
In addition to these fees Board members may receive additional fees as recompense for specific tasks such as capital raising although these are paid out of the capital raising they are reported within and included in total Directors emoluments which are subject to the above noted maximum.
In addition to these specifically approved fees, the total also includes any additional fees including, but not limited to, the fees in relation to the appointment of a Director as part of succession planning, the appointment of an additional Director or the making of payments to a Director for a specific task.
Principal risks and uncertainties There are risks associated with investing in the Company.
The Board seeks to mitigate and manage risks relating to the Company where possible through review, policy setting and enforcement of contractual obligations.
It also regularly monitors the investment environment and the management of the CompanyV portfolio.
However, not all risks can be anticipated or managed.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company are set out on pages 33 to 36 and detailed further in the Placing, Open Offer and Offer for Subscription Prospectus published on 24 May 2012.
These principal risks and uncertainties are expected to remain relevant to the Company for the foreseeable future and include: 10 International Public Partnerships Limited Letter from the Chairman continued x Credit and counterparty risks The risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Company.
x Liquidity risk The ability to successfully access suitable financial resources in the debt, equity and related financial markets.
x Valuation risk the risk that the CompanyV SXEOLVKHG 1$9 GRHV QRW IDLUO UHIOHFW WKH WUXH YDOXH RI LWV assets.
x Inflation risk Revenues and expenditures of project entities with respect to infrastructure assets are generally partially or wholly subject to indexation and an assumption is made that inflation will increase at a long-term rate.
The CompanyV DELOLW WR Peet targets may be adversely or positively impacted by inflation.
x Foreign exchange risk The Company has exposure to foreign currencies and therefore exposure to exchange rate fluctuations.
x Market risk The Company is a listed entity and as such the value of an investment in the Company is subject to normal market fluctuations and other risks inherent in investing in listed securities.
x Other external risks Includes the political and regulatory risks including tax and accounting policies and practices associated with the Company and its projects and changes in the competitive environment which may have an adverse impact on the Company.
Outlook Overall, the Board is looking forward to the remainder of 2013 with confidence 7KH &RPSDQ V SRUWIROLR LV now substantially operational with several large-scale projects having reached construction completion over the past 18 months.
The benefits of the completion of these assets have already started to flow WKURXJK WR LQFUHDVHV LQ WKH &RPSDQ V NAV and, other things being equal, are expected to do so over the coming period as the operational phases of these projects progress.
Overall, the portfolio continues to perform well and I am confident that there are attractive infrastructure opportunities in the UK and in the overseas jurisdictions in which the Advisor is represented and knowledgeable.
The recent commitments to infrastructure procurement made by the UK Government and governments in other jurisdictions in which we invest support this view.
Additionally, we are encouraged by continued investor demand for the infrastructure sector.
I and my fellow directors would also like to thank investors for their support during the successful 200 million capital raising in June last year and the 40 million tap issue in January this year.
We were HQFRXUDJHG JUHDWO E WKH VWURQJ OHYHOV RI GHPDQG IRU WKH &RPSDQ V VKDUHV DQG DUH FRQILGHQW WKDW LQ conjunction with the Investment Advisor, we can continue to acquire assets that will bring long term value to the portfolio.
Finally, we all reiterate our willingness to be available to meet with investors as required and to maintain a high level of constructive dialogue with our shareholders.
Keith Dorrian 27 March 2013 Chairman 11 International Public Partnerships Limited, QYHVWPHQW $GYLVRUV 5HSRUW About the Investment Advisor Amber Fund Management Limited AFML is a wholly owned subsidiary of Amber Infrastructure Group Limited Amber.
AFML is authorised and regulated in the UK by the Financial Services Authority.
Amber is a specialist developer, manager and originator with respect to infrastructure assets in Europe, Australia and North America.
At 31 December 2012 Amber had approximately 80 staff based in the UK London, Germany Munich, Australia Melbourne and Sydney and the United States San Francisco.
Introduction International Public Partnerships Limited performed in line with, or above, projections in 2012.
The portfolio delivered returns as anticipated and the CoPSDQ V GLVWULEXWLRQ LQFUHDVHG LQ OLQH ZLWK WDUJHW for the fifth successive year.
Highlights include the successful achievement of construction completion on several projects including one of WKH SRUWIROLRV ODUJHVW DVVHWs, the Northern Diabolo rail project in Brussels and investment of 146.6 million into new assets including consolidating WKH &RPSDQ V leading position in the UK offshore electricity transmission sector.
Overall, the year was characterised by: x Resolution of the procurement of social infrastructure in the UK with the announcement of PF2 by the Government with the Autumn Statement: x Confirmation that the Retail Price Index calculation would not be changed, leading to more certainty around contracts with this measure of inflation linkage in the UK: x A steady supply of new investment opportunities, in particular within the UK offshore electricity transmission sector: x Continued supply of attractive portfolios of assets from construction companies and other vendors with a short-term investment horizon: x Strong government support in the UK and other key markets such as Europe, Canada and Australia for greater private sector investment in infrastructure assets: x The maintenance of a healthy pipeline of attractive investment opportunities likely to come to fruition in 2013 and beyond.
The continued economic uncertainty that affects the wider equity market also continued to serve as an illustration of how infrastructure assets can offer stable returns for investors even through such volatile conditions.
Over the year we have seen increasing numbers of investors become interested in infrastructure investment both in the UK and from new international markets.
One effect of this has been increased demand for certain assets notably mature operating PPP projects.
This is to some extent driven by the reduction in UK gilt yields and some new entrants to the market.
This increased competition DXJXUV ZHOO IRU WKH YDOXH RI WKH &RPSDQ V H[LVWLQJ DVVHWV EXW DOVR SODFHV D SUHPLXP RQ WKH DELOLW WR source new invesWPHQWV RII PDUNHW RU WKURXJK own account development work.
Both these avenues to investment continue to be focuses for the Investment Advisor.
Investment Performance The Company aims to provide attractive risk adjusted levels of income to its investors coupled with capital appreciation.
The total return achieved by an investor share price appreciation plus distribution between 1 January 2012 and 31 December 2012 was 9.1%.
7KH &RPSDQ V SROLF UHPDLQV WR WDUJHW DQQXDO JURZWK in its distribution in future years in the 2.5%-3.0% range which is broadly consistent with long-term policy targets for inflation in the countries where the Company operates.
12 International Public Partnerships Limited, QYHVWPHQW $GYLVRUV 5HSRUW continued 7KH FKDUW EHORZ VKRZV D FRPSDULVRQ EHWZHHQ WKH &RPSDQ V LHOG LQ 2012 and the distribution of certain other assets classes highlighting that the Company compares favourably to other high yielding 9 benchmarks: INPP Yield v Market 6% 4.79% 4.72% 5% 4% 2.79% 3% 2.43% 2% 1% 0% INPP FTSE 350 World FTSE 250 High Yield Investment Index Index Companies Index The Company aims to provide consistent low volatility returns to investors with only limited correlation to more general equity markets.
Generally, the returns from infrastructure assets such as those invested in by the Company are not significantly linked to macro economic trends such as movements in GDP.
As such, the expectation is that the share price performance of the Company should exhibit low volatility coupled with relatively low levels of correlation with wider market indices such as the FTSE250 or FTSE All-Share indices.
7KH KLVWRULFDO SHUIRUPDQFH RI WKH &RPSDQ V VKDUH SULFH UHODWLYH WR WKH NH EHQFKPDUNV is given below and shows consistent performance over a long period, barring volatility surrounding uncertainty regarding the &RPSDQ V Investment Advisor in late 2008 early 2009: INPP Share Price Performance vs FTSE 30% 20% 10% 0% -10% INPP -20% FTSE 250 -30% FTSE AllShare -40% -50% 9 Bloomberg 13 Nov 06 Feb 07 May 07 Aug 07 Nov 07 Feb 08 May 08 Aug 08 Nov 08 Feb 09 May 09 Aug 09 Nov 09 Feb 10 May 10 Aug 10 Nov 10 Feb 11 May 11 Aug 11 Nov 11 Feb 12 May 12 Aug 12 Nov 12 Dec 12 International Public Partnerships Limited, QYHVWPHQW $GYLVRUV 5HSRUW continued Portfolio Performance 7KH &RPSDQ V SRUWIROLR RI DVVHWV SHUIRUPHG LQ OLQH ZLWK SURMHFWLRQV GXULQJ WKH WZHOve months to 31 December 2012.
7KH, QYHVWPHQW $GYLVRUV DVVHW PDQDJHPHQW WHDP FRQWLQXHG WR ZRUN ZLWK HDFK RI WKH SRUWIROLR DVVHWV WR ensure, so far as possible, that they operate as anticipated and to review where additional returns for investors may be achieved.
Operational and compliance performance standards across the portfolio were maintained at high levels and a significant number of requests for variations were progressed on behalf of WKH &RPSDQ V SXEOLF VHFWRU FOLHQWV GXULQJ WKH SHULRG WR UHVSRQG to their evolving operational needs.
The Investment Advisor has an active approach to asset management and, as part of its regular activity, works in a collaborative way with both the procuring authorities and operational contractors involved in its projects to identify enhancements and appropriate cost savings to projects.
During the period, significant success in delivering construction completions and a consequent reduction in the portion of the portfolio under construction has been achieved reducing from 26% at 31 December 2011 to 9% at 31 December 2012.
This includes the completion of one of WKH &RPSDQ V ODUJHVW DVVHWs, Northern Diabolo Project c. 12 RI WKH &RPSDQ V SRUWIROLR DW 1 December 2012.
The project, which included the five year construction of a tunnelled rail connection linking Brussels airport to the new BrusselsAntwerp High Speed rail line, was completed on time and on budget and is expected to start generating income for the Company later this financial year.
The valuation benefits of having completed construction are expected to occur over successive periods once the operational phase is well established.
Other construction highlights during the period included: x The completion of the 35 million Moray Schools scheme in Scotland to replace the existing facilities at Keith Primary School and Elgin Academy.
x The completion of Newby Place Health and Well-being Centre in Hackney, London and the completion of the Nightingale Clinic, also in Hackney, with a combined project value of 8 million.
x Construction completed on time on ten BSF projects.
A further six projects remain in construction with the majority due to complete by the end of 2013. x The Duke of Gloucester formally opened the Walsall Palliative Care Centre UK at a ceremony in February 2012. x :RUNV FRPPHQFHG RQ 3KDVH RI WKH 5R DO &KLOGUHQV RVSLWDO SURMHFW LQ 0HOERXUQH $XVWUDOLD D week early, in February 2012.
Final completion remains on target for December 2014.
The Royal &KLOGUHQV RVSLWDO $XVWUDOLD ZDV also awarded the National Infrastructure Award Project of the Year by Infrastructure Partnerships Australia and the National Excellence and Building & Construction Award for projects over $100 million.
On 14 January 2013, shortly after the financial year end, construction completion was achieved on the Liverpool Central Library and Archive project.
The new library annex together with restored Grade II original structures will provide the greater Liverpool area with a significant new educational resource.
The project is expected to be open to the public in May.
14 International Public Partnerships Limited, QYHVWPHQW $GYLVRUV 5HSRUW continued As at the date of signing of these financial statements, each of the following projects under construction is either on schedule or ahead of time.
Asset Location Expected Completion Date Status % of INPP NAV Building Schools for the UK Various.
Latest February On schedule 0.7% Future portfolio 2014 Gold Coast Rapid Transit Australia Mid 2014 On schedule 1.4% 5R DO &KLOGUHQV RVSLWDO Australia Phase 1 September 2011 Phase 1 - 6.5% Completed Stage 2 December 2014 Phase 2 - On schedule 1 The table excludes Liverpool Library which reached completion before the signing date of these financial statements.
The Company, through the Investment Advisor and the arrangements in place to provide asset level management services, continues to apply considerable resource to managing relationships with its public sector counterparties particularly those who occupy facilities such as schools and health sector buildings.
We believe that the strength of these relationships both protect investor returns and help uncover new opportunities.
They also allow an open discussion on alterations to project facilities that provide good value for money for the public sector.
During the period, the significant requests for changes from public sector clients included: x Tower Hamlets Grouped Schools PFI scheme: construction completion of a 3 million expansion scheme at Wellington School: x Northampton Grouped Schools Project: financial close achieved for circa 8 million of expansion schemes at 5 sites: x STaG1 BSF project at Jarrow School: a 4 million swimming pool was constructed for South Tyneside Council, under a variation to the contract.
The completed pool was handed over in October 2012: x Other UK and Irish assets: the delivery of a high volume of low value changes totalling circa 3 million in response to changing operational needs: and, the initial development of a pipeline of significant asset changes totalling over 35 million anticipated to be delivered throughout 2013 14, subject to necessary consents: x Royal Melbourne Showgrounds, Australia: State partners approved significant new works to existing facilities for delivery in 2013: x Orange & Associated Health Services PPP, Australia: two significant variations for 2012 that included the fit-out of a second radiotherapy bunker and an upgrade to the existing Acute Mental Health facility.
These variations had a combined capital expenditure of A$1.1 million with additional facilities management costs of approximately A$400,000: x Long Bay Forensic & Prison Hospital PPP: throughout 2011 & 2012, the Investment Advisor assisted NSW Health in their negotiations with the State Electricity Retailer to gain access to the lower Health electricity tariffs: and x Alberta Schools, Canada: Alberta Infrastructure introduced over 30 minor variations to the project during 2012 with one significant variation being the provision of additional modular classroom units to accommodate more students.
A total of 16 modular classroom units have been installed, and another 18 modular classroom units are being provided by the respective School Boards.
The total value of the additional buildings and associated infrastructure is approximately C$4.5 million.
Solid levels of operational performance were also achieved by tKH &RPSDQ V SURMHFWV DV HYLGHQFHG E x Annual availability and performance deductions across the portfolio were, in net terms, negligible: x Good  with the Compan V SXEOLF VHFWRU FXVWRPHUV x The finalisation and on-going progression of insurance benchmarking across a number of UK and Irish assets including, Calderdale Schools, Derby Schools 2, Maesteg School, Moray Schools, 15 International Public Partnerships Limited, QYHVWPHQW $GYLVRUV 5HSRUW continued Northampton schools, Tower Hamlets Schools and Dublin Courts and the completion of Abingdon Police Headquarters and Dublin Courts Facilities Management Soft services benchmarking exercises: and, x The completion of an insurance benchmarking exercise for Long Bay Forensic & Prison Hospital PPP in December 2012 which resulted in substantial savings for NSW Health & Corrective Services NSW.
Acquisitions and capital raisings During 2012, the Company made a number of significant acquisitions, with over 146 million invested into new and existing assets 2011: 122 million in additional investments.
The main investments were: x the 115.1 million acquisition of Ormonde UK offshore energy transmission asset OFTO : and x further BSF investments - a 26.9 million portfolio was acquired from Carillion Private Finance Limited and an additional 4.0 million made in follow-on investments emanating from the &RPSDQ V LQYHVWPHQW LQ WKH existing BSF portfolio.
The acquisition of Ormonde OFTO was the fourth offshore transmission project that the Company and its consortium partners, Transmission Investment, have closed in the UK.
The project has been operational since 2011, and provides immediate yield to the &RPSDQ V investors.
In addition, the asset has income streams that are fully linked to the UK Retail Price Index and therefore also provides valuable additional inflation protection for the portfolio, increasing the estimated proportion of the gross portfolio cashflows projected to have inflation linkage from c. 70% to c. 75%.
In order to facilitate these investments INPP undertook a capital raising, successfully raising 200 million including capital raising fees of 3.1 million from existing and new investors in June 2012.
This was in H[FHVV RI WKH PLOOLRQ WDUJHW GHPRQVWUDWLQJ FRQWLQXHG GHPDQG IRU WKH &RPSDQ V ULVN DGMXVWHG UHWXUQ and strong yielding assets.
A further 40 million including capital raising fee of 0.3 million was raised in January 2013 by way of a WDS LVVXH WR IXUWKHU EROVWHU WKH &RPSDQ V FDVK UHVHUYHV IRU LQYHVWPHQW and assist in managing down the SUHPLXP WKDW WKH &RPSDQ V VKDUHV were trading at relative to the NAV per share.
The prospects for further acquisitions in 2013 are reviewed in the Outlook section below.
Net Asset Valuation NAV and Future Cashflows The directors of the Company assess the NAV of an Ordinary Share with the assistance of AFML.
The Company produces fair market valuations of its investments on a six-monthly basis as at 30 June and 31 December.
7KH YDOXDWLRQ PHWKRGRORJLHV XVHG DUH SULPDULO EDVHG RQ GLVFRXQWLQJ WKH &RPSDQ V IXWXUH projected net cashflows at appropriate discount rates.
Valuations so obtained are however also reviewed against values obtained for similar assets in comparable market transactions seen by the Company or Investment Advisor over the year and adjusted accordingly.
Key inputs and assumptions utilised in pURMHFWLQJ WKH &RPSDQ V QHW IXWXUH FDVKIORZV LQFOXGH x inflation where the Company assumes long-term inflation will run at 2.5% per annum x cash deposit rates where the Company assumes a long-term average deposit rate of 3.2% per annum : x that current tax rates remain applicable: x that the contracts under which payments are made to the Company and its subsidiaries remain on track and are not terminated before their contractual expiry date: x that deductions suffered under such contracts are fully passed down to subcontractors: x that cashflows from and to WKH &RPSDQ V VXEVLGLDULHV DQG WKH LQIUDVWUXFWXUH DVVHW RZQLQJ HQWLWLHV in which it has invested will be made and are received at the times anticipated: x that where assets are in construction they are either completed on time or any costs of delay are borne by the contractors not the Company: 16 International Public Partnerships Limited, QYHVWPHQW $GYLVRUV 5HSRUW continued x that where the operating costs of the Company or the infrastructure asset owning entities in which it has invested are fixed by contract such contracts are performed, and where such costs are not fixed, that they remain within projected budgets: x that where the Company or the infrastructure asset owning entities in which it has invested owns the residual property value in the asset that the projected amount for this value is realised: x that where assets in which the Company invests are not GBP assets that foreign exchange rates remain consistent with current three year projections.
To calculate the NAV, the Company, advised by the Investment Advisor discounts the projected net future cashflows for each investment using a discount rate which reflects the aggregate of: 1. rates on government bonds with an average life equivalent to the asset issued by the national government for the location of the asset government bond rates : 2. a premium to reflect the inherent greater risk in investing in infrastructure assets over government bonds: 3. a further premium to reflect the state of maturity of the asset with a larger premium applied to immature assets and or assets in construction and or to reflect any current asset specific or operational issues.
Typically this risk premium will reduce over the life of any asset as an asset matures, its operating performance becomes more established, and the risks associated with its future cash flows decrease: 4. an additional premium applicable to assets over a certain size: 5. an additional premium applicable to assets denominated in currencies other than GBP: 6. a further adjustment reflective of market based transaction valuation evidence for similar assets.
The Company builds up its NAV by applying the principles above to each of its investments and aggregating the results.
On this basis, WKH &RPSDQ V 1$9, as appraised by the Directors, as at 31 December 2012 increased by 4.1 pence per share to 121.0 pence per share 2011: 116.9 pence per share.
As at 31 December 2012 WKH &RPSDQ V SRUWIROLR ZDV YDOXHG DW 861.0 million 2011: 624.3 million.
However as noted elsewhere in this document there are a number of attendant risks associated with the calculation of WKH 1$9 DQG WKLV DVVHVVPHQW VKRXOG EH UHDG LQ FRQMXQFWLRQ ZLWK WKH 5LVN DQG risk PDQDJHPHQW VHFWLRQ IRXQG RQ pages 33 to 36 of this document.
The main drivers of this change included: x A reduction in risk premia affecting certain assets as a consequence of their moving from the construction to operational phase: x Cashflows being greater than projected due in part to higher than projected inflation: x Valuation benefits arising from acquisitions made during the period: x A continued reduction in government bond rates in some jurisdictions: x Negative movements in foreign exchange rates: x 2SHUDWLRQDO SHUIRUPDQFH RI WKH XQGHUO LQJ DVVHWV DQG WKH IXQGV QHW DVVHWV IURP WKH H[LVWLQJ portfolio.
x Offsetting in part these positive contributions was an adjustment designed to reflect the prices at which similar investments were observed to be trading at in the market.
17 International Public Partnerships Limited, QYHVWPHQW $GYLVRUV 5HSRUW continued Valuation Change m m 1000 900 5.3 800 4.6 55.3 17.8 36.9 54.0 55.2 200.0 700 600 500 861.0 400 624.3 300 200 100 0 It is important to appreciate that while assets of the sort the Company invests in are regularly the subject of open market transactions the volume and frequency of such transactions varies and there is no immediate liquid market to allow for such assets to be valued on a mark-to-market basis.
As such, and in common ZLWK VLPLODU LQYHVWRUV LQ WKH VHFWRU WKH &RPSDQ V DVVHVVPHQW RI 1$9 KDV WR EH EDVHG RQ LWV judgment at the time of making such assessment.
Discount rates On a weighted average basis, taking into account the changes referred to above, the weighted average discount rate applicable across the portfolio decreased by 0.20% driven by a reduction in the risk premia associated with construction assets.
Over the period, the weighted average government bond rate fell 0.92%.
This was offset by a 0.72% increase in the weighted average project premium which is the net movement of an increase to risk premia to adjust for transactions observed in the market discussed above and the decrease in risk premia relating to construction assets nearing or reached completion.
Valuation Methodology 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 Movement NAV per share 121.0 pence 116.9 pence 4.1 pence Weighted Average Discount 8.30% 8.50% 0.20 % Rate Weighted Average 2.92% 3.84% 0.92 % 1 Government Bond Rate Weighted Average Project 5.38% 4.66% 0.72% 2 Premium Discount Rate Range 6.50% to 11.25% 6.50% to 11.25% Unchanged 1 See item 1 on page 17.
2 Aggregate effect of items 2 to 6 on page 17.
Sensitivity analysis 7KH &RPSDQ V 1$9 LV EDVHG on the factors outlined above.
In addition the Company also provides sensitivity analysis of its NAV to key assumptions to more fully inform investors of the estimated impact of 18 Dec-11 Capital Raise Change in Government Bond Yield Change in Project Risk Premium Change in Construction Risk Premium Change in FX Curve Investments Distribution Return Dec-12 International Public Partnerships Limited, QYHVWPHQW $GYLVRUV 5HSRUW continued these variables.
The estimated impact of changes to discount, inflation, foreign exchange and deposit rates are outlined below.
Investors should note that this analysis is provided as an indication of the likely impact of these variables on the NAV and the actual outcome of any change to these variables may be different from the estimate provided.
7KH &RPSDQ V DSSURDFK WR GHWHUPLQLQJ WKH GLVFRXQW UDWe is described in detail above.
Assuming all other things are equal a change to the weighted average rate of 8.30% has the following impact on the 31 December 2012 NAV of 121.0 pence per share: Discount rate 0.5% change -0.5% change 1.0% change -1.0% change Pence per share Pence per share Pence per share Pence per share Implied change 4.4 4.7 8.4 9.9 Implied NAV 116.6 125.7 112.6 130.9 Movements in inflation result in changes to revenue due to the inflation linkage inherent in most oI, 133V concessions with c. 75% of gross revenues linked to inflation, although this is partially mitigated by operating costs which may also increase in line with inflation.
The Company and Investment Advisor have noted that some peer group investment funds in the infrastructure sector utilise a long-term inflation assumption of 2.75% per annum.
If the Company were to assume a long-term inflation rate for all its assets of 2.75% per annum instead of 2.5% per annum then assuming all other variables remained unchanged, and using the same discount rate as has been adopted to calculate NAV at 31 December 2012, WKH &RPSDQ V 1$9 ZRXOG be 122.9 pence per share.
If the Company were to assume a long-term inflation rate for all its assets of 2.75% per annum instead of 2.5% per annum then assuming all other variables remained unchanged, wLWK WKH &RPSDQ V 1$9 unchanged at 121.0p per share, the weighted average discount rate would increase to 8.52% at 31 December 2012.
Where actual inflation is higher or lower than this level it ZLOO LPSDFW RQ WKH &RPSDQ V FDVKIORZ LQ HLWKHU a positive or negative manner.
If the 2.5% per annum long-term inflation rate that is currently assumed across the portfolio were to vary, and other things are equal, the expected impact on the 31 December 2012 NAV of 121.0 pence per share is estimated to be as follows: Inflation rate 0.25% change -0.25% change 1.0% change -1.0% change Pence per share Pence per share Pence per share Pence per share Implied change 1.9 1.9 7.7 7.1 Implied NAV 122.9 119.1 128.7 113.9 Note: Sensitivity applied to controlled projects.
However Investors should be somewhat cautious about viewing these two variables in isolation as changes in interest rates have traditionally had a strong linkage with inflation and there may be some interplay between the two variables.
The company has a geographically diverse portfolio and therefore GBP revenues are subject to exchange risk.
The following sensitivity indicates the degree to which the NAV per share would be expected to be impacted should exchange rates vary, all else being equal: 19 2047 2046 2045 2044 2043 2042 2041 2040 2039 2038 2037 2036 2035 2034 2033 2032 2031 2030 2029 2028 2027 2026 2025 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 International Public Partnerships Limited, QYHVWPHQW $GYLVRUV 5HSRUW continued Exchange rate 10% favourable 10% adverse change change Pence per share Pence per share Implied change 4.6 3.8 Implied NAV 125.6 117.2 TKH &RPSDQ V SURMHFWV also have a degree of cash held on deposit.
The long-term average future deposit rate across the portfolio is estimated at 3.2% per annum.
While operating cash balances tend to be low given the structured nature of the investments, project finance structures typically include reserve accounts to mitigate certain costs and therefore variations to deposit rates may impact the portfolio, all else being equal, as follows: Deposit rate 0.5% change -0.5% change Pence per share Pence per share Implied change 0.7 0.6 Implied NAV 121.7 120.4 Note: Sensitivity applied to controlled projects.
Long-term cashflow profile To assist investors to evaluate the longer-term return profile of the fund, a graph charting the future projected cashflows is provided below.
The chart demonstrates how, all other things being equal, the portfolio valuation is currently expected to evolve over a 35 year period to 2047.
7KH &RPSDQ V SRUWIROLR is made up of fixed-term concessions whose valuation reduces as that concession draws to a close.
The majority of the payments to investors over the life of the concession are investment income from the operational assets.
However, as the life of the concession draws to a close, payments to investors take the form of a return of capital.
The current portfolio is expected to make its final capital repayment in 2047.
Any future acquisitions or disposal or changes to the projected cashflows of any investment will change this projected profile from time to time.
INPP projected cashflow profile by income type m NPV m Income Phase Capital Repayment Phase 120 1000 Senior Debt 900 Sub Debt 100 800 Dividend 700 80 600 NPV of cashflows 60 500 400 40 300 200 20 100 0 0 It should be noted however that there are many factors that may influence the actual achieved long-term cashflow profile.
These include both internal as well as external factors and investors should not treat the profile set out above as being a projection, estimate or profit forecast.
The actual achieved profile may well be higher or lower than indicated.
20 International Public Partnerships Limited, QYHVWPHQW $GYLVRUV 5HSRUW continued Financial Results At 31 December 2012, the Group, being the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, had a total of 122 investments.
The Group has control over 33 of these investments by virtue of having the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of the specific project entities.
Under International LQDQFLDO 5HSRUWLQJ 6WDQGDUGV IFRS WKH UHVXOWV RI WKHVH FRPSDQLHV DUH FRQVROLGDWHG LQ WKH URXSV financial statements on a line-by-line basis.
The remainder are either equity accounted for generally a shareholding in the range of 20%-50% or are minority investments and are fair valued using a discounted cash flow method and held as available for sale financial assets.
These consolidated investments form part of the GroupV Oarger portfolio of similar investments all of which are held for investment purposes and managed as such, with no distinction for management purposes made between those investments classified under IFRS as subsidiaries consolidated investments, associates or joint ventures equity accounted investments and simple investments.
In addition, as at the 31 December 2012 DOO GHEW RZHG E WKH URXSV LQYHVWPHQWV ZLWK WKH H[FHSWLRQ RI WKH GroupV FRUSRUDWH debt facility with RBS and NAB is project specific and non-recourse to the Company.
In addition to its statutory reporting obligations under IFRS, the Company has prepared proforma financial LQIRUPDWLRQ SUHSDUHG RQ DQ LQYHVWPHQW EDVLV By deconsolidating the subsidiary investments, the performance of the business under consolidated IFRS basis may be compared with the results under the investment basis.
This proforma financial information is not audited but is provided to give additional guidance, in combination with consideration of the primary financial statements, to aid visibility of the financial results based on the dividends, interest and capital receipts that are received from the individual investments of the Group.
IFRS Results On a consolidated IFRS basis, profit before tax was 26.8 million 2011: 13.2 million with earnings per share of 4.8 pence 2011: 3.3 pence.
Profit after tax was 27.6 million 2011: 16.1 million.
The results on a consolidated IFRS basis include profits from the underlying project entities that are consolidated or equity accounted.
These results are impacted by non-cash items, including amortisation of intangible assets, unrealised foreign exchange translation movements and depreciation.
Not all profits generated in the underlying project entities are immediately distributed due to requirements to retain cash for future costs or to ensure covenant compliance.
Income and Expenses Investment basis Cash received from the portfolio of investments by way of distributions, including dividends, interest payments, capital and principal repayments the latter from subordinated debt and senior debt held in investments was 53.6 million 2011: 44.0 million.
The net cash receipts to the investment holding companies within the Group, excluding one-off transaction costs, was 42.8 million 2011: 33.8 million as set out below.
This net cash receipt provided good coverage of the 2012 cash distribution of 30.5 million 2011: 20.3 million.
21 International Public Partnerships Limited, QYHVWPHQW $GYLVRUV 5HSRUW continued Summary net corporate cashflow unaudited The table below summarises cash received from investments net of corporate costs.
Year to 31 December Year to 31 December 2012 2011 million million Cash received from investments Dividends and interest 47.8 41.7 Capital receipts 5.8 2.3 53.6 44.0 Less: corporate costs and net finance costs Net financing costs 1.0 1.1 Corporate expenses 9.8 9.1 42.8 33.8 Net cashflow excluding one-off transaction costs Less: One-off transaction costs 3.3 2.1 Net cashflow including one-off transaction costs 40.7 30.5 Corporate costs and net finance costs Investment basis unaudited Total corporate costs before one-off transaction fees increased by 0.6 million to 10.8 million 2011: 10.2 million as a result of the increase in investments made by the fund: - Net financing costs decreased during the year by 0.1 million to 1.0 million 2011: 1.1 million as a result of lower utilisation of the corporate facility to part finance new investments: and - The increase of 0.7 million in the level of recurring corporate costs to 9.8 million 2011: 9.1 million was associated with the Investment Advisors management fee which increased in line with the growth in managed investments.
Corporate costs and net financing costs Year to 31 Year to 31 December 2012 December 2011 million million Net corporate financing costs Interest income 0.2 0.3 Corporate facility running costs 1.2 1.4 Total net corporate financing costs 1.0 1.1 Corporate costs and net financing costs continued Corporate expenses Investment advisors management fee 8.1 7.0 Audit fees 0.1 0.1 Director fees & expenses 0.2 0.2 Other running costs 1.4 1.8 1 Total corporate expenses 9.8 9.1 Total corporate costs excluding one-off transaction costs 10.8 10.2 One-off transaction costs 2.1 3.3 Total corporate costs including one-off transaction costs 12.9 13.5 1 In accordance with Association of Investment Companies AIC guidance this number is used to calculate the Annualised Ongoing Charges see below.
22 International Public Partnerships Limited, QYHVWPHQW $GYLVRUV 5HSRUW continued One-off transaction costs of 2.1 million related to new investments 2011: 2.0 million.
No costs relating to the renewal of the corporate debt facility 2011: 1.1 million and to an intra-group reorganisation 2011: 0.2 million were incurred by the Company during the year.
One-off transaction costs Year to 31 Year to 31 December 2012 December 2011 million million New investment transaction costs 2.1 2.0 Corporate facility renewal - 1.1 Intra group reorganisation costs - 0.2 One-off transaction costs excluding capital raising costs 2.1 3.3 In accordance with guidelines published by the Association of Investment Companies in May 2012, the &RPSDQ QRZ UHSRUWV 2QJRLQJ &KDUJHV, being the annualised ongoing charges of the Company as a proportion of the average of the published NAVs relating to that period.
For the year ended 31 December 2012 the annualised Ongoing Charges were 1.27% 2011: 1.59%.
The reduction of c. 0.32% was due to an increase in net assets through capital raisings and acquisitions in the period but only a partial period increase in ongoing corporate expenses.
Ongoing charges Year to 31 Year to 31 December 2012 December 2011 million million Annualised Ongoing Charges 9.8 9.1 1 Average NAV 774.7 572.1 2 Ongoing Charges 1.27% 1.59% 1 Average of the two most recent published NAVs for the relevant period.
2 In accordance with the Association of Investment Companies guidance Balance Sheet Investment basis In order to provide shareholders with further information regarding NAV, and to assist with enhanced WUDQVSDUHQF RI WKH &RPSDQ V FDSDFLW IRU LQYHVWPHQW DQG DELOLW WR PDNH GLVWULEXWLRQV DGGLWLRQDO unaudited financial information is provided to help explain WKH URXSV ILQDQFLDO SRVLWLRQ DQd its projected ability to maintain distribution coverage.
This analysis compares the components of the NAV to IFRS net assets.
For investment purposes the Company reports its NAV twice a year.
7KH &RPSDQ V LQYHVWPHQW 1$9 LV D valuation of the cash that the Company expects to receive in the future from its investments.
This NAV takes account of the dates when cash is expected to be received through applying a discount factor to reflect the time value of money and the risk assessment of the investment.
In common with similar investment funds, the DLUHFWRUV EHOLHYH WKDW WKLV LV WKH PRVW XVHIXO PHDVXUH RI WKH &RPSDQ V YDOXH WR investors.
For accounting purposes the Group is required to prepare consolidated group accounts in accordance with IFRS.
There are LPSRUWDQW GLIIHUHQFHV EHWZHHQ WKH LQYHVWPHQW 1$9 DQG WKH URXSV Balance Sheet prepared under IFRS.
This note is designed to explain some of these differences.
23 International Public Partnerships Limited, QYHVWPHQW $GYLVRUV 5HSRUW continued Unaudited Summary Balance Sheet Year to 31 December 2012 Year to 31 December 2011 Consolidated NAV NAV Consolidated IFRS basis Adjustments Basis Adjustments IFRS million million million million million million 1 1 Investments at fair 784.4 754.2 30.2 600.7 574.8 25.9 value Financial assets at - 2,627.3 2,627.3 - 2,269.8 2,269.8 amortised cost Other current & non- 5.0 515.9 520.9 5.4 458.8 464.2 current assets Net cash borrowings 77.8 2,194.7 2,116.9 22.7 1,989.9 1,967.2 Net derivative - 356.5 356.5 - 279.4 279.4 financial instruments Other current & non- 6.2 178.5 184.7 4.5 152.6 157.1 current liabilities Non-controlling - 5.1 5.1 - 1.7 1.7 interests Net assets to equity 861.0 335.6 525.4 624.3 269.8 354.5 holders of the parent 1 Investments at fair value on an investment basis reflected an investment in the capital, subordinated or senior debt of the underlying projects as represented in the Financial Statements.
2 Includes net fair value of interest rate, CPI RPI and foreign exchange swaps.
Investments Under IFRS, the Group Balance Sheet is prepared to reflect the consolidation of the gross assets and liabilities of underlying project investments, line-by-line, that are controlled by the Group by virtue of it having the power to govern, directly or indirectly, the financial and operating policies of the underlying LQYHVWPHQW HQWLWLHV, W DOVR LQFOXGHV WKH URXSV VKDUH RI WKH DVVHWV DQG OLDELOLWLHV RI XQGHUO LQJ MRLQW ventures and associate investments by virtue of the Group having either joint control or significant influence over the underlying investments.
Given the Group has control, joint control or significant influence over virtually all of its investments, which is beneficial from an operating and therefore investor cashflow perspective, the impact in the consolidated Group IFRS Balance Sheet is to look-WKURXJK WR WKH PDMRULW RI XQGHUO LQJ LQYHVWPHQWV EDODQFH VKHHWV DV highlighted above.
By contrast, the investment NAV reflects the fair market value of the underlying investments from an investor perspective.
Financial assets and liabilities Under IFRS non-recourse, ring-fenced project level debt is included within the IFRS Consolidated Balance Sheet.
However, the Group does not provide guarantees in relation to such debt and would only be exposed in the event of default up to the maximum value of any investment made in an underlying project and therefore this debt is not included in the investment NAV analysis.
Under IFRS the fair value of underlying project level interest rate swaps i. e. the value if the interest rate swaps had they been terminated on 31 December 2012 is brought into the Consolidated Balance Sheet at the balance sheet date.
This is the case notwithstanding that the Group has no intention of seeking early termination of such interest rate swaps and it would be likely to be contrary to the interests of the Group to seek to do so.
24 International Public Partnerships Limited, QYHVWPHQW $GYLVRUV 5HSRUW continued The impact of this IFRS requirement is shareholders can expect to see period-to-period volatility in the Consolidated Balance Sheet reflecting the difference between point-in-time market interest rates and fixed interest rates under swap agreements held within the underlying portfolio.
Whilst these cashflow hedges provide risk mitigation against cashflow volatility and therefore to investor returns and would be expected to unwind over the life of the underlying concessions, this leads to a significant difference between IFRS and the investment NAV basis which the Directors continue to believe gives a more useful view of the &RPSDQ V QHW DVVHWV.
7KH URXSV LQWHUHVW UDWH Vwaps are in place for the duration of the relevant underlying project debt and therefore the GroupV intention is to hold these until maturity.
However, under IFRS the impact of markingto-market these interest rates swaps when market rates are historically low has resulted in a reduction in the IFRS Consolidated Balance Sheet in the year ended 31 December 2012 of 82.9 million before the impact of deferred tax.
On a cumulative basiV WKH WRWDO LQWHUHVW UDWH VZDS liability on a fair value basis of 353.9 million is included in the IFRS consolidated accounts whereas this is mitigated within the investment NAV which is calculated on a different basis and uses a different discount rate.
The Group has no intention to break these swaps and therefore in cashflow terms such liabilities would not be expected to arise.
Certain balances such as intangible assets, financial assets accounted for as loans and receivables and bank debt are initially recorded at fair market value and then subsequently at amortised cost.
This together with the movement in the fair value of interest swaps accounts for the principal differences in the net asset position between an IFRS consolidated basis and investment NAV basis.
Gearing 7KH URXSV PLOOLRQ WKUHH HDU UHYROYLQJ IDFility from Royal Bank of Scotland plc RBS and National Australia Bank NAB was renewed in April 2011 on similar terms to the previous facility also provided by RBS and NAB.
The key changes were revisions to the margin charged on the facility which increased from 175 to 225 basis points.
This facility is used to fund acquisitions and is on a recourse basis to the Group.
7KH &RPSDQ V $UWLFOHV RI $VVRFLDWLRQ OLPLW WKH URXSV UHFRXUVH GHEW WR RI $GMXVWHG Gross Asset Value of its investments and cash balances.
As at 31 December 2012, the facility was undrawn.
At the asset-level, the Company seeks to secure long-term non-recourse debt matched where possible to the concession life of an asset at the time of acquisition.
Such debt is non-recourse to the Company.
On a consolidated IFRS basis no distinction is made between asset level debt that is non-recourse to the Company and Company level debt that is full recourse to the Company in respect of investments that are consolidated.
Thus for IFRS purposes the Group reports net debt of 2,116.9 million at 31 December 2012 2011: 1,967.2 million.
This increase in IFRS net debt over the year reflects the additional debt from consolidated investments, offset by the repayment of the corporate debt facility.
Currently, the weighted average concession life remaining in the portfolio is 23 years, compared to a weighted average debt tenure of 21 years.
No debt is required to be refinanced over the next 30 years, ensuring strong protection for investors of future projected cashflows.
25 International Public Partnerships Limited, QYHVWPHQW $GYLVRUV 5HSRUW continued INPP Concession Length vs Debt Tenor Years 30 23 Years 21 Years 20 10 0 Weighted Average Concession Weighted Average Debt Tenor Length INPP Debt Profile bn 3.5 Total INPP Debt 3.0 2.5 2.0 1.5 1.0 0.5 0.0 Investment environment and outlook The market for infrastructure, which is still in relatively early stages of development in comparison to other asset classes, continues to receive increasing levels of interest from a broad range of investors as they recognise its attractions.
This position has led to successful capital raisings for the Company as well as, more generally, an increased allocation of capital across the sector from a growing number of investors.
This wider appreciation of and demand for infrastructure assets is a positive sign for shareholders in the Company in our view.
In the UK, VRPH LQYHVWRUV KDG FRQFHUQV DV WR WKH UHVXOWV RI WKH 8.
JRYHUQPHQWV UHYLHZ RI KLVWRULF PFI PPP projects.
As anticipated, the Government has announced some reforms to the PFI PPP procurement approach in the UK, although these will not generally have retrospective effect.
The results of the review thus broadly affirm the status quo in respect of the CompDQ V existing UK portfolio.
Going forward, the general trend both in the UK and overseas is for governments to continue to be supportive of private sector investment in infrastructure.
Notably the UK has evolved the PPP PFI concept and identified it as continuing to be an important means of infrastructure procurement through the new PF2 initiatives announced with the Autumn Statement in November 2012.
Under PF2, the indications are that a further raft of privately financed infrastructure projects will be developed albeit with some structural alterations from the existing PFI PPP model.
These alterations seem likely to mainly involve government becoming a co-investor in future projects at the equity OHYHO DQG DOVR RSHQLQJ XS WKH SURVSHFW RI HTXLW FRPSHWLWLRQV ZKHUH QHw projects are being developed.
Q RXU YLHZ WKHVH FKDQJHV DUH EURDGO SRVLWLYH IRU WKH &RPSDQ DQG LI HTXLW FRPSHWLWLRQV EHFRPH WKH norm, this may open the way for the Company to invest in more early stage projects.
The main question following the announcement of PF2, however, is the extent of the pipeline of new opportunities that will be developed under it.
To date there is no certainty about this.
What is clear is that over the last few years we have seen fewer UK private finance initiative projects being developed than in the preceding period, largely due to the UK GovernmeQWV spending cuts.
This has been a factor in the UK particularly but there have also been fewer new projects brought forward in other markets including 26 International Public Partnerships Limited, QYHVWPHQW $GYLVRUV 5HSRUW continued Australia and Canada.
This reduced rate of new opportunities has contributed to the fall in the proportion RI WKH &RPSDQ V DVVHWV WKDW DUH LQ FRQVWUXFWLRQ We believe that it is attractive for the Company to have a proportion of its assets in construction and we have seen over the last 12 months how successful construction completions can lead to NAV growth.
1HYHUWKHOHVV WKH &RPSDQ V DELOLW WR VRXUFH QHZ FRQVWUXFWLRQ SURMHFWV LV VLJQLILFDQWO UHODWHG WR WKH number of new projects brought forward by governments.
As Investment Advisors, we have sought to DYRLG FKDVLQJ ULVN DQG ZKLOH ZH ZLOO UHPDLQ NHHQ IRU WKH &RPSDQ WR LGHQWLI DQG LQYHVW LQ DSSURSULDWHO risked construction projects some of which are currently being analysed we will endeavour to avoid significaQWO FKDQJLQJ WKH &RPSDQ V DSSURDFK WR ULVN The other main market based issue is that we have observed increased demand for secondary i. e. existing assets investment in the market.
This has led to some upward pressure on pricing and downward pressure on returns.
In previous periods we have noted that there has not been a direct correlation between pricing in this sector and bond yields but it now seems to us that this sector may simply have been lagging the wider market in this respect.
Such movements are positive for valuations in the sector but show the need for circumspection in analysing new acquisitions and investment opportunities.
To date, the Company has been broadly insulated from some of the competitive pressures in the market as well as the diminished supply of traditional new infrastructure projects such as schools and health centres and we believe that this is likely to continue to be the case.
This has been due significantly to early identification of new areas of potential investment for instance energy transmission and other utilities which have not necessarily been as competitive and where early mover advantage particularly in the UK offshore transmission sector has brought benefits to investors.
As Investment Advisors we will, in addition to focussing on the existing portfolio, continue to search for attractive opportunities in both the traditional PPP PFI sectors including under PF2 in the UK as well as other opportunities for instance in the utility sector that appear to offer an attractive balance of risk and reward.
Areas of particular focus for the Company currently include: x Continued application in the area of UK offshore transmission where the Company has a strong market leading position, including being part of a consortium appointed preferred bidder in a fifth project, which is expected to reach financial close during the 2013 financial year: x Delivery of additional investments through pre-emptive positioning within the BSF investment portfolio: x The wider regulated utility market both in the UK and elsewhere, where attractive returns can be projected from assets with low risk profiles: x Social infrastructure projects in Germany, Canada, Australia and elsewhere, which conform to the existing risk profile within the &RPSDQ V SRUWIROLR x Opportunities arising in the UK health and social care sphere where an active pipeline of small to medium sized opportunities continue to exist: x Opportunities that arise from re-pricing of capital in the debt capital markets: and x PropoVDOV IURP WKLUG SDUWLHV VHHNLQJ WR GLVSRVH RI DVVHWV PHHWLQJ WKH &RPSDQ V LQYHVWPHQW criteria.
Overall, we believe there continues to be a strong pipeline of infrastructure investment opportunities and we are confident that is likely to remain the case through 2013 and beyond.
As a result, we continue to be optimistic about the prospects for the Company, both in terms of the performance of its existing assets and the opportunity to add high quality assets to the portfolio in the future.
Amber Fund Management Limited 27 March 2013 27
