08 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 About IP Group Chairmans statement An encouraging year for IP Group Dr Bruce Smith Chairman I am pleased to be able to report that 2012 has In summary been an encouraging year for IP Group with good overall progress across the business Good overall progress across the business being reected in strong growth in the value of the Groups portfolio and its net assets.
Strong growth in the value of the portfolio The Group seeks to generate value for its and net assets stakeholders though a well-dened core strategy of building high-quality businesses based on intellectual property.
As outlined in A new partnership announced with the University more detail in this report, during 2012 we saw of Manchester evidence that suggests that many of the Groups businesses are maturing and thereby creating value for stakeholders.
For example, there has Focus on corporate governance been a substantial increase in the value of the Groups portfolio of spin-out companies, a significant acquisition of one of our drug discovery companies and commercial progress being made by a number of the Groups businesses.
From a financial perspective, the Groups performance in 2012 was very encouraging.
Driven by the performance of the portfolio, the Group recorded an adjusted profit before tax of 46.7m excluding the 6.0m reduction in the value of the Oxford Equity Rights asset 2011: 0.5m profit: 6.0m reduction.
Net assets, excluding intangibles and the Oxford Equity Rights asset, increased by 25% to 236.6m 2011: 189.1m.
It is important to note that, due to the long-term nature of the Groups business, profits and especially cash realisations can vary signicantly from year to year.
While the economic environment continued to face a number of challenges during 2012, the performance of UK financial markets was stronger than in the recent past, particularly for smaller-capitalised companies.
The AIM market, where 15 of our portfolio companies are quoted, was broadly at, although this masked some significant sectoral differences.
The value of our quoted portfolio companies, in total, fared well.
Many factors, including the health of the UK economy, the Eurozone and the wider international picture, contribute to a degree of continuing uncertainty and, Latest news, share price and other investor information can be found at www.
com IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 09 as always, this uncertainty brings both from this evaluation to optimise the Boards Having pioneered opportunities and potential challenges effectiveness, we intend that the Group and for the Group and its portfolio companies its Board will continue to evolve over the the concept of that are increasingly producing goods and forthcoming year.
This will ensure that it services for markets around the globe.
retains an appropriate and diverse mix the university of skills, knowledge and experience, with In part due to the improved financial markets, consideration also being given to other partnership model, the Groups portfolio companies were successful criteria such as gender and ethnicity, while in raising in excess of 110m of new capital taking into account additional corporate we were delighted during the year 2011: in excess of 90m.
governance requirements that apply to the Notwithstanding this positive trend, the Group given its inclusion in the FTSE350 to announce a new nancing environment for early-stage during 2012. technology businesses continues to be relationship with relatively challenging, with a comparatively The performance of the Group is the culmination the University small number of investors deploying significant of the hard work and dedication of a large capital into the sector.
The Group has continued number of teams and individuals often, in the of Manchester.
to play a key role for its portfolio companies case of its academic partners and spin-out during 2012 in both providing capital directly management teams, over periods of many and helping them to source funds from a variety years.
I would like to record my thanks for of capital pools and will continue to do so in the efforts and support of the Groups staff, the future.
I would also like to record a note of congratulation In terms of its access to world-class to Proximagen Group on its successful exit commercialisable intellectual property, to Upsher-Smith during the year, a significant the Group continues to work closely with achievement not only for the company itself academics from many of the UKs leading but also for its staff and shareholders, including research institutes and, having pioneered the the Group and Kings College London.
concept of the university partnership model, we were delighted to announce earlier in Finally, Professor Graham Richards, who 2013 a new relationship with the University has served on the Groups Board since 2001, of Manchester.
We look forward to building including periods as Chairman and Senior a long and mutually beneficial partnership Non-executive Director, and who was with academics and staff at the university.
instrumental in the Groups original partnership with the University of Oxfords Chemistry The Board continues to recognise the Department, has today announced his intention importance of a strong focus on corporate to retire as a non-executive director at the governance.
As I described in my last report, Groups forthcoming AGM.
I would like to 2011 saw five changes to the Groups Board take this opportunity to extend my significant with the addition of two experienced, thanks to Graham for his considerable independent non-executive directors, two contribution to the Board over the years internal promotions to executive director and am pleased to report that Graham from the existing management team and has agreed to continue as an adviser the retirement of our long-standing Audit to the Group.
During 2012, the Board has worked to ensure it is positioned to help drive the next phase of the Groups growth Bruce Smith and has also, during early 2013, undergone Chairman an external evaluation process.
As well as considering the recommendations arising Business review Corporate governance Financial statements About IP Group
