BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OUR MARKETS DELIVERING ON OUR STRATEGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GEC REVIEW OF OPERATIONS FINANCE DIRECTORS REVIEW RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT Chairmans Statement 2012 was another year of considerable progress and achievement for JLT.
Although we continued to see depressed economic conditions globally and an extremely competitive market, JLT demonstrated the ongoing success of its strategy and in particular reaped the benefit of investments made in the recruitment of leading industry professionals in previous years.
Geoffrey Howe Chairman Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2012 9 BUSINESS REVIEW Chairmans Statement continued and capabilities, particularly in the Health and Group Executive Committee on 26th Performance Wellness, Risk, Annuity and Investment areas.
We are particularly pleased that we were able We also continue to expand the international to achieve an industry leading organic growth He was formerly Chief Financial Officer of focus of our employee benefits operations rate of 7% which we believe to be a key ACE European Group Limited and prior to across the Group.
that Chief Financial Officer of Aon Benfield.
Most recently, in January 2013, we Mike brings to JLT extensive financial and Total revenue increased by 7% to 880.1 announced the successful completion of a commercial experience.
million, or 8% at constant rates of exchange.
USD250 million issue of private placement James Twining was appointed to the Board Underlying profit before tax increased by 10% loan notes with institutional investors on as Group Commercial Director on 1st August to 161.7 million, while reported profit before competitive terms and the Group now has 2012.
He joined the Group in January 2011 tax was 156.8 million, an increase of 17%.
unsecured committed debt facilities totalling as Group Strategy Director and is also a Net exceptional costs of 4.9 million in the some 500 million with maturities varying member of the Group Executive Committee.
year were mainly attributable to our Business between 2015 and 2025.
This provides the Annette Court and Jonathan Dawson were Transformation Programme which concluded Group with additional headroom and flexibility appointed as non-executive directors on 1st in June 2012 and delivered annualised cost to support our ongoing growth as we August 2012. savings of 24 million for total one-off costs of continue to implement our strategy.
27 million over the three-year period.
Annette was formerly Chief Executive for Share buy-back European General Insurance at Zurich We continue to search for ways to improve Financial Services and, prior to that Chief our efficiency and manage our cost base and We will, as in previous years, be seeking Executive of RBS Direct Line Group.
She is are embarking on a further round of Business renewal of our standing share buy-back also a non-executive director at Admiral Transformation over the next two years.
authority at the forthcoming Annual General Group.
Jonathan had over 20 years Meeting of up to a maximum of 10% of the JLTs trading profit margin increased from investment banking experience at Lazards Companys issued capital.
However, we will 18.0% to 18.2% and this continues to reflect prior to forming Penfida Partners.
He is not this year be seeking shareholder approval ongoing investment for further growth.
currently senior independent director at Next for a Rule 9 dispensation in relation to this Reported diluted earnings per share was 48.4 Plc and a non-executive director of National authority pursuant to the Takeover Code.
This means that in the event that the directors underlying diluted earnings per share of 50.2 were to initiate a buy-back, in order to avoid In addition we have announced that Simon pence 2011: 45.3 pence, an increase of triggering a mandatory offer obligation upon Keswick, who is one of the two 11%.
Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited JMH representatives of JMH, our major I am pleased to report that the directors have under Rule 37 of the Takeover Code, JMH shareholder, on our Board will be standing recommended an increased final dividend of would need to participate in any such buydown following the AGM in April.
Simon has 15.9 pence per share 2011: 14.8 pence for back so that its overall percentage holding been for many years a Director of JLT and the year to 31st December 2012 which will be which at 14th March 2013 was 40.17% prior to that, JIB Group plc, one of our paid on 1st May 2013 to shareholders on the did not increase following the buy-back.
Simon will be register at 5th April 2013.
This brings the total replaced on the Board by Lord Sassoon who dividend for the year to 25.5 pence per share, is an executive director of JMH.
Lord Group board and senior an overall increase of 6.3%.
Sassoon will join the Board at the conclusion management changes of the AGM and will therefore be subject to The Chief Executives Review, the Review of Over the past year, a number of changes election by shareholders at the AGM in 2014.
Operations and the Finance Directors Review have been made to the composition of the cover the performance of the Group in more Board and senior management team.
Senior management Alastair Speare-Cole joined the Group in Board Corporate developments January 2012 as Chief Executive of JLT Re In view of the increasing range of his other and is a member of the Group Executive In 2012 we continued the growth and commitments, John Paynter retired from the Committee.
He joined JLT from Aon Benfield development of our Risk & Insurance board on 30th June 2012, having served as and brings to the Group some 30 years of business, principally by hiring individuals and a non-executive director since 2008 and as reinsurance broking experience across all building teams rather than by making Chairman of the Remuneration Committee disciplines.
Richard Harvey took over as Alan Griffin, formerly Chairman and Chief Chairman of the Remuneration Committee That said, in our Employee Benefits business Executive of JLT Re, continues as Chairman.
following the AGM in April 2012. we did complete the acquisition of Alexander Forbes Consultants & Actuaries Limited for a Duncan Howorth was appointed Chief On 31st July we announced that Mike total consideration of 18.6 million.
This Executive of JLT Asia with effect from 1st Reynolds was to be appointed Group Finance business generated 27.8 million of revenue January 2013.
His responsibilities in Asia span Director of JLT, succeeding Simon Mawson in the year ended 31st March 2012 and is insurance and employee benefits and he who stepped down from that role and left the being integrated with JLTs UK & Ireland remains International Chairman of Employee Group on that date.
Mike Reynolds joined the Employee Benefits business, strengthening its Benefits and continues to sit on the Group Group and was appointed to the Board and leading market position and adding expertise 10 Annual Report 2012 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OUR MARKETS DELIVERING ON OUR STRATEGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GEC REVIEW OF OPERATIONS FINANCE DIRECTORS REVIEW RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT Executive Committee.
He replaces Warren JLT, however, has consistently shown its Employees by Merritt who has left the Group to pursue ability to deliver strong organic revenue geographical location other opportunities.
growth, despite challenging trading conditions, by deepening its specialty Mark Wood has assumed the role of Chief capabilities and broadening its exposure to Executive of JLTs UK & Ireland Employee higher growth economies.
Benefits business from 1st January 2013 in place of Duncan and also sits on the Group We are, therefore, confident that our Executive Committee.
Mark has been nondistinctive strategy and strong momentum executive Chairman of that business for the will enable us to deliver year-on-year past two years and has extensive financial progress.
experience in the financial services industry at a senior level.
With effect from 1st March 2013, Vyvienne Wade became President of JLTs operations in Latin America and assumed the new role of European Chairman.
Vyvienne remains Group General Counsel, Chairman of JLT UK 3,524 Insurance Management and a NonNorth America 460 Executive Director of Lloyd & Partners Limited.
Mike Methley became Chief Latin America 697 Executive of Latin America with effect from Australia & New Zealand 862 the same date, alongside his existing Asia 1,834 position of Group Chief Operating Officer.
Europe 179 John Paynter, Simon Mawson and Warren Geoffrey Howe Rest of World 24 Merritt were all excellent colleagues and I Chairman would like to thank each of them for their 15th March 2013 valued contribution to JLT during their time As at 31st December 2012 with the Group.
I would also like to express a particular thank you to Simon Keswick for the vital role he has played over the many years, firstly in the original formation of JIB Group plc and later in the creation and subsequent success of JLT.
The backing of JMH has been and will continue to be an important factor in our ability to execute our strategy.
Our people As always it is vital that we recognise the contribution made to our success by all who work for JLT.
I never cease to be impressed by the professionalism, dedication and enthusiasm of those who work for JLT all over the world and on behalf of the Board I would like to offer them all my thanks.
Outlook The insurance rating environment remains generally weak with a surplus of capacity and, absent a major catastrophe, this is not expected to change in the medium term.
Macro-economic conditions also remain challenging, particularly in JLTs UK and European markets.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2012 11
