Chairmans Statement Introduction I am pleased to announce that 2012 has been another year of consistent growth and stability for JLIF.
Our market capitalisation broke through the half billion mark in September and is now approximately 560 million.
We have acquired 11 stakes in new assets for a total of 156 million, taking the number of projects in the Portfolio to 37.
Paul Lester Chairman The number of acquisitions sourced from third party vendors Enhance continues to increase.
In 2012, over a third of the new asset An element of the Portfolio growth is attributable to enhancing investment value was in projects acquired from vendors other our assets, through cost efficiencies and the generation of than John Laing.
To support this total level of acquisition activity, additional revenue.
JLIF has a collaborative relationship with its we have successfully raised a further 91 million in the equity stakeholders to realise tangible benefits for our shareholders market, bringing the total raised to date to over 520 million.
JLIFs Portfolio as at the beginning of the year has grown by JLIF is pleased to support HM Treasurys initiative for the public 8.5%, which is above our expectations, primarily due to achieved and private sectors to work together in a more effective way to enhancements of the projects.
deliver future value from our projects.
Deliver Develop JLIFs solid performance since launch supports its prominent JLIF made 11 acquisitions in addition to an equity subscription place in the infrastructure market.
The stock has continued to in to the Forth Valley Royal Hospital project during 2012, totalling trade at a premium to Net Asset Value NAV with good liquidity 156 million, which accounted for an increase of just over 40% and minimal volatility relative to the FTSE 250.
Infrastructure is in the Portfolio Value from 31 December 2011 380.4 million.
an attractive asset class for international investors to hold for The increased interest in infrastructure has been positive for its long term stable yield, which is rare in the current financial JLIF in raising new capital and ongoing share liquidity: however climate.
Following a steady upward trend during the year, the this market appetite has also led to an active secondary market share price at the close of the year was 107.9 pence, after paying that is becoming increasingly competitive.
The current market 6.0 pence per share in dividend.
an attractive place for vendors who seek to recycle their equity Based on this solid performance and confidence in the future periodically to dispose of assets, and therefore, afford JLIF the stability of cash flows, the Directors and I are delighted to opportunity to further diversify its vendor base.
JLIF continues to announce an increase in the dividend per share for 2013.
This will seek exciting new opportunities that, first and foremost, deliver increase by 4.2% to 3.125 pence per share for the next payment value to shareholders.
This increase is aligned to our anticipated growth in the dividend that was outlined when the Company launched.
The Board believe the Investment Group basis is the best reflection of the financial position and true performance of the Company.
JLIF Limited Annual Report 2012 OVERVIEW 5.
To support JLIFs business and to allow it to take advantage Outlook of the right opportunities, in February 2013 we refinanced and The UK government is in the process of launching a new increased our debt facility.
JLIF now has 150 million available procurement route for infrastructure projects, PF2.
This is to it provided by Lloyds Bank plc, RBS plc and ING Bank NV.
This anticipated to facilitate access to the capital markets, harnessing is an excellent achievement in what remain challenging financial the appetite of institutional investors and other sources of long markets and we are delighted to have relationships with term debt finance.
It is hoped to provide a more attractive risk committed infrastructure participants.
We believe that this puts allocation in order to gain access to institutional investor capital, JLIF in a strong position to act swiftly on acquisitions in a market and to encourage alternative financing sources, possibly providing where vendors are often driven towards quick sales processes deleveraged capital structures facilitated by public sector coand attracted to buyers who can respond to their time constraints.
JLIF welcomes the implementation of PF2 to procure infrastructure projects in the UK.
We believe this will provide Corporate Governance additional liquidity in the primary infrastructure market, and boost the pipeline available to the secondary market.
JLIF continues to maintain its Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange and follow the Association of Investment Further afield, JLIF is progressing with its strategy to invest Companies AIC Code of Corporate Governance the Code.
in Continental Europe and North America where PPP is a The Board has a framework in place to enable the Company to sophisticated method of procurement.
We are keen to increase comply with as many provisions of the Code as possible.
The the number of assets held overseas to support the Company AIC has produced guidance over the last year in presenting in its geographical diversification.
JLIF is actively seeking information to shareholders to facilitate further transparency.
such opportunities and strengthening our relationships with JLIF has adopted this guidance for its governance and for this market participants.
JLIFs Investment Adviser, John Laing Capital Management JLCM, also has a seat on the AIC Property and JLIF has grown very quickly since IPO and has delivered the Infrastructure Forum, to ensure both JLIF and JLCM can be targeted dividend, whilst providing significant total shareholder instrumental in developing the infrastructure investment market return and NAV growth.
This is a good achievement and we look and have access to the latest guidance and policy development.
forward to continuing this growth over the coming years.
The Alternative Investment Fund Manager Directive AIFMD is being adopted by the UK from July 2013 with a 12 month Paul Lester CBE Chairman implementation period.
However, it may be introduced in some EU countries earlier than that.
The implications for JLCM a UK 18 March 2013 company and JLIF a Guernsey non-EU company are not yet clear, however, JLIF, with JLCM, continues to remain up to date with current guidance such that it can comply with the new directive when it is formally introduced.
The Board appointed Optimus Group Limited Optimus to carry out a full independent review of its performance.
Optimus concluded that the JLIF Board has a high standard of Corporate Governance and is compliant with the Code.
A few minor improvements have been identified, including the implementation of a Nominations Committee.
The Board has decided to appoint a Nominations Committee, chaired by David MacLellan, and to apply as many of the suggested recommendations as possible.
The Board will continue to undertake this review every three years.
