Chairmans Statement Having become Chairman in May 2012, I wrote to you for the first time in the Companys half-year report which was sent to shareholders in July 2012.
I am now pleased to be reporting on the Companys results for the full year to December 2012.
Of course, by the time you read this statement, some months have passed and markets have moved on since the end of our financial year.
As the Companys net asset value NAV is published daily and fact sheets are published monthly, you may well be aware of how things have changed since that point.
Therefore I think it is worth trying to use my statement to give some longer term historic context and to discuss what your Board has been thinking about and doing over the year.
For the 12 months to the end of December 2012, the US equity market, as measured by the S&P 500 Index, provided a return, including dividends reinvested, of 10.5% in sterling terms.
This is despite the euroturmoil in the middle of the year, the US presidential election, the fiscal cliff challenge, worries about the strength of the US recovery and concerns over US corporate growth.
The old phrase markets climb a wall of worry seems particularly appropriate.
Sterling strengthened during the year from US$1.55 to the pound, to US$1.63 to the pound.
It is worth remembering that 2012 was a continuation of a recovery from the dark days of 2008 and the chart below illustrates this.
The S&P 500 Index has now risen by 71% from the low reached on 27th February 2009 in response to, or because of, the measures taken to stabilise the US financial system and economy.
Shareholders might be interested to look at the ten year financial record tables on page 14.
In some ways it feels as if the last 10 years have not been particularly profitable for equity investment.
However, following the very difficult period for your Company during the unwinding of the dotcom boom, it is worth noting that since the end of December 2002, the NAV has risen from 502.3p per share to 925p per share taking debt at its par value.
The dividend per share has risen from 4.8p per share to 12.5p per share, giving a total return over the last 10 years of 108%, or 7.6% 2 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 per annum the share price total return is higher.
That compares with our benchmark, which has provided a total return of 89.8% over the same period.
Performance of your Company NAV and Gearing Over the last year, your Company provided a positive NAV return, including income of 8.6%, which is somewhat less than the 10.5% return provided by the market all in sterling terms.
Over five years, which covers the downturn and the upturn, the NAV is just ahead of the S&P 500 Index and over 10 years for all of which time Garrett Fish has had responsibility for the investment management of the Company the NAV is ahead significantly.
Looking at individual years, the NAV has outperformed in five out of the last 10, and the greatest margin of out-performance was in the market collapse in 2008.
These facts are unusual and something to be pleased about.
For the technicians amongst you, we are looking at the NAV with debt at par here, so are not taking account of movements in the estimated price of our debt.
We think that is probably a fair way of assessing the Managers performance.
The reasons for our underperformance compared with the market index this year were almost all to do with the gearing and its use.
Our debenture costs the Company approximately 0.8% per annum.
In addition, your investment manager was perhaps understandably rather cautious at various points, and held some cash.
In the event and we will probably not know how close it came the worst did not happen, and markets bounced significantly in the last six months.
Your Company did not benefit quite as much as it might have done from that bounce.
We have been considering the way we use gearing.
We do think the ability to use borrowings in a reasonably cautious way is an advantage to our structure and will add to returns, given our view of the long term outlook for investment in US equities.
The debenture we have in place is expensive, with a coupon of 6.85%, costing us some 0.8% of NAV per annum, but to repay it at this point would involve paying a further premium which seems unwarranted to us.
However, we think the level of gearing which it provides, at approximately 10% of net assets, is appropriate.
We think shorter term or tactical market timing is very difficult and not the most reliable source of return for anyone.
In particular, the use of JPMAMs gearing models in current times, when quantitative easing is affecting the price of long and short term interest rates, is problematic.
Our attribution systems show that Garrett Fishs large cap investment approach has resulted in out-performance or performance in line with the S&P 500 Index in eight out of the last 10 years at portfolio level that is the large capitalisation portfolio compared with the index, before costs.
Over the last five years, however, the cost of debt and tactical asset allocation have detracted from our returns relative to our benchmark.
We have therefore reassessed the way we use gearing and will not seek to vary the level of gearing in normal circumstances to any significant extent that means by more than approximately 2% above or below the 10% level.
However, we do value our investment managers conservatism which served shareholders very well in 2008, and will permit him, if he feels that there is a real risk of loss of capital, to hold cash up to 5% of net assets.
All of this remains within our stated gearing policy.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 3 Chairmans Statement continued Gearing level 25 20 15 10 5 0 5 10 Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Source: Datastream Gross Gearing level.
Net Gearing level offsetting cash and near cash against 50m debenture.
Dividend We are pleased that the recovery in dividend payments from the US market has flowed through, to allow an increase in your dividend of 13.6% to 12.5p per share for the full year.
In order to provide shareholders with more frequent income payments, the Company paid an interim dividend this year of 5.0p on 8th October 2012.
Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM, a final dividend of 7.5p will be paid on 8th May 2013 to shareholders on the register on 12th April 2013.
For some years, the Companys dividend policy has been to distribute all, or most, of the available income in each year.
This years payment does not necessitate drawing on the Companys reserves.
However, we do normally charge 80% of our costs to capital in line with our expected long term split of revenue and capital returns from the Companys investments.
Shareholders should note that dividends could vary significantly both with the level of dividends we received and the translation of those dividends into sterling.
However, after the payment of the proposed final dividend, we will have a balance in the revenue reserves of 10.0 million equivalent to 19.9p per share or 1.6 times the current dividend.
We are, in addition, proposing to take the power to pay dividends out of capital.
We do not foresee doing so if things continue as they are, but we do believe that there may be circumstances in which shareholders would prefer to see us maintain a dividend if we thought any shortfall in our income was temporary.
Share Price and premium discount Our share price rose during 2012 from 859p to 906p.
Compared to NAV taking debt at fair value, the shares have traded at a premium for most of the year, although that premium decreased a little.
The chart below shows the movement of the discount premium over the last five years.
4 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Discount Premium level 10 8 6 4 2 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Source: Datastream Discount Premium level calculated with debt at fair value and including income.
We have issued a significant number of shares during the year: 4,037,545 to be precise, or 8.7% of the issued share capital at the beginning of the year.
We have always issued shares at a premium to estimated NAV calculated after deducting the estimated market value of our debt, and have added 0.2% to NAV calculated on that basis during the year.
We are asking your permission to continue to issue shares where we are confident of sustainable market demand and are putting the relevant resolutions to shareholders at our Annual General Meeting in May.
I would like to reiterate what we said in the half-year report: as a Board, we have demonstrated our willingness to buy shares back when the shares stand at anything more than a small discount.
Between 2003 and 2007 we bought back approximately 30% of the outstanding share capital.
Having issued shares, we are aware of our obligation not to let the discount widen significantly and are proposing to renew our buy back powers by asking shareholders to approve the relevant resolutions at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Investment Manager Your Companys objective is to achieve capital growth from North American investments by out-performance of the Companys benchmark, which is the S&P 500 Index with both net asset value and benchmark measured in sterling total return terms.
Your Board has once again thoroughly reviewed the capabilities of the investment manager in order to assess whether J. P. Morgan Asset Management JPMAM should remain the Manager of the Companys assets.
We have met with the investment managers and the investment company team in London, had conversations over a remarkable teleconference system and visited the investment management offices in New York.
We have spent some time seeking to understand the growth in JPMAMs asset management business in the US and where the management of your Company fits within the business.
We spent time too reviewing the investment managers methodologies and understanding how these evolve.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 5 We do look at comparisons with an appropriate peer group both in the UK and the US with regard to performance, fee rates and costs of management and spent time reviewing the investment management operation whilst in New York for a Board Meeting.
In addition to investment management, the Manager provides many other services to the Company, including marketing, accounting and company secretarial services.
We have concluded that the ongoing appointment of JPMAM is in the continuing interests of shareholders.
Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive The European Securities and Markets Authority ESMA has published its final advice on implementing the measures of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive the Directive.
How the UK Financial Services Authority chooses to implement the Directive, and therefore the implications for your Company, is currently the subject of consultation and discussion within the investment company industry.
Your Board in conjunction with the Association of Investment Companies the AIC and JPMAM is monitoring developments closely and considering how best to deal with these new regulatory requirements as they become somewhat more clear.
Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act FATCA The United States has introduced provisions commonly referred to as FATCA, which introduce reporting requirements for foreign financial institutions FFIs in respect of their unit or account holders.
Last year, my predecessor noted that these requirements appeared very onerous and compliance would be difficult to achieve.
However, it does seem that inter-government negotiations conducted by HMRC have resulted in a framework that will allow the Company, as an investment trust, to be deemed as a non-reporting FFI and thus be spared most of the difficulties which might have arisen.
The Board Your Board has put in place procedures to ensure that the Company complies fully with the Association of Investment Companies the AIC Code on Corporate Governance.
In accordance with corporate governance best practice, all continuing Directors will seek reappointment at the Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, I, along with Kate Bolsover and James Williams, all being eligible, offer ourselves for reappointment at this years Annual General Meeting.
Having been appointed on 4th May 2012 and after the 2012 Annual General Meeting, Simon Bragg and Sir Alan Collins will both be standing for initial appointment by shareholders.
I am pleased to be able to report that both Directors have already significantly contributed to the Boards deliberations and are proving to be excellent additions to the Board.
Having served as a Director since 2003, James Fox will be retiring from the Board at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
James has served as Audit Committee Chairman throughout this time on the Board.
His understanding of the US, knowledge of investment and investment company matters and rigour as Chairman of the Audit Committee have contributed significantly to the success of the Company over the last 10 years.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee will continue to manage the process of Board succession and refreshment over the next year, to make sure your Board has the skills and experience to add value to shareholders.
It has also reviewed the fees 6 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 paid to Directors and recommended that no increase should be made this year.
Details of the fee levels can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 35.
However, it has recommended that the aggregate maximum level of fees payable to Directors be increased from 175,000.
This level was last increased in 2004, and we are proposing to shareholders that the level be raised to 225,000.
Although we currently have six board members, James Foxs retirement will reduce the number of Directors to five following the AGM.
However, an increased maximum would give us flexibility to manage the board succession process and recruit good candidates in the future.
Communications Please do get in touch if you have questions or comments for your Board.
There is a facility on the Companys website, www.
In addition, you are more than welcome to write to me via our Company Secretary, at the Companys registered office.
Please refer to the Information about the Company section in the inside back cover of this Report for contact details.
Our Annual General Meeting will be held in a new place this year, so please do come and join us if you are interested to do so.
Annual General Meeting This years Annual General Meeting will be held on Wednesday, 1st May 2013 at 2.30 p. m. at Holborn Bars, 138142 Holborn, London EC1N 2NQ.
As in previous years, in addition to the formal part of the meeting, there will be a presentation from our investment manager, who will answer questions on the portfolio and performance.
There will also be an opportunity to meet the Board, Garrett Fish and representatives of JPMAM after the meeting.
I look forward to welcoming as many of you as possible to this meeting.
If you have any detailed or technical questions, it would be helpful if you could raise these in advance of the meeting with the Company Secretary, at the address above.
Shareholders who are unable to attend the Annual General Meeting are encouraged to use their proxy votes.
Outlook The US market has risen a long way both since March 2009, and even since last summer.
Investor confidence has returned for the time being.
As Garrett Fish indicates in his Investment Managers Report, the corporate sector looks robust, in particular when compared to our own.
However, in the short term, equity valuations are not particularly cheap.
The distortions created by the Federal Reserves aggressive monetary policy do make historic comparisons difficult and bond market investors nervous.
Several commentators are discussing whether there is a bubble in fixed income markets.
On the other hand the extraordinary changes in the US oil and gas industry which may lead to US self-sufficiency in energy could have a profound effect on the outlook for the US economy.
Given the alternatives, the US equity market does look like a reasonable place to be over the next few years, but it would be unwise to assume that market turmoil has disappeared.
Sarah Bates Chairman 18th March 2013 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
