Chairmans Statement The Company has again outperformed its benchmark index, the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, in the year to 30th June 2012, albeit in a year which saw negative returns to equity investors.
As I explained previously, following the successful issue of Subscription shares in 2009, we report our net asset value on a diluted basis to reflect the potential dilution to net asset value assuming full conversion of the Subscription shares to Ordinary shares.
Until expiry of the Subscription shares, this gives a somewhat misleading impression of the Companys underlying portfolio performance as it has a negative effect on the net asset value calculation.
Once again, I would emphasise that it is not the basis on which we judge the performance of the Manager, which we continue to do excluding the dilution effect of the Subscription shares, which was 0.1% during the year.
Accordingly, I can report that the portfolio return net of fees and expenses was 11.5% before adjustments, against a fall of 14.0% in the benchmark.
Allowing for the dilution effect of those Subscription shares that were actually exercised in the year, this adjusts to a fall in net asset value of 11.6%.
The fall on a fully diluted basis was 10.4%.
This outperformance was driven by active stock selection and asset allocation, as the Manager details in his report, continuing the traditional source of added value in the Managers performance over many years.
It also gives rise to a non-offsetable performance fee payment due to the Manager of 1.8 million: this sum will be paid only when there is a positive movement in the net asset value over a financial year.
We continue to monitor closely the share price and therefore the fluctuations in the discount of our share price to their diluted net asset value.
The Ordinary share price fell 11.0% through the year, from 597.5p to 531.5p at the year end.
The Subscription shares declined 44% over the year, from 135.0p to 75.0p.
The discount on the Ordinary shares ranged between 6.0% and 11.2%, averaging 8.8% through the year.
A total of 170,000 shares were repurchased into Treasury during the year and a further 93,335 shares have been repurchased since the year end.
The Boards policy on discount management is that it is prepared to take action to ensure that the fully diluted discount does not touch or exceed 10% for an extended period, but only if the discount is out of line with our peer group and market conditions are orderly.
We are prepared to buy shares in at discounts of between 8% and 10% in order to achieve this, subject to those caveats.
Income after expenses rose by more than 17% and we are proposing to pay an increased dividend of 4.5p.
Our investment policy is aimed at maximising capital growth and does not focus on income.
Hitherto the Company has only paid dividends to the extent necessary to maintain investment trust status, but feedback at last years AGM suggested that an increased dividend would be welcomed by shareholders.
However, given that the Companys objective is to achieve capital growth, it remains the case that dividends may fluctuate from year to year according to our income position.
The Board continues to take seriously its governance obligations and we comply fully with the AIC Code of Corporate Governance and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We support the general drive to diversity in terms of board representation as recommended in the Davies Report and this will be borne in mind when we recruit a new director in ensuing years.
2 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 We continue to monitor our Manager carefully through the Management Engagement Committee.
We confirm that we remain fully satisfied that the Manager is the right manager for the Company, not only in terms of investment performance but also in terms of risk management, administration, controls and compliance.
The Board itself has remained stable in terms of composition over the year.
As previously, we carry out a review of the Board and separately the Board reviews my role as Chairman.
I am pleased to say no major concerns were raised and I would like to thank my colleagues for their continuing support.
Last year, I concluded by pointing out that the Company was now 20 years old and had navigated its way successfully through that period to the benefit of shareholders.
I am pleased to record that shareholders gave a positive endorsement at last years AGM by voting strongly in favour of the resolution to continue the Company for another three years It is naturally disappointing to report a fall in shareholder returns for the first year of our new decade, though our managers have done a satisfactory job relative to the benchmark index.
The Board remains confident however that emerging markets remain an attractive investment in the long term and are confident in the ability of our manager to deliver a strong performance.
Alan Saunders Chairman 5th October 2012 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
