Chairmans statement In this, my first statement to by our core values, which are embedded shareholders as Chairman, I am pleased throughout the Group, and which we believe contribute to the generation to report that BTG is in a strong position of shareholder value.
and is delivering on its strategy and its objectives.
We have made significant We are well placed to become progress on a number of fronts over the last year and are at an exciting time in increasingly cash-generative over the our development.
We approach the medium term, driven by the transition to future with confidence.
direct sales in the US, the US approval of Voraxaze, underlying double-digit growth Garry Watts The Groups strategy of selling its own in our Interventional Medicine business Chairman specialist products is working.
In and a continuing strong royalty stream Specialty Pharmaceuticals, a strong from our Licensing & Biotechnology performance from CroFab and DigiFab business.
We are delivering on our strategy has been supplemented by cost-recovery and are well placed to be increasingly and named patient sales of Voraxaze, The cash we generate is available to cash-generative over the medium term.
which was approved by the FDA in continue development of PEM and our January 2012 and launched nationally bead products and to invest in acquiring in the US at the end of April 2012. or in-licensing new products and Cash generated from operations Similarly, the creation of a dedicated late-stage programmes.
The Board sales function in Interventional Medicine believes that reinvesting shareholder has enabled us to bring in-house the funds in this way will generate most 47.2m US sales responsibility for our beads value over the longer term, and it does business.
not recommend payment of a dividend.
11 12 47.2m Our Licensing & Biotechnology revenues BTG has made strong progress over the 10 11 12.0m benefited from significant post-patentpast year, and I look forward to working expiry royalties from Pfizer on BeneFIX with my Board colleagues and our wider 09 10 5.8m and first royalties from Johnson & team to continue to develop BTG into a Johnson on Zytiga, which has had leading specialist healthcare business.
07 08 13.4m Product development has also progressed well during the year.
In addition to the Voraxazeapproval, we have announced positive US Phase III results for PEM, a potential treatment for varicose veins, and we continue to progress our bead chemoembolisation studies.
I have been very impressed with the quality of the people at BTG: it has a high-calibre management group and a strong teamwork culture.
I should like to acknowledge the excellent work of my predecessor, Dr John Brown, in overseeing this and in successfully steering the Group through its transformation.
I would like formally to thank him on behalf of the Board and to wish him well for the future.
As we look to the future, our focus remains on our clearly articulated and deliverable strategy and objectives.
We will also continue to be guided 06 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Zytiga abiraterone acetate Licensing & Biotechnology Launched in the US and Europe by the Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson during the last year.
Approved for the treatment of patients with late-stage prostate cancer.
We benefit from a royalty on all global sales of this new oral, once-daily medication.
