Chairmans Statement I firmly believe that the Board can recover significant shareholder value through effecting the proposed separation from the Bakrie Group and PT Bumi and a clear future strategy based around PT Berau with a rigorous focus on governance.
My first year as Chairman of Bumi plc has been a challenging one, from both an operational and governance perspective.
However, following the appointment of the first unaffiliated CEO of Bumi plc, the first unaffiliated President Director of PT Berau and the endorsement the Board received 1 from shareholders at the general meeting held on 21 February 2013 to proceed with the separation of the Company from the Bakrie Group and PT Bumi, I am confident the Board will be able to drive significant shareholder value through organic growth and a rigorous focus on governance.
During the year, our core business at PT Berau demonstrated considerable resilience: we reduced operating costs in the fourth quarter by making changes to the mine plan and we increased production.
However, our results were adversely impacted by weak thermal coal prices, other exceptional costs, non cash impairment losses and a non cash loss on reclassification of PT Bumi from an associate to an investment.
The Board has also undergone a number of changes since the last Annual General Meeting AGM in June 2012 with the resignations of Messrs Hudaya, Beckham, Rothschild and Bakrie, all of whom were involved in the original transaction, the appointment of the Companys first unaffiliated CEO, Nick von Schirnding on 31 December 2012, the departure of Messrs Rathod and Mizrahi and the appointment of Sir Richard Gozney at the general meeting on 21 February 2013 and the resignation of Messrs Harsono and Yeo on 15 March 2013.
As previously announced, the Board is to be restructured into a smaller and more appropriate board for the business going forward.
As part of this process, at our AGM on 26 June 2013, Sir Graham Hearne, Scott Merrillees and Lord Renwick will be retiring from the Board.
I am grateful to them and the Audit Committee for helping to set the Company on a better course.
Sir Julian Horn-Smith and Steven Shapiro have informed the Board that they will stand for re-election at the AGM in order to assist in an orderly transition and will continue to serve for an appropriate period to help achieve this.
Subject to the outcome of the AGM, Graham Holdaway will succeed Lord Renwick as chairman of the Audit Committee, Steven Shapiro will succeed Sir Graham Hearne as chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Sir Richard Gozney will become chairman of the Conflicts Committee replacing Steven Shapiro.
Time was required to undertake a review of the financial position of PT Berau by new management.
This led to the delay of the Company announcing its results leading to a suspension of its shares.
Whilst the shares in Bumi plc are not trading, PT Berau and PT Bumi continue to trade their shares and their market capitalisation has recently been around $731m and $1.5bn respectively, implying a see through value for Bumi plc of over $1.1bn.
The upside is clear as the combined value of PT Berau under the new management and the proceeds of the disposal of our interest in PT Bumi is far higher than this.
Following further enhancement of our controls, shares in Bumi plc are expected to resume trading before the AGM on 26 June 2013.
Proposed separation from the Bakrie Group and PT Bumi On 11 October 2012 the Board announced that the Bakrie Group had proposed to enter into a transaction with the Company the effect of which would be for the Company to separate from the Bakrie Group and dispose of its shareholding in PT Bumi.
The Board delegated to the Independent Non-Executive Directors INEDs the responsibility for reviewing this offer and appointed Rothschild Group to assist the INEDs and to evaluate this proposal together with the NR Investments Limited's alternative which was received on 5 November 2012.
Following such evaluation it was decided to pursue a separation from the Bakrie Group as shareholders in the Company and the disposal of the Companys 29.2% interest in PT Bumi the Proposed Separation.
The Company is currently preparing a shareholder circular to convene a general meeting at which the transaction in respect of which heads of terms were agreed and announced on 12 February 2013 will be put to a shareholder vote.
The arrangements in respect of $50m deposited in an escrow account by the Bakrie Group in relation to this proposed transaction have been extended to 26 June 2013.
The details of this proposed 2 transaction are set out at the bottom of this page.
Corporate governance The UK Corporate Governance Code calls for the Chairman to report to shareholders directly on governance matters and our report on Governance can be found on page 30 of this Annual Report.
The Board is committed to effective corporate governance throughout the Group.
Following concerns that its policies were not being fully complied with, the Board, through the Audit Committee, undertook a review of contracts and payments to identify counterparties and the extent of any transactions with related parties.
This work concluded that a number of related party transactions had not been disclosed by former directors of PT Berau and that a number of large payments could not be determined as having a clear business purpose.
A summary of the position regarding related party transactions is set out in Note 31 to the Financial Statements.
1 Being PT Bakrie & Brothers Tbk and Long Haul Holdings Ltd together 2 The heads of terms addressed the following two proposals:- Proposal 1A Bakrie Group to acquire 2,136,967,115 ordinary shares 10.3% of PT Bumi in exchange for 57,298,534 ordinary shares 23.8% of Bumi plc held by the Bakrie Group.
Based on Bumi plc share price of 1.65 and exchange rate of GBP 1.00 $ 1.603 which reflects the relevant market prices as at 8 October 2012 Proposal 1B Bakrie Group to acquire the balance of 3,924,732,522 ordinary shares 18.9% of PT Bumi for a cash consideration of $278,262,759, based on a price of IDR680 per PT Bumi ordinary share.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 3 Chairmans Statement continued This led to the extensive review of the financial position of PT Berau by new management which uncovered evidence of apparent financial irregularities and identified significant expenditure, predominantly in 2012 for which no clear business purpose could be established.
The Board fully supported the extensive review undertaken by PT Beraus new management notwithstanding that it delayed the issue of the Companys results which led to the suspension of the Companys shares.
The Board was unanimous in its view that this was the right approach to ensure a reliable set of accounts as a basis for restoring investor confidence in the Company.
This review is covered in greater detail in our report on Governance and the Company will pursue all means available for the recovery of all relevant expenditure, including by engagement with relevant regulators.
Recognising the need to strengthen corporate governance in the Group, the following significant steps have been taken or are planned: On 31 December 2012 the Board appointed Nick von Schirnding as the first unaffiliated CEO of the Group: On 7 March 2013, at the general meeting of PT Berau, Eko Budianto replaced Rosan Roeslani as President Director of PT Berau, joined the Bumi plc executive committee and has since installed a new management team at PT Berau: Following Scott Merrilleess decision not to stand for re-election at the forthcoming AGM of the Company, the Nomination Committee has appointed Russell Reynolds Associates to conduct the search for an unaffiliated CFO: and At the AGM of PT Berau to be held on 29 June 2013, the Company will be proposing that Nick von Schirnding be appointed to the Board of PT Berau as a commissioner the Indonesian equivalent of a non-executive director in the UK.
On 22 February 2013 the Company announced that I would step down as Chairman of the Company once a new independent chairman is found but will remain on the Board as the Companys business partner in Indonesia.
The Nomination Committee appointed The Inzito Partnership, an independent search firm, to assist with the recruitment of a new chairman, who has experience in, and is familiar to, the London market and I am pleased to report that this search is well advanced.
As set out in the Companys announcement on 22 January 2013, the investigation conducted by Macfarlanes LLP Macfarlanes has been completed.
The Board is taking all appropriate action open to it in respect of the findings of the independent investigation to pursue remedies where available and to liaise with all the relevant regulators in the UK and Indonesia.
To this end, following the conclusion of the Macfarlanes investigation, the Board established a Litigation Committee, comprising Graham Holdaway Chairman, Amir Sambodo, Nick von Schirnding and Sir Richard Gozney, to review all potential claims relating to the matters arising out of the investigation.
The fact finding stage has been substantially completed and leading counsel has been requested to prepare detailed advice setting out the merits of all available claims and the nature of the Company's remedies.
Meanwhile in relation to PT Berau and its investment in the Chateau fund, a letter before action has been sent to the fund manager by PT Berau's Cayman Islands solicitors seeking realisation of the investment through the appointment of independent directors, or alternatively the winding-up of the fund manager by the court.
Macfarlanes has also sent a formal notice of dispute to PT Bukit Mutiara, Bukit Mutiara triggering the dispute resolution procedure under the original sale and purchase agreement with Bukit Mutiara.
If a satisfactory response is not received, legal proceedings will be commenced.
The remit of the Litigation Committee has also been extended to include the review of all potential claims arising out of the extensive review into apparent financial irregularities in PT Berau.
The role of the Litigation Committee is covered in greater detail later on in the report on Governance.
Reclassification of PT Bumi During the latter part of 2012 the Board determined that it was not able to exert any significant influence over PT Bumi.
It therefore announced that it was necessary to reclassify PT Bumi from an associate to an investment.
This reclassification was applied from 30 September 2012 following the resignation of the President Director of PT Bumi from the Bumi plc Board, and the Company is now pursuing an exit strategy from PT Bumi as part of the Proposed Separation.
The income statement records a non-cash charge of $1,394m, which reflects the investment being marked to market at that date to a value of $456m.
Impairment of goodwill With a weakened outlook for thermal coal prices, we have assessed the carrying value of PT Berau and determined that a non cash goodwill impairment of $815m is required.
Details of the assumptions used in determining the impairment are provided in Note 13 to the Financial Statements.
Health, Safety, Environment and Communities The oversight exercised by a separate Health, Safety, Environment and Community HSEC Committee demonstrates the Boards commitment to this key area, and a report on HSEC is set out on pages 19 to 24 of this Annual Report.
Finally I would like to thank all of our employees for their hard work during 2012.
I would also like to thank my colleagues on the Board, many of whom have devoted much time to the Company and made themselves available often at short notice to address the issues the Company has faced during 2012.
I would like to thank those members who retired from the Board during 2012 and the early part of 2013 and welcome Sir Richard Gozney who joined the Board following the general meeting on 21 February 2013.
Samin Tan Chairman Bumi plc Annual Report Page 4
