Introduction Chairmans statement 2012 was another positive year for Jupiter as we continued to position the business for growth.
Jamie Dundas Chairman I am pleased to introduce our Annual Report for 2012.
We have ample evidence that Jupiters proposition can be attractive to wider made changes to the format of the Report this year to improve the markets than we currently serve.
Our new Distribution and Strategy description of our business model, strategy and performance, and to Director, Maarten Slendebroek, was appointed in September 2012. enhance the alignment of the Financial Review commentary with the Given the importance of this new role, I am pleased that Maarten Financial Statements.
I trust you will nd these helpful.
has joined the Board as an Executive Director.
I referred above to the strengthening of our balance sheet and to the In 2012, Jupiter has maintained its record of delivering value to its dividend recommendation.
We repaid a further 65.0m of remaining clients over the medium to long term, with 79 per cent.
of mutual debt during 2012, and had net cash of 69.0m at the year end.
Our fund AUM above median over the past three years.
Our positive aspiration will be to strike the right balance between investing in the operational performance has underpinned satisfactory financial growth of the business, while delivering year on year performance results and enabled us to further strengthen our balance sheet.
to support our progressive dividend policy.
Subject always to factors Underlying EPS was 19.0p per share, and the Board has recommended beyond our control, Jupiter clearly has the capacity to deliver both a final dividend of 6.3p which, if approved at the Annual General sides of this equation.
Meeting, will bring the total dividend for the year to 8.8p, a 13 per cent.
A final point that is high on the Boards agenda is ensuring that we The details of our performance are set out in the Chief Executives maintain the culture and behaviour that underpins our brand, and report and the pages which follow.
I shall be brief therefore, and that our clients, regulators and shareholders have a right to expect focus on some important points on which the Board has been from us.
This is not just about regulatory compliance, though that engaged and will continue to prioritise.
receives the fullest attention, but also about the reputation and the sustainability of the business.
We should never claim that this is easy, Our strategy is built around the delivery for our clients of but we take it very seriously, and devoted considerable Board time investment outperformance over the medium and long term.
We will continue to do so, and expect to make ows from this, not least the need for depth and breadth of fund further investment in 2013 in the systems and support functions that manager talent, careful succession planning, and sound policies that are essential to our sound development as we pursue further growth align staff interests with the company and other stakeholders.
Board and its Committees spent considerable time on these issues in 2012.
Our talent pipeline has been strengthened through both My thanks to our clients, to our investors, to our staff and all who external hiring and internal moves, and a number of our younger have supported us over the past year.
fund managers have stepped into larger roles.
We need to continue to monitor these processes and to ensure that Jupiter remains an attractive place to work for talented individuals.
With that in mind, during the year the Remuneration Committee led a comprehensive review of our compensation policies to satisfy itself that they continue to be effective, appropriate and aligned with long term shareholder value.
The Board and the Executive leadership have also been looking closely at the linked issues of our product mix and our distribution.
Jamie Dundas Jupiters offering is anchored by core strengths in equity funds and Chairman sales in the UK retail market.
We have always been more diverse than that, however, and have become much more so in the last 27 February 2013 three years as we have developed our position in other product and client sectors, such as xed income and SICAV ranges.
There is Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 1
