CHAIRMANS STATEMENT RESULTS I am very pleased to be able to report another good set of results for Bunzl despite the continuing difficult macroeconomic conditions which have persisted for the last few years across many of the international markets inwhich we compete.
Group revenue increased to 5,359.2 million 2011: 5,109.5 million, an increase of 6% at constant exchange rates, due to organic growth of 2.6% combined with the impact of recent acquisitions, net ofthe disposal of the UK vending business in August 2011.
Operating profit before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs was 352.4 million 2011: 335.7 million, up 7% at constant exchange rates, with the improvement in the Group operating margin on the same basis being driven by the impact of acquisitions and the sale of the UK vending business.
Adjusted earnings per share before intangible amortisation, acquisition related costs and the vending disposal were 71.8p 2011: 68.5p, an increase of 7% at constant exchange rates.
Adverse currency translation movements, principally the euro, reduced the growth rates marginally by between 1% and 2%.
DIVIDEND The Board is recommending a final dividend of 19.4p.
This brings the total dividend for the year to 28.2p, up 7% compared to 2011.
Shareholders will again have the opportunity to participate in our dividend reinvestment plan.
STRATEGY We continue to pursue our proven strategy of developing the business through organic growth, consolidating the markets in which we compete through focused acquisitions in both existing and new geographies and EXECUTING OUR CONSISTENT AND continuously improving the efficiency of our operations.
PROVEN STRATEGY HAS RESULTED IN ANOTHER SUCCESSFUL YEAR, WITH We achieve our organic growth by applying our resources and expertise toenable customers to outsource to Bunzl the purchasing, consolidation CONTINUED GROWTH IN EARNINGS AND and distribution of a broad range of goods not for resale.
By doing so our DIVIDENDS, THROUGH A COMBINATION customers are able to focus on their core business more cost effectively OF ORGANIC AND ACQUISITION GROWTH by achieving purchasing efficiencies and savings, freeing up working capital, improving their distribution capabilities and simplifying their AND OPERATING EFFICIENCIES.
Philip Rogerson Acquisition activity increased signicantly in 2012, particularly towards Chairman the end of the year, with 13 acquisitions announced and a total investment of approximately 270 million adding annualised revenue of over 500 million.
A key highlight this year was our first acquisition in South America outside Brazil which has provided Bunzl with a first entry into four new countries in the region.
Having pursued our strategy consistently over many years, we have built leading positions in a variety ofmarket sectors across the Americas, Europe and Australasia.
ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE p REVENUE bn 0305 continuing operations UK GAAP IFRS 71.8 5.4 68.5 5.1 4.8 4.6 60.6 4.2 55.9 52.7 3.6 45.1 3.3 41.7 38.7 2.9 32.1 31.3 2.4 2.3 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 08 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 INVESTMENT CREDIT FACILITIES While Bunzl does not have high levels of capital expenditure for a The Group remains highly cash generative and we continue to have company of its size, both organic growth and acquisitions require access to diverse sources of funding to achieve our strategic objectives.
investment in the business to expand and enhance its asset base.
InOctober 2012 we renanced some of our debt facilities by raising OurITsystems and warehouse facilities are critical to our ability to serve US$350.0 million of xed interest rate borrowings in the US private our customers in the most efficient and appropriate manner.
We have placement market with maturities ranging from seven to 11 years at an therefore continued to invest in order to support our growth strategy and average interest rate of 3.4%.
US$110.0 million was drawn in December ensure that we retain our competitive advantage.
By doing so we maintain with the balance due to be drawn in April 2013.
During the year we also our leadership in the marketplace, as we integrate new businesses into renanced or agreed new banking facilities totalling 150.7 million.
Our the Group and look to improve our existing infrastructure.
undrawn committed facilities at the end of the year were 589.3 million.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY BOARD efficient and ethical management of our business and long term Ulrich Wolters, who has served as a non-executive director since 2004, relationships with all our stakeholders, whether customers, employees will be retiring after the Companys Annual General Meeting in April 2013. orsuppliers, remain key to our sustained business success.
During 2012 We thank Ulrich for his significant contribution over many years and he our managers and sales and procurement staff completed tailored training will leave the Board with our gratitude and best wishes for the future.
covering our Corporate Responsibility CR policies which included our Business Standards Code ofEthics and our stance on gifts and Jean-Charles Pauze was appointed as a non-executive director in January entertainment, facilitation payments and information on our whistle 2013 and Meinie Oldersma will join the Board in the same capacity in blowing process.
Our employee survey again provided useful feedback April.
Based in Paris, Jean-Charles is presently Chairman of Europcar and and resulted in a variety of actions.
We have also continued to assist our Chairman of the Supervisory Board of CFAO Group and was Chairman customers in meeting their CR objectives by providing them with product and Chief Executive of Rexel for 10 years until 2012.
Prior to that he held choices, including some innovative environmentally friendly products a number of senior positions with PPR Group, Strafor Facom Group and made from materials such as bamboo and sugar cane as well as, in some Alfa Laval Group in France and Germany.
A Dutch national, Meinie is cases, offering them a closed loop recycling facility.
Our Quality Assurance currently based in the UK and has been Chief Executive of 20:20 Mobile and Quality Control department based inShanghai continues to work with Group since 2008 and previously held a variety of senior positions with our Asian suppliers to ensure that high quality and ethical standards of Ingram Micro, most recently as Chief Executive and President of their operation are maintained.
China Group and Managing Director of their business in Northern Europe.
Both Jean-Charles and Meinie have extensive international experience EMPLOYEES across a range of distribution and service sectors, particularly in Europe Our employees experience, dedication, commitment and approach to and Asia, which willbe of great value to Bunzl as we continue to expand their work remain key strengths of Bunzl.
Across the world we depend and develop.
Iamdelighted to welcome them to the Board.
onthem to continue to provide high quality care to our customers, adding value to our service provision.
The relationships formed by our employees with all our stakeholders shape the reputation of Bunzl and build our culture of a positive can-do company.
As ever, we are genuinely grateful for the loyalty and hard work of all our employees and we are delighted that 2012 has been a year in which many new employees have joined the Group through acquisition, providing new ideas and challenges to Philip Rogerson continue the development of Bunzl internationally.
