chairmans letter Excellent results with a powerful foundation for the future With this, the Group achieved record financial results in 2011 12.
After-tax return on capital remained strong at 37%.
All of these gures are on an adjusted basis.
The Group ended the year with a 338m net cash balance.
The board has recommended a 25% increase in the full year dividend to 25p.
Looking ahead, 2012 13 may present continued challenge.
Although the global macroeconomic picture has generally improved with distance from the financial crisis, this is not uniformly true.
On an economic basis, 2012 13 is likely to be less supportive for luxury.
Chinas growth is slowing, some Eurozone countries will see recession and the US recovery is gradual.
And political tensions in certain regions present concerns.
Professional observers of the sector are unusually divided on its near-term outlook.
Against this immediate backdrop, longer-term prospects for luxurys continued growth are favourable supported by democratisation, wealth creation, the rise of growth market consumers.
In planning 2012 13, management and the board considered these factors.
During the year, the board had invested in deepening its knowledge of Burberrys business through broader sector analysis, exposure to additional levels of management, and in April 2012, a trip reviewing four of the Groups most important markets in Asia.
In the end, measuring an external environment potentially suggesting short-term investment moderation against the brands Sir John Peace long-term opportunity in luxury particularly in the context Chairman of aggressive pursuit of market share by sector peers we concluded the benets of pursuing Burberrys At this time last year, I reported an historic year for long-term opportunities in luxury should outweigh any Burberry in 2010 11, while expressing some caution immediate issues stemming from a difficult environment.
For 2011 12, I am pleased to report This approach is further supported by the brands that the team successfully executed an ambitious plan momentum, managements track record and the Groups despite an uneven external environment, producing financial resources.
Accordingly, the team has committed another record year.
to another determined plan, while remaining vigilant and prepared to react to external developments.
From a strategic perspective, the team focused on rening and executing Burberrys five core strategies.
The brand Before concluding, a brief look further back.
July 2012 continues to ascend, backed by some of the most forward marks the tenth anniversary of Burberry as a listed company.
thinking digital marketing in the consumer sector.
Ongoing From its initial 1.15bn market capitalisation in July 2002, design innovation sustains a compelling product proposition.
Burberry is valued in excess of 6bn at the time of this letter With 14% average space growth, retail expansion remains May 2012.
During these past ten years, the Group has also on pace in both existing and new markets.
The brand is returned 780m to shareholders through share repurchase actively building a leading presence in the important new and dividends.
efficiency improves across operating functions.
These activities produced excellent progress On behalf of the Board and shareholders, I thank the team for the year, and continued to build a powerful foundation around the world for their contributions to these results.
Burberry possesses the right strategy, right culture and right team for continued success.
8 Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12
