Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 10 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 cHAiRMAns sTATEMEnT sir Winfried Bischoff Another year of progress for the Group against a still challenging economic and regulatory backdrop.
Overview Supporting the UK economic Recovery 2012 was a momentous year for the united Kingdom.
We celebrated We play an active part in supporting the uK economy, to which our the diamond Jubilee and the london 2012 Olympic and Paralympic success is inextricably linked, and in 2012 we confirmed our commitment Games.
lloyds Banking Group was appointed a national Partner to the to helping Britain prosper through a number of initiatives.
These included Games in 2007, and in this role we helped fund emerging athletes, supply leading the way in participating in the Governments Funding for lending volunteers and, crucially, support local businesses to enable them to take scheme and growing our lending to small and medium-sized businesses full advantage of the available commercial opportunities.
We are proud against the backdrop of a contracting market.
We made strong of the significant role the Group played and of our part in creating a commitments to supporting sectors, such as manufacturing, that play lasting legacy.
a key role in economic recovery.
We also underlined our support to the uK housing market by continuing to be the uKs largest mortgage it was also a year of progress for the Group against a still challenging provider to first time buyers, helping over 55,000 customers take their economic and regulatory backdrop.
We continued to implement our first steps onto the property ladder.
strategy and are now ahead of our plan to transform the Group and create an efficient, lower-risk retail and commercial bank, focused on being the best bank for customers.
This was reflected in our share price, which rose Regulation 85 per cent in 2012, substantially outperforming the FTsE 350 banks index, The regulatory framework governing the uK banking industry continued which rose by 34 per cent, and making our shares the best performer to evolve in 2012, and whilst there was greater clarity, a considerable in the FTsE 100 over the year.
However, we need to continue to manage degree of uncertainty remains about the final outcome of the shape of a number of legacy issues which have had an adverse impact on our our industry.
We continue to implement regulatory changes alongside financial performance.
the current Basel 3 draft legislation and await its finalisation when we will be able fully to assess the changes required and their effect on the To put this into figures: Even though the operating environment in the uK Group.
The largest challenge for regulators remains to devise a regulatory remained challenging, we delivered consistent underlying performance framework that strikes the right balance between enhancing financial in our core business, demonstrating the strength of our strategy and stability, and encouraging innovation, competition and growth.
This resulted in an increase of our underlying profit before tax over that of 2011 from 638 million to 2,607 million.
The We have been a consistent supporter of the proposals to ring-fence statutory results, however, were impacted by a number of items including systemically important banking operations outlined by the independent payment protection insurance, for which we took provisions totalling commission on Banking icB, given their close alignment to our simple an additional 3,575 million in 2012, bringing the total amount provided uK focused retail and commercial banking model.
it is our intention, to 6,775 million since 2011.
Additionally we made a further provision subject to discussions with the regulator and the interests of our in respect of possible claims arising from sME derivatives amounting shareholders, to become a ring-fenced bank ahead of the 2019 deadline.
This will be a step-change for the uK banking industry that should reduce risk and ensure clear distinction between retail and commercial banks on the one hand, and investment banks on the other.
during 2012 we have made good progress regarding the Ec mandated disposal, Project Verde.
We have created Verde as a stand-alone bank, which from the summer 2013, will be operating as a separate business within the Group.
We are well-positioned to divest the business either through a sale or an initial Public Offering.
Our discussions with The co-operative Group plc continue towards signing a binding sale and purchase agreement.
The formation of a new banking business, when completed, will be an effective challenger in the uKs retail banking market.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Introduction 1 10 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Group performance 2 Group key performance indicators 4 Divisional overview and KPIs 6 Chairmans statement 10 Group Chief Executives review 14 18 77 115 203 355 We also announced Timothy Ryan will retire from the Board in April 2013.
Dividends Tim, too has made a substantial contribution to the Board over the last We strengthened our capital position during 2012 despite provisions and three years with his deep knowledge and understanding of the global charges for regulatory issues.
As we stated in 2011, we remain committed financial services sector and the wider regulatory impact on our business.
to restarting dividend payments as soon as we are able, and fully i want to express my thanks to our non-Executive directors for their understand the difficulties that their absence is causing our shareholders.
They have spent substantial Once regulatory requirements have been clearly defined and we have amounts of time far more than expected on our business over the prudently met them, and the financial position of the Group and market last four years and have done so without any increase in their fees since conditions permits, it is our intention to recommence dividend payments.
These fees are now significantly below those of every other major banking institution.
We review fees annually and directors have Management and Staff decided once again to forego any increase in light of the fact that the The Board is committed to achieving long-term success for the Group Group in 2012 was still loss making at the statutory level.
and generating strong, stable and sustainable returns for shareholders, i am pleased that we achieved our commitment of 25 per cent female and this is underpinned by our high standards of corporate governance.
representation on the Board three years ahead of the 2015 timeline We have a strong executive management team, with deep experience mandated by the lord davies report.
We believe that diversity in and broad understanding of our business challenges.
The teams aim is to background and experience helps to enhance the quality of deliberations be the best bank for customers, while acting as ambassadors in leading and decision making, and we will continue to promote it within the Board cultural change in the organisation.
in this way i feel confident we will as an example to our entire organisation.
deliver the value which our shareholders expect and deserve.
it is vital to ensure our colleagues are fully engaged in meeting our Community business objectives and in making further progress.
i thank all of them We believe that businesses should support the communities where they for their commitment.
delivering excellent service and simple customer operate.
For lloyds Banking Group, this not only strengthens and grows focused products is at the heart of our strategy and we know we have our business, but also helps to rebuild trust and confidence in the banking to demonstrate this in all our actions.
By acting in our customers best sector and the positive role banks should play in society as a whole.
interests in every contact we have with them, we will become the great business we aspire to be and a source of pride for our employees.
This in Making a difference in communities by supporting education, turn will enable us to build sustainable returns for our shareholders.
employability and enterprise is central to the vision of the type of bank we want to be, a uK focused retail and commercial bank that exists to serve the needs of its customers.
if we continue to focus on our Group Directors values: putting customers first, keeping it simple and making a difference We have strengthened and further diversified the knowledge and together we will build a strong and profitable Group, with a culture which experience on our Board.
On 31 May 2012, two new non-Executive reinforces these behavioural standards.
directors were appointed, carolyn Fairbairn and lord Blackwell.
carolyns background in strategy, public policy and regulation Following our strategic Review in 2011 we are committed to keeping our complements the experience of lord Blackwell in banking, consulting charitable and community investment at 85 million for the period of the and life insurance.
These appointments add to the existing combination strategic plan.
This has meant thousands of colleagues have been able of skills, and banking and life insurance perspectives, already present to volunteer in local community activities through our staff giving days.
on our Board and will contribute to the quality of decision making.
i am pleased that we raised over 3.6 million in charitable donations over the two years duration of our partnership with save the children as our On 22 november 2012 we announced that Martin scicluna, Audit charity of the Year.
We are already actively supporting our new charity committee chairman, will step down from the Board and leave the of the Year: the Alzheimers society and Alzheimer scotland, who have Group at the end of March 2013 following his appointment as chairman launched the Live Well Campaign, the first uK-wide dementia carers of RsA plc.
i thank him for the substantial contribution he has made as programme.
We also continue to run a number of charitable programmes Audit committee chairman and for his constructive views on all aspects using our business capabilities to support local communities, including of our business.
i am pleased nicholas luff has joined us and will be taking our recognised Lloyds Scholars programme, Money for Life our financial over as Audit committee chairman on 1 April 2013.
He brings substantial capability programme, and Business in the Community of which we have financial and audit committee experience to that role and we look forward been a supporter of for over 20 years.
This year we saw the culmination of our partnership with london 2012.
The success of the Olympic and Paralympic Games reflected the dedication of so many of our colleagues who had supported the run-up to the Games over the past five years.
The Games themselves continued the positive impact on our local communities, which is why we are delighted to be building on their legacy by developing our national school sport Week and local Heroes programmes.
3.6 million 25% Charity of the year Board representation during the two years of our partnership Three years ahead of the mandated timeline with save the children this sum was raised we have 25 per cent female representation.
to support the work of the charity.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 12 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 cHAiRMAns sTATEMEnT We have therefore focused on the need to manage aggregate variable pay and the overall size of the bonus pool.
The total bonus pool has been reduced by approximately 3 per cent to 365 million with the greater impact being applied to more senior staff and managed in the context of business and individual performance.
As we are primarily a retail and We remain committed commercial bank the awards under our Group bonus scheme remain to operating as a a very small percentage of revenues at approximately 2 per cent, and represent approximately 7 per cent of pre-bonus management profit privately owned Group, before tax, compared to 12.5 per cent in 2011. cash bonuses are capped which is profitable, at 2,000 with additional amounts paid in shares and subject to deferral self supporting and and performance adjustment.
The average value of bonuses paid per dividend paying.
employee, will remain similar to 2011 at less than 3,900.
With regard to executive remuneration we feel it is appropriate that the fixed elements of directors pay should remain unchanged for a further year, recognising the continued economic climate and the need to evidence sustained returns for shareholders.
Our 2012 bonus awards have been determined conservatively against robust financial performance measures, and these awards will continue to be deferred into shares, until Culture at least 2015.
We believe culture is values brought to life and is the consequential in recognition of the Groups performance in 2012, the Remuneration outgrowth of the strategy of a bank.
Ours is to place the customer first.
committee has decided to make an annual performance award to Just as with strategy, the Board has a major role in shaping culture and Antnio Horta-Osrio of 1,485,000 deferred in shares.
The deferral in setting out principles and values that will drive long-term success.
period for this award will be extended to five years, and so will not be in addition we believe it is the duty of the Board to ensure that these released until 2018, and will be subject to additional conditions related to common objectives of management and Board are implemented the share price at which the uK Government invested.
Antnio has led the throughout the institution.
in banking there is a place for re-balancing the Group through a strong year that has put us ahead in the implementation priorities between shareholders and customers.
When customers come of our strategic plan.
i believe this, in part, is a reason for the Group being first, shareholders will naturally be rewarded.
the best performing stock in the FTsE 100 in 2012.
Within lloyds Banking Group we recognise the value of diversity in our With respect to the long-Term incentive Plan lTiP, as key targets for the colleagues from a broad and representative mix of backgrounds and 2010 lTiP were not met awards made under this plan will not be paid.
This experiences: different perspectives allow us to see and develop new means that lTiP awards have not been made for Executive directors in any opportunities.
We promote internal initiatives to support diversity and of the last four years.
The lTiP however remains a core part of our reward inclusion within the Group and i was pleased to see our achievements also strategy and we hope that the performance conditions attached to the being recognised at the Business disability Forum.
We can only achieve plan which ensure alignment with the Groups strategic objectives and our customer-focused strategy by building a sound reputation founded on timeline of our medium term plan, will be met in 2013. the highest standards of responsible behaviour.
in 2012 we launched the codes of Responsibility to guide our decision making and help us put into Outlook practice our commitment to strive always to do the right thing.
We have a strong foundation on which to build our strategy to be the best bank for customers to the benefit of our shareholders.
As i have Remuneration indicated in the past, the first task of the Board was to strengthen the The Remuneration committee undertook a further review of Balance sheet and to have a robust funding profile.
now that the Balance remuneration and executive remuneration in 2011.
Anthony Watson, sheet has been substantially strengthened and all of the liquidity support the chairman of the Remuneration committee, provides his usual review received from the uK Government has been repaid, our focus is on of our approach elsewhere in the report but due to the importance of increasing profitability and returns to shareholders.
Over time, this should remuneration to our stakeholders and the Group, as chairman, i also want in turn allow the government the opportunity to commence the sale of its to provide some context to the decisions we have taken.
shareholding, which currently stands at approximately 39.2 per cent.
We We continue to believe that the remuneration policy at all levels, remain committed to operating as a wholly privately owned Group, which including for senior executives, needs to incentivise staff to deliver strong, is profitable, self supporting and dividend paying.
2012 has been a year sustainable growth whilst reflecting the work required to reshape and in which that possibility has been enhanced.
As for the immediate future transform the Group.
We have a strong conviction to align reward to the i believe that, with a reasonably positive development of the uK economy, longer term, sustainable success of our business and through this the we are well positioned for growth.
return of value to shareholders.
We are also mindful however both of the i am encouraged by and grateful for the ongoing support of all of our economic outlook and the views of our stakeholders.
shareholders as we implement our strategy.
We have many strengths, including iconic brands, strong heritages and great people.
consequently, we are well positioned to realise the Groups full potential for growth, help Britain prosper and deliver sustainable returns for our shareholders.
Sir Winfried Bischoff chairman Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Introduction 1 12 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Group performance 2 Group key performance indicators 4 Divisional overview and KPIs 6 Chairmans statement 10 Group Chief Executives review 14 18 77 115 203 355 A COMMiTMenT TO GOOD GOveRnAnCe Governance Board oversight key topics The Board is committed to achieving long-term success for the Group, Throughout 2012 the Board has continued to review the corporate and governance plays an integral part in ensuring consistency and rigour strategy, the operation of the business and our results within a in decision making to allow us to maximise shareholder value over time.
framework of prudent and effective controls, including the assessment This remains uppermost in our minds when applying the principles and management of risks.
This framework has allowed us to deal with described in relevant provisions relating to the combined code on key issues arising throughout the year, including: corporate governance published by the Financial Reporting council.
the Group chief Executives return to work in January 2012 following q The Board aims to exceed these requirements as we believe that good a short leave of absence.
Having ensured that he was medically fit governance is a key contributor to the Groups long term success.
to return, the Board has assisted Antonio in making appropriate adjustments to his reporting line and corporate support.
it is clear Our Board from his energy and commitment to the role that he has made a full recovery The Board has seen a number of changes this year, and in line with the provisions of the uK corporate Governance code and the interests ongoing review of board composition including a number of new q of good corporate governance, all directors are required to submit appointments which are explained on page 90 themselves for re-election on an annual basis.
We are committed to oversight and challenge of the strategy and five year operating plan.
q ensuring we have the right balance of skills and experience within the This included a two day strategy offsite for the Board and executive Board, and we annually review its composition, and the diversity of team.
insurance and commercial Banking have been a particular backgrounds of its members.
Performance against plan is reported on pages 4 to 9 following the appointment of lord Blackwell, changes have been q executive Remuneration made to the governance and oversight of the insurance board to As a Group we are aware of the views of our various stakeholders on ensure closer alignment with the Group Board executive remuneration.
We seek to motivate, incentivise and retain monitoring of the progress of Project Verde, the Eu mandated q our talent whilst remaining mindful of the current economic outlook.
divestment of branches As examples of the justified restraint in the current circumstances we have made no changes for 2013 in senior executives pay with one oversight of conduct issues with emphasis on embedding a culture q exception and our incentive compensation for 2012 in absolute amount of doing the right thing and as a percentage of revenues less than 2 per cent is lower than that an ongoing review of the adequacy of provisions, most recently in q of any other major banking institution in the united Kingdom.
relation to legacy conduct issues such as PPi and sME derivatives Additionally the Board is committed to maintaining alignment between establishment of a board committee chaired by david Roberts, the q our senior executives and shareholders and we continue to operate a chairman of our Risk committee, to oversee the Groups handling stringent deferral policy to ensure individual reward is aligned with the of the process and issues arising from the industry investigation into Groups performance, the interests of its shareholders, and a prudent liBOR setting.
This also included implementation of the Wheatley approach to risk management allowing where necessary for appropriate Review to ensure robust processes going forward adjustment of incentive compensation to reflect malus.
in March 2012, the Group announced that it had applied a performance adjustment to the close scrutiny and control over executive remuneration arrangements q deferred bonuses of certain directors and senior managers in relation to including open and effective engagement with shareholders on a PPi.
The long Term incentive Plan remains a core element of our reward range of remuneration matters.
The Board through the Risk and package, although this did not pay out for four years to 2012.
Remuneration committees has been particularly anxious to ensure appropriate risk adjustment.
At the Annual General Meeting in May 2012 the Group achieved over 97 per cent votes in favour of its directors Remuneration Report 86 98 More on More on corporate directors Governance Remuneration Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information
