12 Overview London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 Chairmans statement Market and operating environment Market users, regulators and policy makers have grappled with the dynamics of an incredibly fluid and often difficult macro environment over the past twelve months.
Growth, stability and transparency in different measures have been elusive characteristics.
Against this backdrop the importance of neutral, trusted, well regulated and systemically important market infrastructure has perhaps never been more apparent.
At London Stock Exchange Group, we are acutely aware of our responsibilities and the central role we play in market efficiency, through capital raising and distribution, market confidence and stability and in facilitating economic growth.
We are proponents of regulatory regimes that promote efficiency, The strategy that we outlined competition and transparency, and we have actively contributed to the wealth of consultations and regulations that are currently almost three years ago of getting in draft in the UK, Europe and internationally.
Our commitment in shape, leveraging our assets, to promoting a better understanding of the markets in which we operate and the impact that these markets have on our and developing opportunities society-wide economic prosperity has been unwavering.
has delivered tangible operational In particular, the past year has reinforced our long-held belief and financial performance.
that we must promote mechanisms that support entrepreneurship, job and wealth creation through diverse funding channels, moving away from the global over reliance on bank debt.
In the UK, we have continued to actively lobby the Government on this, seeking tax and regulatory changes which will reinvigorate the UKs 4.8million SMEs.
With only three per cent of SMEs currently using equity as a funding mechanism due to the UKs punitive treatment of equity finance, we must urgently look at our whole ecosystem.
If we are to create opportunities in the UK and throughout Europe, we must create an environment in which SMEs can thrive.
Strategic development For the Group itself, this has been another busy and successful year.
The strategy that we outlined almost three years ago of getting in shape, leveraging our assets, and developing opportunities has delivered tangible operational and financial performance.
We have been successful in driving growth and diversifying our organisation.
Beginning with our successful merger with Borsa Italiana back in 2007, the last few years have seen afundamental transformation of the Group.
We have moved away from an over reliance on UK cash equities, and we are today an organisation that is not only a multi-asset, multi-platform international business, but also one that is very much looking out and inviting the world in.
We are making good progress on our ambition to become one of the worlds leading global market infrastructure businesses.
In partnership with our customers, we now offer a broad portfolio of products, services and platforms that extends far beyond just our traditional cash equityoffering.
A key part of our strategy is the diversification of our business.
In early 2011, we announced a proposed merger with TMX Group.
Whilst the merger was an exciting opportunity for the Group, the transaction did not receive TMX shareholder approval, despite the overwhelming support from our own shareholders, for which Iwould like to extend my sincere thanks.
We have always taken adisciplined approach to M&A and therefore concluded that the transaction was not to be done at any cost.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Overview Annual Report 2012 13 Since then, we have been successful in completing and progressing Looking to champion the health of the wider economy, beyond anumber of significant transactions and partnerships.
our philanthropic activities this year, we have played host to a number of influential politicians, intellects and statesmen.
These In December we acquired the 50 per cent in FTSE that we did have included the UK Deputy Prime Minister, the Italian Prime not already own.
This high growth, highly innovative global index Minister, the Governor of the Banque fide France and through business is one we know well.
FTSE is a global brand with a strong our UK Paternoster Talk Series, Nobel prize winning economist culture of customer focused delivery and an impressive track record Amartya Sen, and economists, JimONeill and Nouriel Roubini.
The acquisition also highlighted the value of Our role in connecting our communities and working to promote our original share of this high quality business.
Going forward, we efficient and successful capital markets will continue to underpin think there are significant opportunities for collaboration across the our enthusiasm for hosting and engaging with such keyinfluencers.
Group, and we are already seeing tangible demonstrations of this.
Financial performance and dividend During the year, we also completed the acquisition of the FSAs Against the backdrop of what have been uncertain and Transaction Reporting Service, secured a number of technology changing markets, the Group has delivered another strong contract wins and agreed a high profile data deal withGoogle.
financial performance during the year, reflecting the success In September 2011, we announced that we were in exclusive of our diversification strategy, our focus on working with our discussions with LCH.
Clearnet Group, a leading international customers and the incredibly hard work of management and multi-asset, multi-venue clearing and risk management business.
We have been clear about our ambitions to develop our post trade Reflecting this, the Board is proposing a six per cent increase in business and the chance to partner with LCH.
Clearnet and their the final dividend to 19.0 pence per share, resulting in a dividend customers presents a significant opportunity for the Group.
for the full year of 28.3 pence per share, a six per cent rise.
The final We have made good progress on this and in April 2012, both the dividend will be paid to shareholders on the register on 27 July 2012.
Clearnet shareholders gave their overwhelming support for the transaction.
We are now seeking the Conclusion necessary regulatory and antitrust approvals and expect to complete The Group is in very good shape and we are well positioned the transaction by the fourth quarter of 2012. to build on the success of the last financial year.
Working in partnership with customers on product development, delivering We continue to see significant organic growth opportunities across innovations that drive their, and our, success and remaining our Capital Markets, Post Trade Services, Information Services absolutely focused on the strong execution of our strategy will and Technology Services businesses.
This breadth and balance be pivotal to our continued success.
More broadly, championing a across our business gives us a strong and resilient position from market framework that promotes our international competitiveness which to continue to drive the business forward, capitalising on and capitalising on the anticipated ongoing regulatory changes, the opportunities presented by the macro environment, however the Group will seek new opportunities to further develop and it presents itself.
strengthen its increasingly diversified business.
We are looking Our conviction forward to what no doubt will be another exciting year for London We operate in a dynamic, competitive environment where we Stock Exchange Group.
seek to maximise our own and our customers success.
Yet, we are also mindful that we play a pivotal role in the broader communities we work in.
That transcends our financial performance, critical as it is, and extends to our wider corporate responsibilities, the relationships we have with our customers and our partners, as well as the role and functions we perform.
Chris Gibson-Smith Chairman We champion a number of social policy initiatives and remain committed to supporting the communities in the locations in which we operate.
Since its launch in 2010, our charitable Foundation has donated 1.0million to charities across Italy, SriLanka and the UK.
As well as individual donations, the Group Foundation also supports individual partner charities in each of our primary locations, chosen by staff from across the business.
We look to build long term collaboration between London Stock Exchange Group and our employees with these charities as we seek to create alasting legacy for the work of our Foundation.
