02 Chairmans statement real progress Our attentions are now turning to the We made signi cant progress in 2012 and remain nextstep in our evolution, one centred oncourse to deliver all of the Merger synergies as oninnovation that will be triggered by originally planned.
Having already migrated millions the delivery of a series of product, technical and strategic developments of customers and key elements of our technology aswell as through an increased presence toa single platform, a few integration projects in regulated markets.
We will enhance remain outstanding and we are working towards ourcapabilities for mobile and social completing these during 2013. media channels that continue to growinimportance and also overhaul and reposition our agship poker brand:PartyPoker.
We anticipate that a softer consumer economy in many parts of Europe and further regulatory developments both in the US and in Europe will continue throughout 2013.
With more European countries set to opentheir market for Simon Duffy online gaming, management will Chairman continue to execute the five elements of our business strategy: Focus on regulated and to-be regulated markets: Invest in our core assets: people, brands and technology: Secure strategic partnerships: Extend into new areas of digital entertainment: and Despite the challenges presented Act responsibly.
by a shifting regulatory landscape, Board composition and governance the executive team has executed Jim Ryans decision to retire as Co-CEO theintegration plan as scheduled.
inJanuary 2013 brought his successful partnership with Norbert Teufelberger With a greater focus on key markets, toanatural close, coinciding with the we are now entering an intense effective completion of the Merger phase of innovation that will process.
On behalf of the Board I would transform our business.
liketo thank Jim for his contribution to theCompany both before and since the Merger and to wish him well for the future.
Following Jims departure, Joachim Baca offered to step down as a Director in January 2013, helping to reduce the size ofthe Board and bringing its composition into compliance with the UKCorporate Governance Codes recommendation regarding the balance ofindependent andnon-independent Directors.
Joachim remains a core member of the senior management team.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting 03 After an extensive exercise led by the Experience of the Board members outside bwin.
party Nominations Committee and utilising a professional search rm, Sylvia Coleman joined the Board as an independent Non-Executive Director on 8 March 2013.
Alawyer by training, she is a seasoned executive in the entertainment industry and has signi cant experience of regulation, digital media and intellectual property issues, as well as extensive general business experience.
A further review of the Boards composition will takeplace later in the year.
As in 2012, all Directors, will be standing forre-election at the 2013 AGM.
Dividend The Board is recommending a final dividend of 1.72p per share which, together with the interim dividend of 1.56p, makes atotal dividend of 3.44p per share for the Number of Board members with relevant experience year ended 31 December 2012 2011: 3.12p.
The final dividend, if approved at the 2013 7 Banking & Investment 4 Accountancy 2 AGM, will be paid on 24 June 2013.
Further 3 Entertainment Publishing & Marketing 3 Energy & Utilities 1 Insurance details are contained in Share information 2 1 Law Payment Processing on pages 142 to 145.
51 Technology & Telecommunications Politics Share buyback 1 1 Land-based gaming Defence Having renewed the requisite authority 1 Medicine torepurchase up to 10% of the Groups issued share capital at the 2012 AGM, theGroup purchased a total of 27,256,981 Confirmation of our compliance with the Code, together with shares during 2012 at a total purchase details about how the Board oversees the interests of the Group priceof 40.1m.
All purchased shares have through itsoperating and management structure, isexplored in been cancelled.
more depth in the Governance Review on pages 66 to 94 of this The Company has not purchased any Annual Report.
shares for cancellation since the year-end.
Outlook Our revenue performance in the early part of 2013 was impacted by the consolidation of the bwin and PartyGaming dotcom platforms, as well as the decision to reduce acquisition marketing in certain dotcom countries.
As a result, while revenue in 2013 is expected to be slightly lower than in 2012, the impact on Clean EBITDA should be mitigated by cost savings and a number of new product initiatives.
With our increased focus and a sizeable revenue opportunity in the US, we remain con dent about the outlook.
