JPM Mercantile pp01 18 JPM Mercantile pp01 18 27 03 2012 16:36 Page 2 2 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Chairmans Statement Over the year to 31st January 2012, the Companys total return on net assets ie with net income reinvested was 7.2%, which compares with a return of4.1% from the Companys benchmark index, the FTSE All-Share excluding FTSE 100 constituents and investment trusts.
The share price fell by 15.2% during the year and, including dividends paid, the total return to shareholders was 12.2%.
The discount to net asset value at year end was 13.6% compared to 10.3% with debt at fair value the previous year.
The average daily discount, with debt at fair value, during the year, was 11.4%.
Performance and Manager Review The Companys failure to outperform the benchmark over the financial year to 31st January 2012, and over the longer term, is extremely disappointing.
The Board is fully aware that this result is unacceptable and is working hard with the Manager to ensure that the Companys investment performance is improved.
Returns and Dividends Earnings per share increasedby 18.6% for the year, from 26.9p to 31.9p, largely due to a special dividend received from Stagecoach which increased earnings per share by 3.0p.
The Company has paid three interim dividends of 6.0p per ordinary share, and the Directors have declared a fourth quarterly interim dividend of 18.0p, giving a total dividend of 36.0p for the year, maintaining last years dividend of 36.0p.
The Board recognises, as in previous years, that it is essential to make an appropriate distribution, which both meets shareholders legitimate expectations, and is prudent in the light of what may be continuing difficult times ahead.
The Board intends therefore to continue to pay three interim dividends at the current rate of 6.0p per ordinary share throughout the year ending 31st January 2013.
The level of the fourth quarterly interim dividend will be determined by the Board based on the level of income received by the Company during the year and taking account of the Companys revenue reserve of 15.8p per share.
Share Repurchases During the year under review a total of 325,000 shares were repurchased for cancellation, amounting to 0.33% of issued share capital at the beginning of the year, at a total cost of 2.98 million.
Share repurchases during the year under review have added approximately 0.5 pence to the net asset value per share.
The Boards objective remains to use the share repurchase authority to manage imbalances between the supply and demand of the Companys shares, thereby reducing the volatility of the discount.
The Board believes that, to date, this mechanism has been helpful and therefore proposes and recommends that the powers to repurchase up to 14.99% of the Companys shares for cancellation be renewed for a further period.
JPM Mercantile pp01 18 JPM Mercantile pp01 18 27 03 2012 16:36 Page 3 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 3 Gearing The Company ended the year with gearing of 115.0%.
During the year the gearing varied between 99% and 115%.
It is the Boards intention to continue to operate within the range of 90% to 120% invested, under normal market conditions, and at the present time, the Board is maintaining gearing in the centre of the range.
Gearing is regularly discussed between the Board and the Investment Manager.
Where gearing is used, proceeds from the debenture issued provide the necessary funding.
In addition, the Board will consider using a bank facility should the need arise.
Board Charles Peel and Peter Halifax are not seeking re-election at this years AGM.
Since 2005 and 2007, respectively, the Board has benefited from their wise counsel and I would like to express the Boards appreciation and thanks for their great contributions.
Jeremy Tigue joined the Board yesterday.
His experience and knowledge of the sector will be an asset to the Company.
The UK Corporate Governance Code introduced in June 2010 requires all directors of companies within the FTSE 350 Index to offer themselves for annual re-election, and with this in mind all of the Companys Directors stand for re-election, with the exception of the retiring Directors.
I refer you to the Directors biographies on pages 17 and 18 for further details.
The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous evaluation of its performance, and that of the individual Directors including myself as the Chairman.
The Directors conduct an assessment of performance each year, which is compiled into a report to the Nomination Committee.
The Chairman reports the findings of the Nomination Committee to the Board, which considers these findings.
During 2011 this process was assisted by an externally facilitated Board Review, which the Board intends to commission every third year going forward.
Investment Managers During the year under review, the Companys investment management team comprised Martin Hudson, who was appointed in 1993, and Jane Lennard, who was appointed in 2006.
Jane has left to pursue an alternative career.
On behalf of the Board, I wish her well and thank her for her considerable contribution to the Company.
The composition of the Investment Management Team will be announced in due course.
The Board continues to monitor the performance of the Manager on a regular basis.
Brokers The Company continues to retain Cenkos Securities plc and Oriel Securities Limited as its joint brokers.
VAT Last year I reported on two ongoing issues relating to VAT.
The potential claim for recovery of VAT paid over the years 1997 to 2000 has now been considered by the High Court in relation to three parties unconnected to JPM Mercantile pp01 18 JPM Mercantile pp01 18 27 03 2012 16:36 Page 4 4 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Chairmans Statement continued the Company.
This claim was not successful, although the court also considered whether there should be reimbursement by HMRC of amounts withheld when the main VAT repayment was made in 2008, which the court upheld.
The net effect, once expenses are offset, is a small receivable to the Company.
The claim for compound interest on VAT already recovered continues.
As I wrote last year, the outcome of this matter is uncertain.
Annual General Meeting The Companys one hundred and twenty sixth Annual General Meeting will be held at Trinity House, Tower Hill, London EC3N 4DH on Wednesday, 23rd May 2012 at 12 noon.
In addition to the formal part of the meeting, there will be a presentation from the Investment Managers who will answer questions on the portfolio and performance.
The meeting will be followed by a buffet lunch which will give shareholders an opportunity to meet the Board, the Investment Managers and representatives of JPMAM.
I look forward to seeing as many of you as possible at the meeting.
Please submit, via the Companys website www.
co. uk and click on the Investment Trust Information link or in writing to the Company Secretary at Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ any detailed questions that you wish to raise at the AGM.
Shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM in person are encouraged to use their proxy votes.
Shareholders are now able to lodge their proxy votes electronically, whether their shares are held through CREST or in certificate form, and full details are set out on the form of proxy.
Archive Following the 125th anniversary the incorporation of the Company in 2009, many of the original documents have been used to compile a website in order to allow public access to the archive, via www.
co. uk Outlook Despite the ongoing challenges faced by European political leaders in relation to the economic imbalances within the Euro zone, equity markets have improved since October last year.
Policy responses from both Governments and Central Banks around the World have demonstrated that key decision makers are not willing to put the global financial system in danger and will go to great lengths to avoid a collapse in financial markets, by focusing on counterparty risk and the injection of liquidity.
Markets have continued to be strong in our current financial year and the Companys performance is ahead of the benchmark.
At present valuations, UK mid and small cap equities are attractive on a medium term investment horizon.
Many mid and small cap stocks have good growth prospects, strong balance sheets and compelling business models.
It is however, likely thatmarkets will continue to be volatile JPM Mercantile pp01 18 JPM Mercantile pp01 18 27 03 2012 16:36 Page 5 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 5 until the macroeconomic outlook is more certain, however, we believe that equities, and in particular UK mid and small cap equities, will provide investors with solid returns over the long term.
Hamish Leslie Melville Chairman 27th March 2012 For further information, please contact: Juliet Dearlove For and on behalf of JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited Company Secretary 020 7742 4000
