ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 Chairmans Statement This is our thirtieth year of rising dividends, an to 363.0p.
The total return on the Trusts shares important milestone in Merchants history.
The Trust including dividends was -5.2%.
At 29 March 2012, has maintained this record during a period in which the Trusts ordinary shares yielded 6.0% compared income has been impacted materially by the global with the yield on the FTSE 100 Index of 3.6%.
financial crisis and the cut in BPs dividend in 2010.
There is more detail on the major contributors to our Our underlying income rose 6.1% during the year performance in our Investment Managers Review resulting in a significantly lower drawdown on reserves, starting on page 8 of the Annual Financial Report.
despite the increased dividend pay out and despite last year benefiting from the release of a deferred tax Net Revenue Return per share provision.
Net Revenue Return per share rose by 3.7% to 22.00p.
Excluding the release of the deferred tax Market Background liability provision of 862,086 in 2011 the underlying It has been a difficult year for financial markets with Net Revenue Return rose by 8.0%.
Western economies suffering from a combination of high debt levels and weak economic growth.
Against Dividends that background the UK stock market produced an The Board is recommending a final ordinary dividend overall return close to zero after falling in the summer of 5.8p per share, payable on 14 May 2012 to as the outlook deteriorated.
Shareholders on the register on 13 April 2012.
This payment would give a total of 23.0p for the year, High yielding and relatively resilient shares, an increase of 0.9% over the total for the previous where Merchants has a large exposure, generally year.
In order to meet the payment it has been outperformed the broader index, whilst financials necessary to transfer 1,026,885 1.0p per share and economically cyclical shares fell back.
Strong from our revenue reserves, compared to a transfer performance from government bonds, particularly of 1,632,522 1.6p per share last year.
As at 31 in response to central bank liquidity injections have January 2012 and after providing for this transfer, the lowered borrowing costs and raised the market value Trusts revenue reserves amounted to 11,748,687 of our debt.
Results The outlook for dividend growth is reasonable, with The investment portfolio produced a capital return of many companies having rebuilt their balance sheets -2.7%, slightly ahead of the -3.1% return on the FTSE and dividend cover since the economic downturn.
Including Income, the total return of the Board and the Manager continue to remain focused investment portfolio was 1.9% which was further on providing long-term steady income growth.
ahead of the 0.4% total return on the FTSE 100 Index, reflecting the high yield nature of the portfolio.
Benchmark The Net Asset Value per share fell by 5.9% to 402.1p, The Board has reviewed the Benchmark indices that reflecting principally the cost of finance and the impact are used for assessing the companys performance in of financial gearing.
The net asset value total return per addition to a peer group comparison.
Whilst the Board share, including dividends paid, was -0.5%.
believes it is right to assess performance against both the FTSE 100 Index and the FTSE 350 Higher Yield With bond yields and interest rates falling over the Index, we think that the FTSE 100 Index should be year, the companys debt has increased in value and, regarded as the primary benchmark and the Higher using the market value of debt, the Net Asset Value Yield index should be a secondary benchmark.
There per share declined by 10.1% or by 5.5% including are several reasons for this.
The FTSE 100 index is dividends.
The full performance breakdown is shown more diversified, reflecting a wider range of investment on page 20 of the Annual Financial Report.
Over the opportunities as well as having a lower concentration year, the Trusts share price fell by 10.8% from 406.9p 4 ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 THE MERCHANTS TRUST PLC Chairmans Statement continued in the largest companies.
This feature also makes it a investment policy and process, including the use of This is our thirtieth preferable benchmark for the Fund Manager to set the derivatives, dividends policy and reserves, our market year of rising portfolios long term positioning against.
The FTSE 100 position and peer group ratings and our share capital Index is subject to less material constituent changes and structure.
We use these sessions to challenge the dividends, an thus does not encourage significant portfolio turnover way we think and set objectives for ourselves and the when used as a benchmark, whereas the Higher Yield managers.
important milestone Index can change significantly at its June rebalancing Paul Yates was appointed to the Board in March 2011. in the history of The each year, depending upon the yield on each large Paul has over thirty years experience in investment company.
Also the FTSE 100 Index is more widely management having worked at UBS for much of his Merchants Trust.
He was CEO of UBS Global Asset Management We do not anticipate any alterations in the portfolio UK Ltd until 2005.
Dick Barfield retired in May 2011, structure as a result of this change, which more closely having been on the Board for twelve years.
We thank reflects the way the portfolio is managed already.
The Dick very much for his deep understanding of the investment objective remains unchanged.
investment markets and his invaluable contribution over many years.
Derivatives We are each standing for re-election this year and will As set out in the previous report, we have continued continue to do this annually.
our policy of selectively writing call options on a limited number of the Trusts holdings.
Writing options has Annual General Meeting provided helpful additional income in a period where The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be revenues have been under pressure and has also been held on Wednesday 9 May 2012 at 12.00 noon at profitable.
A more detailed explanation is set out in the Holborn Bars, 138-142 Holborn, London EC1N 2NQ Investment Managers Review.
and we look forward to seeing as many shareholders then as are able to attend.
Retail Distribution Review We anticipate great potential advantages in the Retail Outlook Distribution Review RDR when investment trusts Although there is considerable uncertainty over the become available through investment platforms next economic outlook with over-indebted governments year and we are working with our managers to identify and consumers, many businesses are in good shape.
ways of taking advantage of this development.
The larger, high yielding companies in the FTSE 100 Index, which represent a large proportion of Gearing your portfolio, generally have strong balance sheets, The Trust continues to have long-term debt amounting reasonable prospects and trade at realistic valuations.
This is all deployed in the market for Income growth is expected to be healthy, supporting investment purposes.
At the end of the year our gearing Merchants 30 year dividend growth track record.
The level was 26.8% compared to 25.2% at the start of the Trust will continue to focus on delivering long-term year.
growth in capital and income.
The Board The current Board has four directors and although it is a small board, as you will see from our biographies on page 22, the directors have a range of professional and industrial backgrounds and experience.
We Simon Fraser meet annually specifically to consider strategy with Chairman our managers and advisers, covering topics such as 29 March 2012 5 AN ANN NU UAL F AL FIINANCIAL R financial REPOR EPORT FOR TH T FOR THE YEAR EN E YEAR ENDED 31 J DED 31 JAN ANU UARY 2012 ARY 2012 Investment Managers Review Merchants has paid increasingly higher dividends year-on-year for the last 30 years from 4.2 pence per share in 1982 to 23 pence per share in 2012 providing shareholders with a growing source of income in the form of regular quarterly payments.
