An introduction from the Chairman It gives me pleasure to introduce the 2011 12 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report.
Progress We have made steady progress during the year.
At Group level we posted a strong, 18% increase in revenue, and delivered EBITDA of US$901 million, with our outlook met or exceeded in four business units.
We also generated a healthy rate of cash ow.
There have been some excellent results from our businesses, particularly in Macau and The Bahamas, as well as some resilient performances from our other businesses in more competitive and economically difficult conditions.
Each market we operate in has its own economic background, its own political agenda and its own industry regulator.
Our job is to manage our business within those frameworks.
For example, in Macau and the Maldives we benefited from strong growth in visitor numbers and consequent favourable economic activity.
However, we also had to deal with the impact of currency devaluation in the Maldives and Seychelles, an unbalanced regulatory regime in Jamaica and an unexpected acceleration in a regulatory change affecting mobile number portability in Panama which prompted unbudgeted promotional spending in order to successfully defend our market share.
Despite these issues we have delivered strong results.
Strong financial management Revenue, EBITDA and operating profit before exceptionals all increased in the 2011 12 financial year.
For more information see page 20 4 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Introduction The communications services we provide have always been vital to our customers, butwith the increasing versatility and availability of mobile services, the demand for what we provide will strengthen.
Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE Chairman In most of our territories we operate xed Dividend Board changes line telecoms infrastructure which underpins The Board of Directors has recommended There have been changes to the Board, all mobile services and is fundamental to the a full year dividend of US8 cents for the with Kate Nealon and Mary Francis retiring communications systems of each country.
2011 12 year, maintaining the commitment as Non-executive Directors and Mark Hamlin The profitability of our xed line business has we made when we demerged the business and Alison Platt being appointed.
continued to decline, partly as a result of the in 2010.
US2.67 cents per share was paid Both Kate and Mary helped steer the Company growing popularity of mobile services, but in January following our interim results, through demerger and its early stage as an also because regulatory regimes designed with a further US5.33 cents payable in independent business.
I thank them both for to facilitate new entrants have not been August 2012, subject to the approval their distinguished contributions.
brought into line with new market shares.
Frequently, these regulations prevent us We have strong replacements in Mark With the payment of this dividend we will pricing our services sufficiently in order and Alison.
Mark has consulted to global have returned more than US$500 million to to make an adequate return.
businesses for more than 25 years, advising in shareholders since our demerger in 2010. areas including strategy, culture and corporate Our business, however, is seeing robust In the past two years we have faced global change, while Alison is the Managing Director growth in a number of newly emerging economic uncertainty which has impacted our for Bupa, the healthcare group, in North products.
Mobile data services are a once business especially in the Caribbean.
in a generation opportunity for our industry, reassessed the financial outlook for the Group, and our investment in them is increasingly as well as our opportunities to invest and Outlook bearing results.
Mobile data revenue rose achieve attractive returns, the Board has The communications services we provide strongly across our business during decided to reset the dividend in 2012 13 have always been vital to our customers, but 2011 12, as more of our customers switched to a level we believe is both sustainable and with the increasing versatility and availability to smartphones and began using mobile capable of progressive future growth.
of mobile services, the demand for what we internet applications.
We expect this The majority of our businesses are jointly provide will strengthen.
owned with local partners, often with the Anticipating and exploiting these new We have continued to deliver high-end host government.
Our economic ownership opportunities will not be possible without a managed services to governments and varies with averages of around 50% for capable and talented team.
We are particularly proud of the Panama, Macau and The Bahamas, 65% for the past year is a credit to the 8,000 people services we provide to governments, which Monaco & Islands, and around 90% for the we employ.
I thank them all for their efforts, we call social telecoms.
During the year our Caribbean, excluding The Bahamas.
Equally, and am confident that they can continue to businesses have been involved in introducing corporation tax rates vary from zero to 35%.
telemedicine services in the Maldives, an Consequently, headline changes in EBITDA e-learning network in the Caribbean and a do not ow evenly into Group earnings.
This We are confident in the outlook for our 911 emergency services calling platform for is why the performance of the Caribbean business, and will remain focused on delivering El Salvadors police force.
has become so arithmetically important income and returns to our shareholders.
in determining Group dividend policy.
Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE A focus on governance Driving good behaviours remains at thecore of our approach to corporate governance.
Our Independent Directors report outlines this approach.
For more information see page 41 Cable & Wireless Communications 5
