CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Chairmans Statement The Managers Report on pages 6 to 8 contains more detail on the Performance individual investments that made the greatest positive and negative The year to 30 April 2012 was a difficult and frustrating one: contributions to performance.
Of particular note are the positive difficult because of the external environment and frustrating because, contribution made by IP Group and the negative contribution made while we anticipated some of the problems that materialised, and by our holdings of gold miners.
The difference between the net asset took steps to mitigate their impact, we suffered from unexpected value total return and that of the comparative index over the year knock-on effects in places far from the epicentre of events.
The net arises largely from a lower contribution to total return from the asset value total return, with borrowings at fair value, was minus re-investment of income.
Another way of looking at this is that our 4.5% and the share price total return was minus 6.2% while the portfolio did not generate sufciently superior capital performance to FTSE World Index in sterling terms returned minus 2.6%.
For both our offset the lower level of income generated when compared to the portfolio and the markets in which we invest the second half of the FTSE World Index.
Our relatively high exposure to Emerging Markets year was better than the first.
For the first half of the year the net and relatively low exposure to the United States contributed to this asset value total return was minus 9.9% and the share price total outcome.
return was minus 9.8% while the comparative index returned minus 8.8%.
For the second half the net asset value total return was 6.0%, Earnings and Dividend the share price total return was 4.0% and the index returned 6.8%.
Earnings per share were 5.35p compared with 4.06p last year, an The share price ended the Companys year at 338.5p, 7.0% lower increase of 31.8%.
The most significant factors behind this increase than at the end of the previous year.
Over the five years to 30 April were a rise in dividend income and a modest fall in total expenses.
2012 the net asset value total return was 19.8% and the share price Monks invests with the aim of achieving capital growth rather than total return was 20.4% while the comparative index returned 18.6%.
income and all costs are charged to the Revenue Account.
There were a number of notable events during the Companys year.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 3.45p, which These included political stalemate in the United States that inhibited together with the interim 0.50p already paid, would make the total progress on resolving that countrys structural budget deficit and at dividend for the year 3.95p, an increase of 31.7% from the 3.00p one point threatened a default of the US government, a disruption to paid last year.
oil supplies as a result of events in Libya and the continuation of the crisis in the eurozone.
It is tempting to attribute the weakness of Long Term Borrowing markets to these developments, but there were quite a number of The 11% debenture stock matured on 1 June 2012 and has been equally dramatic events, including the Japanese earthquake, tsunami repaid.
This has reduced long term borrowing since the Companys and nuclear accident which disrupted industrial production around year end by 40m.
It was partly in anticipation of the maturity of this the world, in the previous twelve months, and despite this most debenture and partly in recognition of the low level of current interest markets rose during that period.
rates in an historical context that we took out additional borrowings Monetary policy changes may explain the different response of of 80m during the previous two years.
There have been no additional borrowings since then.
The ending of the second round of quantitative easing by the US Federal Reserve was followed shortly by a sharp Investment Activity fall in markets as the European crisis entered a new phase and the Over the course of the year there was a small net disinvestment of global financial system once again tottered as European banks 1.2m, comprising a net investment of 11.0m in equities and net found it hard to secure funding.
Markets then stabilised and sales of 12.2m of bonds.
There were net purchases of equities in recovered some of the lost ground following the decision of the North America, the United Kingdom and Japan and net sales European Central Bank to offer unlimited amounts of low cost three elsewhere, notably in Emerging Markets.
year funding to European banks.
The level of gearing is managed in various ways, including through For sterling based investors the US equity market produced the best the sale of futures and the purchase of options.
This is less costly than returns of the major markets helped by the strength of company buying and selling individual shares.
In early July gearing was profits, the safe haven status of the US dollar and some signs of reduced by the sale of equity index futures.
At the same time improvement in the performance of the American economy.
potential losses on these futures positions were capped by the Unsurprisingly, most European markets fared less well.
For example, purchase of call options.
The purpose of these transactions was to the Greek market more than halved in value and there were also provide some protection against a big fall in markets.
The indices large falls in Italy and Spain.
Many emerging markets also suffered chosen in July were those measuring the US, eurozone and UK from the withdrawal of European bank funding and the negative markets.
In February the position in US futures was closed and impact of this on their currencies.
The Brazilian currency was replaced with positions in indices covering the Brazilian market and particularly adversely affected, depreciating by nearly 15% against Chinese shares listed in Hong Kong in order to achieve a better sterling over the year.
match between the distribution of our investments and the hedge.
In the Managers Report on page 6 there is a graph that shows the impact of hedging on the net asset value and illustrates how this has had the effect of reducing the magnitude of the decline in net asset value during periods of general market weakness.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
