Chairmans Statement produced a more accommodating tone towards debt repayment.
Recurring periods of heightened uncertainty made for a rollercoaster ride for stock markets.
Early year strength succumbed to summer weakness as risk aversion spiked higher, but once concerted quantitative easing took hold, liquidity propelled markets upwards towards year end.
Perceived higher growth in Emerging Markets led to superior performance in numerous Asian markets, whilst Mexico Kevin Carter stood out in capital return terms from Latin America.
With Chairman corporate profit growth generally lagging broad market gains, valuations have become more expensive.
As is often the case Highlights with liquidity driven markets, poorer quality financial assets x Net Asset Value Total Return of 14.0% experienced the strongest gains, but the Trusts positive x Benchmark Total Return of 11.4% total return from its portfolio of high quality equities and x Total Ordinary dividend increased by 9.5% bonds was ahead of long term norms in both absolute and compared with 2011 relative terms.
x Shares traded at a premium to net asset value per Ordinary share for the whole year Dividends x 99m of new shares issued at a premium during In 2012 Trade Weighted Sterling appreciated by 4.0% the year thereby reducing the sterling value on translation of revenues arising from our 86% holding of non-UK assets.
Nevertheless Performance we were able to continue the trend of increasing the level of Positive capital gains over the period represented a dividends paid and three interim dividends of 9.0p were significant and welcome recovery for global equity markets declared 2011: three interims of 8.0p.
Your Board is now following last years negative returns.
With Western Central recommending a final dividend of 13.5p 2011: 13.0p which, Banks uniformly creating liquidity through expanding subject to the approval of shareholders at the Annual sovereign balance sheets, equity prices were well supported.
General Meeting, will be paid on 16 May 2013 to The difficult economic reality and decelerating corporate shareholders on the register on 5 April 2013.
Subject to the profit growth induced by austerity and deleveraging had little approval of the final dividend, the total Ordinary dividend for restraining influence on this wave of positive market the year will amount to 40.5p, an increase of 9.5% from last sentiment.
The total return on net asset value of 14.0% was year 2011: 37.0p.
B Ordinary shares will receive their ahead of the return of the benchmark index of 11.4%, and capitalisation issue of B Ordinary shares at the same time as the share price total return of 19.0% reflected a slight each dividend is paid.
Accordingly, subject to approval at the expansion of the premium.
The Investment Managers Annual General Meeting, B Ordinary shareholders will be Review in the Report contains an attribution analysis which issued on 16 May 2013 with new B Ordinary shares shows the factors affecting net asset performance.
The key equivalent in Net Asset Value to the recommended final positive influences were a significant overweight position in dividend for the year just ended.
Asia ex Japan and excellent stock selection in Latin America.
Share issuance of 99 million at a premium occurred during Background the year.
As I mentioned in my Interim Board Report, such issuance can have a dilutive effect upon the Companys It is rational to assume that positive financial returns should earnings as the dividend paid on newly issued shares may not be reflective of improving underlying economic have been earned in full over the year.
This is not always the fundamentals, but such logic offered no insight into financial case but depends, amongst other things, upon the timing of returns in 2012.
Weighed down by severe indebtedness and issuance and yield obtained on the stocks in which we anaemic growth, most countries in the Developed World, at subsequently invest.
We seek to mitigate the impact of any best, stagnated.
Further contractions in living standards subsequent revenue dilution by paying quarterly dividends, negatively impacted all consumer orientated economies as investing the proceeds of new shares promptly and by not households attempted to rebuild their over-stretched issuing shares during the period immediately before a balance sheets.
The objective is to ensure that, in terms of brinkmanship with fiscal budget responsibilities in the United overall returns to Shareholders, the premium received on States was an example of such inertia.
In Europe, where issuing new shares more than covers any revenue dilution social tensions escalated in response to painful austerity during the period.
The Board tracks these effects and measures, previously stated commitments to balance the shareholders were comfortably advantaged in total return books softened.
Pressures to avoid systemic collapse terms in the year under review through the operation of the Murray International Trust PLC 7 Chairmans Statement continued share issuance programme.
This is demonstrated in the Outlook attribution analysis on page 19 of the Report.
We Reviewing a year when so much happened yet arguably so continuously review the merits of share issuance and the little changed, our deep rooted concerns over the global premium to net asset value at which this is conducted.
Our investment backdrop remain unchanged.
The bank and primary concern in operating the issuance programme is to sovereign bailouts facilitated by quantitative easing in the ensure that it remains in shareholders best overall interests Developed World leaves a growth restraining debt legacy to continue with this activity.
that will persist for years.
It is unclear what the impact on Central Bank credibility and integrity will be in the long run Issue of New Shares from these policies.
Furthermore there is little in economic At the Annual General Meeting held in April 2012 and financial history to guide judgments about the effects on shareholders renewed the annual authority to issue up to currencies and capital markets of policies implemented on 10% of the Companys issued share capital for cash at a this scale.
The challenge going forward will be to consolidate premium to the prevailing asset value at the time of each and preserve capital against such an uncertain backdrop, issue.
During the year we have continued to see a strong whilst simultaneously securing sustainable income growth.
demand for the Companys shares resulting in the issue of Sound balance sheets and strong business models 10.146 million new Ordinary shares representing 9.1% of the characterise the holdings in the Trusts portfolio.
These Ordinary shares in issue at the start of the year.
Given the qualities, in combination with diversified sources of income continuing demand for the Companys shares, the Board will growth, will continue to be features of the portfolio.
We be seeking approval from shareholders to renew the believe this approach offers the best formula for navigating authority to issue new shares for cash in 2013.
As in previous the current circumstances.
years, to avoid diluting the asset value of existing shareholders, new shares will only be issued at a premium to Kevin Carter net asset value.
Resolutions to this effect will be proposed at Chairman the Annual General Meeting and the Directors strongly 26 February 2013 encourage shareholders to support this proposal.
Gearing At the year end total borrowings amounted to the equivalent of 146.0 million all drawn in Yen representing 10.1% of net assets.
At the year end the proportion of net assets invested in equities was 104% 2011 - 105%.
Directorate As I stated in the Half-Yearly Report last August, Ms Marcia Campbell joined the Board in April 2012 and I am now pleased to report that Ms Campbell has agreed to become Chairman of the Audit Committee with effect from the end of the AGM on 11 April 2013.
Mr Shedden will stand down as Chairman of the Audit Committee from that date but will remain a member of the Audit Committee.
Annual General Meeting This years Annual General Meeting will be held in Glasgow on 11 April 2013 at 12.30 p. m. at the Radisson Blu Hotel, 301 Argyle Street, Glasgow G2 8DL.
As at previous AGMs, there will be a presentation from the Manager and an opportunity to meet the Directors and Manager and ask questions.
I would be grateful if you would confirm your attendance by completing the notice that will accompany the Annual Report and returning it together with an indication of any particular questions.
