Chairmans MESSAGE TO SHAREHOLDERS Overview of 2012 We have made Looking back at the last twelve months, it is pleasing to report to you that we delivered on our commitments, despite a background of continuing market volatility.
Over the last three years, your Board substantial progress has focused its efforts on restoring shareholder value.
With the accomplishment of the disposal of our Nordic business, external during 2012 in delivering and internal debt repayments and the special dividend paid to shareholders in June 2012, we have achieved those goals while the targets that we delivering a total shareholder return for the year of 35% in sterling and 48% in rand.
I am also pleased to note that our total profit after tax attributable to ordinary shareholders reached 1,173 million.
set for ourselves and Further details of our progress against targets, our future strategic direction and how risk and reward have been managed to ensure in refocusing the alignment with shareholders and other stakeholders interests are contained in the following sections of this Report.
Groups operations Board We were delighted to announce the recruitment of Danuta Gray as an independent non-executive director from March 2013 and I welcome her to the Board.
We were sorry to have to say goodbye at the end of February 2013 to Eva Castillo, who felt unable to continue on the Board because of the pressure of her other executive commitments.
Russell Edey and Lars Otterbeck will be retiring from the Board at the AGM in May 2013 and my colleagues and I would like to express our sincere appreciation for the major contribution that they have made during their respective periods on the Board.
Final Dividend We have been pleased to be able to announce a significantly increased recommended final dividend for the year of 5.25p per share or its equivalent in other applicable currencies, as well as to update our policy for future dividend payments in a way that we hope will lead to continuing progress in shareholder returns.
Further information about the final dividend for 2012 is contained in the Shareholder Information section of this Report.
annual General meeting Our AGM will be held in London on 9 May 2013 and will be webcast as in prior years.
As usual, there will be an opportunity for shareholders to submit questions to be dealt with at the meeting.
Our shareholder circular relating to the AGM includes further details of these matters.
Patrick Osullivan shareholder communications Chairman Following my letter in November 2012, we have now moved to electronic communications as the main channel for communicating with our shareholders in most of the territories where our shares are listed, and I am pleased that we will thereby be able to make a contribution to reducing our impact on the environment as well as reducing the Groups central costs.
We have also this year continued to try to simplify and declutter our Report for example by placing some supporting detail on to our website and to move towards a more integrated style of reporting, in line with developing best practice.
Other matters It goes without saying that our success would not happen without the hard work of the Groups employees all over the world.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to pay tribute to them.
Future At the start of 2013 the financial world seems to have turned the corner and volatility is calming down.
However, in our markets we have learned that financial strength, strong cash flow and dividends are the differentiators in an uncertain world.
Following the completion of our restructuring last year, management is focused on growth in our key markets.
We are strongly positioned to achieve our targets and it is progress against these that will determine the next phase of our Groups development and strategy.
2 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 What we do What We do In this section we describe how our business works and the environment in which we operate How we What Where we have Our risks Financials we do are going performed How we govern our business Contents Our business at a glance 4 Business model 6 Key performance indicators 8 Responsible business 10 Our markets 12
