The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Chairmans statement During the year ended 30 September 2012 the Group has pursued its strategic objectives successfully and achieved strong growth, resulting in the highest pro ts in our history.
We have invested signi cantly in portfolio acquisitions, increased buy-to-let lending, entered into new servicing contracts and completed our first securitisation since 2007, with a further securitisation, on materially better terms, being completed after the year-end.
In addition, to facilitate the future development of our buy-to-let franchise, new and enlarged funding lines have been agreed with our bankers.
The buy-to-let warehouse facility from Macquarie Bank has been increased and extended by a further two years and an additional warehouse facility agreement has been signed with Lloyds Bank, more than doubling the Groups warehouse capacity to 450.0 million.
The Group is well placed for future growth.
During the year ended 30 September 2012 the Groups pro t before taxation increased by 18.2% to 95.5 million 2011: 80.8 million.
Underlying pro t, before exceptional and fair value items, increased by 16.2% to 94.2 million for the year 2011: 81.1 million.
Earnings per share were 24.2p 2011: 20.2p, the increase of 19.8% from last year re ecting the improved pro ts earned by the Group and a reduction in the tax rate.
The increase in pro t has also improved the Groups return on equity to 9.3% from 8.3% for the previous year note 5.
The Groups strategic focus has remained unchanged: to generate growth through our buy-to-let origination franchise, through investment in loan portfolios, and by exploiting new opportunities: and to maintain close management of the existing loan portfolio, which continued to perform well in the year.
Idem Capital, our dedicated investment subsidiary, has successfully built on the five portfolios purchased in prior years with further investments during the financial year totalling 115.4 million.
Paragon Mortgages and Mortgage Trust, our buy-to-let origination brands, now fully re-established following the recommencement of new lending in 2010, advanced new loans of 184.3 million 2011: 127.0 million and a strong pipeline of business was in place at the end of the year, which, combined with the 125% increase in warehouse capacity, augurs well for lending volumes in the new financial year.
In view of the results achieved and the Boards con dence in the prospects for the business, the Companys dividend policy has been amended.
In line with the new policy, outlined under Capital Management below, the Board has proposed a final dividend of 4.50p per share 2011: 2.65p which, when added to the interim dividend of 1.50p, gives a total dividend of 6.00p per share for the year 2011: 4.00p, an increase of 50.0%.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 7 February 2013, the dividend will be paid on 11 February 2013, by reference to a record date of 11 January 2013.
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The Group has continued to enjoy strong cash generation during the year.
Free cash balances were 127.7 million at the year-end 30 September 2011: 195.0 million after investments to support new buy-to-let originations and signi cant acquisitions by Idem Capital.
The Company sees opportunities going forward to deploy capital for new lending activities, which should continue to increase, and to invest further amounts in loan portfolios through Idem Capital as banks and other financial institutions continue to fide-leverage.
These cash balances, together with future operational cash ow, will support the Groups growth through investment in these areas as well as providing returns to shareholders through dividends.
The Groups current progressive dividend policy has applied since 2008, the dividend increasing from 3.0p per share in respect of the year ended 30 September 2008 to 4.0p per share in respect of the year ended 30 September 2011.
Since that policy was established, the Group has re-commenced its buy-to-let mortgage business, demonstrated that it can access warehouse funding and the securitised funding markets and established a strong asset purchase franchise which has contributed substantially to Group pro t growth.
4 Chairmans statement The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Board keeps under review the appropriate level of capital for the business to meet its operational requirements and strategic development objectives and has determined that in view of the strong position of the Group and its con dence in the prospects for the business, a higher level of dividend payment is now appropriate.
Consequently, the Board proposes, subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 7 February 2013, a final dividend of 4.5p per share which, when added to the interim dividend of 1.5p, gives a dividend of 6.0p per share for the year, an increase of 50.0% from 2011.
The Board intends to pursue a progressive dividend policy so that, by 2016 and thereafter, dividend cover will be maintained in the range 3.0 to 3.5 times.
In accordance with our usual practice, we will be proposing at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting a special resolution seeking authority from shareholders for the Company to purchase up to 30.1 million of its own shares 10% of the issued share capital.
It is customary for companies to seek such authority but we would not expect to utilise the authority unless, in the light of market conditions prevailing at the time, we consider that to do so would enhance earnings per share and would be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Given the operational and strategic opportunities described above and the enhanced dividend policy, the Board has no current intention of using this authority.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board of Directors is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in May 2010.
A detailed explanation of how those principles are applied is given in the Corporate Governance section on pages 40 to 44 of this annual report.
The Board has considered the new Code, which applies to the Group for the year ending 30 September 2013 and considers that it is well placed to comply with its provisions.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS On 9 February 2012 Richard Woodman was appointed to the Board as Director of Corporate Development.
He was also appointed Managing Director of Idem Capital Limited.
Mr Woodman joined the Group in 1989 and he has held various senior strategic and financial roles, latterly as Director of Business Analysis and Planning.
More recently he has taken a lead role in the Groups strategic development and, in particular, in the portfolio acquisition programme through Idem Capital.
On 12 September 2012 Fiona Clutterbuck was appointed as a non-executive director.
She is currently the Head of Strategy and Corporate Development at the Phoenix Group and is also a The excellent progress we have made non-executive director of WS Atkins plc.
Ms Clutterbuck brings during the year would not have been to the Board a substantial level of corporate finance experience, achieved without the hard work and having previously held the positions of Managing Director and Head dedication of our staff and my fellow of Financial Institutions Advisory at ABN AMRO Investment Bank, directors.
I thank them all for their efforts.
Managing Director and Global Co-Head of Financial Institutions Group at HSBC Investment Bank and Director at Hill Samuel Bank Limited.
On 31 March 2012 Terry Eccles resigned from the Board of Directors owing to health reasons.
Mr Eccles was appointed to the Board in February 2007 and served as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee until February 2009 and as Senior Independent Director from February 2009 until July 2011.
His experience and wisdom have been invaluable and his presence on the Board will be sadly missed.
The Board wishes to thank Mr Eccles for his enormous contribution over the past five years and wish him well for the future.
On 31 October 2011 Christopher Newell resigned from the Board of Directors after ten years of service and having been Chairman of the Audit and Compliance Committee from March 2003 until July 2011.
The Board would like to record its gratitude for his considerable support over the years and for his able and professional chairmanship of the Audit and Compliance Committee.
Chairmans statement 5 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Company sees opportunities going forward to deploy capital for new lending activities, which should continue to increase, and to invest further amounts in loan portfolios through Idem Capital as banks and other financial institutions continue to fide-leverage.
STAFF The excellent progress we have made during the year would not have been achieved without the hard work and dedication of our staff and my fellow directors.
CONCLUSION The year ended 30 September 2012 has been a very successful period for the Group.
The buy-to-let and portfolio purchase businesses have grown strongly and contributed to record pro ts for the Group for the year.
The developments in funding capacity during the year, and in the period immediately after, with the completion of two public securitisation transactions and a more than doubling of our buy-to-let warehouse facilities, leave the Group well funded to support the further development of the buy-to-let business.
Alongside this, the strong operational cash ows generated in the year put the Group in a good position to continue to bene t from future portfolio acquisitions and servicing opportunities arising out of the fide-leveraging of banks and other financial institutions.
The strong trading position of the Group and the Boards con dence as to the future prospects of the business have led to a substantial increase in this years proposed dividend and the adoption of a new policy aimed at moving the Groups dividend towards 3.0 to 3.5 times coverage over the medium term.
The Group enters the new financial year with con dence.
ROBERT G DENCH Chairman 20 November 2012 6 Chairmans statement
