CHAIRMANSSTATEMENT Since Personal Assets became a self-managed trust in 1990 the Boards policy has been to measure performance not over individual years but over rolling three year periods.
The three years to 30 April 2012 have been the first during which we have worked with Sebastian Lyon as our Investment Adviser we appointed Troy in March 2009.
I am happy to record that during the period our net asset value NAV %againstthe37.3%riseinourcomparator,  FTSE, %.
Ourcautious style of investment, which gives priority to preservation of capital, means that we will always be likely to underperform during short term market surges.
It also means, however, that the volatility of our returns is lower.
However, wesucceeded albeitnarrowly , returning54.2%onourNAV and our share price compared to the FTSEs 52.2%.
This builds on the long-term record that Sebastian inherited from Ian Rushbrook.
Since 30 April 2002, shareholders in Personal Assets have received a price totalreturnof94.0%%, %annuallyover .
In his Investment Advisers Report, Sebastian describes the difficult investment environment in which .
% impressive: 98.2% over the last decade compared to the 38.0% rise in the RPI.
In todays zero interest rate world, however, and given our large holdings in gold and inflation-protected bonds, it becomes ever harder .
For the time being, our policy of seeking real dividend growth over the longer term and never cutting the .
 capital preservation and seeking income.
During the coming months we shall be considering not only the  something   ,  .
 our Cash Income Option in our Investment Plan.
We have decided to simplify this and also to extend the principle to the Personal Assets Individual Savings Account ISA as well, so that it will in future be possible for holders to draw a quarterly tax-free sum from their ISA investment pool.
Onbehalfof   London Shareholder Meeting on 23 January 2013.
Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Personal Assets Administration Company PATAC, also made good progress during the year and now provides secretarial and administration services to three other investment trust companies as well as to Personal Assets itself.
This enables ustospread thecost  personal serviceuponwhich .
