02 About Your Company Chairmans Statement CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Michael Moule An increase in assets in what has been a challenging year Results and Performance High and sustained levels of global economic uncertainty In my first year as Chairman I am pleased to report and slow growth present a challenge for all equity an increase in net assets in what has been a challenging managers, so it is not surprising that investors have year for our Manager.
The net asset value per share favoured bonds over equities and mega cap defensive increased by 6.5% and the share price by 3.6% over our stocks over mid and smaller capitalisation stocks.
The financial year to 30 April 2012.
The gain in net assets was technology sector has not been immune to this trend so mildly assisted by a stronger dollar and our benchmark, it has been a challenge to avoid losing money in even the the Dow Jones World Technology Index, rose by 5.5% in best mid and small cap stocks.
By contrast the major local currency and 8.3% in Sterling.
It is disappointing technology stocks both young and old have attracted the that we were unable to post a third consecutive year attention of generalist investors seeking visible growth, of outperformance against our benchmark.
Our cash laden balance sheets and dividend growth.
Growth performance versus the limited peer group of other investors were delighted with the performance of Apple technology investment trusts and the wider peer group and Samsung, up 72% and 51% respectively and value of technology OEICS however puts us at or near the top investors equally happy with a 27% rise for Microsoft and on a one, three, and five year basis.
In the USA and the a 25% increase for IBM.
other main geographical regions, technology has been Sadly for the less nimble investors we were reminded one of the better performing sectors, so an investment of one of the other attributes of technology investing, in the broader market via the FTSE World Index would rapid obsolescence.
RIM, the manufacturer of the much have shown a Sterling adjusted decline of 2.6% over admired BlackBerry mobile phone, fell by 70% and Nokia our financial year.
declined by 60% over our financial year.
Review of the Past Year Portfolio Diversity & Restrictions Our financial year started quite well, however optimism Your Board and Manager are acutely aware of the dangers surrounding the global economic recovery suddenly of an overly concentrated portfolio and individual stock evaporated leading to a rapid 15% decline in equity risk.
Any industrial specialist trust has a smaller pool of markets by the second week of August.
There were other investments to choose from but we are fortunate to be in factors which added to the bearish sentiment, with the a dynamic and rapidly evolving sector which is home to re-emergence of the European sovereign debt crisis, the many new entrants each year.
The Board monitors ending of QE in the USA, regime instability in the Middle geographic, sector and stock concentration and East, slowing growth in China and a stubbornly high oil diversication both absolute and relative to our price.
By the end of September implied equity volatility benchmark at each Board meeting.
At our year end we and other market indicators were showing excessive levels had 131 separate holdings with the top 20 accounting for of pessimism and our Manager felt happy to introduce a 51.8% of the portfolio.
Apple, our largest holding, was modest level of gearing.
Equity markets rallied strongly 12.1% of the portfolio at our year end 8.2% in 2011, and in October but not sufciently to erase the earlier 14.3 % of our benchmark.
The current single investment declines and our NAV was down by 5% at the half year.
limit is a maximum of 5% measured at the time of acquisition.
Under the current restrictions if we were to After a faltering November a revival in confidence was mainly attributable to an uncharacteristic decision sell or reduce our Apple holding we would only be allowed to buy back circa 40% of the current holding.
The Board by the European Central Bank in December to provide cheap and abundant three year loans to EU banks.
As the feels it is sensible to remove this investment restriction linked to book cost but is mindful of the need to ensure fear of European bank failures receded the plight of the weaker members of the Eurozone was ignored.
Investors portfolio diversity while having regard to the constituents of our benchmark.
Accordingly, the Board began to focus on the more positive aspects of the world economy outside the Eurozone, resulting in a sustained proposes to change the 5% limit in any single investment at the time of investment to a 10% limit, from time to rally from mid December to the end of March.
Fears about Greece resurfaced and April was volatile but our time, except where the investment forms a larger percentage of our benchmark, in which case the NAV for the second six months rose by 12%.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2012 About Your Company Chairmans Statement 03 Company will be permitted to take a position, not experience.
My job would be considerably more complicated exceeding the weighting in the benchmark, or if lower but for the strength of the whole team and I extend my 20% of gross assets.
Such a limit will permit our manager thanks to Ben and his team, and our company secretary to be aligned with our benchmark but will not necessarily for helping me in my first year as Chairman.
lead to a more concentrated portfolio.
AGM More generally the Board also feels that the changes in We are holding our AGM on the 4 September 2012 at the HMRC rules for investment trust approval and the 12 noon at the RAC Club in Pall Mall, London.
This is a changes in the requirements of the Listing Rules, which month later than last year because the club was fully have occurred since the formation of the Company, booked for the Olympics.
Transport will hopefully be occasions a need to carry out an updating of some of back to normal in September and I look forward to the investment restrictions which were imposed by meeting shareholders at our later date.
Full details the previous rules and have now fallen out of date.
of the meeting are given in the separate Notice of Also we feel it is prudent to request the exibility to Meeting which accompanies this annual report.
pay dividends out of capital which is permitted under Outlook recent changes in the new rules to qualify as an As I write markets are transxed by the economic investment trust.
We are not proposing to pay any problems of the most heavily indebted members of the dividends in the near future but believe it is of benefit Eurozone and the future survival of the Euro.
None of the to shareholders to have the freedom so to do.
The Board various options to deal with the problems are remotely is very conscious of the importance to shareholders positive and with recent declines in commodities including of ensuring a clear investment policy and appropriate oil and gold, markets are bracing themselves for a growth restrictions.
Full details of all the changes proposed shock.
We have limited exposure with just under 7% of are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
our portfolio in Europe, and weaker growth can Board sometimes be a benefit as companies may need to spend On behalf of the Board and the management team, I more on technology in order to become more efficient.
should like to extend my thanks to our former chairman, Despite the difficult backdrop for Europe and the Richard Wakeling, who chaired the trust in an exemplary Eurozone there are several reasons to be more cheerful: fashion through both thick and thin since its inception in oil and commodity prices have declined, ination is December 1996.
I feel honoured to be chosen to chair this falling, non indebted nations of the Pacic Rim, South trust and am very grateful to Richard for handing me the America, and Africa are growing.
In the USA there are baton in such good order.
To attract and retain the right good signs of modest growth continuing with industrial blend of experience and diversity we need to plan ahead production, auto sales, housing and unemployment and my appreciation goes to Peter Dicks who has indicated gures, all slightly better than expected.
Longer term his willingness to retire from the board in September 2013. the US energy position could be transformed by shale Management Team gas.
Finally, companies are learning to operate in a slow We are fortunate to have an experienced and enthusiastic growth environment, balance sheets are robust, manager in Ben Rogoff, who has managed the trust since valuations inexpensive, and cash is being returned 2006.
Ben is responsible for the whole portfolio increasingly to shareholders.
encompassing geographical and sector allocation, gearing and cash management.
His expertise is principally in the USA & Canada and he heads a six person team.
Michael Moule Chairman We continue to have the benefit of Brian Ashford-Russell as a member of your Board and while the former manager has no involvement in portfolio management his years of technology investing provides the Board with immense Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2012 ABOUT YOUR COMPANY 04 P M o a rn ta fo gl e ir o A s R ne ap ly o sr it s a In nd P ves o trm tfe o n li to A Ma nn aa ly gs eir ss Report Managers Report and Portfolio Analysis Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2012
