STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Our mission is to be the leading non-standard lender in our chosen markets, acting responsibly in all our relationships and playing a positive role in the communities we serve.
We aim to be successful, but also to be a good corporate citizen.
John van Kuffeler Chairman GROUP RESULTS a 3.3m charge in respect of the pilot GROUP PROFIT M The group has reported a strong set of credit card operation in Poland.
This profit BEFORE TAX 181.1 results with pre-tax profit, before an performance was ahead of managements exceptional credit, up 11.7% to 181.1m internal plans due to arrears levels GROWTH IN % 2011: 162.1m, reflecting continued remaining stable at record lows for the ADJUSTED EPS 13.8 strong growth and margins in Vanquis business.
At the same time, increased Bank and a stable performance from the investment in the customer acquisition GROWTH IN DPS % Consumer Credit Division CCD.
Adjusted programme has delivered year-on-year 11.9 earnings per share of 102.0p 2011: customer growth of 30.1% and average 89.6p grew by 13.8%, a faster rate than receivables growth of 37.4% in the UK, P rior to an exceptional credit of pre-tax earnings reflecting the reduction both ahead of plan against unchanged 15.6m in 2012. in the statutory rate of UK corporation underwriting standards.
The favourable tax from 26% to 24% on 1April 2012. arrears levels sustained throughout An exceptional credit of 15.6m arose 2012 reflect the strong underlying in 2012 comprising a 17.7m credit due to quality of the receivables book derived severing the link between past accrued from the application of consistently benefits and final salary at retirement tight credit standards and sound credit within the groups defined benefit line decisioning, against the backdrop pension scheme and a 2.1m impairment of a stable employment market.
This charge in respect of the goodwill has allowed Vanquis Bank to deliver an relating to Cheque Exchange Limited, annualised risk-adjusted margin in the a business originally acquired in 2001 UK of 34.8% in 2012 2011: 35.0%, well and now subsumed within CCD.
ahead of its minimum target of 30%.
It is encouraging that the pilot credit CCD delivered profits of 125.1m in 2012 2011: 127.5m underpinned by a sound card operation in Poland is progressing to plan.
We expect the pilot to reach collections performance, tight credit standards and a strict control of costs.
a conclusion by the half year.
Having been down 2% through the first The groups funding and liquidity positions half of the year, customer numbers ended remain strong with gearing of 3.2 times the year at parity with the prior year, 2011: 3.2 times.
As previously reported, benefitting from enhancements made to the group renewed its core syndicated the pre-paid card product, TV advertising bank facility of 382.5m in February and a number of other growth initiatives through to May 2015 and successfully running through the field organisation.
issued its third retail bond in March raising Nonetheless, the pressure on disposable 120m at a coupon of 7.0% and a duration incomes from food, fuel and utility price of five and a half years.
Retail deposits inflation persisted in 2012 and translated at Vanquis Bank increased from 140m into relatively cautious agent and at the start of the year to 327m at 31 customer behaviour.
This meant that December 2012, representing 51% of credit issued to existing customers was Vanquis Banks receivables.
Due to the relatively subdued, and sales ended the increased level of committed debt funding year 2.5% lower than 2011.
Collections following the retail bond issue, the retail performance was sound throughout THE GROUP HAS REPORTED deposits programme has been moderated the year and the annualised ratio of A STRONG SET OF RESULTS to ensure that the group retains an impairment to revenue of 33.0% at the REFLECTING CONTINUED appropriate, but not excessive, level year end was little changed from the STRONG GROWTH IN of headroom on the groups committed ratio of 32.8% reported at June.
VANQUIS BANK AND A STABLE debt facilities.
As at 31 December 2012, PERFORMANCE FROM CCD.
Vanquis Bank delivered an excellent headroom on the groups committed facilities amounted to 192m and, performance in 2012 with UK profits up John van Kuffeler 61.3% to 71.3m 2011: 44.2m, before including the additional capacity available Chairman 16 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 STRATEGIC REPORT for Vanquis Bank to take retail deposits, In June 2012, the audit committee undertook a rigorous audit tender total funding capacity amounted to 394m.
The groups committed debt process following which a recommendation was made to the facilities, together with the retail deposits programme at Vanquis Bank, are sufficient board to replace Pricewaterhouse Coopers LLP with Deloitte LLP as the to fund contractual maturities and projected growth in the business groups auditors.
Deloitte carried out the review of the groups 2012 interim until May 2015. results and have completed their first The group generated capital of 107.7m in full audit of the 2012 financial statements.
REMUNERATION Our remuneration committee has The proposed final dividend has been established a remuneration policy for increased by 14.4% to 48.4p 2011: 42.3p 2013 following consultation with key which, together with the 7.9% increase shareholders and certain institutional in the interim dividend, represents an shareholder bodies during January 2013.
11.9% increase in the total dividend per Manjit Wolstenholme assumed the share to 77.2p 2011: 69.0p.
Dividend chairmanship of the committee in October cover for 2012, prior to the exceptional 2012 and led the consultation process.
credit, increased to 1.32 times 2011: 1.30 times which is consistent with the The policy is fundamentally consistent with the 2012 policy, and is based on groups target of maintaining annual dividend cover of at least 1.25 times.
the need to reward, motivate and retain executive directors in a manner consistent The increase in the full-year dividend is supported by the growth in earnings with the long-term accumulation of value for shareholders and achievement and strong capital generation.
of the companys strategic objectives.
GOVERNANCE In 2012, and in 2013, executive directors In 2012 we continued to fully embrace the salaries were increased by a similar principles of the UK Corporate Governance percentage to that which was applied Code and have complied with all its to the wider workforce.
As a result of provisions during the year.
the expiry of the Provident Financial We refreshed our board with the Performance Share Plan, a new Performance Share Plan will be presented recruitment of a new non-executive director, Stuart Sinclair, following an for approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in May.
If approved, the extensive recruitment process in conjunction with external search plan will require executive directors to defer a minimum of one third of their consultants.
We have also taken the opportunity to review and restructure annual bonus into the Plan which will then be used as the basis on which matching the chairmanship of the board committees in light of Stuarts appointment and the awards will be granted under the Plan, up to two shares for each deferred bonus retirement of Robert Hough in January 2013.
In addition, we have carried out share.
These shares will then be subject to the achievement of the relevant further work on the groups succession plans for the board and senior performance target.
A proposal to establish an all-employee Share management, whilst continually bearing in mind our diversity policy Incentive Plan will also be presented for approval at the AGM and is designed and the Davies Review requirements.
to sit alongside the existing Save As The board carried out its tenth annual You Earn scheme and further encourage evaluation of its performance and that share ownership across the group.
of its committees using an updated and revised questionnaire which built on the During the year the committee experience acquired from the external reviewed the 2012 and proposed 2013 evaluation carried out in 2012 and the remuneration policies against the risk engagement with Independent Audit assessment framework established in Limited in 2011.
The results of the 2011 in conjunction with the risk advisory evaluation confirmed that although committee.
The committee was the board of directors is operating satisfied that the remuneration policies effectively, there were some areas and in particular the targets under the where improvements could be made companys long-term incentive schemes and these will be fully considered did not encourage undue risk-taking and during 2013. that an appropriate balance of targets had been achieved.
17 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY These achievements recognise our commitment to reporting the way Corporate responsibility is an important part of how the group operates.
The we manage a wide range of corporate responsibility issues in a transparent groups commitment to being a responsible corporate citizen is embedded in our manner.
mission and values statement, as well Further details on our corporate as in one of our four strategic aims.
responsibility programme can be found This commitment makes clear that by on pages 28 to 34 of this report and in addressing the social, environmental the corporate responsibility report and economic issues that are relevant which is published separately each year.
to our activities and key stakeholders, RISK MANAGEMENT we can continue to be a successful, responsible and sustainable business.
In 2012 we continued to refine and develop our risk management framework As a leading non-standard lender in and focus on the key risks the group the UK and Ireland, our most important faces.
The effective management of corporate responsibility is to lend the key risks facing our business, which responsibly to our 2.7 million customers.
are summarised on pages 72 to 75, We do this by providing them with credit is integral to the achievement of our products that are simple and transparent, business plans and strategic objectives.
and making a point of maintaining close contact with them throughout their During 2012 we have: relationship with us.
But our approach Appointed a second independent nonto corporate responsibility extends executive director to the Vanquis beyond treating our customers in a Bank board and audit and compliance responsible manner.
It also guides how committees to further strengthen we treat our employees and suppliers, their capabilities and experience: as well as committing us to play a positive role in the communities we Maintained close engagement with serve and take account of our impact the range of regulatory reviews on the environment.
underway to ensure that our views and perspectives are understood and The group is particularly proud of the that we are able to respond swiftly work that has been carried out in the once outcomes are communicated: many communities we serve.
The vast majority of our community involvement Continued to maintain tight activities are delivered through our Good underwriting policies against a Neighbour programme.
This successful backdrop of economic uncertainty: programme has, to date, supported Developed both business processes 112 community initiatives across the UK and products in response to the and Ireland which have delivered sociodifficult trading environment.
This has economic benefits to over 81,100 people.
included TV advertising in support of We also continue to work with, and CCDs new retail-focused product provide financial support to, money the One Card ahead of the Christmas advice organisations in the UK to address peak trading period: and issues such as financial education and carry out research into matters which Expanded our sources of funding are relevant to our sector.
through the launch of a further retail bond and agreeing with the Financial During 2012, the group continued to Services Authority FSA to increase achieve recognition for the corporate the maximum permitted level of responsibility information that is Vanquis Bank retail deposits funding disclosed to stakeholders.
This included from 80% to 90% of its receivables.
attaining a maximum rating score of 100 for the second consecutive year in the FTSE4Good Index and receiving the Tax Reporting in the FTSE 250 award at  Building Public Trust Awards, which recognised the transparency of our approach to disclosing information on our tax strategy, tax performance and the wider impact of tax.
18 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 STRATEGIC REPORT REGULATION OUTLOOK The transfer of responsibility for The groups funding and liquidity position consumer credit regulation from the is strong, allowing it to meet contractual Office of Fair Trading OFT to the debt maturities and accommodate in Financial Conduct Authority FCA is full its growth plans into 2015. expected to be confirmed in 2013 and The focus in 2013 is to execute against the to take place in 2014.
There are still a agenda to bolster medium-term growth number of important issues to be resolved, prospects and business effectiveness in including how the current Consumer CCD, even if near-term market conditions Credit Act regime will be transformed to remain unhelpful, and to continue to a rules-based environment.
In addition, invest in the customer acquisition the Government has amended the programme at Vanquis Bank whilst Financial Services Bill to make explicit delivering strong margins.
Strict credit the power of the FCA to limit loan charges.
In practice, this does not augment the It is encouraging to report that the regulators existing powers.
pilot credit card operation in Poland is The Bristol University Personal Finance progressing to plan.
We expect the pilot Research Centre study into a variable cap to reach a conclusion by the half year.
on the total cost of credit is continuing and the research team published a In the early part of 2013, the collections progress update on 24May 2012.
This performance in CCD has been sound and dealt largely with the methodology Vanquis Bank has made a strong start to and approach adopted.
The delayed final the year.
The group expects to make report is due to be published shortly.
Final guidance on the joint consultation between the FSA and the OFT on John van Kuffeler proposed guidance to firms in relation Chairman to payment protection products was 26 February 2013 published in January 2013 and was broadly consistent with the draft guidance issued previously.
It applies to insurance and non-insurance products right across the financial services industry, including non-insurance, debt freeze products such as the Repayment Option Plan ROP made available to Vanquis Bank customers.
One of the main features of the guidance is to provide clarity around the disclosure of the cost of payment protection products.
It is Vanquis Banks practice to comply with all legislation and related guidance.
This latest guidance on payment protection products may result in some modest reduction in the customer take-up of the ROP product.
