02 Overview Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Chairmans statement Value for customers and real returns for shareholders Our a bility to generate strong fi financial performance despite adverse market conditions and the challenge of historically low long-term interest rates is testament to both the success of our strategy and the eff orts of our management team.
Paul Manduca Chairman 29.19p full-year dividend 15.9% increase on 2011 Overview Chairmans statement Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 03 Welcome to Prudentials 2012 Annual Report, the fi first In March 2013, we announced that Anthony Nightingale, CMG, since I became Chairman in July 2012.
I am pleased to would be joining the Board on 1 June 2013 as a non-executive report that the Group has delivered another excellent director and member of the Remuneration Committee.
He has performance in 2012, providing products and services of spent more than 40 years at Jardine Matheson Group, which is real value to our 24 million insurance customers around one of Asias leading and most diverse business groups, including the world and strong returns to our shareholders.
Our six years as Managing Director until he retired from executive leading presence in the fast-growing economies of Asia of ce in March 2012.
Anthony is a Hong Kong representative to drives our long-term profi table growth while our focused the APEC Business Advisory Council and is a member of the businesses in the US and the UK continue to make solid Commission on Strategic Development in Hong Kong.
contributions to the Groups overall performance.
Anthony replaces Keki Dadiseth who announced he would be retiring from the Board on 1 May 2013 after eight years of The global economic outlook remains depressed and, although there were some signs of improvement in 2012, there is a debate service.
He joined the Board in April 2005 and is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Keki was also a member of the Audit about how sustainable the recovery may be.
However, our ability to generate strong financial performance despite adverse market Committee from 2005 to 2007.
I would like to thank him for his hard work and trusted advice during his time at Prudential.
conditions and the challenge of historically low long-term interest rates is testament to both the success of our strategy and the Wherever we operate in the world, we strive to make a strong efforts of our management team led by Group Chief Executive contribution to the communities we serve, not just through our Tidjane Thiam.
The Group remains on track to deliver the 2013 business activities, but by helping to address the needs of the Growth and Cash objectives announced in December 2010. disadvantaged in those societies.
Each of our businesses has We have achieved two major ones regarding Asia the IFRS a community investment programme in place which provides operating pro t and cash remittance targets one year ahead support to charitable organisations, both through long-term of schedule.
funding and the experience and expertise of our employees.
As a Board, we must ensure that our results translate into real The diversity of our markets means that our programmes vary returns for our shareholders.
The continued strength of our from region to region, but the shared focus for our community operations in Asia, the US and the UK gives us con dence that investment is education and life skills.
These activities include we will continue generating sustainable growth over the long financial education, support to improve social mobility and term.
So for the second time in three years, we have been able employee volunteering.
Last year more than 7,350 employees to announce the rebasing of our full-year dividend upwards by across the Group gave up their time to help others in their 4 pence.
The Board has therefore recommended a final dividend communities, using their skills and knowledge to bene t those of 20.79 pence per share, which brings the total dividend for the who most need our help.
year to 29.19 pence per share, 4 pence or 15.9 per cent higher than the 2011 total dividend.
Many volunteer as part of the Chairmans Challenge, our agship volunteering programme.
The Chairmans Challenge encourages There have been some changes to the Board during the year.
employees from across the Group to volunteer on projects When I succeeded Harvey McGrath as Chairman in the middle initiated by our global charity partners.
I am extremely proud that of last year, I re ected that his tenure encompassed some of the so many colleagues from across our business are so dedicated most dif cult economic conditions a business like ours could and enthusiastic in helping others.
On behalf of the Board and the entire Company, I would We continue to place great value on the UK, our home market, like to thank him for his stewardship of Prudential during those dif cult times.
where we were born 165 years ago.
In 2013, we have agreed to be the of cial title sponsor of Prudential RideLondon, a two-day A key part of my role is to ensure appropriate governance cycling festival that will take place on 3 and 4 August 2013, which around the execution of the Groups strategy, and to engage we hope will help build on the legacy of the 2012 London with shareholders and other stakeholders on this matter.
Chairman, I need to make sure the Board is equipped with the right people to help me perform this role.
We need directors I would like to thank all our employees for contributing to what with the appropriate skill sets to bring different perspectives has been another very strong year.
It is their commitment to to bear, as we face the complexities of a rapidly changing world.
supporting our customers, along with executing our successful strategy, which allows us to be con dent that we can continue to In December 2012, we announced that Philip Remnant CBE provide shareholders with growing returns in the years to come.
would become Senior Independent Director from 1 January 2013, replacing myself in that position.
He is currently a senior adviser at Credit Suisse, a Deputy Chairman of the Takeover Panel and a non-executive director of UK Financial Investments Limited.
He has joined the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Philip brings a wealth of experience of financial services at the highest level, a deep understanding of the needs Paul Manduca of shareholders and a strong record of public service.
