Chairmans statement Mark Nicholls Governance, Board and senior Chairman management group We have considered our Board composition carefully and how it relates to our evolving management structure.
As foreshadowed in my statement last year we have reduced the size of our Board so that it can increasingly focus its attention on strategy, monitoring performance and ensuring that effective governance and risk management processes are in place.
Our investment performance was strong in Ian Buckley, Andrew Morris and 2012 and we have grown funds under Richard Smeeton agreed to stand down management through both performance and from the Board at the end of 2012 but will continue their management responsibilities.
by continuing to attract experienced My thanks go to them and we look forward investment managers both individually to their continuing strong contribution to the growth of the business.
This means and through acquisitions.
the only executive directors on the Board are the chief executive, the head of investment 2012 was a challenging year.
Most of the markets in management and the finance director.
This change makes the which we invest remained broadly flat throughout the current Board composition compliant with the UK Corporate period and the investment management industry generally Governance Code as the majority of directors excluding me has suffered from economic and regulatory uncertainty.
are now independent non-executive directors.
Nevertheless, I am pleased to say that our performance demonstrates our resilience and the benefits of continuing There are currently five non-executive directors apart from to grow our business.
Our investment performance was me.
Caroline Burton, however, has now completed nine strong in 2012 and we have grown funds under management years service and will be standing down at the next Annual through both performance and by continuing to attract General Meeting AGM.
Kate Avery has also asked to stand experienced investment managers both individually and down after three years service.
We are grateful to both through acquisitions.
Our reputation as an investment Caroline and Kate for their contribution to our Board and manager and an employer remains high.
to Caroline also for her service as chairman of the remuneration committee, from which she stood down on The private client investment management industry in the 1 November.
I am very grateful to David Harrel for agreeing UK faces a number of challenges.
The introduction of to chair the committee after Caroline.
the Retail Distribution Review RDR on 1 January 2013 which will regulate all advisers in the retail investment We will be looking to appoint a new non-executive market will, inter alia, lead to greater transparency of the director in 2013.
When we do so we will appoint the best charges levied by our competitors and intermediaries.
Some available candidate, having regard to their skills, experience intermediaries will disappear but the strongest and best and overall suitability.
The benefits of Board diversity will, run will remain significant players, and we will continue to of course, be a consideration in this.
The full implications of RDR will not be We appointed Paul Chavasse as head of clear for some time, but we believe we are well-positioned.
investment management with effect from 1 March 2012.
He succeeded Richard More generally, we need to spend more time Lanyon, who held the position for over 10 on succession planning at all levels and this is years and deserves much credit for managing a growing business so effectively.
Paul has a priority for the coming year.
introduced a more formalised structure to manage the business and is involving a wider group of senior investment managers the senior management group, which I welcome heartily.
We must continue to invest in management talent to support and grow our business.
I touch on the implications of this for our remuneration policy below.
More generally, we need to spend more time on succession planning at all levels and this is a priority for the coming year.
2 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012 Chairmans statement continued Strategy Risk We continue to debate our strategy, both in the boardroom The Board is responsible for defining our risk appetite and within the senior management group, recognising that and ensuring effective risk management.
Kathryn Matthews, our capital resources and risk appetite determine our speed as non-executive chairman of the group risk committee, has of growth.
We have been able to grow our core business well, overseen the continuing development of our risk governance both organically and by acquisition, and our recent placing and reporting framework.
Apart from the uncertainties has provided us with further resources to continue doing so.
of the global environment in which all investment managers At our annual strategy discussion in November there was a operate, the biggest risks to Rathbones arise from our strong consensus that the greatest growth potential lies in ambition to grow our business and from regulatory our core business and we should prioritise this.
Although we intervention in our sector.
continue to develop our offering, both to reflect the different market segments we touch and the channels through which Shareholders we get our business, the service of our clients and our personal relationship with them remain our core strengths We have an enviable shareholder list.
This enabled us to and will not be diluted.
raise 24 million in a placing last November at a small discount to the market price.
We regard it as We have made some acquisitions this year important to maintain a good dialogue with our major shareholders on the issues that which we believe will benefit the business.
arise out of the challenges and opportunities We suspect there will be more opportunities we face.
in the medium term and, if they arise, the At the AGM, in line with best practice under the UK Corporate Governance Code Board will ensure we act in the best interests requirements, we are giving shareholders the of our shareholders.
opportunity to vote on the re-appointment of every Board member.
Biographies of each director are set We have made some acquisitions this year which we out on pages 42 to 44. believe will benefit the business.
We suspect there will be The Board is committed to creating long term shareholder more opportunities in the medium term and, if they arise, value.
I hope you will find this years annual report provides the Board will ensure we act in the best interests of our a clear account of how we run the business and what we shareholders.
We also wish to grow our banking business, have achieved during the year.
but are mindful of the growing regulatory burden on all banks.
Mark Nicholls Remuneration Chairman Remuneration has been another area the Board has spent 19 February 2013 considerable time on.
We have been considering ways to ensure that our performance-driven culture is reinforced by our remuneration structure right across the business.
Greater accountability is now being introduced for both the senior management group who are investment managers that spend significant time on the management of the business and for executive directors.
Individual investment managers have clear performance measures.
As I mentioned earlier, David Harrel has become chairman of the remuneration committee and we will all benefit from his considerable experience in managing a successful people business.
The Board is committed to creating long term shareholder value.
I hope you will find this years annual report provides a clear account of how we run the business and what we have achieved during the year.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012 3
