224233 RIT R&A pp01-pp17 31 05 2012 21:28 Page 2 Lord Rothschild Chairmans Statement The first strand consists of our own direct ecovery may come, but not in months.
These have RIn this reality, markets oscillate as produced considerable successes and a quarter of the portfolio, over time, has been invested there.
Investment success in public markets has become a game of timing rather than The second strand the greater part of our assets fundamentals.
is represented by our investments with external managers and through our directly managed listed The Western world may have finally woken up last equities.
Here, our record over time is strong, but its year: it realised that the crash of 2008 was not just contribution to our recent returns has been mixed.
another market event, quickly to be recovered from.
In part this has reflected public markets.
But in part it has also been a consequence of our considered policy.
Peoples, electors and governments in America and For a prime objective of this Company is to preserve Europe at last began to see that they had experienced your capital by avoiding significant losses during periods not just one more asset bubble pricked by reality.
of market weakness but to participate in rising markets.
This time, outside Asia, South America and Africa, there can be no quick re-explosion of growth.
The Our results will be determined by asset allocation, debt mountain in government and households is just our ability to find and select exceptionally talented too high.
The legacy of debt has first to be worked off.
external managers, our success in stock selection even in difficult market conditions and disciplined risk And that people and markets now see will take adjustment through making use of derivatives and years.
Recovery may come, but not in months.
There other instruments particularly in periods of duress.
are signs now that the impact from the loss of Seeing the dangers, we have remained more Western spending power has started to affect China conservative than in the former more exuberant era too.
In this reality, markets oscillate as before.
On the public market side, we thus perform ups do not last.
And they are succeeded by falls.
well against benchmarks in down-turns, such as the Unless one has a long horizon, investment success in period to September 2011, then miss the full extent public markets has become a game of timing rather of any quick market upturn such as occurred in late than fundamentals.
As I have said previously, if we miss some periods of market strength, we will bear Your Companys record reflects this major change in the disappointment.
Over ten years we have greatly outstripped any benchmark: the value of your Companys net In implementing our strategy, we are concerned that asset value per share NAV increased by 158% over markets in the West, and economic activity, have, ten years almost ten times the rise in the MSCI frankly, been propped up by central banks printing World Index in Sterling MSCI.
Through the volatility money feeding the problem, in my view, not the of the past five years, your Companys NAV has solution.
In the process, companies, particularly large advanced by 19.3%, almost three times the gain of ones, have stocked up on cash, cut costs and shored the MSCI.
They have deleveraged, while governments and populations in America and Europe the main However, over the past three years, as markets consumers of what companies produce have failed recovered from the crash of 2008 we have barely or struggled to reduce their indebtedness.
level-pegged: your NAV has grown by nearly 43% over the past three years, compared to almost 46% for the On the public market side, we therefore are MSCI.
The financial year under review saw our NAV concentrating on investments with fund managers and down by 3.1% to 1,249.3 pence compared to falls of individual companies that can grow despite the state of 1.3% in the MSCI and 2.1% in the FTSEAll Share.
For instance, those strong by virtue Our unaudited 30 April NAV was 1,220.3 pence, a of well established franchises with robust balance decline of 2.3% over the month compared to a 2.8% sheets and whose shares are priced at relatively low fall in the MSCI.
multiples of free cash flow.
We also look to companies in advanced technology, many of them American and I do not take the changes lightly.
When the economic whose future does not depend on boom or bust, or on facts change, we strive to adapt.
the pump-priming of central banks.
We have been Within RITs overall portfolio strategy, there are two bolder in pursuing this aim and have established a dominant but complementary strands.
number of new manager relationships to enhance our participation in these areas at the same time as 2 Annual Report and Accounts March 2012 RIT Capital Partners plc | | Business Review | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Overview 224233 RIT R&A pp01-pp17 31 05 2012 21:28 Page 3 Chairmans Statement continuing to reduce exposure to former favoured crisis.
To date your Company has committed capital to sectors.
Gold, the best performing asset class of the one fund which focuses on trading and investing in past few years, has been a feature in our portfolio for structured corporate credit markets.
Further credit some time through gold futures and gold shares.
We related funds are in the course of being set up.
have now taken out call options as an alternative to On the green energy front, we have taken the gold futures.
Under current conditions, our preferred initiative as the founding investor in Tamar Energy, route is to use such options as an insurance policy the anaerobic digestion business.
We have been against inflation at a time when so many countries are supported by a strong investor base including Fajr seeking to devalue their currencies.
Capital backed by prominent sovereign funds from Abu Dhabi, Brunei and Malaysia and the Al Subeaie prime objective of this company is to Group, the Duchy of Cornwall and J Sainsbury plc.
Seeing the With an attractive return profile, the objective is to dangers, we have remained more make Tamar one of the leading companies in this country in the waste to energy field.
conservative than in the former more exuberant era pre-2008.
Strategy Our first joint and strategic investment with Chinese On the private investment side, we are gearing up to investors has come about through the establishment repeat our successes.
We had two profitable exits in of J Rothschild Creat, with commitments to provide the past year: Harbourmaster, the credit fund manager funds from a number of limited partners in China.
This on which our profit over almost seven years was initiative, the first of its kind, will focus on investing in 72 million: and Agora Oil & Gas, the exploration corporations outside China with direct relevance to company which has focused on the Norwegian and China and its economic development.
The Agora sale was announced on 3 April 2012 and we have reflected the value uplift in The link with the Rothschild family has been our year-end NAV.
Completion in May realised a profit strengthened by our joint venture with the Edmond fide of 73 million in just over two years.
Since the yearRothschild EdeR Group which has commenced with end, Brazils leading investment bank, BTG Pactual, in our acquisition of a 49% stake from the EdeR Group in which we became shareholders in December 2010, the management company of Capital Holdings, which has successfully gone public with a realised profit of has some $2.7 billion invested with external 31% on the shares we made available at the time of managers, for a consideration of around 14 million in the Banks IPO.
Rick Sopher, who serves as a nonexecutive Director of RIT, has played an important role Recently RIT invested together with Reinet in Capital Holdings investment success over many Investments, chaired by Johann Rupert, in Renshaw years.
The EdeR Group has a strong position in asset Bay, a company created by Bill Winters in 2011. management in France, Switzerland and Luxembourg Until 2010 he had run JPMorgans global investment with assets under management of around $150 billion.
banking business, and he recently served on the UKs We are already cooperating closely with Capital Independent Commission on Banking.
This company Holdings in the area of investment manager selection will seek to invest in markets left under-served by and will be exploring ways of working more closely traditional lenders and investors following the financial with the EdeR Group in the years ahead.
gora Oil & Gas, the exploration company, Ahas realised a profit of 73 million in just over 2 years RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts March 2012 3 224233 RIT R&A pp01-pp17 31 05 2012 21:28 Page 4 Chairmans Statement Baroness Ariane fide Rothschild, Vice Chairman of the Dividend Policy EdeR Group, has become Honorary Vice Chairman of Since your Company became a listed investment RIT.
In a reciprocal arrangement I am now Honorary trust in its present form in August 1988, its policy has Vice Chairman of La Compagnie Financire Saintbeen to deliver long-term capital growth and in this it Honor, the French holding company of the EdeR has been successful net assets have increased Group.
Jean Laurent-Bellue, the General Secretary of from 281 million to 1,920 million, a gain of over Edmond fide Rothschild Holdings, has joined our Board 1.6 billion.
Your Companys main benchmark is the as a non-executive Director.
I know that shareholders MSCI and an equivalent investment in this index will give a warm welcome to the strengthening of the would have shown gains of 580 million during this Rothschild link.
We have therefore outperformed our index by almost 1.1 billion.
For an investor who has held the Opportunities are more often than not brought about shares over this period, the share price has increased through strong relationships.
We are therefore by approximately 15 times.
delighted to have announced the partnership we will be entering into with Rockefeller & Co, Inc.
Dating Additionally, dividends and buybacks of 254 million back to 1882, John D. Rockefeller established one of were returned to shareholders over this period.
The the first family offices to manage his financial legacy.
greater part of the total gains have therefore been Today Rockefeller & Co. is a leading global investment retained by your company so that it now enjoys a advisory and wealth management firm, with substantial permanent capital base.
Shareholders may $34 billion of assets under administration.
As a first also be aware that, following changes in tax legislation, step in our relationship, we will become significant investment trust companies are now able to pay minority investors in the holding company of dividends from capital reserves.
We therefore decided Rockefeller & Co. alongside Rockefeller family it was timely to review our dividend policy.
We will be members and trusts.
We will be looking at ways to seeking shareholder approval to an appropriate change develop further our mutual businesses through this in our Articles to allow greater flexibility in paying such partnership between two such recognisable names.
We will be recommending a dividend of 28 pence per share to be paid on 24 August 2012 to Your Companys success in the future lies in our shareholders on the register at 15 June.
This would finding exceptional opportunities throughout the bring our dividend yield more in line with our peer world.
I have no doubt that the links we have forged group.
We expect to maintain or increase this level in with such distinguished groups in the USA, Europe the years ahead as long as this does not come into and China can only help us in our endeavours in the conflict with your Companys primary objective of years ahead.
Year-end Change This year we have also decided to move to a December year-end in order to bring our reporting cycle in line with the majority of the asset Rothschild management industry.
We will therefore prepare an 31 May 2012 interim report to 30 September 2012 as normal, followed by a report for the nine months to 31 December 2012. e will be recommending a dividend Wof 28 pence.
This would bring our dividend yield more in line with our peer group.
4 Annual Report and Accounts March 2012 RIT Capital Partners plc
