GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:40 Page 295 RBS GROUP 2012 Letter from the Chairman Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to present our Corporate governance report for the 2012 The remit of the Group Remuneration Committee was reviewed during financial year.
the year in light of the Groups Purpose, Vision and Values programme.
Whilst the Committee already takes into account wider It has been a challenging year for the Group, and the banking sector issues relating to people in making decisions about pay, it was agreed as a whole, against a backdrop of difficult market conditions and a fast to give the Committee an expanded oversight role of performance in moving regulatory environment.
We are fortunate to have engaged and the round and the name of the Committee was changed to the Group dedicated Board members willing to commit extensive time, Performance and Remuneration Committee to reflect this.
The Group individually and collectively, to work towards the recovery of the Group Sustainability Committee has also been given an enhanced role and to build a sustainable business.
including sustainability and reputation issues related to customer and citizenship activities: overseeing delivery of the Purpose, Vision and The Board Values cultural and behavioural change: and overseeing the The Board has dealt with a very full agenda and key priorities during sustainability aspects of the people agenda.
2012 have been conduct risk and culture, the changing regulatory architecture and regulatory investigations.
It is recognised that a real Further details on the role and principal activities of the Board are change is required in the culture of the banking industry and the Board contained within the Corporate governance report on pages 294 to is committed to driving the required change and setting the appropriate 342.
Individual reports from the Group Audit Committee, Board Risk tone from the top.
The Board is fully engaged in the work to improve Committee and Group Performance and Remuneration Committee are standards of behaviour within the RBS Group.
We have also continued also contained within the Corporate governance report.
to drive the delivery of the Groups Strategic Plan and ensure the Group has sufficient capital and funding to make it safer and stronger Corporate Governance in RBS for the long term.
During 2013, the Board is expected to continue to We remain committed to the highest standards of governance, integrity focus on capital, funding and risk as well as delivery of the Strategic and professionalism throughout the Group.
organisation, our governance framework operates across both our divisional and functional operating structure and geographically in the As mentioned in my earlier letter to shareholders, events like the IT regions in which we operate.
During 2012, we have continued to incident in the summer of 2012 and investigations into LIBOR and monitor compliance with the Corporate Governance policy that we Markets controls have significantly increased the workload of the introduced in 2011 and key areas of focus have included risk Board during the year.
The Board has demonstrated strong governance and regional governance, both of which were reviewed by engagement and leadership in dealing with these matters, and Board the Board Risk Committee on behalf of the Board.
committees have also taken a very prominent role, assuming responsibility for specific issues.
For example, the Group Audit Our statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Committee has assisted in the management of the intense regulatory the Code dated June 2010 is set out on page 343.
Our Corporate agenda, the remediation of control issues in Markets and International governance report also includes additional disclosures representing Banking and the review of LIBOR, the Board Risk Committee has early compliance with a number of the new provisions introduced by undertaken a review of the circumstances surrounding the IT incident the UK Corporate Governance Code dated September 2012 the and the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee has had an 2012 Code.
Reporting under the 2012 Code will take effect for our increased focus on accountability matters and stakeholder 2013 financial year.
The Group Sustainability Committee has expanded its remit, as described below.
As a result, the time commitment required from our non-executive directors is extremely onerous and I am grateful for their support.
295 GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:40 Page 296 Letter from the Chairman continued Board and Committee Membership Leadership and Board Effectiveness We have had a period of stability recently in terms of Board membership As Chairman, I am responsible for ensuring we have an effective Board and this has provided valuable continuity during a very busy year.
John and for leading the Board.
I am supported by the Group Nominations McFarlane stepped down from the Board in March 2012 and the Committee in reviewing Board composition and the recruitment of new experience and knowledge that he brought to the Board and the Group directors and by the Group Secretary on induction, continuing Performance and Remuneration Committee were greatly appreciated.
professional development, Board process including information flows and evaluation.
Some changes were made during the year to the composition of Board committees.
Baroness Noakes joined the Board Risk Committee, Art In leading the Board, I need to ensure that directors develop a good Ryan joined the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee and understanding of the Groups business and can support the executive Alison Davis became a member of the Group Sustainability Committee.
team in delivering the Groups Strategic Plan.
Directors knowledge is These committees have benefitted from the skills and experience of enhanced through site visits, in-depth board presentations and, for new these directors.
I actively encourage a culture and environment in the boardroom that facilitates debate and where nonWhilst no new directors were appointed in 2012, the composition of the executive directors are able to provide constructive challenge to Board has been kept under review by the Group Nominations Committee management.
during the year and we will continue to ensure that there is an appropriate balance of skills, experience and knowledge on the Board.
The Board We conduct an annual evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and operates a formal boardroom diversity policy which aims to promote this years evaluation was facilitated externally.
I also evaluate the diversity in the composition of the Board.
Under this policy, all Board individual performance of each of the non-executive directors and all appointments will be made on the basis of individual competence, skills directors stand for re-election annually.
This years evaluation has and expertise measured against identified objective criteria and we concluded that the Board is operating effectively and has suggested already meet the target of 25 per cent female board representation.
some further improvements that could be made to the operation of the Further details on the boardroom diversity policy can be found on page Board and we will be acting upon these suggestions during 2013.
Further 307. details on performance evaluation are set out on page 305.
Finally, I would like to thank both the executive and non-executive directors for their outstanding commitment and their contributions to the Board and committees in 2012.
Philip Hampton Chairman of the Board of directors 27 February 2013 296
