Chairmans Statement long spell of strong performance, primarily through profitPerformance taking in Apple 13.5m and McDonalds 11.5m.
Equity The net asset value per share NAV total return for the year portfolio turnover was 27%.
to 31 October 2012 was 8.4% with borrowings at market value which compares to the 9.4% sterling total return of the global FTSE All-World Index and 9.8% from the UK Income FTSE All-Share Index.
The share price total return was Total income decreased by 4.5% to 20.6m owing to a lower also 8.4%.
The companys global equity portfolio achieved level of investment in equities over the year and a smaller a total return of 12.1% which was ahead of both of the contribution from special dividends.
This was offset to a companys global and UK comparator indices.
degree by good dividend growth from portfolio holdings.
Expenses rose by 4.3%, and on a lower average number The 12.1% equity portfolio total return was not fully translated of shares outstanding following share buybacks net income into NAV and share price performance predominantly due to per share fell by 3.4% to 12.01p 2011: 12.43p.
two related features of the companys long-term borrowings.
First, the company has significant long-term borrowings Dividend which in recent periods have been held largely in cash and The board is recommending a final dividend of 6.65p per short-term bonds reflecting a cautious outlook for markets.
If approved, taken together with the Consequently, there was no worthwhile return on these interim dividend of 4.60p per share 2011: 4.60p, this will secure liquid assets to offset the 1.1 percentage point result in an increase of 8.2% in the total dividend for the deduction to the NAV total return from interest charges.
year to 11.25p per share 2011: 10.40p which compares Second, variations in the market value of these borrowings, with October UK CPI inflation of 2.7% and RPI of 3.2%.
which reflect changes in the market level of bond yields, must If the proposal is approved, the company will have be accounted for each year even though the fixed rate cost increased its dividend in each of the last 29 years.
of servicing the borrowings is unchanged.
Consequently, the NAV return was lowered by a further 1.4 percentage points Share Buybacks, Discount and owing to the increase in the market value of the borrowings.
Secured Bond Repurchases This increase in the value of borrowings has affected the The discount to ex-income NAV with borrowings at market NAV return negatively for the last four consecutive years.
value was broadly stable moving from 8.2% at the previous Adjusting for this distortion, the NAV with borrowings at year end to 8.6%.
The companys buyback policy is intended par rose by 9.2%, broadly in line with the global index.
to keep the discount to ex-income NAV at or below 9.0% with borrowings at market value.
Under the policy, 2.4m Global equity returns over the year were again driven by 2011: 3.9m shares were repurchased for cancellation over North America, which accounts for almost half of the FTSE the financial year accounting for 2.1% of the shares in issue All-World Index and achieved a total return of 14.4% in sterling at the start of the period.
The shares were repurchased at an terms.
This compares to a sterling total return for the rest of average discount of 9.6% and a cost of 11.1m 2011: 19.3m the world of around 5%.
North America was the only region to inclusive of dealing expenses.
The average discount over the generate a sterling return ahead of the FTSE All-World Index.
year was 9.3% and the average between the introduction of Sterling strength lowered sterling returns materially for Europe the scheme in February 2006 and the year end was 8.7%.
ex UK, Latin America and Middle East & Africa.
As an offset to the reduction in shareholders funds, the company repurchased for cancellation 4.0m nominal of its Despite a relative under-exposure to North America, 5.75% Secured Bonds 2030 at a cost of 5.3m.
The cost of the global equity portfolio again outperformed owing repurchasing the secured bonds was below the prevailing to strong regional stock selection.
There were notable market value of the bonds in the NAV.
Consequently, there absolute and relative sterling total returns from our North was an immaterial enhancement to the NAV with borrowings American investments which returned 19.9%, some at market value.
5 percentage points ahead of the North American index return.
Asia Pacific ex Japan holdings returned 15.8% The companys savings schemes, ISA and SIPP, operated compared with a regional index return of 7.4%.
UK and by its regulated subsidiary, SIT Savings Ltd, continued to Latin American holdings returns also exceeded regional provide steady net demand for the companys shares over index returns by good margins.
On an industry analysis the year.
of performance, stock selection contributed positively.
125th Anniversary Investment Seminars Gearing and Portfolio Activity To mark the 125th anniversary of its founding, the After a cautious start to the year, gearing was increased company held two well-received investment seminars steadily from 6% net cash to a geared position of 7% by during the year, in London and Edinburgh.
The seminars year end with borrowings at market value.
Average gearing featured presentations covering the current investment was 0% and potential gearing at the year end amounted to outlook from leading investment strategists used by 23%.
The global equity portfolio appreciated in value by the company.
The audiences comprised institutional 46.5m with 51.3m net investment in equities as gearing shareholders, professional investors and other was increased.
Most of these funds 43.5m were added to interested stakeholders.
Europe ex UK, an area which has lagged in recent years.
North American holdings were reduced by 23.8m after a 4 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2012 Chairmans Statement continued Board Committee Composition During the year, Russell Napier was appointed to the audit and remuneration committees and Francis Finlay was appointed to the audit committee.
EU Alternative Investment Fund Managers AIFM Directive Along with the rest of the investment trust industry, we are awaiting final details of the proposed AIFM Directive to which the company will regrettably become subject.
One almost inevitable consequence of this directive will be additional costs to be borne by investment trust investors.
Outlook Despite a further deterioration in the outlook for the global economy, companies in most industry groups are expected to report positive growth in earnings in 2012.
However, a fall in profits in some cyclical sectors may hold back aggregate earnings growth to leave global equities on around 12x earnings.
While this appears reasonable by historic standards, profit margins do remain at elevated levels and longer-term stockmarket valuations such as the cyclically-adjusted PE CAPE are less supportive.
The companys global portfolio stands on around 12x earnings with a dividend yield of 3.0%.
Many of the issues which clouded the outlook a year ago remain unresolved and include the combined deflationary pressures from prolonged austerity-driven economic weakness in Europe, the long-term funding requirements of the US economy and developments in the Chinese economy.
While earnings growth expectations for 2013 are currently being moderated, global corporate earnings growth is still expected to be robust in 2013 and there have been broadly helpful if still inconclusive developments in some of the areas of uncertainty.
The company has entered the year with 87m of its long-term borrowings available for investment on material weakness in markets.
Douglas McDougall Chairman 12 December 2012 Report & Accounts 2012 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 5
