CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Chairmans Statement It is to the Managers credit that they have continued to maintain a Investment Performance clear focus on progress at individual company level whilst also being The past year has been a very volatile one for world stockmarkets prepared to swim against the tide in their investment approach.
They and, having at one point fallen by over 20% from last years closing still see considerable investment opportunities.
Excitement about the price, the value of your Companys shares staged a significant impact of new technologies in many different sectors and continued recovery in the second half of our financial year to close at 708p.
enthusiasm for opportunities presented by the rapid growth of the I warned in 2011 that shareholders should remember that not every Chinese economy come through strongly in the Managers Review.
year will be as good as the period just ended and indeed that was prescient.
Over the year to 31 March 2012 net asset value NAV Equity investment is not without risk, but the Managers approach per share fell by 5.8%, the share price by 4.6% and the benchmark whereby the primary focus is on fundamental and thorough analysis the FTSE All-World Index in sterling terms by 2.9%, but these of individual companies and their long term growth prospects, rather end-of-year statistics disguise the fact that in the period under review than on short term market predictions, is the rational one.
Portfolio our share price uctuated between a high of 781p and a low of diversication at company level and also by activity remains 565p.
We have what is by most standards quite a concentrated portfolio currently 70 holdings for 2.4 billion of investments and As stated in previous years, performance is primarily assessed over the Board regularly challenges and questions the Managers on the long term in line with the nature of the investment approach.
individual investments, diversication, risk concentration and broader During the past five years, the NAV has increased by 39%, the share trends.
price by 45% and the benchmark by 26% in total return terms including capital and income : over ten years the increases are Shareholders may note that the value of the equity portfolio listed in 125% NAV, 139% share price and 73% benchmark.
Your Directors the UK now stands at 12% of total assets: a decade ago it was regard this as a very satisfactory performance and believe that, in close to 50%.
The portfolio does not resemble, let alone try to the year under review, our Managers acted with great skill in a very match, the benchmark so there will be times when performance is testing investment climate.
out of kilter with markets and indices.
Scottish Mortgage aims to appeal to investors who seek long term growth from investment in The past year has been characterised by low confidence in markets equities chosen on a global basis.
I make no apology for the fact and a tendency for most commentators and participants to focus on that Scottish Mortgage is generally not well suited to investors with negative factors.
In particular, anxiety about the future of the short term horizons or those who cannot endure the occasionally Eurozone and worries about what appears to be a double dip violent uctuations inherent in equity investment.
recession in several European countries including the UK have been recurrent.
To a large extent good news has been ignored, with Earnings and Dividend investors transxed by some of the horror stories emerging in As well as offering capital growth, Scottish Mortgage has provided southern Europe.
Included in the good news is the remarkable health shareholders with a stream of rising dividends over the years.
This of much of the corporate sector, the good progress made by many year earnings per share were 13.1p 13.3p last year.
A final developed economies, notably, but not exclusively, Germany, and dividend of 6.8p is proposed which will give a total dividend for the the continued growth of advancing economies especially China, year of 13.0p.
This is a satisfactory increase of 8.3% over last year albeit sometimes at a slightly slower pace than hitherto.
But it is the and is well ahead of all measures of UK ination currently 3.6% on riots on the streets of Athens and the unemployment queues in Spain an RPI basis.
It is also the 30th consecutive increase in the total which have tended to capture the headlines.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
04 ANNUAL REPORT 2012 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Gearing Outlook Gearing has been maintained at broadly constant levels.
Gross Although the health of much of the corporate sector appears to be assets totalled 2,378m at the year end and our xed rate good in terms of profitability and balance sheet strength, the debentures and oating rate bank loans of 366m account for 15% challenges at a macro-economic level are considerable.
While the bank loans are at historically low interest European economies are faltering but others, notably Germany, are rates, our debentures generally carry high coupons, reecting the doing very well and it is this remarkable divergence of fortunes radically different conditions which prevailed when they were which is causing strains of titanic proportions within the Eurozone.
Even ardent supporters of the Euro project now belatedly accept that certain countries should not have been admitted to the single Discount and Buybacks currency so early in the piece and their continuing membership The discount at which the Companys share price stands to net asset seems to be justied on the basis that it acts as a financial value has continued to narrow and at the end of the financial year it straitjacket which, while painful in the short term, will do the patient stood at 8% which, while higher than your Directors would like to good in the end: and that, in any event, the release keys were see, is nonetheless lower than that of our peer group.
Much has been achieved in the past year in terms of that the Managers communicate effectively with existing shareholders averting a disorderly default for Greece, but in both that country and so that the aspirations of the Company and its owners are aligned.
elsewhere in southern Europe there remains an uneasy feeling that all Also important is the quest for a new generation of shareholders.
that has been bought is more time: enduring solutions are proving There are opportunities here as the ways in which advisers are elusive.
remunerated change with the introduction of the Retail Distribution Looking further aeld, there continue to be worrying developments in Review RDR and this is a particular area of focus for the Managers the likes of North Korea and Iran.
While shareholders will realise marketing department.
The Company has maintained its low total that we hold no investments in either country, both have the capacity expense ratio 0.51% which is among the lowest in the industry and to cause major disruptions to the value of all capital markets in the this important feature should be beneficial in attracting new investors world.
Such worries have perhaps served to obscure a ow of when comparable charges on other funds can be many times higher positive news this year, particularly from the United States which than those incurred by Scottish Mortgage.
could well be approaching an economic turning point as the Shares were again bought back last year when supply exceeded gradual unwinding of earlier years excesses moves towards a demand.
A total of 2.9m shares were repurchased, similar to the conclusion.
These shares were transferred into For Scottish Mortgage it is the careful selection of individual Treasury from which they can be re-issued in future, but only at a companies and their subsequent performance which remain the most premium to net asset value.
There are now 31m shares in Treasury important inuence on future long term returns.
Our Managers available for re-issue.
Net asset value was enhanced by 1.0p by continue to demonstrate that they are adept at identifying buybacks this year.
Over five years the equivalent gure is 9.1p.
opportunities and, when taken together with the impact of low operating costs, I believe our Company continues to offer its Board and AGM shareholders a compelling investment proposition.
I am very pleased that Dr Linda Yueh has agreed to join the Board.
Linda has depth of knowledge and experience, especially of China, which I believe will be very valuable to Scottish Mortgage, which already has some 400m of investments in Greater China.
The Annual General Meeting will be held in Edinburgh at Baillie Giffords ofces at 4.30pm on the 28th June.
James Anderson and Tom Slater will make short presentations on the investments and I hope you will be able to attend.
Baillie Gifford is holding an investment trust presentation in London JOHN SCOTT on 19th September at which Scottish Mortgage will be featured.
Chairman Shareholders interested in receiving details of this event should 8 May 2012 contact Baillie Giffords Client Relations Team see page 54 for contact details.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 05
