Chairmans Statement Another Strong Year espite the difficult economic environment we faced in D2012, St. Jamess Place has had another strong year.
David and Andrew cover the performance in detail in their reports, but it is particularly pleasing to achieve record new business and funds under management in this difficult environment.
This clearly demonstrates the strength and resilience of the St. Jamess Place business model.
A particular highlight is the increasing emergence of cash which has enabled the Board to grow the dividend in line with the 33% expectation we set last July at the time of our Interim announcement.
Corporate Governance We strive to adopt the best practice in relation to Corporate Governance throughout the Group and in relation to the disclosures.
Charles Gregson Shareholders will see in the Report and Accounts that the Chairman usual format of the Remuneration Report has changed this year as the Board has sought to be an early adopter of the Governments draft legislation relating to remuneration reporting.
Where practical we have implemented a year early the various changes set out in the draft legislation, although as the old legislation has yet to be repealed, the remuneration report is considerably longer than in recent years.
However, we hope that shareholders will appreciate the clarity of the revised format and the additional disclosures we have made.
We have also adopted early the changes recommended by the Financial Reporting Council relating to Audit Committee disclosures, more details of which are set out on page 58.
2 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Board Composition The Future Building on the changes made in 2011, we were delighted Looking forward, having established the Group as a to welcome Patience Wheatcroft to the Board in April.
well-respected and trusted provider of high quality advice Her substantial business and media experience has further and wealth management services in recent years, we now strengthened the wide range of skills on the Board.
need to build on that success in the years ahead.
Critical to During 2013 we plan to continue our policy of gradually that is meeting our customer expectations, the continued refreshing the Board by the appointment of additional development and growth of the Partnership and the Groups Non-executive Directors, provided that suitable candidates investment proposition.
We must remain focused on our can be identified by the Nomination Committee.
core business principles, and the values and culture that have stood the Group in such good stead thus far.
The Board and the Nomination Committee keep succession planning under regular review, with a view to ensuring that I look forward to working with the Board in achieving senior managers are being developed appropriately and we these aspirations.
have the right skills around the table to drive forward the continued success of the Group.
Board Effectiveness Review In 2012 we once again appointed Independent Audit to facilitate an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, largely to review whether the various Charles Gregson changes made in 2011 following their last review had Chairman achieved the objective of ensuring effective discussions 27 February 2013 around the Board table.
The findings of Independent Audit were positive and further detail on the review process and findings can be found on page 52.
