SVG Capital plc Annual report 10 2012 Chairmans statement Another year ofstrong performance The overriding objective of the investment programme is to allocate capital in a disciplined manner, ensuring that it is deployed to maximise long term value for shareholders.
In my first statement as Chairman of the December 2012 net asset value per share Company, I am pleased to report another rolled forward for movements in quoted 1 6.0% year of strong performance with NAV per holdings, finance costs, foreign exchange, Increase in our NAV per share excluding share increasing by 16.0% over the year realisations and fees.
the value of SVG Advisers and SVG to391.2p, which compares to a return We have also received distributions of Investment Managers over one year onthe FTSE All-Share TR of 12.3%.
This 3 to391.2p per share 240.9 million from the portfolio over the performance has once again been driven year with the sale of the remaining holding by both revenue and earnings growth at in Galaxy completing in November.
As a the underlying portfolio companies and result, we nished the year with cash the strong share price performance of balances of 269.4 million, outweighing 300.0m Hugo Boss and Galaxy Entertainment.
our gross debt of 240.7 million.
These Target Capital Return to shareholders over The focus of the management team over significant cash balances not only provide the next three years the course of 2012 has been on disciplined certainty on our ability to complete the capital allocation and on repositioning the commitment we made to shareholders in portfolio ahead of our new investment December 2011, but also allow us to focus programme, which was approved by on both short term and longer term shareholders in March 2012.
As part of this returns, with an emphasis on the total process the investment committee has returns generated for shareholders, spent a considerable amount of time through a combination of buy-backs, reviewing the assets on our balance sheet, tender offers, dividends and longer term with particular focus on the relative risk and net asset growth.
return proles of the more mature assets The overriding objective of our future and the incremental return we expect to investment programme will be to allocate receive from these relative to other uses capital in a disciplined manner, ensuring ofcapital.
that it is deployed to maximise long term This process led to the completion of six value for shareholders.
The Board believes secondary sales during the course of the the best to way to achieve this is through year, which generated total proceeds of acombination of new investments, which 1 97.4 million, and repositioned the will provide the longer term net asset portfolio towards higher growth and less growth and continued returns of capital mature assets.
The proceeds of these sales toshareholders.
will be used to complete our December Over the longer term, the Board believes 2011 commitment to shareholders to that returns from the private equity asset return 170.0 million of capital through class will be attractive, with the potential to 2 buy-backs and tender offers.
To date we exceed SVG Capitals long term objective have returned 63.0% of this target and will of a 5% p. a. net outperformance over complete this commitment in April 2013, public markets over a 10 year period.
The pricing Manager selection is paramount in of this tender will be with reference to the achieving this outperformance and it is likely that SVG Capital will only invest with 1 35.2 million in the form of deferred consideration 2 a small selection of high quality managers As at 11 February 2013 3 Including income distributions over the next three years.
This approach is SVG Capital plc Business Corporate Financial Company Annual report Overview review information information information 2012 11 designed to give shareholders a balanced Nicholas stewardship the Company has Outlook portfolio of private equity assets, with an become a leading listed private equity Although the outlook for the world element of diversication across vintage group and FTSE 250 company.
On behalf economy continues to be very challenging, year, manager and size, and will allow the of the Board I would like to thank him for a number of positive steps and strong Company to lay the foundations for returns his leadership and the significant statements from the European Central beyond the current investment portfolio contribution he has made to the Company Bank and the German Chancellor during through a concentration on private equity over many years.
the summer of 2012 have allayed the managers who are assessed by our Denis Raeburn and Francis Finlay also markets worst fears about the future of investment team to be amongst the best in retired in the early part of the year and theEurozone.
This led to greater market the market.
In line with this strategy I am Edgar Koning, who had been on the Board stability, and has been followed by the pleased to announce that the Company since it listed, stepped down from the short term resolution of the scal cliff in has committed 100 million to the Fifth Board in December 2012.
Stephen Duckett the US and signs of more aggressive policy Cinven fund, the first new commitment joined the Board in March 2012 and brings easing in Japan.
While markets have been the Company has made since its change a wealth of private equity experience with more buoyant as a result of these ofinvestment objective last year.
I would like to thank Denis, Francis developments, the global economy The Company has a concentrated and Edgar for their contributions to the remains weak and economic forecasters investment portfolio, and therefore Board and the Company over many years remain cautious.
Despite this backdrop, distributions from the portfolio are more and welcome Stephen.
many companies under private ownership likely to be large and infrequent.
Balancing have continued to perform well, As previously announced, Charles Sinclair, a desire for efficient balance sheet demonstrating strong earnings and who has been a non-executive director of management with the importance of revenue growth over the year.
After a weak the Company since 2006 and Senior prudent risk controls, the Company will first half for private equity deal activity, and Independent Director since 2009, intends 1 target to return a further 300.0 million to a low level of European deals in aggregate to step down from the Board during 2013. shareholders over the next three years, for 2012, European deals began to build The Board has commenced a search for a atthe same time as executing the new momentum in the second half of the year new independent non-executive director investment programme.
It is expected that particularly the fourth quarter as to ensure a seamless transition.
these returns of capital will be in the form evidenced by increased levels of activity of buy-backs, regular tender offers and inour MBO funds portfolio.
Conversely, Corporate governance and risk dividends and will be dependent on the US activity built momentum throughout oversight size and timing of distributions from the the year, fuelled by improved debt existing investment portfolio and the The Board takes its governance and risk nancing conditions, and in 2012 US deal requirement of SVG Capital to comply oversight responsibilities seriously, including ow and exits surpassed the post-Lehman with: the constraints of its senior overseeing compliance with the UK highs of 2011. borrowings: relevant taxation and other Governance Code.
As part of the 2012 risk We are positive about private equity as legislation: the Companys overall priority review process, a review of the Companys anasset class and its potential for positive of maintaining a prudent level of debt and risk management processes was returns in the future, while remaining in subsequent years, the renewal of undertaken.
This review has resulted in the mindful of the uncertainty within the relevant shareholder authorities.
The Group adopting a new risk management macro-economic environment and the pricing of any tenders will be with reference policy and supporting processes.
The new impact this could have on both the to net asset value at the time of the tender.
framework more clearly identies key risk operating performance of our underlying management and risk oversight As part of the wider review of the assets of companies and the speed and ability for accountabilities, including the role of the the Company, the Board also initiated a private equity managers to acquire and exit Board and the Audit Committee, and strategic review of our private equity fund investments over the near term.
That said, describes the key processes that will management business and we are pleased we are encouraged by the performance of support achievement of effective risk to announce that we have successfully the companies in the MBO portfolio and management and oversight.
A copy of negotiated a sale of 50.1% of SVG Advisers their resilience to recent economic SVGCapitals corporate risk management to Aberdeen Asset Management PLC headwinds.
The excellent work undertaken policy isavailable on the Companys Aberdeen.
This transaction not only by Permira and underlying management website.
crystallises a portion of the value created in teams to protect and improve their this business but also provides SVG Advisers companies capital structures, has put Change to articles of association with a much enhanced platform for future them in a stronger position to withstand growth.
The CEOs statement contains a In line with recent amendments to the and take advantage of the opportunities detailed description of these arrangements.
2006 Companies Act, SVG Capital will emerging from the macro-economic beseeking shareholder approval at its environment.
Provided the wider global The Board forthcoming Annual General Meeting for economy continues to show signs of achange in its Articles of Association that increasing stability, we feel positive about Towards the end of the year, Nicholas would allow the Company to pay our underlying portfolio and its future Ferguson, who had been a non-executive dividends to shareholders from both capital potential as we move into 2013. director of the Company since its listing in and income reserves.
This amendment is May 1996 and Chairman since 2005, Andrew Sykes intended to facilitate the compliance by stepped down from the Board.
Under Chairman theCompany with investment trust taxation rules.
14 February 2013 1 Over and above the 65.0 million tender in April 2013
