4 Chairmans statement We are Europes leading specialist carpet and floor coverings retailer Lord Harris of Peckham Chairman In my statement last year I said I expected the coming year would to reduce its reliance on debt rather than recommend a payment be challenging, with an extended period of economic uncertainty of a final dividend for this financial year.
The Board recognises the and fragile consumer confidence, and this proved to be the case.
importance of dividends to shareholders and will seek to restore As a result, the Group faced difficult trading conditions leading to payment of a dividend when debt has been reduced, a sustained a reduction in sales volume, but we remain profitable and continue recovery is evident and this is reflected in the financial results of to generate strong operating cash flows.
I have been in the carpet business for over 50 years and whilst my enthusiasm for the business remains the same, Total revenue for the 52 weeks ended 28 April 2012 decreased by as I near my 70th birthday it was appropriate to address the issue 3.1% to 471.5m 2011: 486.8m.
Underlying profit before tax of succession.
Reported profit before tax increased to 13.5m 2011: 6.6m, reflecting our In September 2011, I was delighted that Darren Shapland agreed to success in realising significant profits from the sale of freehold join Carpetrights Board as a Non-Executive Director.
Darren was properties further information on these disposals is contained in an outstanding Finance Director of the Group between 2002 and the Operational and Financial Review.
Underlying earnings per 2005 and his subsequent success at Sainsburys speaks for itself.
share have fallen to 4.5p 2011: 18.0p and basic earnings per share Following Darrens appointment it became clear to me, and the rest increased to 16.4p 2011: 6.8p.
During this difficult trading period of the Board, that the combination of his extensive retail experience we have continued our focus on reducing the Groups net debt.
and specific knowledge of the Group made him an excellent It is therefore pleasing to announce that as at 28 April 2012 this candidate for the role of Chief Executive and he was appointed to stood at 19.1m 2011: 65.7m, a substantial reduction on the this position with effect from 14 May 2012.
I am confident he will prior year, demonstrating the ability of the Group to continue to make a huge contribution to the future of the business.
generate cash even in these most difficult of times.
There will be a period of transition during which I will work closely The Group has remained cash generative and profitable in this with Darren, specifically on buying, property and store standards, sustained period of recessionary trading but underlying profits have although I anticipate that my active involvement will decrease fallen again this year and short term economic conditions continue gradually over time.
Consequently the Board feels it is appropriate Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Overview Directors report: Dir Directors r ectors report: eport: Financial Statements Financial statements Business review Gover Governance finance 5 We are encouraged to see a positive impact from the self-help actions taken during the year, whilst recognising within our plans that economic conditions will remain difficult for some time.
I am also pleased that Baroness Noakes has agreed to stay on the On behalf of the Board, it is important to recognise and thank Board in the new role of Deputy Chairman in order to assist the all of our loyal and dedicated team members for their continued Board with the transition of roles and responsibilities.
commitment and contribution throughout the year.
Whether in stores, distribution centres or central support offices these teams, We have had a number of other changes to the membership of who consistently provide excellent customer service, remain the Board.
Guy Weston retired as a Non-Executive Director critically important.
It is their efforts that really make the difference.
after six years of service.
I would like to thank him for his valued contribution to the Group.
I was delighted to welcome David Looking forward, fragile consumer confidence continues to produce Clifford to the Board in December 2011, as a Non-Executive a weak and volatile floor coverings market.
We are encouraged to Director.
He was previously a senior partner with KPMG and see a positive impact from the self-help actions taken during the throughout his career has held a variety of roles and led the year, whilst recognising within our plans that economic conditions Consumer Markets unit of KPMG for a period, advising a number will remain difficult for some time.
That said, I remain confident of retailers.
He has made an extremely valuable contribution to the Group is well positioned to deliver profitable sales growth once the Board since his appointment.
When Darren agreed to become Chief Executive, we wanted to comply with the Corporate Governance Code, which mandates that there has to be at least as many independent non-executive Lord Harris of Peckham directors as other directors, and to avoid the Board becoming too Chairman large.
Accordingly Claire Balmforth and Andy Corden stood down from the Board in May 2012 but will retain their full executive responsibilities for the UK and European businesses respectively.
I would like to thank them for their contribution to the Board and, more importantly, for their contributions to the success of the business both in the past and the future.
