qxp:TEMIT 18 6 12 17:39 Page 6 CHAIRMANS ST CHAIRMANS STA ATEMENT TEMENT Key Points NAV was 636.3 pence per share, a fall of 10.8% dividend re-invested compared to a fall in the Benchmark MSCI Emerging Markets Index of 8.2% total return in sterling.
Earnings per share of 7.91 pence up 28.8%.
Proposed dividend of 5.75 pence per share, an increase of 35.3%.
Share price was 588.5 pence, a fall of 10.2% dividend re-invested.
TEMIT has won the Investment Week award for Best Emerging Markets Investment Trust for the fourth consecutive year and has also again won the Moneywise award for Best Emerging Markets Trust.
Peter A Smith Chairman Performance and the investment portfolio potential of emerging markets remains considerable and we In my last annual report to you I cautioned that we would believe that TEMIT is an attractive long term investment be likely to see continued periods of volatility, in the short proposition.
to medium term, and this warning proved correct.
In terms of share price, TEMIT ended the year at 588.5 Investors reacted to specific events or bad news in both pence, representing a 10.8% decrease on the share price of developed and emerging markets.
Our interim report for 660.0 pence as at 31 March 2011.
Your Board continually the first six months of the current year showed that your monitors the share price discount to net asset value and Companys NAV per share fell by 22.9%.
In the second half exercises its right to buy back shares when the Board of the year there was a recovery but, nevertheless, the past considers it is in shareholders interests to do so.
During year saw the NAV per share decrease from 718.0 pence to the financial year under review, there was one buy back of 636.3 pence, representing a total return including the 50,000 shares at a cost of 0.3 million.
At the end of the re-invested dividend of -10.8% compared to the year the discount, on a cum-income basis, stood at 7.5% MSCI Emerging Markets Index, which returned -8.2% in which compares to 8.1% as at 31 March 2011. sterling terms.
During the year shares traded at discounts between 4.7% On 8 June, the latest date for which information was and 9.1% of NAV with an average of 6.8%.
available, the NAV per share had fallen by 9.7% to 574.7 pence since 31 March.
The share price had fallen by The Investment Manager continues to run a concentrated 10.8% to 525.0 pence.
portfolio, with a total of 48 equity investments as at 31 March 2012.
The portfolio holdings are very stable and The Investment Management team continues to focus on our total portfolio turnover during the year was only 4.7%.
Since its launch in 1989 the Company has The investment philosophy is to seek value through a delivered a return of 2,266% dividends re-invested, which disciplined, yet flexible, long-term approach.
This represents a compound growth rate of 15.0% per annum.
disciplined investment style allows the Investment Manager Over the same period our benchmark, the MSCI Emerging to look through volatility, short term news, noise and Markets Index, returned 981% 11.1% per annum.
The Return based on accounting NAV 6 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 339066 05 p06-09 Chairman's Statement.
qxp:TEMIT 18 6 12 17:39 Page 7 emotion and it is this which has driven the excellent This year your Board is pleased to propose a further returns which the Manager has generated since 1989.
We increase in the dividend to 5.75 pence per share which are not short term traders and our short term performance will be fully covered by our earnings per share of may diverge from the benchmark index.
This represents an increase of 35.3% on remains exposed to currency movements and does not last years dividend.
Regulation The Board and Investment Manager are fully aware, Recent changes to UK taxation and company law now however, of the risks inherent in holding a concentrated permit investment trusts to distribute realised capital portfolio of investments and have in place a number of profits as dividends.
While we note this change, and measures for managing these risks.
These include limiting welcome the increased flexibility which it provides, the the holding in any single security to a maximum of 10% of Company has substantial revenue reserves and the Board is the market value of the portfolio.
Other risk mitigation not proposing any change to the Companys Articles of measures include appropriate asset allocation by company, Association at this stage.
sector and geography: holding a majority of quoted investments in the portfolio: maintaining an appropriate Asset allocation and gearing liquidity profile: and monitoring of the principal service The general policy of the Company is to be fully invested.
providers to ensure they operate an appropriate framework At 31 March 2012, 99.5% of your Companys net assets of governance and controls.
As described on page 14, were invested in equities 31 March 2011: 99.4%.
your Company benefits from a large and well-resourced Your Board regularly reviews its policy on gearing and we investment management team.
The team reviews continue to take a cautious stance.
This caution is borne regularly and thoroughly all of the investments which we out by the periods of volatility which are a feature of hold, to ensure that the investment case for each holding emerging equity markets and are generally unpredictable in remains valid.
Our policy, therefore, remains that The full report and review of the Investment Manager can in exceptional circumstances, and for short periods, TEMIT be found on pages 13 to 19. may borrow up to 10% of its net assets.
Borrowing facilities were not used during the year to 31 March 2012.
Investment income and the dividend The investment objective of TEMIT is to seek long-term The Board capital appreciation through investment in companies During the year the Directors reviewed the investment operating in emerging markets or whose stocks are listed strategy and supporting processes in detail with the on the stock markets of such countries.
The Directors also subsequently accumulation and distribution are not primary objectives, participated in an evaluation of the Boards performance income received from our investment portfolio has led independently by Trust Associates Limited which continued to grow and I am pleased to report a further specialises in providing advice to investment companies.
A substantial increase in revenue earnings per share.
number of suggestions for improving the operational effectiveness of the Board and the interface with the The Income Statement on page 48 reflects total dividend Investment Manager were agreed and will be implemented income earned of 58.4 million in the year to 31 March over the coming year.
This represents an increase of 12.1% on the dividend income received for the year to 31 March 2011.
While matters relating to the Investment Manager and their This translates into earnings per share of 7.91 pence per performance have historically been dealt with by the share compared with 6.14 pence per share for the year to independent non-executive Directors, it has been decided 31 March 2011. formally to establish a Management Engagement TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 7 339066 05 p06-09 Chairman's Statement.
qxp:TEMIT 18 6 12 17:39 Page 8 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED Committee to oversee the relationship with the Manager.
by professional financial advisors, we believe that TEMIT is The terms of reference of this Committee have been posted well placed to take advantage.
Your Board will work with on the Companys website: its members are all Franklin Templeton Investments to communicate TEMITs independent of the Manager.
many attractive features, including its straightforward capital structure and successful investment record to a In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by wider audience.
the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010, all Directors are required to retire each year.
Each member of the Board Scottish independence is standing for re-election.
As part of the Board evaluation Your Company is incorporated in Scotland and the Board review, the Remuneration and Nomination Committee has taken note of the plans by the current Scottish considered the skills and contribution of all the Directors Government to hold a referendum on independence from and recommends re-election in each case.
Full details of the United Kingdom in 2014.
While it is not appropriate each of the Directors can be found starting on page 10. for the Board to make political statements, shareholders should be reassured that we will monitor developments Investor communications and, in particular, any news on the adoption or otherwise The Board aims to keep shareholders informed and up to of current tax and company law which either an date with information about the Company.
We recognise independent Scotland, or a Scotland with greater autonomy that shareholders, especially those who hold their shares within the United Kingdom, may pursue and take any through nominee accounts, can find it difficult to find out appropriate steps to protect shareholders interests.
the most up-to date news about TEMIT.
We send out the annual and half year report and accounts, as well as notices Emerging Markets of any significant Company events.
We also release Throughout the year, investors around the world have been information through the stock exchanges, such as Interim preoccupied with the developing crisis in the eurozone and Management Statements.
efforts to contain the problems which this has created.
While TEMIT focuses specifically on emerging markets, Our website www.
co. uk displays the latest news, many emerging markets companies rely on developed price and performance information, portfolio details and economies for a significant proportion of ultimate demand quarterly web updates with the Investment Manager.
Via for their products and financial services, and as such this the website you can also ask to have the latest Company uncertainty has spilled over into emerging markets.
information e-mailed directly to you.
I encourage all shareholders to register on our website and make full use of Outlook the facilities and materials available to help keep you The eurozone crisis has dominated the global economy informed about your Company.
for the last two years and the emerging markets are not unaffected.
Nevertheless, the economic fundamentals and I am also pleased to report that TEMIT was awarded the local prospects are such that there is good reason to believe Best Emerging Markets Investment Trust 2011 by that the markets in which we are invested will produce Investment Week, for the fourth consecutive year, and Best attractive returns over the longer term, albeit with some Emerging Market Trust by Moneywise which it has won in uncomfortable volatility on the way.
Our investments are in four of the last five years.
attractive companies and your Board remains confident that the Investment Manager will pursue opportunities for long Retail Distribution Review term growth.
The Board continues to evaluate the objectives of the UK Retail Distribution Review.
Investment trusts have, for many years, been regarded as a specialist area of the investment landscape in the UK, supported by a group of investors who understand their special features and attractions.
As the Retail Distribution Review seeks to bring a wider range of investment products under consideration 8 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 339066 05 p06-09 Chairman's Statement.
qxp:TEMIT 18 6 12 17:39 Page 9 AGM Finally I would like to take this opportunity to invite all shareholders to attend the AGM to be held at Stationers Hall, Ave Maria Lane, London EC4M 7DD at 12 noon on Friday 20 July 2012.
More details of this meeting can be found on page 66 of this report.
Peter A Smith 18 June 2012 Indices above are shown on a total return basis in sterling.
Sources: Franklin Templeton Investments and Factset.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 9
