Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Chairmans Statement This is my seventh and final statement as Non-executive Chairman The majority of the 11.6m charge relating to major legal actions of Tullett Prebon plc since its separate listing in December 2006. relates to the costs incurred in bringing legal action related to the Throughout this time the Company has maintained its focus on raid on the business in North America by BGC in the second half of its objective of maximising returns to shareholders over the 2009.
The Company will continue to seek to enforce its contractual medium to long term, at an acceptable level of risk.
Its strategy has rights, and although legal action can be protracted and expensive it remained consistent, focusing on providing valuable services as an is appropriate to take action in order to do so.
intermediary in wholesale over-the-counter OTC markets.
The business has invested and developed in areas where it can achieve The 14.8m charge relating to restructuring costs reflects the costs good returns, and has been quick to take action to reduce costs of the action during the first half of 2012 to reduce fixed costs and when necessary.
It has maintained its focus on cash generation and to maintain flexibility in the cost base.
Through the restructuring return on investment.
It is well run and conservatively financed.
programme, which started towards the end of 2011, headcount has been reduced by 220, over two-thirds of which are from the Rupert Robson, who has served as a Non-executive Director front office, with an annual reduction in fixed costs of 30m.
The of the Company since January 2007, will take over as Chairman Company has a good record on cost management, and on of the Board on 6 March 2013, when I will retire as a director.
addressing the cost base to support future profitability when The Company is facing a period of significant and ongoing change circumstances require it.
in its regulatory and commercial environments.
Rupert Robson has a strong knowledge and understanding of the business and these The third exceptional item relates to the 123.0m non-cash charge issues, and is well placed to provide leadership to the Board, and for the impairment of the carrying value of goodwill relating to the to provide support, advice and feedback to Terry Smith, the business in North America.
Despite the actions that have been Chief Executive.
taken to rebuild the scale of the North American business since the raid in the summer of 2009, and to reduce costs, its performance Results weakened further during 2012.
The testing of goodwill for The results are explained in detail in the Business Review.
impairment is based on the current performance of the business without taking into account further investment for growth or Market conditions remained challenging throughout 2012 as the further action to reduce costs.
On that basis we have determined overall level of activity in the financial markets remained subdued, that the goodwill related to the business should be written down.
and revenue for the year of 850.8m was 7% lower than reported for 2011.
Shareholder returns and dividends Total shareholder return for 2012 was disappointing, at negative Underlying operating profit of 126.0m was 15% lower than 2%.
The Board recognises that the earnings multiple currently reported for 2011, with the underlying operating margin at 14.8% applied to the Company remains relatively low, but the focus of compared to 16.3% for 2011.
There is some operational leverage in the Board will continue to be on the fundamentals of the business the business, and operating margins are generally lower at lower rather than the short term share price.
The effect of this has been mitigated by the actions taken at the end of 2011 and during the first half of 2012 The Board recognises that dividends are an important element to reduce fixed costs and to maintain flexibility in the cost base.
Underlying earnings per share for 2012 Broker compensation expressed as a percentage of broking are 12% lower than for 2011, and it is prudent to expect that revenue, was unchanged in 2012 compared with the previous year.
financial market activity will continue to be subdued.
The Board is recommending an unchanged final dividend of 11.25p per share, Financing costs were slightly lower in 2012 than in 2011, and the making the total dividend for the year 16.85p per share, an increase underlying profit before tax of 114.7m compares with 136.1m in of 2% on the 16.5p per share paid for 2011.
With a reduction in the effective tax rate on underlying profit be payable on 16 May 2013 to shareholders on the register on before tax to 24.0%, underlying basic earnings per share for 2012 of 26 April 2013.
40.5p were 12% lower than for 2011. Business model and risk As a result of the reduction in underlying operating profit and the The Companys business model is based on generating a return increase in the year end capital employed reflecting a significant from providing a facilitation service to clients, enabling them to unwind of the working capital net payable due to the fall in broking trade efficiently and effectively.
This service can be provided, and revenue, the return on capital employed for 2012 has reduced to good returns can be generated, without actively taking credit and 29% 2011: 37%.
This remains considerably higher than any market risk.
The business acts only as an intermediary in the estimate of the Companys cost of capital.
financial markets, which means that the risk inherent in its activities is low.
We are willing to accept an unavoidable limited Exceptional items amount of risk as a consequence of our broking activities, but the In order to give clarity to the operating performance of the business does not take any trading risk and does not hold principal business, the results are presented showing charges relating to trading positions.
exceptional items separately from the underlying results.
There are three areas in which the Company has incurred exceptional items The Board and the Audit Committee continue to be engaged in during the year.
thoroughly analysing the risks faced by the business and the controls in place to mitigate and manage them.
This work is supported by a programme of Internal Audit activities.
Our risk management governance structure, risk management framework, and risk profile, are discussed in detail in the Business Review.
02 Chairmans Statement & Business Review Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Progress continues to be made in the process of agreeing and When Rupert Robson has taken over as Non-executive Chairman implementing reforms designed to strengthen the financial system of the Board and David Clark has retired, the Company will have and to improve the operation of financial markets.
We believe that three independent Non-executive Directors.
A process to identify we are well positioned to respond to and benefit from changes in a new Non-executive Director is underway.
the way in which OTC product markets operate as a result of the regulatory reforms of these markets, which reinforce the role of Outlook the intermediary.
Market conditions are expected to continue to be challenging.
The level of activity in financial markets was subdued throughout Financing 2012, particularly during the second half, reflecting persistently The Company is conservatively financed.
The Companys gross low volatility despite the underlying fragility of the world economy.
debt at the end of 2012 was 260m and following the scheduled Our customers are operating in a more onerous regulatory repayment under the bank term loan in February 2013, currently environment and there is considerable uncertainty over the stands at 250m.
Total gross cash balances at the end of the year impact of new regulations covering the OTC markets.
prudent to expect that financial market activity will continue to be subdued.
The Company issued bonds to retail investors in December 2012 raising 80m.
These bonds pay a coupon of 5.25% and mature in We have taken action to reduce fixed costs and to maintain June 2019.
The Companys other borrowings are through a 141m flexibility in the cost base.
The benefits of these actions will bond that matures in 2016, through a 8.5m bond that matures in continue to be realised in 2013, but are likely to be more than August 2014, and through the current 20m balance on the bank offset by the increased costs that will be incurred related to term loan which matures in February 2014.
The Company has an the regulatory readiness project.
In 2012 we delivered a higher attractive debt maturity profile and significant financial flexibility.
underlying operating margin than any of our sector peers from comparable activities.
Remuneration The Remuneration Committee has been chaired by my colleague, The business has made a reasonable start to the year.
Revenue in Rupert Robson, for the last four years.
When Rupert takes over as the first two months of 2013 is 5% lower than in the same period Chairman of the Board, he will stand down as a member and last year at constant exchange rates.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Stephen Pull will become Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The business provides a valuable service to clients through its ability to create liquidity through price and volume discovery As set out in the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 35 to facilitate trading in a wide range of financial instruments.
to 42, the focus of the Remuneration Committee over the last We consider that the implementation of the reforms to the four years has been to ensure that the structure of executive OTC markets will be positive for our business as the proposals remuneration continues to align managements interests with formalise the role of the intermediary in these markets.
We believe those of shareholders.
It is fundamental to the Companys that we are well positioned to continue to provide a valuable executive remuneration policies that a high proportion of service to clients.
remuneration is variable with business performance.
This approach has given the Remuneration Committee significant flexibility to Keith Hamill ensure that total executive remuneration has reflected the Chairman challenging market conditions.
5 March 2013 Board composition and governance The Company benefits from having a strong and experienced Board of Directors who work well together.
As part of the succession plan for the Board, Roger Perkin was appointed as an independent Non-executive Director of the Company with effect from 1 July 2012, and he became chairman of the Audit Committee at the end of July.
David Clark, who has served as a Non-executive Director of the Company and its predecessor since the acquisition of Tullett plc in March 2003, will be retiring from the Board after the AGM in May.
Michael Fallon, who had served as a Non-executive Director of the Company and its predecessor since September 2004, resigned in September 2012 due to his appointment as a Minister of State.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank David and Michael for their significant contributions to the Company.
In line with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, and the Articles of Association of the Company, all the Directors who wish to continue in office will stand for election or re-election at the AGM this year.
03 Objectives, Strategy, Business Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Model and Risk Profile Overview Operating Review Litigation Business Review Goodwill Impairment OTC Market Regulation Financial Review Risk Management Corporate Social Responsibility
