Annual Report 2012 Directors Report Chairmans Statement For myself I am an optimist it doesnt seem to be much use to be anything else.
Winston Churchill Performance and Shareholder Returns 2012 was a reminder that buying In 2012 Witan delivered a net asset assets at low valuations gives a degree value total return of 15.6%, 2.6% of fundamental support, even during better than our benchmark, which periods of disappointing economic gave a total return of 13%.
The positive returns for equity 2012 more than made up for the fall investors were assisted by a number of in 2011, despite volatile expectations feared events which did not happen: for economic growth and weaker Middle Eastern conflict did not lead to trends in corporate profits.
We were a spike in oil prices, the Euro did not able to increase our dividend by 10%, implode and China did not slip into while adding to our revenue reserves, recession.
Also on the positive side, marking the 38th consecutive year of inflation fell worldwide, the US rising dividends at Witan.
housing market pulled out of a 6 year recession and Northern European Despite the difficulties that have been governments showed a greater placed before the global economy over willingness to incur the costs of the last 5 years, Witan has achieved an buying time for Southern European NAV total return of 18.7%, which is countries to reform their economies.
3.7% ahead of our benchmark over this period.
Portfolio Attribution In 2012, our net asset value total Fluctuating economic hopes in 2012 return was 2.6% ahead of our equity resulted in markets displaying some of benchmark, with a positive total the rollercoaster characteristics of the return of 15.6% more than erasing the previous two years.
The principal contributors quarter was largely reversed in the were a 2.0% outperformance by our early summer months, before a more managers and a 1.5% benefit from the positive trend became established in use of gearing during a year of rising the second half of the year.
There was also a 0.5% principal drivers of the strong returns contribution from a decline in the were more pro-active official policies effect from marking our debt to to sustain economic growth, acting on market values and a 0.1% benefit the dry tinder of the low equity from share buy-backs.
These factors Highlights valuations which prevailed at the end were offset by the cost of borrowings The NAV total return of 15.6% of 2011.
Although arguments will -0.6% and by operating and outperformed the benchmarks continue over the policy of investment management costs -0.9%.
return of 13% quantitative easing central banks NAV total return over last five printing money to buy government A breakdown of the performance years was 18.7%, 3.7% ahead of bonds it has undeniably helped offset attribution is shown in the table on the benchmark the negative effects of contraction in page 4. the banking sector and kept interest Dividend increased by 10%, rates low, which benefits borrowers 7% ahead of the rate of inflation including, of course, governments.
Quarterly dividends introduced from 2013 The 38th consecutive year of increased dividends 3 Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Chairmans Statement continued Performance Attribution for the year ended 31 December 2012 based on the Companys financial statements Net asset value total return 15.6% Portfolio investment total return gross 15.0% Benchmark total return 13.0% Benchmark total return 13.0% Relative investment performance 2.0% Gearing impact 1.5% Effect of changed market value of debt 0.5% Share buy-backs 0.1% 2.1% 4.1% Borrowing costs -0.6% Operating costs and tax -0.9% -1.5% Relative performance 2.6% 2.6% Ongoing Charges Figure formerly Our portfolio generated revenue in the absence of unforeseen Total Expense Ratio earnings per share of 14.50 pence, an circumstances, be paid at a rate of 3.3 The ongoing charges figure OCF increase of 9.3%, allowing us to pence per share, being one quarter of which is the recurring operating and increase our dividend in real terms, as the full year payment for 2012 13.2 investment management costs of the well as adding 2.6 million to our pence.
The fourth payment in Company, expressed as a percentage revenue reserves which at the yearMarch 2014 will be a balancing of average net assets was 0.69% in end stood at 43.4 million, after amount, reflecting the difference 2012, marginally below that for 2011 providing for this years second between the three quarterly dividends 0.71%.
When performance fees paid interim dividend payment.
already paid and the payment decided to our managers are included, the OCF for the full year.
In recent years, the practice of paying dividends quarterly rather than twice Share Buy-backs and Discount Dividend a year has become more common, as The Company purchased a total of Your Board has declared a second the level of personal investor 1.2% of the starting shares in issue interim dividend of 7.2 pence per ownership in many investment trusts during the year.
These share buy-backs share 2011: 6.55 pence, to be paid to has grown and electronic payment generated an increase in net asset value shareholders on 28 March 2013, systems have reduced the additional per share of 0.1% as well as helping to making a total distribution for the year administrative costs.
The Retail maintain the discount close to our of 13.2 pence 2011: 12.0 pence.
This Distribution Review RDR, which desired target of a sustainable level of represents an increase of 10%, some takes effect in 2013, also broadens the 10% or below.
The share price discount 7% ahead of the 2.7% rate of potential investor base for investment compared with the net asset value consumer price inflation CPI in the trusts, among groups for whom excluding income, with debt at market year to December 2012.
This is the predictable and regular dividend value ended the year at 10.2% 38th consecutive year that we have payments are a more important part compared with 9.4% at the end of increased the dividend.
During this of the total return than for 2011.
The average discount for the year period since 1974 the UK retail price institutional investors.
index has risen approximately 900% a has accordingly decided to commence 10-fold move in prices, while Witans paying dividends quarterly, starting in Witans Multi-manager Approach dividends per share have increased by 2013.
The first three payments in Witan is unique amongst investment over 3500% a 36-fold rise.
June, September and December will, trusts in operating a fully-fledged 4 Annual Report 2012 10 Year Growth in Witans dividends per share versus UK corporate governance safeguards.
Consumer Price Inflation Witan has well-established policies in 14.0 167 all these areas, which are set out in more detail in the Business Review on pages 7 to 17.
Further details of 12.5 149 initiatives to increase the availability of information for investors and their advisers are set out in the Marketing Review on pages 70-71.
11.0 131 AGM Our Annual General Meeting will be 9.5 113 held at Merchant Taylors Hall on Tuesday 30 April 2013 at 2.30 pm.
With my fellow Witan dividend in pence per share left scale CPI Index right scale Directors, I look forward to the Source: DataStream opportunity to meet you then for the Companys 105th AGM.
multi-manager structure for the of the process and the changes management of its assets.
This aims to implemented during 2012 are set out Andrew Bruce, who has been a benefit from the specific skills of in the Business Review on pages 7 to member of the board since 2002, will particular managers, as well as reducing 17.
Your Board is convinced that the be retiring from the Board at this the performance volatility that can multi-manager approach is beneficial years AGM.
He has served during a come from having a single manager.
particularly when it comes to global period of exceptional financial investing.
However, we are mindful turbulence, both as a Director of The day to day investment that the spread of managers and Witan and a member of the audit management of the Companys assets individual manager focus are key to committee and I would like to thank is outsourced to third parties.
him warmly on behalf of shareholders However, the Board sets and reviews and the Board for his valuable service.
Retail Distribution Review RDR all the key elements of the Companys strategy, including the choice of The implementation of the Retail Outlook investment benchmark, the selection Distribution Review RDR from 2013 Equity markets made widespread will usher in changes in the of suitable investment managers, gains during 2012 despite headwinds investment guidelines and limits and qualification requirements for from downgraded growth the appointment of providers for Financial Advisers as well as ending expectations in many regions.
This other services required by the product provider trail commissions positive market trend has continued Company.
The Board ensures that, on future sales.
It has the potential to in the early part of 2013, amid signs taking specialist advice as appropriate, increase interest in Witan from that economic performance was its Directors have the appropriate mix individual investors and their improving from last years weakness, of skills and time available to address financial advisers, which creates an with fewer downside risks than opportunity for us and a requirement the management of its outsourced, appeared likely during the middle of multi-manager investment approach.
to address issues of relevance both for 2012.
Although the world appears clients with investment advisers and some way from a return to robust This structure is overseen by the those for whom investment advice economic growth, sentiment is less Companys executive team, which is may be harder to obtain under the fearful, as evidenced by the inflows responsible for managing risk appetite new regime.
These issues include into equity funds in recent months.
by actively varying gearing as well as diversification of risk, timely taking advantage of specialised investment updates, the policy on 2013 seems likely to be a further opportunities which fall outside the dividend growth, the management of year of convalescence for the world investment managers remits.
Details the discount to net asset value and economy.
A necessary correction in 5 pence Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Chairmans Statement continued the private sector debt overhang in requiring the grasshoppers to invest developed economies has been offset more while the ants will need to by a burgeoning in public sector consume more.
The past few years budget deficits, to levels which are have shown that achieving political likely to be unsustainable in the consensus on a coordinated policy longer term.
This has cushioned the approach is difficult.
recent recession but led to disagreement over how to tackle the The other notable feature of resulting problem of public sector investment markets during 2012 was debt.
One group led by the US but the plunge in government borrowing with increasingly vocal support in rates to multi-century lows.
Although Europe believes that higher economic the continuation of low interest rates growth should be the priority, arguing to assist with debt reduction and that growth will engender lower encourage economic growth may deficits than if budgets are cut in prolong the period of depressed bond response to the currently wider deficits yields, there is an increased risk of experienced as a result of weak bond investors losing money in real growth.
The other group led by terms, given that current yields are Germany believes in addressing below current and targeted rates of deficits first, forcing economies to inflation.
Bonds being expensive is adopt more competitive policies, in not itself a reason to buy other assets, the belief that faster economic growth such as equities, but it may prompt a will eventually follow.
broader definition of what is meant by investment risk.
If the focus shifts The question of whether austerity will towards investing to preserve real impede or facilitate recovery is value rather than purely to avoid sharpened by the sheer number of short-term volatility the countries where economic growth is outperformance of equities versus weak, which are tempted to boost bonds in 2012 could have much their growth via a weaker currency.
Since the whole world evidently cannot devalue at the same time, the Harry Henderson global imbalances between output and Chairman demand will need to be tackled, 12 March 2013 6
