Chairmans Statement 2012 represented the third full year of production at Sukari, a period in which your company further extended its track record of successive annual production growth.
Dear Shareholders 2012 represented the third full year of production at Sukari, a period in which your company further extended its track record of successive annual production growth.
The operation delivered a record 262,828 ounces of gold at a cash cost of production of US$669 per ounce, which was ahead of guidance of 250,000 ounces at US$700 per ounce with fuel at international prices set out at the beginning of the year.
The operating team in Egypt deserve immense credit for this performance in a year where challenges were again presented and overcome.
The ability to perform well in all circumstances is key to a successful operation, particularly one that is growing as rapidly as Sukari, and shareholders should take comfort from the teams demonstrated ability to deliver growth, whilst maintaining a strong emphasis on rigorous cost control.
Sukaris safety performance was also a significant improvement on the previous year with a lost time injury frequency rate of 0.69 per 200,000 man-hours achieved during the period.
It was again pleasing to note that no significant environmental incidents have taken place.
The Stage 4 expansion to double the processing plants nameplate capacity to 10 million tonnes per annum is the key to the next stage of output growth and delivery of our stated long-term production target for Sukari of 450-500,000 ounces per annum from 2015 onwards.
The construction team made great inroads through 2012 on what is a major construction effort, which continued to be funded out of the proceeds of production at Sukari.
Although construction was steady during the first half of the year, the second half saw an impact from strikes, both at Sukari and within the local supply chain, and also disruptions to gold exports and hence our in-country working capital position.
This translated to delivery delays for key items, materials and services, with the effect that the bulk of commissioning will commence in the second half of 2013 and be complete before year end.
The capital cost estimate of the Stage 4 expansion which is funded by PGM out of cost recoveries, is US$325 million including contingency, with expenditure at the end of 2012 of US$228.5 million.
14 An n u a l R e p o r t 2 0 1 2 Production growth Our appeal against the 30 October 2012 ruling by was complemented by the Egyptian Administrative Court, which we believe continued drilling of Sukari is based on an incorrect assertion that there was a lack Hill from both surface and of evidence with respect to our exploitation lease at underground, with the Sukari, remains on-going.
Very importantly on 20 March aim of replenishing and 2013 the Supreme Administrative Court approved our increasing the resource application to suspend enforcement of the 30 October and reserve base, and ruling until the conclusion of the appeal process and an update resource and this will allow operations at Sukari to continue whilst the reserve statement will be court process runs its course.
We have full confidence delivered in the second half in our legal title and our appeal case and also highlight of 2013.
The expanding the separate supporting appeals lodged by the Ministry underground development in particular provides of Petroleum and the Egyptian Mineral Resource increasing drilling access to the northern and depth Authority EMRA.
It is our belief that this re-enforces extents of the deposit.
the governments publicly-stated view that the terms of our Concession Agreement are fair and that Centamins Exploration activities continued on the seven other continued investment and operation at Sukari are both 2 prospects in the 160km Sukari exploitation lease necessary and welcome.
I would like to thank the within trucking distance of the Sukari plant.
The first Minister of Petroleum and EMRA for standing by us significant signs of low grade porphyry away from Sukari throughout the year and I look forward to the continued Hill were identied at the V-Shear prospect and work co-operation as we deliver on our stated goals.
continues to determine the extents and controls on I would like to close by thanking all those at Sukari, this mineralisation.
Elsewhere, on-going drilling at the in Alexandria, London, Jersey and Perth for their Kurdeman prospect offers the potential to fast-track efforts in 2012 as Centamin continued on its journey high grade ore to supplement the existing underground to becoming an established gold producer.
Further regional drilling of the Sukari licence where there were many events that required your boards is planned for 2013. attention it was a year that the depth, professionalism Drilling in Ethiopia continued on our four exploration and dedication of your Non-Executive Directors came licences in the north of the country.
Centamin intends to the fore.
I would like to thank deeply the Board for to continue to grow and diversify its project pipeline their counsel.
through targeted acquisitions of exploration and development prospects in the region and beyond.
Despite and because of the challenges that we have faced in 2012, your company remains well positioned Despite the negative effect of having to pay higher costs to deliver outstanding growth and shareholder returns for fuel for much of 2012, costs that were incurred in the coming years.
I look forward to updating you as direct consequence of a decision taken by EGPC, further over the course of 2013 either at our AGM, which we are robustly contesting in Court, nancially, which this year will be held in Jersey on 23 May, our position remains strong with approximately US$220 or at our presentation to shareholders that will be million held in cash, bullion, gold sales receivables and held in London on 16 May.
available-for-sale financial assets, no debt and no hedging.
With revenues of US$426 million and a profit for the year of US$199 million, Sukari continued to demonstrate in 2012 that it remains highly cash generative and well placed to fund its growth from cost recoveries.
We have exited the year as we had planned with a strong cash position and having made a significant investment and Josef El-Raghy progress toward completing Stage 4.
Completion of Stage Chairman 4 will mark the end of a major expansion and investment programme at Sukari.
