Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Appendix Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 5 Business Review Chairmans Statement ChaiRManS StateMent Centrica is one of the Uks most important companies Sir Roger Carr Chairman their energy usage, and to support Upstream we invested around 2 billion Our strategic vision is to customers with free insulation to reduce in helping secure gas supplies for the UK.
In parallel, we achieved first power from be the leading integrated our Lincs offshore wind farm and worked A relentless focus on cost management with our partners in extending the life of energy company, with helped British Gas implement the lowest our existing nuclear fleet.
We took the tariff increase of all the major energy customers at our core.
decision not to participate in new nuclear suppliers, necessitated by higher construction with EDF due to higher wholesale energy costs, Government anticipated costs and a lengthened driven green energy costs and the Review of the year construction schedule.
This will enable us imposition of additional infrastructure It is now three years since we defined to return some of the capital we had raised charges.
Nevertheless, the very real our strategic objectives to build a more for this purpose through a 500 million concerns of hard pressed consumers, sustainable, vertically integrated, cost share repurchase programme.
fuelled by external commentary, has effective and customer focused business impacted public trust in the industry In North America, a carefully executed with meaningful geographic diversity.
and in British Gas as the nations largest strategy of operational efficiencies, organic We were clear that to achieve this objective energy supplier inparticular.
growth and customer acquisition helped we would need to grow British Gas, us to further expand our business and acquire upstream assets on value creative Centrica is one of the UKs most important we are well on the way to doubling terms and expand the scale of our North companies, employing around 40,000 profitability since 2009.
With a change in American activity.
people, keeping homes warm and well lit, the centre of gravity in our North American securing future energy supplies, innovating I am pleased to confirm that in 2012 we activities we moved the corporate and investing and paying substantial demonstrated, through strong operational headquarters from Toronto to Houston amounts of tax to the Treasury each year.
performance and acquisition, our and our ambition to extend further our role We also have over 700,000 individual considerable progress in achieving in this market remains a strategic priority.
shareholders, all of whom benefit from the these strategic goals.
The impact of shale gas in North America dividends the Company pays.
Through our cannot be overstated and whilst its In the UK the year brought many larger shareholders, many of them pension immediate effect has been to lower challenges, with periods of colder weather funds, our dividends also feed into the wholesale gas prices in the US market, compared to the very mild conditions of retirement savings of millions of people.
there is no doubt it will influence global 2011 contributing to higher energy bills, It is important therefore that the Group energy markets over time.
and with material changes in the regulatory continues to grow and invest.
The management team increase in adjusted earnings we achieved Our strategic vision is to be the leading dealt with all of the turbulence with great in 2012 enabled us to invest more and to integrated energy company, with professionalism and commitment.
continue to grow our dividend in real customers at our core.
The importance of winning we achieve this must reflect the changes British Gas took the lead in simplifying tariffs recognition for our contribution to the in markets and sources of supply together and implemented changes consistent with UK economy and building public trust with a constant assessment of costs Ofgems proposals for retail market reform.
continue to be priority items on our agenda.
In parallel we continued to innovate with smart metering, to help consumers manage 6 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Chairmans Statement ChaiRManS StateMent COntinUed 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Our aim in 2013 and beyond will be to stepping down from his role as Managing Our Board members focus on three strategic priorities Director of British Gas, and Board member innovate to drive growth and service of Centrica, on 30 June 2013 and will leave 1.
Sir Roger Carr excellence, integrate our natural gas the Company by 31 December 2013.
Chairman business linked to our core markets and Phil Bentley has made a substantial increase our returns through efficiency 2.
Sam Laidlaw contribution to the development of the and continued capital discipline.
Chief Executive business, initially as Finance Director and for the last six years as Managing Director We will achieve these goals by 3.
Phil Bentley of British Gas.
differentiating our UK business through Managing Director, British Gas our systems and innovation to provide a In his most recent role he has been 4.
Margherita Della Valle competitive edge and investing upstream instrumental in restructuring, reinvigorating Non-Executive Director for value, while maintaining our structural and materially improving the performance hedge.
In North America we will grow our 5.
Mary Francis CBE of the business by raising customer customer base and service business and Senior Independent Director service, lowering costs and increasing seek to enhance our midstream and productivity.
As Chairman, and on behalf 6.
Mark Hanafin upstream position by acquisition when of the Board, I thank him for all that he has Managing Director, Centrica Energy strategic fit and returns are attractive.
achieved and wish him every success for 7.
Lesley Knox We believe that under the leadership the future.
Non-Executive Director of Sam Laidlaw we have developed a I am confident that the bench strength strong platform on which we can build a 8.
Nick Luff we enjoy, the mindset we have, the new rewarding future for both customers and Group Finance Director management structure and business shareholders.
This has been achieved model we have created will continue to 9.
Andrew Mackenzie with the considerable commitment of deliver strong cashflows, enabling us to Non-Executive Director the management team and the skills invest in customer service, supply security and enthusiastic support of colleagues 10.
Ian Meakins and shareholder reward.
on both sides of the Atlantic.
Non-Executive Director Corporate culture The period ahead will bring new 11.
Paul Rayner The Centrica business model is both challenges.
In order to ensure the Non-Executive Director wide ranging and complex, but its organisation of our management team is culture is simple and straightforward 12.
Chris Weston appropriate for the task ahead, with effect professionalism, openness and Managing Director, North America from 1 July 2013 the Group will migrate transparency in the way we do things, from a regional structure to an international Senior Executives together with integrity and honesty in functional structure.
Grant Dawson how we do them.
assume responsibility for downstream General Counsel & Company operations and Mark Hanafin will assume An organisation is dependent upon its Secretary responsibility for upstream operations management and structure for the 14.
Jill Shedden across the Group.
execution of strategy and its culture for Group Director, Human Resources the way in which its results are achieved.
After a successful career spanning 12 years with Centrica, Phil Bentley will be Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Appendix Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 7 Business Review Chairmans Statement GOvERnAnCE PAGE 52 BIOGRAPhIES PAGE 154 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 As a customer-facing business, respect In addition to normal business, the work nationals three are women and three men, for the individual, commitment to good of the Committees is supported by training three in full time executive employment and service and adherence to the highest sessions on topics of particular relevance three who have a number of non-executive standards of behaviour in the customers when Non-Executives require a more roles in both public and private companies.
homes or place of work are at the heart detailed understanding.
Training is given Our most recent appointments to the Board of what we do.
Our core values seek to by both members of the Centrica over the last 24 months have brought both ensure our people are welcome and management team and external advisors.
current operational experience and fresh trusted wherever theygo.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee is perspective, and reinvigorated the debate and discussion.
We employ around 40,000 people also informed by an external advisory body working in many countries and different of specialists in energy and consumer Diversity environments from offshore rigs, to affairs who are able to give objective Centrica is strongly committed to the onshore plants, in administrative locations, comment on policy, performance and merits of diversity in all its forms at Board on the road, in office premises and in governance standards of the Company level and throughout the Group.
Caring for the welfare from an outsiders perspective.
of our people wherever they are is our Twenty five percent of the Board are Each Committee reports to the Board absolute priority.
As a founding Chairman of the after every meeting to ensure a 30% Club, I have long believed that the In our health and safety policy no corners comprehensive briefing is given to attainment of any role must be by merit, may be cut, nor costs trimmed, if it is at Boardmembers on progress in all areas.
but that gender diversity can be an the expense of our people, customers, Board composition added value.
Centrica is committed to suppliers or contractors.
This message The Board comprises myself as Nonmaintaining its current level of women on is transmitted direct from the boardroom Executive Chairman and eleven other the Board and would increase the through management and reinforced in Directors of which six are Non-Executive.
percentage if the skills of the individual clear procedures, rigorous training and were appropriate and in keeping with the our incentive reward structure.
We have sought to ensure we have a business need.
This commitment is not balanced Board where individual merit and As a Board our focus is not simply on how a function of governance box-ticking but relevance are the key entry requirements much money the Company makes but a belief that it is in the best interests of but collectively we have an appropriate mix how the Company makes money.
of gender, nationalities and skills to ensure Corporate practice constructive debate and thoughtful Our success in achieving a desirable mix at In keeping with best practice, we oversee decision making.
In addition, we believe it the Executive Committee level has been the Group worldwide through a unitary is important to maintain a blend within the less successful with currently only one Board and six separate Committees Audit, Non-Executive group where some are in woman on a Committee of seven.
We are Nominations, Remuneration, Corporate full time executive employment and others working hard to address this issue through Responsibility, Executive and Disclosure.
are pursuing a portfolio non-executive a variety of measures and I am confident Each Committee has agreed terms of career path.
we will increase the appointment of women reference and schedules a series of meetings in executive roles at the highestlevel.
In addition to myself as Chairman, our throughout the year with disciplined agendas.
current Non-Executives comprise one Each Committee is professionally chaired Australian, one Italian and four British and populated by an appropriate mix of Non-Executive and or Executive Directors.
y T I l I B I S n O P P A S G E 8 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Chairmans Statement ChaiRManS StateMent COntinUed Our business principles 1.
Demonstrating integrity in corporate conduct.
to help us make decisions in 4.
Enhancing customer experiences and business partnerships.
line with a consistent set of 6.
Focusing on health, safety and security.
memory and avoid undue disruption strategic discussion over the course of Board composition planning at one time, I intend to stagger their the years Board meetings rather than Over the last two years we have completed departure such that Paul Rayner remains concentrating our efforts at an annual the first phase of refreshing the Board in on the Board to 31 December 2013 and offsite strategic review session.
IBE also keeping with the requirement for ensuring Mary Francis continues in her capacity recommended sharing more detail independence of mind and relevance of as Senior Independent Director during of the individual Committee meetings at skills.
Our last three appointments have 2014.
Whilst technically this exceeds their Board updates and encouraging all included two with full time executive roles nine-year term, the Board has confirmed Executive Directors to participate more fully to bring relevant operational and financial that they remain independent in character in Board discussion on areas outside their experience to the Board and one with and judgement and I believe taking this day to day responsibility.
a broader non-executive skillset drawn approach to be in the best interests from her experience in finance and as a In 2012 we adopted all of these of the Company.
non-executive and chairman of other recommendations to good effect, resulting boards.
These appointments have assisted With these changes in mind, the role of in fuller participation by all Board members a generational change in Board Chairman of the Audit Committee, which and a more regular review of the strategic membership and provided required has been undertaken by Paul Rayner, will development of the Group in a rapidly replacement chairmanship skills in both be handed over to Margherita Della Valle changing external environment.
at the time of the half year results in 2013.
December 2012, we conducted an internal Mary Francis will remain Chairman of the Board evaluation comprising a written Following the announcement by BHP Corporate Responsibility Committee for questionnaire followed by discussion in Billiton in February 2013 of the appointment the duration of 2013. order to evaluate the success of the of Andrew Mackenzie as CEO it is with changes made and identify points to regret that we have accepted Andrews A search will be initiated for the be addressed in the next twelve months.
resignation as a Non-Executive Director replacement of both Paul Rayner and Based on the responses, all Directors of Centrica with effect from 10 May 2013.
Mary Francis in the second half of 2013 concluded that there had been Andrew will not, therefore, seek re-election with a specification of skills and background considerable improvement in both the as a Director at the Annual General to be determined in keeping with the quality and frequency of strategic Meeting to be held on 13 May 2013. demand of the business model at that time.
All were now satisfied with In light of the increased content of the progress made and the contribution Board evaluation upstream activity and our wider presence of all Board members.
Looking forward, Our policy over many years has been in North America, we have commenced there were no issues on process or to conduct a thorough review of Board a search for an additional Non-Executive divisions on strategy.
process, practice and culture on an annual with strong upstream credentials in North basis with the input of an external facilitator America.
It is hoped that this appointment at least once every three years.
will be made in the first half of 2013.
At the end of 2011 we appointed Sadly two of our Non-Executives, Mary Independent Board Evaluations IBE to Francis and Paul Rayner, will complete conduct an external review and carefully their nine-year term of office in 2013.
Both considered their findings that they Sir Roger Carr have made a material contribution to the recommended to make a good board Chairman Board and both will ultimately be a loss great.
The main observation was on the 27 February 2013 to the business.
To preserve corporate importance of allocating sufficient time for E R 3 9 E T A R O P R O C
