Overview | Chairmans Statement Chairmans Statement Non-Executive changes experience in the industry, make him Dear Shareholder Part of the strength of any board comes the right person to drive AstraZeneca I am glad I was able to meet a number of from refreshing and renewing the mix of to success over the coming years.
I am you in April 2012 when AstraZeneca held its people sitting around the boardroom table.
confident that Pascals approach and Annual General Meeting in London.
At that When I joined the Board, I was pleased that his track record of delivering results in meeting you elected me as a Director and both Graham Chipchase and Genevive innovation-driven businesses will be valued it is my privilege to have served as your Berger also became Non-Executive by shareholders and employees alike.
They bring, respectively, in-depth Following Davids departure, Simon Lowth financial and scientific expertise, as well as Louis Schweitzer and David Brennan acted as Interim Chief Executive officer.
significant international business experience The day of the AGM was, by any measure, The Board and I would like to record our to our discussions.
an historic one for your Company.
It was the appreciation for his impressive leadership day on which David Brennan announced his Also in April 2012, we said farewell to in this period.
Supported by a highly decision to retire from AstraZeneca as your Michele Hooper who stood down from capable and committed executive team, Chief Executive officer.
It was also the day the Board.
We are all grateful for her Simon maintained the organisations focus on which your previous Chairman, Louis distinguished contribution to our work and on key business priorities during a period Schweitzer, brought forward the date of his her dedicated service as Chairman of the of significant change.
intended retirement to 1 June to coincide Audit Committee and senior independent Sound governance with that of David.
In her place, John All the changes I have outlined took Varley took over as senior independent Louis had been a Director since 2004 and place at the same time as AstraZeneca Non-Executive Director and Rudy Markham your Chairman for seven years.
During that completed a record number of business became Chairman of the Audit Committee.
time he worked tirelessly to ensure that the development deals.
We also undertook our Board was effective in its task of setting our A new Chief Executive officer annual strategic review, in which Pascal has strategy and overseeing its implementation.
Upon my election to the Board I was also been fully involved, as well as our regular We are grateful to him for his efforts appointed Chairman of the Nomination programme of meetings and business on yourbehalf.
This enabled me to lead activity.
That we have been able to do all the important process of selecting David this is a tribute both to the sound corporate As Chief Executive officer, David led Brennans successor.
This was a process governance processes we have in place AstraZeneca with skill, integrity and courage that included both internal and external and to the dedication and hard work of my during a period of enormous change for the candidates and culminated in the fellow Directors.
I am grateful to all of them industry and for the Company in particular.
appointment of Pascal Soriot to the Board for the contribution they made in 2012.
I would like to thank David for his seless as the Companys Chief Executive officer leadership during his six years at the helm.
We will need to harness all our skills, Pascal joined us from Roche where he had capabilities and experience if we are to been serving as Chief Operating officer of successfully navigate the current harsh the companys pharmaceuticals division.
climate for the pharmaceutical sector.
His was a key appointment at an important The world pharmaceutical market is still time for AstraZeneca.
The Board is certain growing and underlying demographic that Pascals leadership qualities, combined trends remain favourable to long-term industry growth.
However, many of the with his strategic thinking and extensive drivers of demand and supply in the industry are under pressure.
6 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 2012 financial performance was defined by significant revenue decline associated with the loss of exclusivity for several products.
For 2013, challenging market conditions will persist.
On the demand side, we face increased Financial performance Returns to shareholders competition from generic medicines as We cannot hope to secure our long-term Consistent with our progressive dividend some of the worlds most successful drugs success if we do not meet our financial policy, the Board has recommended a come off patent.
In addition, securing targets and deliver acceptable levels of second interim dividend of $1.90.
This recognition through reimbursement approval return to our owners.
Group sales in 2012 brings the dividend for the full year to and reward through favourable pricing and were down 15% to $27,973 million 2011: $2.80 178.6 pence, SEK 18.34.
In 2012, sales for innovation is becoming more $33,591 million and Reported operating cash distributions to shareholders through difficult in the face of intensifying pricing profit was down 34% at $8,148 million dividends totalled $3,665 million and net pressures, particularly in Established 2011: $12,795 million.
Revenue in the US share repurchases totalled $2,206 million.
Markets facing rising healthcare costs.
was down 21% while revenue outside the In October, we announced the suspension On the supply side, the industry faces an US was down 11%.
of our share repurchase programme for ongoing R&D productivity challenge.
R&D 2012 and the Board has decided that no More than 13 percentage points of the costs have risen signicantly over the past share repurchases will take place in 2013 revenue decline, approximately $4.5 billion, decade, while industry-wide probability of in order to maintain the exibility to invest was related to loss of exclusivity on several success continues to decline.
Seroquel IR alone Strategic focus declined by more than $3 billion, while Outlook It is for the reasons outlined above that regional losses of exclusivity for Atacand, We believe challenging market conditions the outcome of our current strategic review Nexium and Crestor accounted for more will persist in 2013, including continued is so important.
Our strategy is rooted in than $1 billion.
Additionally, the disposals government interventions in price.
The our heritage as a company focused on of Astra Tech and Aptium accounted revenue impact from the loss of exclusivity innovative science to deliver great medicines for around 1.7 percentage points of the will also continue to affect our performance.
I rmly believe that it is the decline.
On the other hand, taken together, In the context of the ongoing update to our path we need to take if we are to remain Symbicort, Faslodex, Onglyza, Iressa, strategy, we have withdrawn the planning competitive and return to growth.
That path Brilinta Brilique and Seroquel XR accounted assumptions for revenue and margin must also include a commitment to the for more than $600 million of revenue evolution for the period 2010 to 2014 responsible and sustainable development growth.
Additionally, our diabetes alliance we outlined in January 2010.
That is why I was so with BMS is strengthened by the inclusion to hold a Capital Markets Day in March pleased that we were once again listed in of the Amylin portfolio and the approval 2013 to provide a more detailed exposition the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index of Forxiga inEurope.
in 2012 and retained our listing on the Reported earnings per share were down European Index for the fifth year running.
The decline reects the $1.08 per share benefit in 2011 from the sale of Astra Tech and higher restructuring costs in2012.
Leif Johansson Chairman AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 7
