4 Business review Chairmans statement Although the defence industry is facing challenges, Chemrings leading market positions, innovative products and manufacturing expertise should ensure the Groups underlying business remains robust in the face of market pressures.
2012 was extremely disappointing for and Chemring was no different.
We failed Highlights Chemring, our shareholders, our customers to anticipate and react to those changing and our employees.
During the course of the market dynamics quickly enough and to Revenue from continuing operations year, against an already challenging market understand the impact on our businesses.
up 2% to 740.3 million background, a number of additional issues Our trading performance suffered as a Underlying continuing operating profit disrupted the operational performance of result.
In addition, the overall performance 88.3 million the business, including problems with the also reected specic issues at several of supply chain, contract delays and changes our subsidiary companies.
Underlying continuing profit before tax in senior management.
70.1 million We reported a number of issues during Underlying continuing earnings Although the general decline in defence the year.
At our Florida subsidiary, we spending in a number of our markets had encountered problems with the installation per share 28.5p a significant impact on trading during the of a new resource planning system which, Continuing profit before tax year, a large proportion of the problems together with delays on a major contract, 18.8 million that affected the Groups performance considerably eroded its profit.
At the year Basic continuing earnings per share 6.8p stemmed from operational issues within end, the Groups results were signicantly the business, a failure to anticipate the below expectations, as we experienced Key information impact of changing market dynamics, a delay in the receipt of a major order Underlying continuing profit before tax and poor management of expectations.
from the Middle East, continued to Overall, this resulted in a significant decline suffer technical problems with a specic in the market value of the Company.
countermeasure product, and were unable 70.1m to deliver as much of a vehicle-based mortar However, with the appointment of Underlying continuing earnings per share system product as we had anticipated due Mark Papworth as Chief Executive to export licence difficulties.
in November 2012, followed by the 28.5p appointment of Steve Bowers as Finance Overall, revenue from continuing operations Director in January 2013, we are now for the year was 740.3 million, an increase Dividend per ordinary share rebuilding the senior management team of 2%, generating an underlying continuing required to lead our recovery.
This recovery operating profit of 88.3 million, down 35%.
9.5p will focus on operational performance Underlying continuing profit before tax fell efficiency, margin improvement, and by 42% to 70.1 million, producing underlying Before acquisition and disposal related costs, restructuring and incident costs, profit on disposal business reorganisation to enable the Group continuing earnings per share of 28.5p, a fall of business, impairment of goodwill, intangible to deal with the ongoing challenges in its of 43% against the previous year.
amortisation arising from business combinations end markets.
Turning to the balance sheet, and gain on fair value movements on derivatives The order intake for the Group was there will need to be a tighter focus on the 660.2 million, which is 17% lower than generation and management of our cash last year.
Although we saw strong order ows in order to reduce our levels of debt.
growth in our Counter-IED and Pyrotechnics The objective is to ensure the business is businesses, this was offset by a downturn well-positioned to operate effectively in in order intake within Countermeasures an environment of constrained defence and Munitions.
The Munitions segment spending, and to ensure the Group can was affected by export licence delays, and return to profitable growth.
the timing of orders, with several large multi-year contracts having been received Trading in the prior year.
The lower order intake in Chemrings trading result during 2012 the Countermeasures segment principally was unsatisfactory.
Defence spending reects lower customer demand, driven by pressures on both sides of the Atlantic, government scal and budgetary controls.
but particularly in the USA, affected a As a result, the Groups closing order book number of defence companies during 2012 reached 760.9 million, down 13% on 2011.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 5 Sir Peter Norriss, who has been a our non-NATO territories, where defence Balance sheet, cash ow non-executive director since May 2004, spending may be less affected by the same and debt has indicated his intention to retire from constraints.
Although the defence industry The Group generated an underlying the Board at the Annual General Meeting.
is facing challenges, Chemrings leading continuing operating cash ow of During his time with the Group, Peter market positions, innovative products and 114.9 million, which was 130% of has provided the Board with invaluable manufacturing expertise should ensure the underlying continuing operating profit.
guidance, and I would like to take this Groups underlying business remains robust At the end of the year, net debt was opportunity to thank him on behalf of the in the face of market pressures.
Whilst 244.8 million, compared with Board and wish him well in the future.
the new management team is actively 262.7 million last year, driven by addressing these issues and opportunities, significant operating cash inow in the Dividends 2013 is still expected to be a challenging final quarter of the year.
The Board is recommending a final dividend year for Chemring, and therefore the for the year of 4.2p 2011: 10.8p.
With the Boards expectations for the year Group strategy interim dividend paid of 5.3p 2011: 4.0p, remain unchanged.
In recent years, the Group has pursued a this gives a total dividend for 2012 of 9.5p strategy of combining organic growth with 2011: 14.8p.
The total dividend for the year targeted acquisitions.
Whilst operating in reects the Companys policy outlined last fragmented markets where opportunities year, to provide dividends covered three for future consolidation exist, the Board times by earnings.
currently believes that there are greater opportunities to enhance shareholder Outlook value in the short term through focusing on The US defence market will remain delivering performance improvement and vulnerable to budget uncertainties during integration of operating units.
the coming year, and the lack of clarity over P C F Hickson defence expenditure is likely to continue Chairman Board of directors to erode market confidence and adversely 24 January 2013 There have been a number of changes at affect the procurement process, as Board level during the last twelve months.
As outlined in last years report, Similarly, in the UK, funding for new and Vanda Murray joined the Board as a existing programmes is expected to remain non-executive director in November 2011, constrained during the course of 2013, and David Evans retired from the Board at as the MoDs review of its procurement the Annual General Meeting in March 2012. processes continues.
Downward pressure Mark Papworth was appointed to the Board on European defence spending, as a result as Chief Executive at the start of the new of deficit reduction programmes, is also financial year, succeeding David Price who expected to continue.
resigned at the end of October 2012.
Steve Bowers joined the Board as Overall, therefore, the difficult market Finance Director at the beginning of conditions that contributed to the Groups January 2013, replacing Paul Rayner disappointing performance in 2012 are who resigned in July 2012. expected to continue in 2013.
Nigel Young, who was Interim Chief However, against this challenging Financial officer between August 2012 environment, Chemrings strategy will and January 2013, will join the Board as be to drive improvements in operational a non-executive director at the end of performance and structure the business in April 2013, after completing a specic such a way as to provide greater resilience.
He will become At the same time, we will continue to Chairman of the Audit Committee, pursue the opportunities that exist within succeeding Lord Freeman who plans to retire from the Board at the end of the year.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012
