OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Chris Gibson-Smith Chairman We have a strong and robust strategy.
Prime property has performed well and our portfolio comprises the space that is most in demand: high-quality, modern and well located London offices and some of the UKs best retail assets where retailers enjoy profitable trade and in which consumers choose to shop.
Not only are we well positioned to cope with current challenges but when growth returns we believe we will benefit further.
Underlying profit before tax EPRA Net Asset Value per share 2012 269m 2012 595p 2011 256m 2011 567p 2010 249m 2010 504p 5.1% 4.9% Increase in underlying Increase in EPRA profit before tax Net Asset Value per share Directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 06 OVERVIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION See Chief Executives statement P1619 See Portfolio review P4455 See Financial review P5864 See Full year results 2012 video www.
com Solid businesses, built on firm foundations, are exactly the ones During the year we asked staff at all levels to help re-evaluate our company values that have prospered over the last 12 months and we are pleased and these continue to underline the way to be among them.
We are all operating in a difficult environment we do business Integrity, Excellence, and, while governments around the world are trying to do the right One Team and Commercial Acumen, things, there have been renewed concerns over the Eurozone and are all fundamental to our success.
a level of uncertainty that is likely to be with us for some time to come.
In July 2011, we launched our Community Charter to ensure a strong and consistent Austerity has continued to bite the UK share.
This reflects the Boards confidence approach to understanding local needs economy and in the second half of the in the quality of the Companys assets and and developing long-term community year we tipped back into recession.
relationships across our major UK occupational market has been tougher: properties and developments.
We also the effect on consumer spending has We use our scale and financial strength put considerable emphasis on managing resulted in increased retail administrations to fund our business competitively ensuring our buildings efficiently and developing and businesses in general are more we can undertake the large projects which sustainable buildings focusing on resources cautious.
In the investment market it has many peers cannot.
We achieve this through that realise the greatest benefits.
been increasingly difficult to find good a diverse funding structure and a broad quality prime property at the right price spread of debt maturities.
Since April 2011, Our corporate responsibility team constantly or value in secondary assets.
we successfully raised nearly 2 billion reviews best practice and benchmarks British Land share 1.4 billion of new our performance.
We explore and test But British Land has a strong and robust finance.
That we did this on highly competitive new concepts and, where appropriate, strategy and a talented team that has rates, when debt finance for property embed them across our business, worked hard over the past 1224 months is so constrained, says a lot about the quality frequently going beyond accepted practices to deliver a pleasing performance for its of our business.
to deliver real competitive advantage.
We are in the right sectors Over the past year we have received a and sub sectors.
Prime property has Few property companies could fund number of accolades for our work.
More performed well and our portfolio comprises a development programme on our scale.
details can be found on pages 56 and 57 space that is in demand: high-quality, In London, our 1.2 billion development and in our Corporate Responsibility Report modern and well located London offices programme is a great example of creating at www.
and some of the UKs best retail assets value.
We have fixed the majority of costs where retailers trade profitably and below original expectations and pre-let 50% Our Board underwent change in early 2011 consumers choose to shop.
with the arrival of two new Non-Executive Directors and Lucinda Bell formally took Our results over the past year have shown over as Finance Director in May 2011.
This is an unprecedented position in the the resilience of our business.
Not only current London office development cycle The Board has gelled together well.
are we well positioned to cope with current and testament to the quality and design challenges but when growth returns we of our buildings, that major occupiers are I would like to thank our staff, customers believe we will benefit further.
Against choosing to house their operations in our and suppliers who have helped us continue challenging market conditions, we reported properties.
In our retail portfolio, 1.7 million to deliver a strong and successful business.
good results for the year to 31 March 2012. sq ft is under construction.
We are rising to the challenges of the Underlying pre-tax profit of 269 million was current environment and are well positioned 5.1% up reflecting 28 million 5.4% growth Our size and geographic spread brings for future growth.
The value of our many benefits and we have a significant portfolio now stands at 10.3 billion up 2.6% and positive impact on the communities and NAV is up 4.9% to 595 pence giving a in which we operate.
British Land is total accounting return of 9.5%.
built on a responsible and collaborative approach which is central to how we do Chris Gibson-Smith The Board is recommending a fourth business.
This helps differentiate us Chairman quarter dividend of 6.6 pence, bringing the and create a company with which people total dividend for the year to 26.1 pence per and organisations want to engage.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report and business review 07
