Strategic review Overview Chairmans statement Governance Financial statements Other information Chairmans statement Setting the strategy, governance & v alues of the business Introduction Overview Results Welcome to the Annual Report for This has been an excellent year for the Company, I am pleased to report that we have grown 2012.
This is my last Chairmans in which we successfully executed our strategy of income from the portfolio in 2012, which statement after nine years, as I will focusing the business on high-quality retail assets combined with acquisitions and cost be retiring at this years AGM.
We executed transactions management initiatives has enabled us to pleased to say that the Company worth over 1 billion, including the sale of our grow adjusted earnings by 8.3% to ended 2012 in as strong a position office portfolio and the reinvestment into retail 20.9 pence per share.
as it has been in many years.
assets that cater for structural consumer In conjunction with our visibility on future preferences for experience, convenience, earnings from our portfolio, this gives us the and luxury.
confidence to increase the full-year dividend We have additionally made good progress by 6.6% to a total of 17.7 pence per share.
with our developments, and the Company is in At the year end the portfolio was worth a strong financial position which allows us the 5.5 billion, equivalent to a net asset value flexibility to capture future opportunities.
has been achieved against a difficult economic backdrop, which is a tribute to the experience Maintaining capital strength and energy of the management team, and the quality of our assets.
We had an active year managing the costs and maturity profile of our debt, contributing to an This is a strong base from which to grow 11.6 million reduction in interest expenses in the business.
We repurchased 220 million of the The Oracle, Reading 4 HAMMERSON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Strategic review Overview Chairmans statement Governance Financial statements Other information % 63 nET assET vaLuE: 5.42 per share communiTy: 63% of our community investment is long term 4.875% Euro bonds, then in September issued Remuneration Outlook a seven-year 500 million 2.75% unsecured The Boards ambition is to improve In a transformational year for our business we bond due in 2019.
In December we bought transparency and better demonstrate the link have demonstrated that high-quality retail back the 100 million floating rate reset between pay and performance.
For 2012 the assets combined with active management bonds from BNP Paribas, incurring a one-off Remuneration Committee determined that can deliver good income growth even in a mark-to-market charge of 42 million, and there should be no increase to base salary for challenging environment.
Whilst we still remain also signed a new 175 million revolving Executive Directors.
However, reflecting the cautious about the overall economic outlook credit facility.
strong performance of the Company in 2012 in the UK and Europe, we have a portfolio of Borrowings were 2.1 billion at 31 December the variable element of Executive Directors modern, well-located retail properties which 2012 and cash balances were 66 million, to overall remuneration has increased.
We offer consumers leisure, catering and give net debt of 2.0 billion 2011: 2.0 billion.
believe shareholders are supportive of this multi-channel capabilities.
Whilst these assets Loan-to-value and gearing ratios at the year approach which aligns their interest with those are not immune to retail failures, we anticipate end were 36% and 53% respectively.
Liquidity, of the management team.
the impact to remain modest and we are comprising cash and undrawn facilities, was confident that these assets will continue to 696 million at December 2012.
Communities attract both domestic and international retailers.
This gives us confidence in our ability Hammerson is an active participant in the Board changes to grow underlying rental income through communities in which it operates.
In both the active asset management, which will be After nine years at Hammerson, and having UK and France, job creation and growth are enhanced as we complete developments.
taken up the Chairmanship of Lloyds of London, key priorities for local authorities, and we work In conjunction with a continued focus on I informed the Board during the course of with our communities to support local needs.
operating and financial efficiency, we are last year that I wished to retire at this years In the UK we engaged with communities in targeting strong growth in earnings and AGM.
I am delighted that David Tyler joined Croydon, Leeds and Southampton regarding dividends over the three year period to 2015. the Board in January, and will succeed me as employment opportunities associated with Chairman immediately after the AGM.
In France, through an We remain confident in our ability to identify initiative which boosts local employment by further attractive additional acquisitions He is the right man to succeed me, having including an employment code of conduct into opportunities in our chosen sectors to had a successful career, much of it in finance new leases, we promoted retail sector jobs increase the scale, efficiency and overall and retailing.
He is currently Chairman of through Ple Emploi, the national job agency.
Sainsburys and a Director of Burberry.
This is my last Chairmans statement.
I am Gwyn Burr joined the Board as a NonSustainability proud of what the Company has achieved Executive Director in May this year.
Gwyn has We have fully integrated sustainability initiatives and I wish its shareholders and staff well over 25 years experience in the retail sector, into our business plans, which we believe will for the future.
with a particular focus on the delivery of deliver long-term business benefits across all industry-leading customer service and our operational activities.
innovations in bringing sustainable design to new At the beginning of 2013 we also appointed developments, as well as improving the carbon Jean-Philippe Mouton as an Executive performance of our investment portfolio.
Jean-Philippe is Managing Director we launched our Positive Places sustainability John Nelson for France, a position he has held since 2009. programme, focused on how we engage CHAIRMAN As well as his management role for France, he with employees, communities, customers, will have additional responsibility for marketing suppliers and investors.
We have had a strong and digital engagement across the Group.
performance in areas like waste recycling and supplier engagement in 2012.
Full details can be found in our connected reporting framework on pages 129 to 131, and in our online CR report www.
However, reflecting the fact that sustainability is fully integrated into our daily operations, this years Annual Report has no dedicated, separate CR section.
