Overview continued Chairmans statement We are now seeing tremendous benetsfrom focusing exclusively on prime regionalshopping centres 2012 has been another year of considerable progress for the Group.
Itis still under three years since we completed the demerger ofCapital &Counties and two years since the completion of the Trafford Centre transaction, which is now fully integrated into the overall business.
Both of these moves have been very positive for shareholders andwe arenow seeing tremendous benets from focusing exclusively on prime regional shopping centres.
Patrick Burgess We are by some margin the largest owner of regional shopping Chairman centres in the UK with ten of the UKs top 25 centres and the largest landlord to many retailers.
We estimate some 30 million unique visitors, around half the UKs population, enter our centres every year.
Shopping habits and technology have of course moved on quitea way over the last two years.
Much has been written about the changing world of retail, with statistics such as half of UK internet users now making use of the internet at some stage in the shopping process and by mid 2012 over half of fashion consumers having used a mobile device to make purchases.
Inour case last year 9 million unique devices accessed our shopping centre websites, half of which were mobiles.
Through our focus on the prime centres in the UK, we have in our view been a beneciary of these changes.
Consumer activity and retailer investment have been focusing increasingly on the top centres such as ours.
Further, our tenant mix has changed positively, with the rise of Apple as a retailer being one of the most obvious examples.
Generally retailers have performed well where they have successfully combined the website and physical experience.
We have also seen a surge in demand for food and beverage outlets as lifestyles have changed.
10 Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report Overview Business model Business review Financial review Corporate Governance Accounts Other information and strategy responsibility The virtuous circle of improved customer experiencedriven by motivated customer service attracting leading retailers is a powerful force.
But one thing is for sure, as a major landlord in this fast Customer service has been a priority for many years.
changing arena, we have to keep raising our game and Theexperience of a visitor to a shopping centre of course doingsoentails some radical changes throughout the whole startslongbefore the visitor actually arrives at a shop and organisation.
It is this comprehensive approach on which the ourguidingprinciple has been that every shopper should feel management team and your Board have been focused.
betterabout life after a visit to one of our centres.
We intend tokeep improving through what we have termed our World As a reection of our determination to keep the Company at Class Service programme which will ripple right through the theforefront of the industry, in January this year we announced entire organisation, with the common brand an essential factor the creation of a nationwide consumer facing shopping centre in the delivery of an upgraded customer experience.
brand and the transformation of our digital proposition.
I note with pleasure that this statement is the first to be issued under our new corporate name of Intu Properties plc Intu, with Activities in the year individual centres to add intu as a prex to their name from May 2013 onwards.
The initiatives referred to above represent only one element ofthe important activities at the Company over the last Prior to this change of name, no obvious link has existed 12months.
Our shopping centres have increased in value between the parent company and the individual centres.
We have also Thecentres themselves had no obvious connection between made great strides with our many promising expansion and each other, which has resulted in considerable disparity in terms improvement projects, including clearing significant planning of how the centres present themselves, in signage, way-nding, hurdles.
Our plans for the future are outlined in the Operating marketing collateral, websites the list goes on.
We look forward eagerly to the growth opportunities asingle common thread across all our centres is essential for ahead of us.
the digital world and will also bring huge benets in terms ofcustomer recognition, more effective use of our annual marketing budget, national marketing opportunities and an Directors and staff opportunity to refresh the physical look and feel of our centres.
I would like to record our thanks to John Abel who is retiring A further key part of Januarys announcement was a major from the Board at this years AGM.
His contribution, backed investment in digital infrastructure to provide free WiFi to byvery long experience in the shopping centre industry, customers through a new bre-optic network.
of the changing technology, we are installing this infrastructure in a way which ensures direct ownership of the network and We welcome to the Board Adle Anderson who brings WiFi technology and is a future-proofed high quality solution.
accountancy expertise and the judgement derived from her breadth of experience in executive and non-executive roles.
Our research has indicated a massive opportunity for us to I must pay tribute to the immense amount of effort and deliver more to the consumer and we have also announced the enthusiasm which all the Groups executives and staff have launch in spring 2013 of a fashion focused and mobile enabled putin to running the business in the year under review.
transactional website, further enhancing the experience of our digitally connected customers.
Our recent announcement underlines the dynamic and engaging culture based on three core values creative, boldandgenuine now reinforced throughout the Group.
Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report 11 Overview continued Economic contribution and Concluding remarks  CR The Group has delivered a strong performance in 2012, withthequality of our assets and teams demonstrated by People are at the heart of our business and our CR projects theconsiderable out-performance of national benchmarks andcommunity partnerships focus on them.
Our approach against achallenging economic background.
targets support, primarily for disadvantaged young people, by complementary actions involving centre-based initiatives and While the major announcement in January of the new larger, corporate programmes, the latter increasingly arranged brandand digital initiatives represented the culmination of a to develop and grow over more than a single year reecting our significant amount of preparatory work, we are only at the very long-term vision.
Current partners include Education Business beginning of a new phase in the Companys life, with our market Partnerships, The Conservation Volunteers, Outward Bound leadership position in the sector providing ample opportunities andthe Tyneside Cinema.
for growth whether organically or by acquisition.
All our projects promote the direct involvement of Intu team The virtuous circle of improved customer experience driven members and this approach was celebrated by our achievement bymotivated customer service attracting leading retailers is of the BitC Community Mark in 2010.
Only 38 UK organisations apowerful force.
currently hold the 3 year award and we successfully passed the In this context enhancing footfall, improving dwell time, mid-term review during 2012. increasing average spend, improving the retail mix and new In March 2012 we successfully renewed our Carbon Trust sources of income are all realistic and promising goals.
Standard accreditation, a measure of our embedded approach to energy sustainability and carbon management.
Further evidence of our success, going well beyond easy rhetoric, camewhen we were ranked as a Green Star in the 2012 round Patrick Burgess of the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB.
Chairman 27 February 2013 Dividends The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 10.0 pence per share bringing the amount paid and payable in respect of 2012 to 15.0 pence, the same as 2011 and covered by the underlying earnings per share for 2012 of 16.1 pence.
Following the approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 25 April 2012 of the scrip dividend scheme and its successful implementation for the 2012 interim dividend, the Board may choose to offer a scrip dividend alternative for the 2012 final dividend.
Should the Board decide to do so shareholders will be advised nolater than 5 April 2013.
The Boards decision will be dependent on the stock market conditions, in particular the level of the share price relative to the net asset value per share, up to thatdate.
Details of the apportionment between the PID and non-PID elements per share will be confirmed at that time as, in the event of a scrip alternative being offered, the cash dividend maybe wholly PID and the scrip alternative may be partly PID and partly non-PID.
12 Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report
