Chairmans statement Highlights Thrane & Thrane acquisition doubles predominantly commercial SATCOM revenue Continued focus on bringing more balance to defence security and commercial businesses Recommended 10% increase in dividend for the year Full year dividend 8.80p 10% 2011: 8.00p Corporate development Bob has taken over from Andy Stevens who took Outlook Cobhams strategy is to leverage its innovative early retirement due to the recurrence of a long We have delivered a good set of results in market technology, know-how and understanding term, serious back injury.
Andy remained on the conditions that continue to be challenging.
of customer needs to build and maintain leading Board during the CEO transition, continuing as a positions in the second and third tiers of the Non-executive Director to 1 August 2012.
In all, The US defence security market remains highly global defence security and commercial he was a member of the Board for nine years uncertain and we expect a period of declining, aerospace, land and marine markets.
and I would like to thank him for his tremendous then flat, US Government budgets consistent contribution over this period.
In line with previous We have made good progress in the year, guidance, our plans are based on Group revenue including the acquisition of Thrane & Thrane, In April 2012, Warren Tucker, Cobhams Chief declining organically by low-to-mid single digits which reinforces our position in the predominantly Financial Officer, decided to stand down in 2013, as the decrease in defence security commercial SATCOM market.
In addition, but is staying on until 1 May 2013.
We are grateful revenue is only partially offset by growth in we divested the emergency locator beacon to Warren for his enormous contribution over commercial markets.
businesses, our most significant remaining 10 years and for providing continuity during non-core business.
Simon Nicholls, currently Group EiD has achieved 48m of savings to the end Finance Director at Senior plc, will join the Board of 2012.
The majority of the savings achieved The programme to re-engineer and streamline on 1 May 2013 and brings a successful track record from additional restructuring of the cost base operations, EiD, has received considerable focus of financial leadership in global aerospace and announced in November will be re-invested to and is bringing a number of operational, customer broader commercial markets.
On the basis and financial benefits.
of current market trends, we continue to anticipate Marcus Beresford has completed nine years a return to modest organic growth from 2014, Looking forward, we will continue to streamline as a Non-executive Director and is the rising above mid single digit growth thereafter.
our operations and we will re-invest the majority Senior Independent Director.
He will also of the savings made into the business to develop stand down from the Board at the conclusion The Group has a highly cash generative business further innovative technology solutions from a of the 2013 AGM.
model and a robust balance sheet.
These allow closer understanding of customer needs.
We will us to invest in carefully selected acquisitions to increase investment in learning and development Dividend bring more balance between our defence security to build the essential skills and capabilities from Following the rebalancing at the interim stage, the and commercial businesses, promoting long term which to drive future growth.
Board is recommending a final dividend for 2012 revenue growth through the cycles, and underpin of 6.40 pence with a total dividend per share for the Groups policy of paying a 10% progressive The Board 2012 of 8.80 pence.
This is an increase of 10% annual dividend increase.
Bob Murphy joined the Board as Chief Executive on the prior year, in line with the Groups long Officer CEO on 25 June 2012.
Bob brings a standing, progressive dividend policy.
successful track record spanning more than 25 years in the industry.
He has joined us from BAE Cobham has a very long record of delivering Systems where he was an Executive Committee dividend growth, increasing the dividend annually member with global responsibility for the BAE for more than 40 years.
The dividend payment John Devaney Systems Inc.
continues to be underpinned by Cobhams cash Chairman generation and dividend cover of 2.6 times.
6 March 2013 6 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
