Chairmans statement 2012 was a year in which we stumbled in Germany, invested 2012 highlights significantly in France and reaped the reward of three years of building and investing in the UK.
We were disappointed with our Revenue m Adjusted profit underestimations of the resource demands and associated costs before tax m of starting a significant number of contracts simultaneously in Germany.
Taken together with our out-performance in the UK, the 2.2% -4.0% impact upon our potential earningswas approximately 7.5 million.
Our potential earningsreduced by a further circa 2.5 million due to currencymovement.
There is however a silver lining to this cloud.
We acted vigorously to ensure that the established relationships with our customers and the long-term value of the contracts involved remained protected.
In addition, it prompted a comprehensive review of and alteration to, our bid and sales 09 10 11 12 09 10 11 12 processes in Germany and our overall operating model.
Adjusted diluted Total dividend per share p As a result, we have decided to accelerate our plans to earningsper share p structurethe Group on a Europe-wide basis.
Our UK and German propositions, bidding and contract management -3.5% 3.3% functions, are now becoming aligned and our support functions of HR, Finance and Commercial Operations are integrating across all countries.
We are able to move swiftly because of the successful ERP implementation in Germany and the UK.
At the same time, we shall deliver our ERP system in France during the first half of 2013, allowing us to expand and complete the new structure across the whole Group, during 2014.
09 10 11 12 09 10 11 12 We are confident that our actions will address our growing pains Adjusted profit before tax and EPS is stated prior to amortisation of of 2012.
Our focus remains on improving our Services margins acquired intangibles and exceptional items.
and revenues faster than our other business lines, and on managing our working capital and cash.
In this report you will see the details of our performance for theyear, with a splendid result in the UK and overall revenue growth of 6.5 per cent in constant currency, to just short of 3 billion.
Profit was broadly flat in constant currency and our cash balance, excluding customer specific financing, improved by circa 8 per cent.
The Companys cash generation over a number of years has resulted in a cash position that willenable us to, over and above the regular dividend, return up to 75 million to our shareholders in 2013.
Please read the  Report and judge foryourselves our determination to ensure that our Executive Directors are paid commensurate with our disappointing profit result.
As the custodian of governance within Computacenter, Ialso urge youto read the Corporate Governance statement, which summarises our work in this regard.
I thank our employees for their efforts and results, our customers for their faith in us and our partners for their continued support.
Above all, I thank you, our shareholders, for your endorsement and support of our actions and strategy.
Your Company enters 2013 a little humbler but in good heart.
