226323 RIT R&A pp01-pp09 06 03 2013 12:18 Page 2 Chairmans Statement level in 2010 when its current government was elected, pledged to impose austerity.
Japans recently elected prime minister is dedicating himself to a Keynesian experiment.
All such official actions carry vast eventual risk.
The snag being that nobody can tell you when that Lord Rothschild, OM GBE eventual moment will be or what political maelstrom might trigger it.
What we do recognise is that the existential risk ur new financial year starting on 1 January appears to have reduced.
This has allowed us to look O2013 has seen our net asset value per share beyond risk on risk off to more fundamentally NAV at 31 January increase by 6.2% to 1,267p.
For driven situations and identify investments which are the first time in your Companys history net assets attractively valued.
As a consequence, our quoted now exceed 2 billion while our most recent NAV on equity exposure including futures increased from a 22 February of 1,309p represents a new all time high.
cautious 51% in September to 61% by the year end and our overall investment exposure from 90% to These results have been achieved through the most 101%.
Defensive hedges cost us money last year, as perilous financial era of a lifetime.
Throughout this did our historically profitable gold positions.
To reflect period we have followed our objective of protecting our increasing confidence in markets we reduced our your capital.
The price has been, as I have referred to hedges in the latter part of 2012. in previous statements to you, modest underperformance as we refused to put all your Geographic diversity has always been a feature of capital at risk when the economies of many areas, your Company but our particular emphasis in the notably in Europe, have experienced moments of current year has been targeted at an improving US near collapse, and when political events in the Middle economy.
This was implemented in a number of East and beyond have been so threatening.
We bought individual stocks which are nine months to the Companys new year end the NAV particularly sensitive to the US cycle.
By the year end decreased by 2.4% on a total return basis, compared around 48% of our net assets were in North America to a 2.2% increase in the MSCI.
For the calendar year predominately in the US and our US Dollar exposure 2012 the NAV was 5.4% higher, in comparison with a was 62%.
We have given support to a new hedge 10.6% increase in the MSCI.
fund with a particular focus on the financial sector which will be run by Gunnar Overstrom and Sacrificing growth in value to insure against danger sponsored by Corsair Capital.
We have also become has been an uncomfortable process.
seed investors in Tekne, a high-tech fund set up by We have not abandoned the overall caution which the Beeneet Kothari which will give us increased world economy, in my view, still demands.
However exposure to the technology sector in the US.
our focus has shifted more towards growth.
This is our long-term goal and the source of our long-term track record.
Over the last 10 years your Companys NAV total return is 190% compared to the MSCI of 105%.
A shareholder who invested in RIT at inception will have seen their share price increase by 11.4% per annum and the NAV per share by 10.4% without taking into account dividends paid.
For the moment, as Mr John Authers wrote in the Financial Times recently, there is nowhere for asset or the first time in your Companys prices to go but upwards.
The central banks are Fhistory total net assets now exceed creating money on an epic scale - the US Federal 2 billion, which represents a new all time Reserve by $85 billion a month upon a total US high.
A shareholder who invested in RIT government debt that has already topped sixteen at inception will have seen their share trillion dollars.
The US yield curve is now steep.
The price increase by 11.4% per annum.
Eurozones central bank finally loosened its money tap during 2012.
UK government debt, as a further example, will have doubled by 2017 from its high 2 Report and Accounts December 2012 RIT Capital Partners plc | | Business Review | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Overview 226323 RIT R&A pp01-pp09 06 03 2013 12:18 Page 3 Chairmans Statement Our exposure to the Japanese stock market markets when they are rising but to outperform increased in the last quarter of 2012.
We felt that the markets when they are falling.
impact of reflationary policies against an undervalued Risk continues.
A global recovery largely built on stock market provided us with an exceptional printing money cannot be riskless.
Yet you can see investment opportunity.
Equally these policies were from this brief summary above that your Company negative for the currency and we took a net short Yen has rarely been more active in repositioning itself.
will continue to remain vigilant to risks and In respect of Sterling, while our exposure was higher opportunities, always keeping in mind that, at our during the year we reduced it to 16% by the year end core, we are an investor in equities.
and we have reduced our position further in recent And we shall continue what we started last year: to weeks.
bolster your realised return through these still On the portfolio itself we concluded that, over time, it dangerous times by paying out a significantly larger had become too diversified and therefore we sold dividend than was our wont in the days of apparently down small positions in stocks, increasing our focus easy economic growth.
During the coming year we on specific situations.
intend to pay dividends of 14p in April and 14p in October.
We are increasingly developing new investment ideas with the partner teams with whom we have forged Capital preservation remains critical to us.
We are relationships over the past year or so: Rockefeller & however confident, over longer than a single year, and Co, Corsair Capital and the Edmond fide Rothschild with a fresh sense of purpose and investment Group.
The Board of our operating company, JRCM, alliances, that our signally loyal investor base will be has been strengthened through the additions of rewarded by our other primary mission: continued Reuben Jeffery, the Chief Executive of Rockefeller growth.
Financial, Rick Sopher of the Edmond fide Rothschild Group and Lord Davies of Corsair Capital.
In addition, Ignacio Jayanti of Corsair Capital has also joined the Board of JRCM as Vice Chairman.
These changes are enabling us to increase co-operation with our partners Rothschild and we believe will benefit our management team.
6 March 2013 We expect each of these important relationships to be profitable in their own right.
In addition, however, we have through them leveraged our sourcing of ideas and potential co-investments.
The private investments part of our business - a quarter of our invested capital - is in a period of nd we shall continue what we started consolidation following the stellar realisations of early Alast year: to bolster your realised 2012.
This moment is being used by our direct return through these still dangerous times investment team to develop joint ideas and by paying out a significantly larger investments with our partners.
Direct private dividend than was our wont in the days of investments have been a very successful area for RIT over its history, however the returns can be lumpy apparently easy economic growth.
During and the investments typically have a longer cycle than the coming year we intend to pay other asset classes.
Against rapid market increases, dividends of 14p in April and 14p in these assets do not re-price at the same rate.
consequence your investment portfolio is likely to lag RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2012 3 226323 RIT R&A pp01-pp09 06 03 2013 12:18 Page 4 Business Review 31 December 2012
