OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS There have also been some challenges during the year.
In July, Neckermann, the Frankfurt-based mail order company, led CHAIRMANS for insolvency.
This has affected the valuation of the asset and will see the loss of about 12 million of income in 2013.
STATEMENT Additionally, our EPRA net asset value per share has reduced to 294 pence per share, compared with 340 pence a year ago.
Whilst our core warehousing, light industrial and data centre property valuations have remained very resilient, our non-core assets including the Neckermann site and our suburban ofces in the South East of the UK with shorter lease lengths have seen a significant reduction in their valuation.
These adverse property valuation movements resulted in our loan to value ratio increasing from 49 per cent to 51 per cent.
We remain committed to reducing our leverage over time but continue to believe this objective should be balanced against opportunities for profitable investment in the near to mid-term.
Overall, it has been a successful year for the Group and we have made good progress towards our goal of creating a leading income-focused REIT.
The Board is thankful to all employees for their hard work and diligence in delivering these results.
DIVIDEND The recommended final dividend of 9.9 pence per share 2011: 9.9 pence will be paid as a Property Income Distribution, giving a total dividend for the year of 14.8 pence 2011: 14.8 pence.
The final dividend will be paid on 26 April 2013 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 22 March 2013.
As previously stated, the Board expects to at least maintain the dividend throughout the reshaping process, and is committed to a progressive dividend policy OVERVIEW in the longer term.
The Board continues to offer a Dividend Reinvestment Plan for the 2012 final dividend.
2012 has been a year focused on delivering against our strategic objectives, BOARD CHANGES In September 2012 we announced the appointments of set out in November 2011, to reshape the Christopher Fisher and Margaret Ford as Non-Executive portfolio and drive operational excellence Directors, with effect from 1 October 2012 and 1 January 2013, respectively.
Both have a broad range of experience and across the business.
Against those are providing valuable input to the Board.
objectives, we have made good progress.
Andrew Palmer, Senior Independent Director, and Chris Peacock, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, will retire Firstly, we have achieved 700 million of non-core asset from the Board at our AGM in April 2013, both having served disposals since January 2012 including 152 million of nine years as Non-Executive Directors.
On behalf of the Board, disposals after the year end, which exceeded our own initial I thank them both for their wise counsel and contributions expectations and included the sale of three of the six large to the business over that time.
Margaret Ford will become non-strategic assets identied as part of our strategic review.
the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Secondly, in line with our strategy, we have reinvested some Remuneration Committee after the AGM.
of the disposal proceeds into the acquisition of two logistics portfolios and into a number of profitable development projects.
NIGEL RICH CBE Thirdly, we reduced net borrowings by 213 million to CHAIRMAN 2,090.3 million, before taking into account the additional sale proceeds received since the year end.
We have also been delivering on our commitment to build critical mass using third party capital, having partnered with Mooreld Group to acquire one of the two logistics portfolios referred to above.
Lastly, despite the challenging economic conditions, we have continued to deliver strong operational results during the year.
Our core portfolio is concentrated in the most resilient areas in the UK, France, Germany and Poland and this, combined with the limited supply of good-quality product in those markets, has supported good levels of occupancy, despite the wider unsettled macro-economic conditions.
As a result of this, and the expertise and commitment of our team, EPRA earnings per share has increased by 4.9 per cent to 19.3 pence.
