chairman s statement In December 2011 we added 60.0 million to our financial This time last year we looked ahead to a year of great opportunity for London.
Now, in this, my last statement as resources through a 15-year loan at a fixed rate of 4.43% in the Chairman, I am delighted to report that 2012 has been a truly Longmartin joint venture.
At the year end we had committed memorable year for our city.
Following the Diamond Jubilee undrawn facilities of 139.3 million.
With conservative gearing, celebrations, the Olympics and Paralympics put London and secure and rising income, we are well placed to fund the firmly in the worlds spotlight.
The successful staging of continuing expansion of our portfolio.
these major events has greatly enhanced Londons reputation The year has seen a number of important changes in the and should attract more visitors and businesses, particularly membership of the Board.
to the West End, in the years ahead.
In October 2011 Brian Bickell, previously our Finance Director, Our EPRA profit before tax for the year ended 30 September became Chief Executive.
He was succeeded as Finance Director 2012 amounted to 31.2 million, an increase of 2.0 million or by Christopher Ward, who joined the Board in January 2012.
Demand for all uses across our portfolio has remained John Emly, a non-executive director since 2000, retired in strong, resulting in continuing low levels of space available to February 2012.
In July 2012 we announced the appointment, let, and rising rental income and ERVs.
As we expected, the effective from 1 October 2012, of Dermot Mathias and Sally major events in London did result in some short-term Walden as non-executive directors.
Both have valuable disruption, particularly to West End visitor numbers, but there corporate and real estate experience which will usefully has been no discernible effect on our business.
augment the Boards skills, knowledge and outlook.
Your directors are pleased to recommend a final dividend of Early in 2012 I advised the Board that I would retire following 6.05p per share, bringing the total payable in respect of the the annual general meeting in February 2013.
After financial year to 12.0p per share.
This compares with 11.25p consultation with major shareholders, the Board resolved that last year and represents an increase of 6.7%.
The total Jonathan Lane, our Chief Executive until last year and currently distribution will amount to 30.3 million 2011: 28.4 million.
executive Deputy Chairman, will succeed me as non-executive Our portfolio, which has been valued at 1,828.2 million, Chairman.
Jonathans knowledge and contribution to the delivered a capital value return of 5.5%, through a combination progress of our business over 26 years means he is uniquely of rising current income, growth in ERVs and yield improvement well-qualified to lead the Board in the years ahead.
This is in contrast to our benchmark, the IPD I was appointed to the Board in 1997 and became Chairman in Monthly Index, which reported a fall in capital values of 3.1%.
2004, succeeding our founder Chairman, Peter Levy.
My time at EPRA diluted NAV per share stood at 4.98 at 30 September Shaftesbury has been great fun and I am glad to say that the 2012, an increase of 35p or 7.6% over the year.
The increase Company and its shareholders have prospered.
It has been a before distributions to shareholders amounted to 46.7p or privilege to work with talented and delightful people and I know 10.1%.
that the Company will continue to thrive in excellent hands.
Our shares delivered a Total Shareholder Return over the year It is clear that the UK and other western economies will ended 30 September 2012 of 16.0%.
This compares with a continue to face structural challenges for some considerable return of 19.5% reported by the FTSE 350 Super Sector Real time.
Uncertainty regarding the timing and pace of recovery is Estate Index.
We have out-performed our benchmark index for causing subdued business and consumer confidence.
However, a number of years so that, with a general narrowing of share with its unique status as a leading global city, London attracts price discounts in the sector during the period, a year of businesses, visitors and those who wish to live here from relative under-performance in Total Shareholder Return is across the world, underwriting the long-term prospects for unsurprising.
continuing prosperity in the West End.
I am confident that, with Property acquisitions during the year totalled 44.0 million.
Our our proven strategy and long experience of this exceptional acquisition strategy continues to be focused both location, our portfolio will continue to deliver attractive geographically and in the type of buildings which interest us.
long-term returns for our shareholders.
Inevitably, in our prosperous locations owners remain reluctant to sell and there is always competition from others seeking to John Manser invest.
Chairman 29 November 2012 page 06 OVERVIEW PERF PERFORMANCE ORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION performance chief executives report 08 business review 14 principal risks and uncertainties 18 our portfolio 20 finance report 34 portfolio analysis 38 basis of valuation 38 corporate responsibility 42 page 07
