Overall, 2012 was a good year for CSR.
for mor for more e on corporate gover on corporate governanc finance e We took a decisive strategic step with see page see page 5 53 3 the disposal of our handset connectivity and handset location operations to Samsung.
This drove considerable shareholder value and accelerated the transformation from our previous emphasis on handsets, to a focus on five end markets in our Core division Automotive Infotainment, Imaging, Voice & Music and the two nascent markets of Bluetooth Smart and Indoors Location.
We are well Chairmans statement positioned in our chosen end markets with our leading platforms and we believe they offer the opportunity for growth with improving margins.
We also delivered strong revenues, a marked increase in our pro tability and strong cash generation.
CSRs revenues in 2012 were a record $1.025 billion, $845 million in 2011, with approximately two thirds of these revenues coming from our Core business and a signi cant proportion of that from our higher margin platform business.
Our operating pro t for 2012 was $107.
9 million, compared with a loss of $48.4 million in 2011 and our underlying operating pro t increased by 50% from $49.2 million to $74.0 million.
The continued shift in our portfolio to higher margin platform business, contributed to improvement in our underlying gross margin from 49.8% in 2011 to 50.8% in 2012.
Our objective remains to grow and In November 2012, we completed the develop CSRs business by focusing on return of $285 million to shareholders re ecting net proceeds paid by a series of key platforms in the areas of Samsung, together with $40.5 million Auto Infotainment, Imaging, Voice & allocated to the buyback announced in February 2012 that had not been used.
Music, Bluetooth Smart and Indoors Despite this and the separate return of $9.4 million through a share buyback Location, which are in markets which which concluded in March 2012, we ended the year with cash, cash we believe will enable us to generate equivalents and treasury deposits of $333.3 million, a $55.5 million increase sustainable revenue growth with good on the year before.
improving margins over the medium Samsung and longer term.
The agreement with Samsung was the most signi cant event of 2012 for CSR.
Announced on 17 July 2012 and completed on 4 October 2012, the key elements were the transfer to Samsung Total dividend per ordinary share of CSRs handset connectivity and handset location development $0.
118 operations, certain rights over our technologies in handset connectivity 2011: $ 0.103 and handset location, together with 311 people, for a headline consideration of $310 million.
In addition, Samsung also invested $34.4 million in CSR for 9,925,000 shares, which currently represents a 5.98% share of CSR.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 CSR in review We recognised that it was increasingly CSRs move towards its medium-term our strategy and which are adjacent dif cult for CSR to protect its gross objective of underlying operating pro t to our current capabilities.
In his report, margin and market share position in margins of around 15%.
our Chief Executive Of cer Joep van the handset marketplace.
The Beurden gives examples of areas transaction with Samsung enabled Tender Offer where such investments have worked us to realise substantial value for When we announced the terms of the well for us in recent years.
shareholders from our past investment agreement with Samsung, we informed in our handset connectivity and handset shareholders of our intention to return We fully recognise the importance to location development operations, the net proceeds in the form of a tender our business of attracting and retaining particularly from the CSR9800 Wi-Fi offer.
On 30 November 2012, the the people across all disciplines that are Bluetooth combination chip.
Company successfully completed the such a key part of the future success of tender offer, returning $285 million CSR.
Through actions we have taken Strategic Focus through the repurchase of such as the recruitment of a team of Our objective remains to grow and approximately 49 million ordinary engineers based in Bristol, we have develop CSRs business by focusing on shares at 360 pence per share.
made initial progress in securing some a series of key platforms in the areas of of the resources and expertise which Auto Infotainment, Imaging, Voice & CSR now has around 166 million supports the evolution of our business Music, Bluetooth Smart and Indoors shares in issue, a reduction of in delivering our strategic objectives.
Location, which are in markets which approximately 23% in share count from There remains further work to do and we believe will enable us to generate immediately prior to the tender offer.
this will continue to be a matter of sustainable revenue growth with good priority going forward.
The general improving margins over the medium Trading performance priorities of the Board are covered in and longer term.
The year can generally be more detail on pages 15 to 17. characterised by Voice & Music and By divesting our handset connectivity Auto performing well, with some Dividend and handset location business to weakness from the Cameras business CSRs revenues and underlying Samsung, we have accelerated our line, due to the shift from operating pro ts for 2012 have been focus to develop platforms in these point-and-shoot products to ahead of internal plan and it has ended five areas.
We expect platforms to smartphones, which negatively the year with a strong balance sheet become an increasingly larger impacted Consumer revenues.
with $333.3 million in cash, cash proportion of revenues as the balance Legacy product revenues are equivalents and treasury deposits, of our revenue base shifts towards expected to halve in 2013 compared following the completion of the tender Core and away from declining Legacy to 2012 and be negligible in 2014, due offer in November 2012. which comprises discontinued to CSR discontinuing investment in product lines from Zoran, and our new products in this area and as new It is the Boards intention to follow a handset connectivity and handset products are introduced to the market progressive dividend policy that re ects location business revenues.
by other suppliers which will replace the underlying growth prospects of the our present portfolio.
Given our strong financial Current Operations position, our con dence in our future It is important to note that whilst CSR Looking forward to 2013, we continue prospects and our commitment to will discontinue developing products to see challenging macro-economic shareholder returns, the Board is targeted speci cally for the handset conditions which will inevitably shape recommending a final dividend of $0.
08, connectivity and handset location the end markets into which we provide per ordinary share.
$0.071 per ordinary market, we will continue to invest in our our products.
Together with the interim leading edge indoor location platform, dividend of $0.
038 per ordinary share which has applications both inside and Your Board is mindful of the challenges this amounts to $ 0.118 per ordinary outside of smartphones.
that lie ahead, as the Group continues share in respect of the 2012 financial in its strategy of developing innovative year.
This represents a full year dividend In addition, we did not transfer any products which enable us to provide increase of 15% over the prior year.
The handset differentiated solutions for our revenues are now added to our Legacy customers.
We continue to evaluate Subject to shareholder approval at the products division and we expect this the potential risks that could impact the Annual General Meeting to be held on divisions revenues to decline sharply Group and report on these matters 22 May 2013, the dividend will be paid over the next two years.
more extensively on pages 38 to 40 on 31 May 2013 to shareholders of and pages 45 to 50. record on 10 May 2013.
The dividend Overall, we expect that our Core will be paid in sterling.
During 2012, the division will grow its revenues in line with Product development Company returned $21.3 million in an externally forecast market growth of and acquisitions dividend payments.
CSR continues to invest in technology, At the same time, CSR will have a particularly where it supports its platform for mor for more on corporate gover e on corporate governance finance reduced cost base due to the transfer of strategy and we are in the process of see page 53 see page 53 assets and people to Samsung.
In developing multiple new products, 2013, underlying operating costs are which we believe will help improve gross for mor for more about our Samsung e about our Samsung expected to be between $390 million margins and support our market share.
transaction visit transaction visit and $410 million, compared with www www.
com investor-centrcentre e pr   $446 million in 2012.
The combination In addition to our investment in R&D, electr electro onics-co-ltd nics-co-ltd of a lower cost base, together with which was $290.4 million during 2012, higher gross margins, should accelerate we expect to acquire technology where opportunities arise that complement www.
com 06 07 CSR continues to generate cash from growing a business with world leading its operations and reported a balance positions in dynamic technology of cash, cash equivalents and treasury sectors and I am delighted to welcome deposits as at 28 December 2012 of Chris to CSR.
$333.3 million compared with $277.8 million as at 30 December 2011.
Delivering our solutions The Board is committed to maximizing During 2012, we achieved another shareholder value and regularly reviews milestone, when CSR shipped its the ef ciency of its balance sheet and 3 billionth chip since we were the expected ongoing cash requirements established in 1999.
Shipping so large of the business.
In light of this, the a number of chips to our customers is a Board has concluded a share buyback testament not just to our own people, of $50 million is appropriate, which it but also to all those who are and have intends to commence as soon as been associated with our Company.
We would not have been able to Changes to the Board achieve this success without the On 30 June 2012, Kanwar Chadha support of our supply chain partners.
stepped down as Executive Director I particularly want to express our thanks and Chief Marketing Of cer, in order to to TSMC who have worked with CSR enable him to explore new since manufacturing our first products opportunities in the emerging mobile through to the present day, and to ASE broadband market.
On behalf of the who again have provided CSR with Board, I would like to thank Kanwar for testing, packaging and logistics from his contribution, rstly to SiRF as a our first chips through to our 3 billionth.
co-founder and more recently to CSR.
Since joining our Board on our Such partnerships that deliver acquisition of SiRF in 2009, Kanwar day-in-day-out to meet our customers has contributed greatly to our strengths needs are a crucial part of our success, in location technology and the as is their continued engagement in signi cant broadening of CSRs supporting our drive for developing markets and capabilities.
We wish new technologies, for example in the Kanwar every success with his new transition to smaller chip sizes, that are ventures.
needed to maintain our competitive edge in this dynamic business.
On 20 February 2013 we announced that Sergio Giacoletto Roggio, a Our people non-executive director will be standing As always, CSRs success is down from the Board following our dependent on all the people who work Annual General Meeting in May.
2012 has been a very active year has been on the Board since January for CSR with a great deal of change.
2007 and since September 2007 has The Board and I would like thank all the also been chair of our Remuneration people from CSR who have shown Committee.
The period since he joined immense professionalism and has seen signi cant change for CSR, commitment over the period.
We also and Sergios experience and abilities recognise and thank the people who have provided insight and guidance have transferred to Samsung for their which has been of enormous value to contribution to CSR over the years.
We our Board and the Committees on wish them well in their new roles.
In his role as Chair of the Remuneration Committee, Looking ahead he has lead the restructuring of policy The year 2012 has been one of positive needed to re ect the changes in our transformation.
The combination of our business and strategy with diligence people, the depth of our portfolio and and balance.
I would like to thank him the ongoing execution of our platform on both a personal level and on behalf strategy, gives us growing con dence of the Board for his support, for the future.
enthusiasm and commitment and wish him well for the future.
Chris Stone was appointed to the Board as a nonexecutive director effective on 16 July 2012.
Chris served as Chief Executive Of cer of Northgate Ron Mackintosh, Information Solutions plc now Chairman Northgate Information Solutions 20 February 2013 Holdings Limited, from October 1999 until December 2011.
He has extensive experience as a Chief Executive in CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
