Afren plc 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Chairmans statement Egbert Imomoh, Chairman Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 09 US$1,499 123% 265% Increase in net working interest production 2P reserves replacement ratio year-on-year million Record turnover in 2012 Afren made excellent progress in 2012 across all fronts.
We Record financial results The Group benefited from increased delivered record production and financial results, and achieved production and stability in the oil price significant exploration success in Nigeria and the Kurdistan region environment in 2012, achieving record profits of Iraq.
With a high-quality portfolio located in some of the of c. US$200 million on turnover of c. US$1,500 million.
During the year we successfully worlds most prolic and emerging oil and gas basins, we have completed a second Bond issue, proceeds arich opportunity set to enable us to grow our reserves base of which were US$300 million before issue costs.
The proceeds have been used to repay through a multi-well E&A drilling campaign in both established the Groups US$200 million VTB BNPP and new basins, funded by our growing production base.
With facility which was issued in connection with the acquisition of the Groups interests in the robust cash ows, a strong balance sheet and operational control Kurdistan region of Iraq and for other corporate on all key assets, we are well positioned toleverage our track purposes.
We continue to adopt a prudent record to deliver further growth in 2013 andbeyond.
approach to financial management and have in place a exible capital structure that is supported by a cash-generative production base.
Our vision and strategic priorities We have made a successful start to our 2013drilling campaign with the Okwok-10 Afrens vision is to be the leading Low-cost reserves growth and Okwok-11 appraisal wells and in independent E&P company in each of the aggregate have encountered 256 ft of net In 2012, we achieved a 2P reserves areas in which we operate.
We also aim to oil pay in the D series reservoirs.
We will replacement ratio of 265%.
This growth in be recognised as the partner of choice by be looking to replicate this success offshore reserves has been achieved through our allof our stakeholders, and have created a Nigeria with further wells planned across the exploration success in Nigeria.
Following our balanced portfolio of high-quality upstream Ebok Okwok OML 115 area and OPL 310 successful E&A campaign at Okwok, offshore assets across the E&P value chain.
over the remainder of the year.
In East Africa, Nigeria, and at the Simrit discovery located In order to achieve our vision, we have having spent the last two years acquiring onthe Ain Sifni PSC, Kurdistan region of Iraq, clearstrategic priorities that are focused on substantial amounts of new seismic data, weexpect further growth in our reserves delivering growth and creating shareholder weare now moving ahead into an active and resources base in 2013. value in a responsible and efficient way.
phase of exploration drilling that will see us Following the completion of an independent participate in multiple high-impact wells in assessment ofthe reserves and contingent High-impact exploration and the key rift and coastal basin plays, each of resource potential of the Ogini and Isoko appraisal drilling campaign which has the potential to materially increase elds for First Hydrocarbon Nigeria FHN, our discovered resource base.
deliveringsuccess anAfren associate, in March 2013, 2P & 2C 2012 was a year in which the Group enjoyed oil reserves and resources at the elds are Record production levels in 2012 excellent exploration success.
In Nigeria, the estimated to be 135 mmbbls and 68mmbbls In 2012, net working interest production at proximity to existing infrastructure of the respectively, representing a year-on-year the Groups assets averaged c. 43,000 boepd Okoro Field Extension and Ebok North Fault increase in net 2P reserves carried by FHN representing a year-on-year increase of Block discoveries, means that we have been of 231% and net 2P & 2C reserves and 123%.
Our strong production performance able to establish early production at both resources carried by FHN of 10%.
was primarily driven by increased output at assets, and are very well positioned to the Ebok eld and early production start-up leverage our detailed understanding of the Key Performance Indicators from the Okoro Field Extension, both subsurface and our development track We measure the performance of the business offshore Nigeria, within tenmonths of record offshore south-east Nigeria as we with five KPIs that are designed to measure announcing the discovery.
Inthe Kurdistan progress full eld development solutions.
progress against our strategic objectives.
region of Iraq we initiated production In the Kurdistan region of Iraq we have In2012 we achieved strong year-on-year operations at the Barda Rash eld and made a truly world-class discovery with the performance.
More information on our KPIs maintained stable output at the Groups Simrit-2 exploration well on the Ain Sifni PSC, and 2012 performance is included on pages assets in Cte dIvoire.
and to date have tested aggregate light oil at 22 to 23. a rate of 18,952 bopd.
The latest test results We will continue to grow production by continue to suggest excellent production developing the existing production and appraisal The Afren team capability and the transformational potential opportunities within our portfolio, whilst also We have continued to witness a tightening of this discovery to Afren.
Drilling on the pursuing high-impact exploration targets recruitment market with demand and Simrit-3 well, exploring the eastern extent across our three business units, Nigeria and competition for skilled and experienced people ofthe large scale is continuing with other West Africa, Afren East Africa Exploration increasing further during the past year.
Afrens hydrocarbon intervals logged in the as well as the Kurdistan region of Iraq.
growth and success revolves first and foremost Cretaceous, Jurassic and Triassic reservoirs.
Afren plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review We remain committed todeveloping local content in each of our operating areas and employ 190 people inAfrica, of whom over 96% are local nationals.
Our governance principles around the quality and commitment of our The Total Recordable Incident Rate TRIR people and the values to which we all however did improve, decreasing to 1.47 from Independence subscribe, namely professionalism, dedication, 1.96 in2011.
The independence of each of the creativity and respect.
In order to ensure that Non-Executive Directors is considered An achievement of note during the year we can attract and retain the best people, upon appointment, annually and at any wasthe award of Sword of Honour from wehave in place a remuneration policy that other time a Directors circumstances theBritish Safety Council BSC for our isnecessarily competitive within the industry, change in a way that warrants operations in Cte dIvoire.
This represents andrewards exceptional performance with a reconsideration.
Following a review of the culmination of several years work to balance between short and long-term rewards Board composition, the Company has establish a robust safety management system and acomprehensive benets scheme.
reassessed the independence of all its in our Cte dIvoire operations.
It regards all as We continued to grow our team in 2012 continuing with the BSC Five Star Audit independent within the meaning of with 62 new arrivals joining us during the system for operations in both Cte dIvoire the term as dened in the UK Corporate year.
Our total workforce grew to 460, up and Nigeria and will commence auditing Governance Code.
We remain committed in Kurdistan during the course of 2013. todeveloping local content in each of our Knowledge In 2012 we continued to develop and operating areas and employ 190 people Our Non-Executive Directors contribute implement social and economic capacity in Africa, of whom over 96% are local international operational know-how and building programmes in our areas of activity.
We will continue to evolve our were chosen for their wide range of skills More information on our CR initiatives and employment practices and policies to ensure and experience.
They understand the performance in 2012 is included on pages we are able to attract and retain the sectors in which we operate and have 56 to 65. best talent, and are wholly committed to valuable knowledge of international developing all our staff to their full potential.
In addition, they bring Managing risks to our business in-depth understanding of the health, The monitoring and management of risks Corporate responsibility safety, environmental, political and tothe business are integral to Afrens community challenges we face.
At Afren, we strive to be a responsible organisational framework.
We are constantly andtransparent business.
Our CR policies Responsibility identifying and analysing potential risks that encompass our relationship with all The Board has a formal schedule of could adversely affect our ability to deliver stakeholders including shareholders, matters specically reserved to it for against our objectives.
employees, contractors, local communities decisions.
Responsibility for developing and host governments, as well as with the We have a robust, solutions-based reporting and implementing the Groups strategic environments in which we work.
To further system in place that enables the direct and and financial objectives is delegated to demonstrate our commitment and to set timely reporting of risks to the Board of thesenior management of the Group.
visible benchmarks for our stakeholders, Directors.
So that we can identify all risks Theroles of Chairman and Chief Executive weintend to expand our CR reporting tothe delivery of our strategy early and areseparate and the responsibilities of during 2013 using the Guidelines on putmitigation measures in place, we are Chairman and Chief Executive are Sustainability Reporting developed by continuing to enhance our risk management independently dened.
theInternational Petroleum Industry process and to embed it in the organisation.
Environmental Conservation Association We are therefore cascading the management IPIECA as the framework.
of risks to all organisational levels to reafrm that everyone is responsible for managing Our safety performance in 2012 proved to be those risks that may impact their day-to-day below expectations as we recorded our first work.
More information on our risk fatality in Block 1, onshore Kenya, following management and performance in 2012 For more information on aroad trafc accident involving one of our P68 ourcorporate governance isincluded on pages 26 to 31. seismic contractors.
We deeply regret the loss of this life and are very saddened by Governance and the Board the effect this tragedy has had on the family Your Board is collectively responsible for involved.
Following a full and thorough the long-term success of Afren and for its investigation into the incident, we have overall strategic direction, its values and further strengthened measures in place with its governance.
It provides the leadership our contractors to ensure that the required necessary for the Company to meet its standards of driver training and vehicle business objectives within the framework of safety are met across all of our operations.
its internal controls, while also discharging the During 2012 our Lost Time Injury Frequency Companys obligations to its shareholders.
LTIF increased to 0.53 from 0.22in 2011. Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11 We are committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and consider it critical for upholding our business integrity wherever we work around the world.
The Board has been fully briefed on the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
Key areas include annual re-election of all Directors, Board diversity, external evaluation, greater emphasis on risk, and a clear explanation of business model and strategy.
We welcome these changes and are As Chairman, I recognise that it is my role committed to complying with them.
toprovide the leadership to the Board to enable it to discharge its role effectively.
TheBoard takes seriously its responsibility for Mr Egbert Imomoh Dr Osman Shahenshah Mr Shahid Ullah Chairman Chief Executive Chief Operating officer promoting the Groups values.
We have a zero tolerance approach to corrupt practices, and we continue to keep our anti-corruption policies and practices under review to ensure that they fully reect this approach.
It is our commitment as a Board to maintain aculture which expresses our core principles Mr Darra Comyn Mr Peter Bingham Mr John St. John ofrespect, honesty and transparency.
Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Thisisbased on the recognition that good governance is fundamental to achieving our goal to create and protect value on behalf of the Companys shareholders.
We strive to demonstrate ethical leadership and promote the collective vision of the Groups purpose, values, culture and behaviours.
Good corporate governance is vital to achieving our objectives.
Mr Ennio Sganzerla Mr Toby Hayward Mr Patrick Obath Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director We have formalised our focus on maintaining high ethical standards and strong personal integrity in our Group Code of Business Conduct, which is implemented across the business and clearly sets out expectations ofhow our employees and those who work foror on behalf of Afren, should behave.
TheBoard sets the tone from the top andworks with management toembed thevalues throughout the organisation.
Board breakdown Board experience Outlook 1 2 2012 saw record production and financial 6 performance combined with significant 4 3 exploration success in Nigeria and the Kurdistan region of Iraq.
In 2013 we expect 5 4 4 tofurther grow our reserves base through a multi-well exploration and appraisal drilling campaign in both established and new basins, Non-Executive Directors 5 Oil and gas industry 6 funded by our growing production base.
Executive Directors 3 Engineering 4 Weare nancially well positioned with robust Chairman 1 Finance 4 cash ows, a strong balance sheet and the Capital markets 4 necessary financial capacity and exibility Accountancy 2 tooptimally explore and develop our high-quality portfolio of growth opportunities well into the future.
There is much to look Explore our governance in more detail forward to in 2013 and beyond.
Nomination Audit and Remuneration Egbert Imomoh P80 Committee P81 RiskCommittee P85 Committee Chairman
