Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 13 Chairmans statement WE LEAD We value success and strive to be the best In a challenging trading environment the Board is pleased that Dairy Crests broadly based business has delivered stable preexceptional profits.
The quality of Dairy Crests earnings has also improved as a higher proportion of total sales and profits has been generated by the Groups branded Foods businesses.
Strategy shareholders: and to many other individuals levels in the business, we have committed The Board remains determined to take and groups.
Balancing the interests of these to a stretching target that 90% of employees proactive action to position Dairy Crest for is never easy, but remains a key priority for return to work for us after maternity leave.
the future, in line with our well established the Board.
strategy of growing brands, driving We have recently received the results Board changes efficiencies, improving the quality of earnings of our latest employee survey and are The Board is responsible for the long-term and making acquisitions and disposals encouraged by the progress we have made, success of the Group.
To achieve this it which generate value for shareholders.
although there is always more to do.
We requires the best possible mix of skills and The strategic review of the Groups have had to take some difficult decisions experience.
French spreads business and the proposed on staffing levels this year, and since the During the year Sue Farr was appointed restructuring of the Dairies business are in year end we have announced a proposal as a Non-executive Director and since the line with this strategy and are right for the to consult on the closure of two dairies.
year end Howard Mann, our longest-serving long-term future of the Group.
We will do all we can to help the almost Non-executive Director, has stepped down, The review of our French branded 500 employees who are affected by these having served nine years.
I would like to take spreads business is evaluating all options proposals.
this opportunity to thank Howard for his including a potential divestment of St Our relationship with the dairy farmers important contribution and to welcome Sue Hubert.
A disposal would reduce Dairy who supply their milk to us is very important.
Crests debt and provide us with a number Without them we would not have a business.
of alternatives including releasing some During the year we have paid record prices Increased dividend recommended proceeds to shareholders, investing in to our dairy farmers and despite a recent The Board is recommending a final dividend our core business and making strategic reduction they remain at historically high of 14.7 pence per share, making a full year acquisitions of branded dairy and chilled levels as they have to be to reflect high dividend of 20.4 pence, an increase of foods businesses in the UK.
This has encouraged many 4% over the previous year.
This dividend of the farmers who supply us to invest in is covered 2.4 times by adjusted basic Vision and Values their businesses to provide a growing milk earnings per share in line with our policy for The Groups long-standing Vision and supply and contribute to a more stable UK dividend cover of 2.0 to 2.5 times.
Values continue to underpin how the dairy sector.
We remain committed to paying business is run.
The Board has had to make fair, market-related milk prices.
Summary some difficult decisions in response to the On behalf of the Board I would like to We have made progress this year by sticking challenging environment the business faces, thank all of the people who work for Dairy to our strategy and continuing to invest in and our Vision and Values have provided a Crest directly or indirectly for their important our leading brands and our factories.
Our reliable framework within which these can contribution over the past year.
willingness to reshape our business to cope be made and implemented.
with new challenges will result in long-term Consumers come first for Dairy Crest, Corporate responsibility value creation for everyone with an interest and understanding our consumers has Dairy Crest is a responsible business and in Dairy Crest.
ensured that we have continued to drive we aim to ensure that we align commercial added value sales.
We know that bringing and corporate responsibility strategies for exciting new products to market is important the benefit of all our stakeholders.
This year to both retailers and consumers and we are we are pleased to have been awarded a pleased that the investment we have made gold Corporate Responsibility Index rating in new product development and marketing by Business in the Community and to have in recent years is starting to deliver been the leading new entrant into their accelerated results.
We take a practical approach We also have responsibilities towards to Corporate responsibility.
For example, Anthony Fry Chairman our employees and franchisees: to the dairy as part of our plan to create a more diverse 23 May 2012 farmers who commit to our business by workforce, rather than setting quotas for the selling us all the milk from their farms: to our number of women we employ at different Overview
