SECTION 1 OVERVIEW Chairmans statement David Newlands Chairman Dear fellow shareholders The Darty brand in France is an iconic brand built on the strength of its service to customers and we continue to roll-out the strength of this Welcome to the Annual report for the year ended 30 April 2012. concept across all our other markets and local brands.
Following the disposal of Comet, the Board has decided to rename the Group as 2012 was a difficult year for the Group as market conditions were Darty to reect in our name our iconic brand.
In particular, in Darty France, a very weak vision market was further compounded by the adverse impact of the World Cup and Whilst these results were disappointing, the Board is absolutely digital switchover in the prior year.
Also, the retail losses in the committed to building value for shareholders from where we are today.
Developing businesses increased rather than reduced as a result of the Further measures will be taken as necessary to enforce the position.
tough market conditions, competitor stock clearances and promotions.
We start from a position of some strength.
However, some significant steps were taken to restructure the Group We have a strong financial position with a substantial unleveraged which will have a positive impact on next years results and our financial property portfolio and, with the sale of Darty Telecom, core net debt of position.
The disposal of Comet, excluding the Comet pension scheme, less than 100 million.
We have a strong and successful cross-channel eliminates the sizeable trading losses, operating cash outow and very strategy with fast growing profitable web sales on which we can build.
Also, Darty France entered into a new commercial agreement for its telecommunications business.
As ever I would like to thank all our staff across the Group.
It has The new revenue streams, taken together with associated costs and undoubtedly been a challenging year and their continued dedication reduced capital investment are expected to generate a retail profit and is a sign of their professionalism and commitment to the Group.
cash ow in excess of the current Darty Telecom performance.
Also, we expect to receive 40 million when the transaction completes, which is Finally, I announced my retirement as Chairman at the forthcoming expected in the first half of the financial year.
I have been privileged to chair the Company for nine years since its demerger from Kingsher.
I have thoroughly enjoyed it but it is time There has been a strong focus on achieving operational efficiencies for me to go and I am delighted to hand over to Alan Parker.
across the Group, particularly in Darty France, and specic restructuring actions have been taken at Darty Italy and Darty Spain.
I expect these actions to continue in 2012 and 2013.
Nevertheless it is clear that market conditions are more challenging across Europe and the macroeconomic outlook remains uncertain.
David Newlands Chairman In these circumstances the Board has decided to rebase the dividend.
The Board recommends a final dividend of 1.25 cents per share 2011: 4.75 cents giving a full year dividend of 3.50 cents 2011: 7.00 cents.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2011 12 13
