com 08 09 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2012 Stock Code: DPH Directors Report: Our Performance Chairmans Statement Dividend People In line with our progressive dividend policy and, after taking The senior management team has been strengthened in the We remain confident that our strategy will continue to into account the recent Rights Issue, the Directors are year by the acquisition of Eurovet.
Furthermore, there have deliver future solid growth and enhanced Shareholder recommending an increase in the final dividend to 8.50 pence been a number of senior management appointments which per share 2011: 7.72 pence per share adjusted for the bonus are outlined in the Chief Executives Review.
Bryan Morton, value element of the Rights Issue.
This, together with the interim one of our Non-Executive Directors, has decided to step down dividend of 3.77 pence per share 2011: 3.40 pence per share, from his role: we are currently in the process of recruiting his Michael Redmond makes a total dividend for the year of 12.27 pence per share successor.
On behalf of the Board and Shareholders I would like Non-Executive Chairman 2011: 11.12 pence per share, a 10.3% increase.
All figures to welcome all the Eurovet employees to the Group and wish have been adjusted for the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
our new employees every success in their future roles.
I would also like to thank all employees for their continued hard work The total dividend is covered 2.4 times by underlying profit after and dedication throughout the year.
Introduction The underlying net finance expense was 3.6 million compared taxation 2011: 2.8 times.
The current year figure includes a The year has proved very successful with strong underlying Prospects The final dividend, which is subject to Shareholder approval at foreign exchange loss of 0.9 million 2011: gain of 1.0 million.
growth delivered and a significant strategic acquisition The integration of Eurovet is progressing to plan and is the Annual General Meeting to be held on Friday 19 October Excluding this, the charge was broadly consistent with last year.
The underlying growth has been generated from a delivering the expected synergies: the enhanced product range 2012, will be paid on 23 November 2012 to Shareholders on solid performance by our licensed veterinary pharmaceuticals Underlying profit before taxation increased by 9.6% from is robust: our pipeline is at an advanced stage to deliver future the Register at 9 November 2012.
The date shares become exacross all our major brands.
Good revenue growth was 30.1 million to 33.0 million.
At constant currency and significant products and the Group has identified other product, dividend is 7 November 2012. delivered in both our Services segment and from our third party excluding foreign currency gains and losses, underlying profit geographical and service opportunities.
Current trading is in manufacturing.
Solid progress has also been made on our before taxation was 34.1 million, an increase of 17.3%.
line with the Boards expectations.
We are conscious of the product pipeline.
Furthermore, our UK based manufacturer, ongoing global economic uncertainties, but remain confident Underlying earnings per share after taking into account the Dales Pharmaceuticals Dales, has achieved a significant that our strategy will continue to deliver future solid growth and bonus element of the Rights Issue increased from 31.53 pence milestone in gaining US Food and Drug Administration FDA enhanced Shareholder value.
approval to manufacture Vetoryl for the US market.
The strategic acquisition of Eurovet Animal Health B. V. Eurovet Reported operating profit was 20.9 million 2011: 21.7 million increases the strength and depth of the countries in which we whilst profit before taxation was 16.8 million 2011: 18.5 trade: increases our manufacturing competencies: provides million.
Reported earnings per share was 15.65 pence complementary companion animal products and introduces 2011: 19.59 pence.
Dechra into the farm animal products sector.
Eurovet will deliver Net borrowings at 30 June 2012 stood at 86.7 million which significant synergies throughout the integration process and equates to 1.8 times pro-forma EBITDA of the enlarged Group.
will be earnings enhancing in the first full year of ownership, This represents a significant reduction from the pro-forma net Michael Redmond furthermore it will be materially earnings enhancing in the Non-Executive Chairman borrowings of 105.2 million shown in the Eurovet Prospectus.
The acquisition was funded 4 September 2012 by way of a fully subscribed Rights Issue and a new debt facility, In order to partially fund the Eurovet acquisition, the Group details of which are provided within the Financial Review.
entered into a new 120 million debt facility, provided by a syndicate of four banks.
The facility matures in October 2016 Financial Highlights and further details are shown on page 37.
Group revenue increased by 9.5% from 389.2 million to 426.0 million.
7.9% of this growth was organic whilst 1.8% of the growth was contributed by Eurovet.
Currency movements had a negative impact of 0.2%.
Underlying operating profit increased by 15.0% from 31.8 million to 36.6 million with Eurovet contributing 0.9 million to this figure.
Underlying operating margin rose from 8.2% to 8.6%.
This increase was due to strong pharmaceutical sales both in Europe and the USA which more than offset the effect of a reduction in margin at our wholesaler, NVS.
21587-04 10 08 2012 Proof 3 21587-04 10 08 2012 Proof 3 Shareholder Directors Report Directors Report Information Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC www.
com 10 11 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2012 Stock Code: DPH Directors Report: Our Performance Chief Executives Review Manufacturing HY-50 is used for intra-articular IA or intravenous IV treatment of lameness in horses caused by joint dysfunction.
The key strategic objective of manufacturing is to effectively The Group continues to progress its strategic objective It is unique in Europe as being the only single injection to and economically produce our own veterinary pharmaceutical deliver 50mg of Sodium Hyaluronate and having both IA and IV product range.
However, we have been successful in of building a high margin, cash generative veterinary indications.
This product acquisition strengthens our specialist developing a contract manufacturing business by strategic products business equine portfolio and will be earnings enhancing in the first full implementation of: year of ownership.
Ian Page therapeutic sector specialisation: Chief Executive It is currently approved and marketed by various companies in provision of a full service, from formulation and development the UK, Belgium, the Netherlands, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, through to manufacturing and packaging: and Norway, Italy, Germany and Spain.
Furthermore, registrations the ability to offer our customers a wide range of scale, are being considered for France and Ireland.
Dechra already dosage forms and packaging formats.
Introduction Our Strategy for Delivering and Maintaining Value markets the product in the UK as the marketing rights were acquired as part of the Genitrix acquisition.
Marketing rights for The Group has delivered strong growth throughout the financial Historically the majority of the Groups turnover and profitability Acquisitions all other territories return to Dechra by July 2013. year and continues to progress its strategic objective of building were derived from our Services segment.
However, due to HY-50 a high margin, cash generative veterinary products business.
our clear strategic objective to develop a high growth, cash Eurovet Animal Health B. V. The worldwide rights excluding Canada to HY-50 were Both revenue and profit growth have been driven by the generative veterinary products business, Group profits are now acquired in January 2012 from Bexinc Limited for a cash On 23 May 2012, Eurovet was acquired from A. U. V. Holdings performance of our Pharmaceutical segments: predominantly predominantly derived from our Pharmaceutical segments.
consideration of 8.0 million Canadian Dollars approximately B. V. for 135 million in cash, on a debt free cash free basis.
The from the solid organic growth of our licensed pharmaceuticals.
Products 5.1 million, funded from the Groups existing cash resources.
acquisition was funded by a 60 million Rights Issue and a new Specific branded specialist pet diets achieved modest growth 120 million debt facility, details of which are provided in the In the Groups Pharmaceutical segments growth will be at constant currency.
Third party manufacturing revenues and financial section of this report.
Eurovet is a profitable European delivered by: profitability increased in the year: Dales, our main manufacturing business, very similar in structure to DVP EU.
It has targeted site, achieved its first FDA approval to manufacture product for maintaining and, where possible, increasing market share of niche differentiated products in both companion animals the US market.
Good revenue growth was seen in our Services existing products: and farm animals and has highly complementary products, segment although gross margin remained under pressure development of innovative, high margin, intellectually geographies, manufacturing competencies and markets to due to product mix and increased discounting in a highly protected, international novel pharmaceutical products: Dechra.
However, as previously reported, there was approval of pharmaceutical differentiated and standard an improvement in margin in the second half of the financial year generic products: compared to that achieved in the first half.
There have been two the continued development of Specific pet diets: acquisitions during the year for, in aggregate 117.3 million : an equine product, HY-50 : and a Dutch based business, Eurovet.
in-licensing of high end products which can be marketed Both are detailed later in this report.
These acquisitions will be through existing sales and customer channels: earnings enhancing in the first full year of ownership, Eurovet is increased geographical coverage through the creation of our expected to be materially enhancing in the financial year ending own sales and marketing businesses: 30 June 2014. improving and developing sales growth via our export partners in non-subsidiary territories: and the selective acquisition of assets which either bring new products to the Group, or accelerate global expansion.
Services With respect to the Services segment, specifically NVS, the strategic objective remains: to continue improving logistics excellence: to reduce operating costs as a percentage of sales: to, at a minimum, maintain operating margins: and to deliver new innovative customer services.
21587-04 10 08 2012 Proof 3 21587-04 10 08 2012 Proof 3 Shareholder Directors Report Directors Report Information Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business
