Business Review Directors Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Chairmans statement In 2012, Devro delivered a further year of growth in line with our strategy and, despite some challenges, we increased revenue and operating profit.
At the same time we continued to invest significant capital in our production facilities to increase capacity and upgrade our technology, funded through our cash resources.
The prospects for our markets are good.
Our Select range of products provides us with growth opportunities in developed markets whilst economic trends and growing urbanisation continue to drive sales in emerging markets.
Steve Hannam Chairman Dividend The majority of our sales 87%, and our 2013 will be another busy year as we take The Board is proposing a final dividend of focus, is on edible collagen products.
action to mitigate rising input costs, 5.85 pence per share 2011: 5.5 pence Sales of non-edible collagen decreased continue our capital programme, and step bringing the total for the year to 8.5 pence in the year.
Sales of collagen gel into up our investment in people and infrastructure.
This will ensure that we are per share 2011: 8.0 pence.
The dividend non-competing markets in the USA well positioned to take advantage of the will be paid on 3 May 2013 to those on the showed some growth year on year with market to create long term profitable growth register on 2 April 2013.
The increase in the the development of new applications.
dividend reflects the Boards confidence in the group and its financial strength.
Emerging markets With the continued positive outlook in our In emerging markets, sales of edible markets and anticipated growth from our The Board retains its policy of reviewing the collagen casings grew by 7.8% during the investments the Board is recommending a amount distributed annually with the intent year where demand is being driven by final dividend of 5.85 pence per share, of moving dividends in line with underlying economic expansion and the resulting bringing the full year dividend to 8.5 pence earnings, whilst taking into account the increase in meat consumption, particularly per share, a 6.3% increase.
future prospects and cash requirements in the form of processed product.
also some conversion from gut casings to Financial highlights collagen in these markets.
Overall demand was strong during 2012 in Business both developed and emerging markets, Sales Latin America showed revenue growth of with limitations in capacity and adverse Developed markets 30% in the year for edible collagen casings, exchange movements the key constraints In developed markets sales of edible and a renewed sales approach continues to more rapid growth.
Revenue grew by collagen casings increased by 8.0% during to bring us further opportunities.
5.9% to 241.1 million, or 8.1% on a the year with some variability in demand constant currency basis.
The USA and Eastern Europe and Russia also grew Western Europe showed increases, whilst strongly with edible collagen casing volume Operating profit grew by 1.3% to 43.2 Australasia was flat and the UK decreased.
growth of 6% helped by the additional million, but was held back by increases in capacity from Bellshill brought online during input costs which will be recovered by Our main action in these markets has been the year.
Operating to broaden our offering with our Select profit was also adversely impacted by range of products.
These products, We continue to review our options with exchange movements and on a constant launched two years ago, have been respect to China.
It remains a large and currency basis grew by 5.2%.
developed to replace sheep gut in premium growing, but low priced market, where we sausages.
Initial demand came from are currently developing strategic sales and Basic earnings per share excluding pension Northern Europe and Japan and this has customer relationships.
interest was 20.7p, up by 2.2% compared continued to develop with Japan, in to 20.2p in 2011. particular, showing strong growth.
In the Margin last year, sales have been building in the The operating margin was 17.9% 2011: Net debt rose by 3.4 million to 26.1 conservative German market with 18.7% which was adversely impacted by million at the end of 2012 2011: 22.7 considerable opportunities for growth in increased input costs and movement in million, after funding 33 million of capital the coming year.
In 2012 sales of Select exchange rates, primarily related to the investments during the year, which is in line represented 8.4% of our total sales weakening of the euro against sterling.
03 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Chairmans statement continued Adjusted for the adverse movement in Australia Employees exchange rates the operating margin for The natural gas powered co-generation The continued growth and the changes 2012 was 18.2%.
plant installed in our Bathurst site was across the group have necessitated successfully commissioned during the year considerable commitment from staff at all Part way through the year the price of raw delivering energy cost savings.
It has been pleasing to see materials rose in line with the market and international teams working together to this, together with higher energy costs, A number of lines in Australia were upgraded resolve challenges presented by the capital increased our cost of sales by approximately to produce further Select product for Japan.
investment programme and to improve 5.8 million which was not recouped This involved modifications being carried out standards of operation.
through higher selling prices in the period.
within an operating manufacturing plant Raw material costs are expected to continue which is a challenging task.
The engineering The global team which installed the ERP to rise and further selling price increases are work was completed safely and on time.
system during 2011 has continued to work being implemented in early 2013.
The upgraded lines are now running and together to deliver the expected benefits progress continues to be made on improving from the system.
Production line upgrading and subsequent performance.
commissioning resulted in a rise in operating With the continued growth prospects of the costs which also impacted operating margin Czech Republic group it is necessary to ensure that we have in 2012.
With a significant proportion of the The largest project in the year has been adequate resources available.
To this end an work now completed, the benefits of the the conversion of the original edible casing extensive training and development plan has production upgrades should begin to show manufacturing hall to high-speed lines.
This been implemented, supplemented where through in the latter part of 2013. involves replacing the old equipment with necessary by recruitment.
proven new technology within an existing Capital investment programme infrastructure.
Once again the facility is being The Board once again gives its thanks to all Our on-going capital investment programme, upgraded whilst operational.
In 2012 half the employees for their efforts and commitment which has been mainly aimed at replacing lines were upgraded and successfully wherever they are in the world.
older lines with modern high speed lines to commissioned.
The remaining half will be deliver cost savings and increased output, converted in 2013.
Board appointments has been a major feature in 2012.
A total of Jane Lodge joined the Board on 1 March 33 million was invested during the year.
USA 2012 and took over the role of Audit The USA facility has a different Committee Chair on 19 April 2012 replacing There is expected to be further investment of manufacturing process compared with Stuart Paterson.
The largest project the other plants, and there is a sizeable will be the completion of the production opportunity to improve efficiency and costs.
Outlook upgrade at our facility in Jilemnice in the In 2011 a line using our most recent The demand in our markets remains strong.
technology was installed in the USA to trial Our Select range of products provides us the manufacture of products suited to the with growth opportunities in developed This capital investment programme has Americas market.
The pilot took most of markets while economic growth and delivered 7% growth in output in 2012, and 2012 to convert local collagen into suitable increased urbanisation continue to drive is expected to deliver a further 8% growth in products on a commercial basis and trials sales in emerging markets.
Our ongoing 2013. will continue in 2013.
Further work is capital investment programme and planned in 2013 to evaluate the opportunity investment in people and infrastructure Return on capital employed has dipped to and potential returns of a substantial means we are increasingly well positioned 19.5% in 2012 from 21.5% in 2011, and is investment to replace the existing to take advantage of the market to create expected to strengthen over the medium technology.
long term profitable growth for Devro.
term as the full benefits of the investments flow through.
Safety Safety management continues to have a Scotland high profile throughout the company and Although the majority of the investment was there is regular contact between the Board made in 2011, the new lines were Safety Committee and local teams.
During completed and commissioned during 2012. the year, in order to refresh its approach, Steve Hannam The project involved replacing some of the Paul Withers took over the Chairmanship Chairman oldest lines in Scotland with high speed lines of the Board Safety Committee.
based on the technology used in our Czech facility.
The commissioning phase took three The commitment across the group was months longer than anticipated but the lines rewarded during the year with employee lost are now running well and the output is being time accidents reduced from 10 to 4 and sold in Continental Europe.
lost days reduced from 287 to 156.
04 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
