Chairmans statement Diageos strategy is delivering Our performance this year has been extremely strong.
I am pleased that we have been able to recommend a further substantial increase in our dividend.
That also demonstrates that we have great confidence in the future of our business.
Over the last 12 months the world our existing brands in North America We set for ourselves the highest economy has offered business no and across the emerging markets.
possible standards of integrity, probity respite from the challenges of Like others we continue to manage and prudence.
To that end we continue global economic storms.
Indeed, the significant challenges of Western to insist that all our employees are fully Europe, but our approach extends our compliant with our code of business unpredictability has only increased as the volatility of markets and consumer geographic reach and progressively conduct in every aspect of their work.
No business can shifts our reliance away from the We also seek to maintain those be immune from these external factors, economies of the developed world.
exacting standards in our relationships but it is understandable that investors It is this diversity which underpins our with governments and international belief that Diageo will emerge even organisations.
Our industry remains should be attracted to Diageo by its outstanding collection of brands and stronger from these tough times.
closely watched by regulators agile business model.
That attraction The challenges faced by business and critics.
Our discussions with is compounded by the fact that the go further than simply those of governments on the place of alcohol business is increasingly orientated to growing profitability.
The conduct of in society, the magnitude of tax and some businesses and some business excise duty, and marketing freedoms those markets where the opportunity for growth is greatest.
leaders have left many people to go to the heart of the environment Despite the economic uncertainty wonder about the integrity and in which our products will be served the board approaches the future with purpose of capitalism itself.
I cannot around the world and therefore measured confidence.
Diageos offer solutions to those questions here, influence the shape of our future.
but it is quite clear to me and to all We want consumers to enjoy our strategy is delivering.
The past year has seen our strengths manifested in the those who lead Diageo that this brands responsibly in an atmosphere companys performance.
We have company and the beverage alcohol of informed tolerance, not one of seized the opportunity to acquire and sector in general must recognise that fear or conflict.
So we will continue to invest in businesses in the growing business will increasingly have to justify to be a business which invests its existence in ways that go beyond significantly in the sustainability economies of Africa, Asia and Latin America.
We have also invested behind simple commercial success.
and responsibility of our business.
8Diageo Annual Report 2012 Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Diageo share price pence Global volume share of premium spirits % Diageo share price movement re-based to 100 Source: Impact Databank Top 100 Premium Spirits February 2012 FTSE 100 movement re-based to 100 1 Diageo 27% 1 250 2 Company 2 18% 3 Company 3 11% 4 Company 4 6% 200 5 Company 5 5% 6 Other 33% 150 2 6 100 5 4 3 50 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Source: Bloomberg In addition to our personal and This has been a year of real corporate behaviour, we will be judged accomplishment for your business.
by the quality of our people, our brands I expect the year to come to present and our performance.
We have very further challenges but I approach them with the confidence that we will see still talented and hard working people everywhere in our business.
We have greater and significant progress for the wonderful brands.
Our performance remarkable business that is Diageo.
this year has been extremely strong.
That also demonstrates that we have great Dr Franz B Humer, confidence in the future of our Chairman business.
We will continue to invest for that future.
Before I close, I would like to take the opportunity to thank Lord Hollick and Paul Walker, who retired during the year as non-executive directors, for their contributions.
We also welcome to the board Ivan Menezes, Diageos chief operating officer, and Ho KwonPing who joins as a nonexecutive director in October 2012.
