Directors Report Business Overview Chairmans Statement John Allan Dixons Retail has continued to make significant progress since I last reported to you.
We remain relentlessly focused on two goals continuously improving our offer to customers while at the same time strengthening our business in the long term interests of shareholders.
A key component to both is to develop and engage our people.
During the course of the year both John Browett, our Chief Executive, and Nicholas Cadbury, our Group Finance Director, chose to leave to join Apple and Premier Farnell, respectively.
We are grateful to them for the contribution they made and were sorry to see them go, but one of our areas of focus has been on ensuring we were well placed in terms of senior management succession.
As a result we were pleased to be able to appoint strong successors from within the Group in Sebastian James and Humphrey Singer and also to be able to appoint Katie Bickerstaffe to the Board in the new role of Chief Executive UK & Ireland.
Sebastian and Katie have led much of the successful change in the UK & Ireland business over the last four years.
We are quietly confident that Sebastians strong management team will build on the foundations that have been laid and take the Group to sustainable Dixons Retail has continued success over the next few years.
The economic environment has remained challenging in all of our We can now look to the future markets and this has held back our overall profit progress.
In the UK & Ireland, Nordics and Greece where we are market leaders we with real confidence.
have continued to gain market share.
We delivered another strong performance in the Nordics while in the UK & Ireland, despite a declining market, we managed to grow profitability through a strengthened customer offer, tight management of costs and careful margin management.
The Italian and Greek economies have been particularly difficult and PIXmania has had to adapt its business model signicantly in a rapidly changing multi-channel environment.
Recognising the continuing challenges in these markets, we have impaired the goodwill of these businesses which, together with other non-underlying charges, totalled 189.6 million, therefore resulting in a pre-tax loss of 118.8 million.
Our Southern European business units and PIXmania are receiving particular focus at present and we are determined to reduce the profit drag they represent as quickly as possible.
In spite of the continuing economic and performance challenges we feel we can now look to the future with real confidence, particularly in the UK & Ireland and Northern European divisions.
Having xed many of the issues in the Group we will now ensure we complete the job and deliver a competitively superior offering.
The interview 06 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Business Overview Underlying Group sales with Sebastian on the following page and which is available to view million on our corporate website, sets out some of the opportunities ahead.
We are delighted with the successful launch of our Knowhow brand in the UK which encompasses all of our service offerings.
All of our colleagues, whether in stores, or in our service and logistic 2011 12 8,186.7 centres, have worked hard to deliver great service and to give real 2010 11 8,154.4 meaning to the brand and we have begun to broaden our offering 2009 10 8,320.0 through the launch of new services.
2008 09 7,955.8 During the year the Group continued its modest support for two national charities Lifelites and the e-Learning Foundation, which help provide access to technology for children with disabilities or EBIT million who are disadvantaged.
Our colleagues have organised some great events to raise money for these charities and I would like to thank them for their efforts.
In the year ahead we will review whether and how we can provide greater support and access to technology for disadvantaged children and their families.
2011 12 115.1 2010 11 127.6 Andrew Lynch retired from the Board after nine years as a non- 2009 10 133.2 executive director.
I would like to thank him for his considerable contribution as both Senior Independent Director and as Chairman 2008 09 95.3 214.3 of the Audit Committee.
Tim How has taken on the role of Senior Independent Director and Jock Lennox, who joined the Board in Underlying profit before tax January, has taken on the Chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
million Jock has a wealth of experience from a long and distinguished career at Ernst & Young and I am sure will add real value both to the Audit Committee and the Board.
I would particularly like to thank my non-executive colleagues for 2011 12 70.8 their tireless efforts throughout the year.
The executive director 85.3 2010 11 changes led to a number of meetings and calls to which all the 2009 10 90.9 non-executives committed and contributed wholeheartedly.
2008 09 70.6 In the year ahead it is likely that the economic challenges will remain and possibly in some markets intensify.
However we are confident Underlying diluted earnings per share that our single-minded focus on getting the customer offer right pence while continuing to improve our efficiency will position us to make the maximum possible progress.
I would like to thank all our colleagues for their successful efforts over the last year and I am sure they will work equally hard to achieve 2011 12 1.1 further success in the year ahead.
2010 11 1.6 2009 10 1.5 2008 09 1.3 John Allan Chairman Underlying performance measures are as dened in the Performance Review.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Dixons Retail plc 07
