04 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Chairmans statement Results Diversity Against the backdrop of a continuing tough economic environment Domino is a global business with operations in all regions of the world.
the Group has delivered sales of 312.1 million, underlying profits of We understand the importance of diversity within our workforce.
Our 53.7 million and net cash inflow from operating activities before tax extended senior management team comprises a broad mix of gender of 56.4 million.
and nationality and in particular one third of the members of the executive management committee, the senior team below the main The Group has invested a record amount in Research and Board, are women.
Changes were made to the terms of reference of Development in the year and continues to pursue a strategy of the Nomination Committee of the Board during the year to include product leadership.
We are very pleased with early sales of the new diversity and specifically gender as a key consideration in all future digital label press and our acquisitions of Graph-Tech and PostJet have Board appointments.
added significant capability to our digital print business.
Social responsibility We continue to build a sustainable growth model for the business and Domino has a strong value system and in our corporate social despite the current weaker market conditions we have maintained responsibility report this year we outline how those values are investment in our global service and support organisation.
positively influencing our customers, the communities in which we operate and society at large.
This year for the first time we have Dividend included metrics recording our progress against carbon reduction The Board is proposing a final dividend of 13.39 pence per share, targets alongside employee KPIs.
which together with the interim dividend makes a total for the year of 20.63 pence, an increase of 10 per cent on last year.
Our cash Outlook generation remains strong and dividend cover is 1.7 times.
We leave 2012 as we entered it with a combination of uncertainty and instability in world economies.
We remain cautious about market Board matters conditions and their impact on the investment plans of our customers.
This has been a busy year for the Board not only in guiding Group Against this backdrop we are optimistic about prospects for the strategy but also reviewing and confirming our commitment to future.
We continue to invest in new products which are driving the highest standards of governance.
The Board has worked with growth, our aftermarket business is robust and we expect the external consultants to undertake an evaluation of its activities investments we made during 2012 to contribute to growth in 2013 and effectiveness, has reviewed its internal processes surrounding and beyond.
communication with the market and has reviewed remuneration policy.
While concluding our processes are robust and that the Board is operating effectively, certain changes and improvements to policy and presentation have been made.
I refer you to the Corporate Governance section of this report.
Peter Byrom Chairman 10 December 2012 05 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 The Group has invested arecordamountin Research and Development in the year Domino is a global  inallregions of the world We expect the investmentswemade during2012 to contribute togrowth in 2013 and beyond 10% Growth in dividends
