Chairmans statement Key highlights 12.8% System sales 2011: 9.3% 14.2% Adjusted profit before tax 2011: 10.9% 17.9% Dividend per share 2011: 20.6% The strong like-for-like sales growth of 5.0% 2011: 3.7% in our core UK system sales was driven by a constant focus on the three pillars of Dominos success: product, service and image.
04 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements I am very pleased to report another strong set of results.
In 2012 Dominos delivered a record profit before tax and exceptional items of 46.7m, up 10.8%, even after The Group never forgets that the the expected start up losses of 3.0m in our relatively new markets of Germany and Switzerland.
This was franchisee relationship is at the heart driven by strong like-for-like sales growth in our core of all we do.
I am pleased to see so many UK market and a record number of new store openings of our long standing franchisees thriving across all our territories.
The resilience of the Dominos and still opening new stores as they Pizza model in these more challenging economic times is a credit to the entrepreneurial spirit of our franchisees reach five, 10 or even 20 years in the who continue to find new ways of retaining the loyalty of Dominos system.
and growing our customer base.
The strong like-for-like sales growth of 5.0% 2011: Your company, DPG, is one of the worlds largest 3.7% in our core UK system sales was driven by a Dominos master franchisees on many measures: store constant focus on the three pillars of Dominos success: level sales and profit, total system sales and profit, number product, service and image.
The continued focus on of employees within the system, quantity of pizzas sold every year and many operational effectiveness measures.
product quality, with a refusal to compromise in the face Our UK and Irish commissaries continue to rank among of ever more rapidly rising commodity prices, is a major the worlds best, scoring the maximum possible five star reason why customers return.
Another is the continuous ratings.
By sales, seven of the worlds top ten Dominos flow of exciting new products.
Service continues to be Pizza stores are DPG stores.
This is a wonderful one of the most important factors as to why customers foundation to build on.
return to Dominos for their home delivery pizza and in 2012 we maintained our delivery times and the reliability Of course underpinning all DPGs results are our people.
2012 was Lances first full year as our CEO and he has While focus on product, service and image drive the top settled in well.
His deep understanding and experience line, our operational gearing continues to drive the of mobile web technologies and international business bottom line still faster.
Of particular note is the success is exactly what we needed as e-commerce platforms of our recent investment in new commissary capacity, become an even more important route to market and our which now produces more dough than its predecessor international reach grows.
He is also developing a really did and still has significant spare capacity to meet strong team around him and in particular I welcome increased demand in the future.
We are also seeing onboard Kory Spiroff as our Managing Director for economies of scale in procurement, marketing, and in Germany, Jan Hertzberg as our Marketing Director our headquarters and distribution functions.
The for Germany, and Brian Trier as our Country Manager combined effect has driven this critical ratio of system forSwitzerland.
sales to adjusted net profit, in the core UK and Republic 2012 was a year of real progress and achievement.
of Ireland markets, up by a further 0.2% to 8.4% I know Lance and his team are keen to build on this in2012.
I would like to thank them and, of course, our franchisees, for another excellent year The Group never forgets that the franchisee relationship and look forward to further progress in 2013. is at the heart of all we do.
I am pleased to see so many of our long standing franchisees thriving and still opening new stores as they reach five, 10 or even 20 years in the Dominos system.
They are sometimes challenging, often Stephen Hemsley thought provoking and always fantastic business Chairman partners and I salute them.
22 February 2013 I am pleased with the progress we are making in Germany.
It is still early days of course, but sales growth in the current stores is strong, new stores are opening at encouraging sales levels, franchisees are joining us, and the store opening programme is progressing well.
Whilst the cost of putting in place the people and infrastructure needed to develop a new market results in start-up losses, I believe we are on track to achieve profit in Germany by the end of 2015.
Switzerland is also a new and exciting market.
Prior to our acquisition it had been poorly run for a number of years and this will take time to correct, but it has good potential.
We have started the process of refurbishing and relocating the stores to realise that potential and expect to be generating a positive return in 2014. www.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 05
