Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 01 Chairmans introduction significant progress We have long believed that generating electricity from sustainable biomass has great potential and that it should have an important role as a low carbon, cost-effective and reliable renewable technology in the future energy mix of the UK.
We are determined that Drax should be a leading provider of this attractive renewable power for the UK.
In 2012, we built on the work of previous years to deliver A testament to the diligence, expertise and teamwork solid foundations for the Groups future as a major of our engineers, this achievement is a clear renewable generator.
We made significant progress with demonstration of our competence in project execution.
very encouraging results in our biomass research and On governance-related matters, I am pleased to development and we secured committed financing for welcome a new member to our Board.
Melanie Gee our strategic capital investment from our shareholders joined the Board on 1 January 2013 as a non-executive and lenders.
This was possible because the UK director, bringing with her many years experience Government delivered certainty through decisions in corporate finance.
Her expertise will be a valuable on the new regulatory framework for electricity addition and will strengthen further the proficiency generation from biomass.
We have now moved rmly of the Board.
into execution of our plans to transform the business into a predominantly biomass-fuelled generator.
I am, however, sorry to announce that Tim Barker will be stepping down from the Board at the conclusion Although much effort in the year was focused on our of the Annual General Meeting in April.
Tim is biomass strategy and future, we did not neglect our bowing out after nine years of service, joining us at other key priorities and I am pleased to say that once a formative time for the Company and assisting us again I can report a year of strong operational and through the Listing process.
My sincere thanks go trading performance across the business.
Our earnings to Tim for his time, commitment and considerable 1 EBITDA of 298 million for 2012 were lower than contribution to the Group.
The Board has appointed in 2011 334 million.
However, this includes a yearDavid Lindsell to take over from Tim as Senior on-year increase in gross margin, with a record level Independent Director, and Tony Thorne as Chairman of generation at the power station, offset at EBITDA of the Remuneration Committee, each with effect level by higher operating costs due to the two planned from Tims retirement from the Board.
outages and costs incurred in accelerating our plans to convert our first generating unit to biomass in April 2013.
We have always recognised that our people are a key resource to the business, but I believe the milestone In accordance with our dividend policy, the Board achievements of last year underline that sentiment.
proposes a final dividend in respect of 2012 of 10.9 pence The many and varied disciplines that make up our per share, equivalent to 44 million.
This would give total business continued to demonstrate true commitment dividends for the year of 97 million 2011: 102 million.
to delivering on our key priorities and preparing the Haven Power Limited Haven Power, our electricity ground for our future.
My sincere thanks go to all retail company serving business customers, again Group staff for their devotion and hard work.
made good progress and delivered sizeable growth in its sales in 2012 compared to the previous year.
We have been pleased with the way the business has developed and with it the value that the Group is now Charles Berry deriving from its success.
Over time Haven Power will Chairman play an increasingly important role as a credit efficient, 18 February 2013 direct sales channel for our power.
1 EBITDA is dened as profit before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and Another strong year of generation performance saw unrealised gains and losses on derivative contracts.
record levels of generation output for the power station and a double planned outage accomplished in good time.
At all times our focus on high safety standards was maintained and despite the significant number of manhours worked due to the outages and project activity our safety performance remained industry-leading.
This is the fifth year running that I have made reference to the 100 million turbine upgrade project, and I make no apology for reporting on the completion of the largest steam turbine modernisation project in UK history.
Drax Power Station is now benefiting from an overall improvement in its efficiency of 5% and a consequent reduction in emissions of carbon dioxide amounting to 1 million tonnes each year.
Financials Governance Corporate and social responsibility Marketplace, performance and risk Overview
