I am delighted to report that 2011 12 has Corporate developments and strategy Chairmans statement been a year of transformation for DS Smith, In December 2010 we set out a clear strategy during which the Group has made great to investors, accompanied by key performance Gareth Davis strides towards its strategic aim of becoming indicators and the actions we would seek to the leading supplier of recycled packaging take.
A key one of those was to streamline the for consumer goods.
This has been achieved Group, and I am pleased to report that in July through a combination of acquisition and 2011 we announced the agreement we had disposal, while at the same time keeping a reached to dispose of our Ofce Products keen eye on the underlying business, which Wholesaling division.
While a profitable has continued to perform very well despite the business, this had no synergy with the rest current economic difficulties throughout Europe.
of the Group and the Board believes that the capital realised will deliver a better return DS Smith has gone through a period of great invested in our core business.
Following the change in the last 12 months with more customary competition authority clearance changes still to come.
Managing this change process, that disposal completed in December has been a fundamental part of the good 2011.
We also sold a small paper mill in governance of this Company.
Meeting the September 2011, delivering against another ever-changing demands of the business objective to reduce our exposure to nonenvironment, wider social and political integrated paper manufacturing.
inuences whilst at the same time ensuring that our various stakeholders shareholders, In January 2012, after six months of exclusive employees, customers and the environment negotiation and due diligence, we announced are all given equal consideration, has been our proposal to acquire SCA Packaging a challenge that your Board has taken very excluding its kraftliner assets, the second seriously.
Ensuring that DS Smith has been largest corrugated packaging group in Europe.
able to rise to these demands as a cohesive The transaction approximately doubles the Group has been at the heart of all your size of the Group and substantially extends Boards decisions.
the DS Smith footprint across Europe.
2011 12 has been a year of transformation for DS Smith www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2012 2 Business Review Due to the size of the transaction, and to Dividend DS Smith Plc and look forward to continuing maintain an acceptable level of debt, we The Board considers the dividend to be this work.
We are committed to ensuring announced at the same time our intention to an important component of shareholder our Board continues to have both relevant raise approximately 466 million by way of a returns.
In December 2010 we set out our experience and appropriate diversity and, rights issue.
I was delighted by the reaction of dividend policy for a progressive dividend although we believe it difficult to set targets or our shareholders, who provided support and timescales for the percentage of women, or any where dividend cover is expected to average leadership, with 98.6 per cent of shareholders between 2.0 and 2.5 times through the cycle.
other group, on our Board, we are optimistic choosing to take up their right to buy additional that the targets for board composition set out Accordingly, the Board recommends DS Smith shares in the offer.
A huge amount of in the Davies recommendations can be met.
a final dividend for 2011 12 of 4.0 pence work has followed, to prepare for the point per share which, together with the interim Finally, on behalf of the Board, I would like to when we take ownership, expected to be dividend of 1.9 pence per share gives a thank all our colleagues throughout DS Smith 30 June 2012.
I am pleased to say that we total dividend for the year of 5.9 pence per for the substantial efforts made by everyone have a clear plan for integrating the businesses, share 2010 11: 4.5 pence per share.
This to deliver these results this year.
In a period starting from day one.
represents an increase of 31 per cent over the of strategic change, it has been their daily Trading performance prior year and a cover of 2.2 times in relation focus on delivering great service, quality and Throughout this period of strategic change, to adjusted earnings per share, in line with innovation to our customers, which has enabled the underlying businesses have proved our policy.
the delivery of such significant progress.
I would themselves resilient despite substantial economic also like to extend a warm welcome to our Board changes headwinds, delivering a 28 per cent increase new colleagues from SCA Packaging, who In October 2011 Peter Johnson chose to in operating profit 20 per cent excluding the will be joining the Group from the end of June.
stand down temporarily from his responsibilities impact of acquisitions and foreign exchange.
as Chairman, due to personal circumstances, Looking to 2012 13, we are ready to start The performance from our European business, and in January 2012 he decided to resign integrating our new business, and I have every including the Otor business in France, acquired from the Board.
Peter joined the Board as a in September 2010, has been particularly confidence that the success achieved to date non-Executive Director in 1999 and became will continue.
good, giving confidence in the prospects for the SCA Packaging acquisition.
I would like to thank Peter for his immeasurable contribution, leading the on average capital employed increased 310 basis points to 14.6 per cent.
Earnings business through a period of transition over that per share from continuing operations increased time and leaving the business in an excellent 28 per cent in the period to 12.8 pence position to grow and further develop.
delighted to have the honour of chairing Gareth Davis, Chairman Earnings per share Total dividend per share 12.8p 5.9p 2011: 10.0p 2011: 4.5p 6.0 14 12 4.5 10 8 3.0 6 4 1.5 2 0 0.0 09 10 11 12 09 10 11 12 continuing operations, before amortisation and exceptional items DS Smith Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 3
