Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dun Dune ellm m G Gr ro oup up p pllc c A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po or rt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 12 2 7 7 Business review Chairmans statement Geoff Cooper Chairman I am delighted once again to introduce Dunelms annual report Our Executive team is working very well following an exemplary by announcing a year of strong business performance.
The transition of the Chief Executive role from Will Adderley to Nick management team continues to focus on our well-established Wharton.
Nick took on the role of Chief Executive in February 2011, strategy for developing the business, as well as keeping tight and we are benefiting greatly from his extensive executive control on day to day operations.
As a result, Dunelm has posted experience, and the skill he is deploying in further developing our good revenue growth in the latest financial year, accompanied business.
He is succeeding in building on the hungry and dynamic by further improvements in profitability and cash generation.
culture in key parts of our business, adding the important More details on this performance are given by Nick Wharton, professionalism, precision and repeatability needed as we grow our Chief Executive, in his report.
As a result of the continuing strong business performance, the As one of the leading retailers of his generation, Will Adderley Board is able to recommend an increase in the final dividend to was an outstanding Chief Executive of Dunelm for 15 years.
10.0p per share 2011: 8.0p, bringing the total dividend for the His desire to move to his current role as Executive Deputy year to 14.0p 2011: 11.5p.
In addition, the Board proposes Chairman reflects his determination to continue to drive returning 65.8m of excess capital to shareholders.
The Dunelms success by dedicating himself to activities such mechanism for this is explained by David Stead, our Finance as product development and sourcing which are the hallmark Director, in his report and full details will be provided in a of Dunelms appeal to shoppers and where he has special separate circular to shareholders.
He is clearly relishing his new role and adding enormous value to the business.
The Board has evolved over the last financial year and now includes a new Non-Executive Director, Matt Davies.
Matt was Looking ahead, we have a range of exciting development appointed in February and is already proving to be an excellent initiatives and continue to see significant potential to expand addition to your Board.
His recent experience leading a similar our store portfolio further within the UK.
We remain confident sized, and equally young and dynamic multiple retailer has in our Simply Value for Money offer and look forward to further added to our perspectives on a number of operational and profitable growth.
strategic issues including customer behaviour, supply chain development and colleague engagement.
Geoff Cooper Chairman 13 September 2012 Dunelm Group plc 8 Annual report and accounts 2012 We remain focused on close operational management, while investing confidently in the future growth of the business.
Business highlights 14 new superstore openings www.
com number including two relocations and one store by turnover following major refits of 15 existing stores strong revenue growth Continued market share growth Continuing investment in infrastructure to underpin Exciting developments in our future growth customer offer
