chairManS StateMent Projects were 33%, six points lower than 2011, principally due to increased bad debt provisions, mobilisation costs on our Mozambique contract and the reduction in revenues from our US Military contracts.
Underlying trading margins in our Local business increased by one point to 17%, which enabled the business to deliver 20% growth in underlying trading profit.
At a Group level, profit before tax increased by 11% to 360 million 2011: 324 million.
Diluted earnings per share increased by 16% to 100.40 pence 2011: 86.76 pence.
KEN HANNA Chairman Strategy As we announced in last years annual report, we have been working on an update of the Group strategy for introduction the period 2013 to 2017.
We have traditionally I am delighted to be able to introduce my first followed a five year planning cycle and later in this Chairmans Statement.
My predecessor, Philip Rogerson, report we have explained the strategy we will follow stepped down at the AGM in April 2012 after ten years for the next five years.
as Chairman and fifteen years on the Board and, on behalf of all my colleagues on the Board, I would like to I am very pleased to report that our strategy for the thank Philip for his enormous contribution to Aggreko.
period 2008 to 2012 has successfully delivered on all its financial targets.
In 2008, we announced that During my two years on the Board and the last year as we believed the Aggreko business could deliver, on Chairman, I have had the opportunity to meet many average, double digit revenue and earnings growth of the leaders of the Aggreko business, travelled to most over the period.
Performance has exceeded our of the Groups major locations, attended the opening expectations despite the five year period incorporating of our new manufacturing facility in Dumbarton and one of the most severe economic downturns in living witnessed the Aggreko team deliver a flawless service memory with compound annual growth of 20% in at the London Olympics.
I have to say I have been revenues and 24% in trading profit.
In addition to immensely impressed by the culture, passion and the financial targets, we have substantially enhanced commitment of everyone I have met.
There is a real the business and developed the capabilities and drive for excellence and superior customer service infrastructure to be able to continue growing for that has undoubtedly contributed to the success the next five years.
Over the last five years we have: of the Company over the last few years.
1 increased EPS by 234%: perForMance nearly doubled the number of our employees: I am pleased to report that Aggreko delivered another entered sixteen new countries and opened seventy year of good progress in 2012.
Reported revenues and 5 three new locations : 2 trading profit both increased by 13%, whilst on an improved our NPS customer satisfaction level 3 underlying basis revenues increased 14% and trading by 10 percentage points: profit increased 6%.
Underlying results exclude revenues invested over 1.5 billion in capital expenditure: and trading profit from the Poit Energia acquisition, opened a new manufacturing facility in Dumbarton, 4 pass-through fuel and currency movements, as well as Scotland: major events such as the Asian Games in 2011, and the acquired strategically important businesses in Brazil, London Olympics which contributed nearly 60 million North America, New Zealand and India: to revenues in 2012. successfully delivered a number of major global events e. g. FIFA World Cup, London Olympics : Performance was strong in both our business segments.
returned 149 million to shareholders in the form Power Projects grew underlying revenues by 15%, and of a special dividend: and the Local business by 13%.
Trading margins in Power delivered Total Shareholder Return of 247%.
4 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report dividend eMployeeS The Board is recommending a 15% increase in the It has always been my belief that the most important dividend for the year as a whole: this will comprise a investment that a company can make is in its people, final dividend of 15.63 pence per ordinary share which, and there is no doubt in my mind that the outstanding when added to the interim dividend of 8.28 pence, success of your Company is due to its dedicated and gives a total for the year of 23.91 pence.
At this level, talented management team, and to the quality and the dividend would be covered 4.2 times on a predetermination of its workforce worldwide.
On behalf of exceptional basis.
Subject to approval by shareholders, all the owners of the business, I would like to thank them the final dividend will be paid on 23 May 2013 to all for their contribution to the success of your Company.
ordinary shareholders on the register as at 26 April 2013, with an ex-dividend date of 24 April 2013. outlook For 2013 The Local business has had a very strong start to the year, Board and governance with almost 20% more power on rent than a year ago, Governance is the framework that articulates a companys helped in part by our acquisition of Poit Energia in April values and supports its behaviours.
Encouragingly, growth in the Local business has Governance Report pages 56 to 61 of the 2012 Annual been broadly spread, with most areas other than Europe Report sets out clearly the changes made in the last year showing healthy year-on-year increases in MW on hire.
which include an update of the Terms of Reference for all Board Committees and significant changes to the In Power Projects, we have signed new contracts Board composition.
We now consider that the Group totalling 140MW in the year to date, and importantly, complies with all of the provisions of the UK Corporate we have secured our first large order for our new Governance Code and that the Board is appropriately Heavy Fuel Oil engine, with a 56MW contract in the balanced in terms of diversity and specialist skills.
We have also secured a contract for 57MW of diesel-powered generation in Djibouti.
Trading Diana Layfield May 2012 and Rebecca McDonald continues to be subdued and is likely to remain so October 2012 joined the Board during the year as in the first half: however, in recent weeks there has Non-executive Directors.
I am delighted with these been some improvement in the prospect pipeline.
new appointments and, between them, Diana and Rebecca bring a deep knowledge of Emerging Our expectations for the year as a whole remain Markets and the Global Energy Sector.
In September 2012, we announced a new organisation structure and three Executive Directors stepped down from their roles: Bill Caplan November 2012, Kash Pandya December 2012 and George Walker December 2012.
All three Regional Executive ken hanna Directors were key contributors to the success of the Chairman Groups five year strategy and I would like to thank 7 March 2013 them on behalf of the Board.
The new organisation, which will take effect from 1 January 2013, comprises three regions of approximately equal size that incorporate both the Local and Power Project businesses.
We are delighted that we have 1 All numbers in this section are pre-exceptional items unless been able to promote to the Board, two internal otherwise stated.
appointments: Asterios Satrazemis January 2013 will 2 Trading profit represents operating profit before gain on sale run the Americas Region and Debajit Das January of property, plant and equipment.
2013 will run the Asia Pacific Region.
And on 3 A bridge between reported and underlying revenues and trading 22 February 2013 we announced the appointment profits is provided at page 40 of the Review of Trading.
of David Taylor-Smith who will join the Board on 4 Pass-through fuel relates to three contracts in our Power Projects 11 March 2013 and become the Regional Executive business where we provide fuel on a pass-through basis.
Director for Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 5
