easyJet plc 06 Annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Chairmans introduction Dear Shareholder, I am pleased that your Company has delivered continued strong results this year despite the economic headwinds that we face.
Progress this year The strength of easyJets business model is based around a pan European network to primary airports, delivered with friendly service, efficiency and at the lowest cost.
This has enabled it tothrive, evidenced by the 27.9% increase in pre-tax profit to 317million.
Return to shareholders Due to the strength of the performance this year, and the Boards confidence in the strength of easyJet business model, strategy and people, the Board has recommended increasing the level of ordinary dividend paid annually from a ratio of five times cover to three times cover.
Consequently an ordinary dividend of 21.5 pence per share will be paid in respect of the financial year ended 30September 2012, an increase of 11pence per share compared Our ambition is to be Europes to the prior year.
preferred short-haul airline, Making a strong business stronger delivering market leading returns.
The easyJet team has also taken proactive steps this year to further strengthen the business.
Steps have been taken to ensure that Sir Michael Rake returns are maximised from the capital deployed in our aircraft.
As a Non Executive Chairman consequence the base in Madrid is being closed.
The Company has redeployed the capacity released to more profitable opportunities in France, Switzerland, UK and Italy where the potential for shareholder value is improved.
To ensure easyJet remains competitive on cost and aircraft performance the team are well advanced in its technical and commercial evaluation of the next generation narrow body aircraft and engine technology.
The Company has stepped up investment in leadership development and succession planning ensuring it has the capabilities necessary to deliver superior returns inthe future against a challenging environment.
Regulatory environment It is vital that aviation operates within a regulatory environment that rewards efficient behaviour and guards against protectionism which still shields airports, airlines and ground handling from true and full competition.
In particular, the European Union must now press ahead with reform of the allocation of slots at airports to enable new entrants to build up enough frequencies to mount serious challenges to the legacy operators and overhaul the practices around ground handling to ensure there is real competition at everyairport.
These reforms will benefit the European economy asconsumers will benefit from more new routes, more services andaffordable fares.
easyJet welcomes the Davies Commission as easyJet believes that the UK aviation sector needs a coherent roadmap for aviation capacity and infrastructure that integrates air, road and rail links and ensures we have a thriving and robust aviation sector centred around customer needs.
However any investment in infrastructure must be cost effective and focused on delivering the level of service that customers need.
Conclusion Finally the hard work and commitment of all of easyJets people has been instrumental to its success this year and I would like to thank them for making 2012 such a successful year.
Sir Michael Rake Non Executive Chairman Business review Strategic framework 08 Performance during the year 09 Market overview 12 Strategic progress 13 Looking forward 16
