BUSINESS REVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Basic earnings per share Overview Cents EnQuest delivered on plan in 2012, with production of 22,802 Boepd.
In each 2012 46.2 ofthe three years since EnQuests 2011 7.6 inception, we have reported good results.
Across those three years we 507.9% have generated a total of $1,517.9 million of cash ow from operations, with production up 68% and an overall reserves replacement ratio of 300%.
This performance is well ahead of our long term target of an Dr James Buckee Chairman average of 10% per annum growth in production and reserves, and reects the successful implementation ofour development and production strategy.
EnQuests technical, operational and execution capabilities have continued togrow during the year, particularly with the significant progress on the Alma Galia development and the rapid assimilation ofKraken.
EnQuest PLC 14 Annual Report 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Market conditions Marginal eld solutions are another important leg of EnQuests In 2012, EnQuests average realised oil price, net of hedging, was value creation model.
We target dormant or undeveloped elds, 111.6 per barrel, up from 107.6 per barrel in 2011.
It is now two that may have been too small in scale for the majors.
We use a years since the Brent oil price last averaged below 100 per barrel exible approach and develop new solutions, redesigning and and market oil price expectations remain high.
Whilst we also upgrading old facilities and using existing infrastructure.
The continue to be positive on the longer term outlook for oil prices, EnQuest team achieved this at the Don elds and is now using a wenonetheless take a prudent approach in the assumptions we similar approach at Alma Galia, with first oil due onstream in Q4 use for business appraisal and planning purposes.
201, less than three years after we secured the licence.
In both 2011 and 2012, EnQuest and the rest of the industry actively EnQuests third value creation leg is through new developments.
engaged with the UK Government, seeking improvements in the We acquire interests in assets which may have been thought scal structure of the UK North Sea to encourage investment.
technically or nancially too challenging for others and then Theimproved allowances in the March 2012 UK Budget were deploy EnQuests capabilities, to commercialise and develop encouraging.
These were followed in the autumn by welcome discoveries.
After Alma Galia the new development of the newallowances for browneld projects, in support of investment Kraken discovery is our current focus, this would be EnQuests inmature oil elds.
These new allowances are positive for EnQuest fifth hub.
as it seeks to extend eld lives and to sustain investment in mature North Sea elds, such as Thistle and Heather.
The investment this The EnQuest Board creates safeguards existing jobs and supports the creation of new In August 2012, I was delighted to welcome Dr 3hilip Nolan to jobs across the energy supply chain, it also partially restores the the Board, as a new Non-Executive Director.
3hils wealth of both momentum lost by the initial tax increase.
technical and management expertise makes him a valuable addition to the Board as EnQuest continues to develop and EnQuest was also encouraged by recent UK Government execute its strategy.
measures aimed at providing certainty on the availability of tax relief on decommissioning costs, which should have the effect After the assembly of an effective operations team in Aberdeen ofincreasing investment in the UK North Sea and extending the and the successful implementation of EnQuests strategy in its productive life of the UKs oil and gas reserves.
Greater certainty critical first years, in November 2012, Nigel Hares decided that on decommissioning tax relief can be more reliably factored into he was planning to reduce the amount of time dedicated to investment decisions and commercial decommissioning security EnQuest to be balanced by more time spent on personal affairs.
arrangements and should therefore stimulate new commercial activity across the UK Continental Shelf.
This will also help to Nigel therefore stood down from the Board and now advises on facilitate the sale of assets to companies most suited to invest in future strategy and development.
Operations have continued to them and EnQuest is in a very good position to take advantage be managed by David Heslop, General Manager UKCS and his of these developments.
Amjad Bseisu, the rest of the Board and I are very grateful to Nigel for the excellent contribution he has made to EnQuest The EnQuest strategy and business model and we look forward to continuing to work closely with him.
The implementation of EnQuests strategy is proving its potential tocreate value.
We believe that EnQuests development and EnQuest is its people.
I believe that their technical knowledge production focused model can provide consistent returns over and capability, their experience and passionate commitment theproduction lifecycle, in contrast to the more speculative areEnQuests most important assets.
Although the organisation natureof frontier exploration.
EnQuest realises value from oil eld has grown considerably in size, it continues to retain the agility development and production opportunities by targeting maturing essential to take full advantage of new opportunities.
The Board assets and undeveloped elds.
We exercise a high level of control and I would like to thank our workforce for another year of over developments, as a result of having a majority working delivery of good results and for putting in place the building interestand being the eld operator.
We believe that its capabilities blocks for the next stages of EnQuests growth.
differentiate EnQuest: with the levels of expertise we maintain in-house, EnQuests teams can achieve high levels of collaboration, Delivering sustainable growth continuity and accumulated shared knowledge.
EnQuest is proving that it can deliver sustainable growth through increasing production and reserves.
Whilst the UK EnQuest focuses on hubs, utilising three main approaches.
North Sea will continue to be our main focus, there are also Firstly, we extend eld lives by upgrading facilities, utilising potential opportunities to pursue EnQuests strategy outside modern technology.
This includes deployment of subsurface theUK.
We have taken our first steps internationally, in Norway expertise and skill, and modern seismic, to identify the well and Malaysia.
We will retain a focused approach to our targets and then execute inll drilling programmes.
We have already proved this model at Thistle.
Daily production levels have increased from lows which were approaching 2,000 Boepd in 2005, to over 8,000 Boepd at the end of 2012, which are the highest levels achieved since the late 1990s.
We have plans to invest further in Thistle, these have been facilitated by the new browneld tax allowances.
We are also investing in Heather, where we are upgrading the drilling rig to enable us to drill wells for the first time since 2006.
