04 Company overview Chairmans statement Introduction Welcome to Essar Energys annual report for 201112.
Following on from a positive first year as a listed company in 2010, the 201112 period has been more mixed.
In some areas we have made excellent progress, notably in If India is to meet its 12th our oil business with the completion in March this year of the phase 1 Five Year Plan target of expansion of our agship Vadinar renery, which is now a world class 9% GDP growth each plant producing high value fuels to international and Indian specications.
year from 2012 to 2017, However, there have alsobeen a number of challenges, particularly inthe Indian power sector.
then this will require Essar Energy and other power energy supplies to grow at companies across India have been impacted by delays in obtaining a rate of between 6.5% regulatory approvals, particularly in relation to approvals for coal blocks.
and 7% per year, which is Furthermore, near the end of the financial period, Essar Oil was also above the rates of the last affected by the loss of the Gujarat deferred sales tax case in the Indian Supreme Court.
These factors coupled five years.
with a highly volatile market led to a sharp fall of the share price in the March 2012 financial period.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPANY BUSINESS FINANCIA L OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENT S 05 Despite this, including the ongoing Indian power stations, and second, to these charges do not relate to Essar challenges surrounding sales tax we secure market access, which applies Energy and are not expected to have are looking forward witha positive to our reneries in Kenya and the UK.
any impact on Essar Energys business outlook and are ready to deliver the operations, Mr. Ravi Ruia decided to fullpotential of your company.
In pursuit of this strategy, in July 2011 step down from the Chairmanship as wecompleted the acquisition of the agood governance measure and to One of the reasons for optimism is Stanlow renery in the UK.
This high ensure that the Board and management theoutlook for the Indian economy.
quality renery, which has a capacity of of Essar Energy continue to be fully Notwithstanding the recent policy 296,000 bpd and supplies around 15% focussed on successfully delivering impasse and adverse macro economic of transport fuels in the UK, gives us against their laid out strategy.
The factors, over the last Five Year Plan, the options to bring high quality product EssarGroup has always been open, Indian economy has grown around from India tothe UK and European transparent and law abiding, and I am 35%, pulling many people out of poverty markets.
In addition, the acquisition confident that these charges will be and increasing the wealth of the middle costof just US$350 million was very dismissed by the courts in India.
As more and more people in competitive when compared to other India see pathways opening up to a similar transactions in Europe over the On 29 March 2012 we appointed better way of life, they want to improve last three years.
In recent years, Stanlow SteveLucas as a fifth Independent their living conditions and fundamental has suffered from a lack of investment, Non-Executive Director to the Board of to this is the provision of energy: be that but we see tremendous scope to Essar Energy.
Steve brings a wealth of petroleum products for cars and other improve the performance and experience to the Board, particularly in transportation or electricity for lighting profitability of this asset and we the areas of power and finance given his and household goods.
Demand is rising areimplementing a plan developed background as the Finance Director of rapidly and the provision of petroleum duringour first 100 days of ownership National Grid from 2002 to 2010.
This products and electricity to the Indian todeliver this.
move further strengthens the experience market is central to what we do and and independence of ourBoard.
why I am so confident in our business Given the issues we have been facing model see pages 10 and 11. inthe power business recently, together People with the loss of the sales tax case, we Our strategy is based on building If India is to meet its 12th Five Year Plan have decided to focus in the near term world-class assets, but this cannot target of 9% GDP growth each year from on managing risk more effectively and beachieved without the people to 2012 to 2017, then according to Indias look to ensure the delivery of our current construct, operate and manage these Planning Commission, this will require suite of growth projects before we start assets.
As I visit the different parts of energy supplies to grow at a rate of to reinvest in the portfolio.
This does not our business, I am always impressed by between 6.5% and 7% per year, which signal a lack of confidence in the India the quality of the people that we have isabove the rates of the last five years.
growth story, but rather a short-term within Essar.
Last year, we welcomed adjustment to the current 1,007 new colleagues into the Essar Longer term, India is very well placed marketrealities.
family through the acquisition of the inhaving a young population, not Stanlow renery.
Despite having very onlyin comparison to advanced Board governance different backgrounds, I have been very economies, but also in relation to the The Company has adopted the impressed with how quickly Stanlow large developing countries of China principles of the new UK Corporate has been integrated into Essar Energy and Brazil.
As a result, the labour force Governance Code and has only and we are already seeing the benets is expected to increase by around 30% departed from such principles in a small of some real knowledge sharing and the urban population is expected number of instances where the Board between our UK and Indian operations.
to increase from around 31% today to has considered that good governance over 40%, both over the next 20 years.
can be achieved by other means which Much of the credit for this must are preferable for the Essar Energy go to Naresh Nayyar and his Senior Strategy business.
Our Nomination and Management team.
He continues to As a result, our strategy remains Governance Committee keeps key develop and grow the talent within the unchanged: to create a world-class, governance matters under review organisation and on your behalf, the low-cost, integrated energy company onaregular basis.
Board would like to thank him and focused on India and positioned to the entire Essar Energy team for the capitalise on Indias growing energy Following a telecom investigation in contribution they have made this year.
We will only look outside of Indiarelating to the equity holding of the India for two reasons: first to secure Essar Group in Loop Telecom, Mr Ravi Prashant Ruia upstream resources, which is mainly Ruia decided to step aside from the Chairman applicable to the coal required for our Chairmanship of Essar Energy.
While 22 June 2012 Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012
