Chairmans statement 8 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The primary focus for 2013 will be to maximise shareholder value through the implementation of our strategic priorities.
to manage our liquidity requirements A strategy to maximise and reduce our net debt position in the the value from our medium-term to a more sustainable level.
competitive advantage We also made good progress with the managementof cost inflation which came Maintain low cost operations in well below guidance.
The primary focus for 2013 will be to maximise shareholder Focus investment on key assets value through the implementation of the Expand existing product portfolio above strategic priorities.
2012 was flanked by two important Maximise value from worldwide acquisitions in Africa which were essential resources to our aim of enhancing corporate Ensure a sustainable approach governance and achieving our strategic to business priorities.
These acquisitions, the first to acquire the processing plants in respect Over the past two years the of the RTR project and the Frontier underperformance of ENRC against mine in the Democratic Republic of the itspeers has largely been driven by the Congo DRC, the second to acquire the following factors: concerns over corporate outstanding 49.5% of Camrose Resources Mr Mehmet Dalman governance: a lack of strategic clarity Limited, gave us full control of our Chairman regarding the development of our assets in the DRC to ensure enhanced international assets: rising cost inflation accountability.
In July we were also in Kazakhstan: and our increasing leverage.
awarded a new mining licence in respect of the Frontier mine.
I am pleased to report Since taking over as Chairman excellent progress with the development we have made considerable progress of Frontier, which will produce its first on the corporate governance front.
concentrate and generate meaningful We have also completed a strategic cash flow during 2013.
The next two review of our business, resulting years will see us focus our attention and in renewed focus on ourcore strengths investment expenditure on our copper in the ferroalloys andiron ore markets, projects in Africa, with our long-term goal as well as a commitment to expedite of 200,000 tonnes per annum of combined the development of our copper assets copper production from Frontier, RTR and in Africa.
We have a firm plan in place Boss Mining.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 9 In line with our strategy of reinforcing our Throughout 2012 senior management of the refreshed Committees works position within the region, we acquired and the Board have had regular dialogue well.
Mr Terence Wilkinson was appointed the ordinary shares that we did not own on key risks relating to the Groups strategic as Senior Independent Director in May in Shubarkol Komir JSC, a high quality objectives.
We know that some of the 2012 and he has been a great resource coal producing asset in Kazakhstan.
This jurisdictions in which the Group operates to me as Chairman: his energy and acquisition enables us to sustain our lowpose particular and often heightened risks commitment have been valuable in helping cost position and secure supply of high that need to be managed appropriately.
the Board achieve its goals in the year.
quality thermal coal and semi-coke for our There are ongoing processes in place We continue to look at the composition operations in Kazakhstan.
for identifying, assessing, managing, of the Board, mindful of the need monitoring and reporting on the significant As a result of increasing cost pressures and to progressively refresh the Board and its risks faced by the Group.
weakening commodity markets, the Group Committees, and in addition to this we will has recognised impairment charges and We are acutely aware of our obligations also look to strengthen the management an onerous contract provision totalling with regards to compliance with all team.
Meanwhile I thank all the Directors, US$1,544 million which has resulted applicable laws and regulations, as well on your behalf, for their contribution during in a basic loss per share of US 62 cents as our corporate value for fair dealing.
We have compliance officers across our operations, and these numbers increased The poor pricing environment in the second again during 2012. half of the year materially impacted the Groups earnings.
As a result the Board Last year I committed to continue has decided not to declare a final dividend.
to strengthen the Board and I am delighted However, the dividend paid in October that Dr Mohsen Khalil and Mr Richard Mr Mehmet Dalman in respect of H1 2012 of US 6.5 cents Burrows joined us in June 2012.
Both Chairman still represents a 16% payout ratio based of them have settled well into their roles, on our earnings per share adjusted bringing their expertise to bear on the for the full year, which is in line with the issues affecting the Company.
In particular, Groups dividend policy.
Dr Khalil has a strong background in emerging markets, project finance and business procedures and has taken a considerable interest in our activities in Africa and Mr Burrows has extensive public company experience which has helped sharpen Board practices and accountability.
In addition, we undertook On 23 April 2013 Mr Mehmet Dalman resigned from theBoard and Mr Gerhard Ammann wasappointed a thorough review of our Board Committees Acting Chairman.
and I am pleased to note that each The next two years will see us focus our attention and investment expenditure on our copper projects in Africa, with our long-term goal of 200,000 tonnes per annum of combined copper production from Frontier, RTR and BossMining.
