Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Chairmans Statement Richard Ensor Total revenues for the year increased by 9% to The adjusted operating margin was unchanged Highlights 394.1 million.
Costs, particularly headcount, have Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC, the acquisitions, increased by 3%.
The acquisition remained tightly controlled throughout the year.
international online information and events of Ned Davis Research NDR in August 2011 At the same time, the group has increased its group, achieved a record adjusted profit has helped increase the proportion of revenues investment in technology and new products as before tax of 106.8 million for the year to generated from subscriptions to more than part of its online growth strategy.
September 30 2012, against 92.7 million in 50% for the first time.
Adjusted diluted earnings a share were revenues increased by 17% to 199.7 million Net debt at September 30 was 30.8 million 65.9p 2011: 56.1p.
The directors recommend and underlying subscriptions, excluding NDR, compared with 88.5 million at March 31 and an 18% increase in the final dividend to by 5%.
In the 14.75p, giving a total for the year of 21.75p absence of any significant acquisitions, net 2011: 18.75p, to be paid to shareholders on debt has fallen by 88.4 million since the start February 14 2013. of the year, reecting the groups strong cash ows and an operating cash conversion rate in excess of 100%.
The groups net debt is now at its lowest level for more than a decade and its robust balance sheet provides plenty of headroom for the group to pursue its acquisition strategy.
As highlighted in previous trading updates, market conditions became noticeably tougher from June.
The uncertainty over Europe remains, as does a solution to the pending US scal cliff.
Meanwhile global financial institutions face the combined challenges of difficult markets, increased capital requirements and a tougher regulatory environment.
Inevitably they have responded by cutting costs, particularly people, and exiting some parts of their business.
However, the outlook for emerging markets, which account for more than a third of the groups revenues, is more positive.
The board expects this challenging trading background to continue at least into the early part of 2013.
04 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Driving revenue growth from existing as well Acquisitions remain a key part of the groups Strategy as new products is a key part of the groups strategy.
The most recent was the purchase of The groups strategy remains the building of strategy.
Since 2010, the group has been Global Grain for 5.7 million in February.
Global a robust and tightly focused global online investing heavily in technology and content Grains main asset, Global Grain Geneva, is the information business with an emphasis on delivery platforms, particularly for the mobile worlds leading event for international grain emerging markets.
This strategy is being user, and in new digital products as part of its traders.
The event is held in November each year executed through increasing the proportion of transition to an online information business.
In and is on track to exceed last years attendance revenues derived from electronic subscription 2012, as in 2011, the group spent approximately by at least 10%, while an event for the Asiaproducts: using technology efficiently to assist 10 million on this transition.
This level of Pacic region was launched successfully in the online migration of the groups print expenditure is expected to continue in 2013.
In March and two further new events are planned products as well as developing new electronic addition, the group has recently started work on for 2013. information services: investing in products of a project to build a new platform for authoring, the highest quality: eliminating products with a storing and presenting its content, with a view While the market for acquisitions of specialist low margin or too high a dependence on print to both improving the quality of its existing online information businesses remains advertising: maintaining tight cost control at all subscription products and increasing the speed competitive and valuations challenging, the times: retaining and fostering an entrepreneurial to market of new online information services.
group will continue to use its robust balance culture: and using a healthy balance sheet and This project is expected to have a capital cost of sheet and strong cash ows to pursue further strong cash ows to fund selective acquisitions.
approximately 6 million in 2013. transactions in 2013.
05 Chairmans Statement Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Chairmans Statement continued Subscriptions account for half the groups Capital Appreciation Plan CAP Management revenues and therefore provide some protection The CAP is the groups long-term incentive On October 15 2012, the company announced against weak markets in 2013, as does the scheme designed to retain and reward those the sad news of the death of its chairman, groups reliance on emerging markets for who drive profit growth and is an integral part Padraic Fallon, after a long battle with cancer.
more than a third of its revenues.
However, of the groups successful growth and investment He had worked for the company for nearly 40 the negative trends in advertising and delegate strategy.
years and been executive chairman since 1992. revenues in the last quarter are expected to continue into the first quarter of financial The terms of CAP 2010 broadly required an Mr Fallon had already announced his intention year 2013, although the outlook for event adjusted profit before tax and before CAP to retire at the AGM in January 2013, and a sponsorship is more positive.
First quarter expense of 100 million to be achieved, from succession plan was announced in August after trading has started in line with the boards a base profit of 62.3 million in 2009, within consultation with shareholders.
Under this plan, expectations but as usual at this time, forward the four year period ending in September 2013.
I would assume the role of executive chairman revenue visibility beyond the first quarter is The strong financial performance of the group and Christopher Fordham, an executive director limited, other than for subscriptions.
meant the initial CAP profit target was achieved since 2003 and the director responsible for the in 2011, two years earlier than expected.
The groups acquisition strategy, would take over For 2013, the group plans to continue CAP profit target for 2012 was increased to my responsibilities as managing director.
This its programme of investing in the digital 105 million following the acquisition of NDR, succession plan has now been implemented.
and this target has also been achieved.
Further changes to the board are anticipated transformation of its publishing businesses and over the next few months, including the in improving the quality of its products.
The Although the CAP profit target was first achieved appointment of at least one new independent board is confident its strategy for investing in in 2011, the rules of the plan prevent CAP non-executive director.
new products and digital publishing and using options from vesting more than one year early.
its strong balance sheet to fund acquisitions, Individual CAP awards were therefore based on Outlook its exposure to emerging markets, and its tight the profits for 2012, creating a strong incentive The uncertainty over Europe remains, as does a control of operating costs will continue to sustain for profit growth this year.
Accordingly, the first solution to the pending US scal cliff.
Meanwhile it through these difficult market conditions.
50% of CAP awards will vest in February 2013 global financial institutions face the combined As the world economy begins an albeit slow and be satisfied by the issue of approximately 3.5 challenges of difficult markets, increased recovery, financial and other markets will also million new ordinary shares and 15 million in capital requirements and a tougher regulatory gradually improve, enhancing our prospects.
The second 50% of CAP awards is subject environment.
Inevitably they have responded to an additional performance test for 2013 and by cutting costs, particularly people, and exiting will vest in February 2014 provided the additional some parts of their business.
The board expects performance test is satisfied, thereby providing this challenging trading background to continue Richard Ensor further incentive for profit growth in 2013. at least into the early part of 2013.
Chairman November 14 2012 The board believes the CAP has been an important driver of the vefold increase in the The operating cash conversion rate is the percentage groups profits since it was introduced in 2004. by which cash generated from operations covers Subject to shareholder approval, the board adjusted operating profit.
expects to put a new long-term incentive plan in place from 2014.
