08 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Chairmans Statement Alexander Abramov The Boards priorities in the prevailing business climate were to preserve the Companys long-term competitive advantages and protect shareholder value in the face of diverse potential macroeconomic scenarios.
Dear Stakeholders, As the Chairman of the Board I fully recognise Strategy It gives me much pleasure to present our the importance of ensuring that my fellow The Boards priorities in the prevailing Annual Report for 2012.
Directors understand and take into account business climate were to preserve the the views of our investors while deliberating Companys long-term competitive advantages The year 2012 proved to be another Board decisions.
In order to facilitate and and protect shareholder value in the face of challenging phase for the global steelmaking strengthen the relations and communication diverse potential macroeconomic scenarios.
industry which operated in a highly uncertain between shareholders and the Board, Having reviewed and refined our strategic and volatile environment.
Despite this, EVRAZ Sir Michael Peat, our Senior Independent development plan we chose to concentrate our delivered creditable operational and financial Non-Executive Director, began a programme efforts on programmes designed to promote results which serve to illustrate the intrinsic of proactive communications with our major operational excellence at existing facilities, resilience of the Company.
In particular, Sir Michael has held while adhering to strict capital disciplines a number of meetings with representatives with regard to new projects.
Corporate governance of large investment funds which have been Since our admission to the FTSE 100 in mandated to vote and or engage in dialogue We are approaching the conclusion of a major December 2011, we have undertaken a on behalf of investment institutions on modernisation programme at our Russian number of initiatives to further strengthen matters related to corporate governance steelmaking facilities and are currently our corporate governance.
These include the and sustainability.
commissioning a number of mining projects.
adoption of a new Code of Business Conduct which is currently being embedded across the Health, Safety and Environment HSE One of the principal highlights related Group, together with specific anti-corruption Regretfully, the number of fatalities increased to the purchase of a controlling interest in policies and initiatives designed to ensure in the reporting year despite such focus and the Raspadskaya coking coal company, a compliance with the UK Bribery Act, including our ongoing investment in safety programmes.
transaction that establishes EVRAZ as the improved training and the implementation Sadly, there were some additional fatalities largest producer of coking coal in Russia.
of refined internal procedures for employees.
This experience The approximately US$964 million acquisition, reinforces my view that the Board still has which will yield major benefits through Furthermore, we have strengthened our much to do to drive the all-important changes enhanced vertical integration, was primarily Board with the appointment of Alexander to mindsets and safety culture within our funded through equity, thereby avoiding a Izosimov as an independent Non-Executive operations.
We remain committed to further commensurate cash outflow.
The transaction Director in February 2012, thereby increasing improvements in the Companys HSE policies was successfully completed in mid-January the ratio of independent Directors on the alongside increased training for employees 2013.
A key objective for the Board during Board to 50%.
We have also introduced and a continuation of our zero-tolerance policy 2013 is to ensure the smooth integration of changes to the composition of the Audit with regard to non-compliance with safety Raspadskaya into EVRAZs operating model and Remuneration Committees in order rules.
Led by the Boards HSE Committee, and the maximisation of operational synergies.
to accommodate a better representation we have already drawn up additional of independent Non-Executive Directors.
programmes to mitigate the risk of such We constantly monitor the progress of major accidents in the future and the Board will investment projects versus initial expectations I have every confidence that the professional continue to provide leadership in this area, and external market factors, a process that experience, leadership skills, integrity monitoring HSE performance and working allows us to maintain flexibility in conjunction and balance of interests reflected in the closely with management.
with our long term approach of sustaining membership of the current Board and a balance between financial stability, growth Committees represents the right blend to Furthermore we are fostering and overseeing and shareholder returns.
promote the development of the Company and a programme which will result in a more set ambitious challenges for management.
comprehensive level of non-financial reporting, including the publication of greenhouse gas emissions in anticipation of the introduction of the new UK regulation.
Our intention is to create a sound platform designed to ensure responsible and sustainable development on the part of the Company.
Corporate Overview Strategy Operating Review Social Responsibility Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 In addition, management continued to focus EVRAZs 20th anniversary I have every on streamlining our business model and Two decades ago my partners and I set assessing options designed to increase free up a small trading house which has evolved confidence that cash flow.
In line with this, we disposed of into one of the largest global steelmaking EvrazTrans, a transport subsidiary, to a third companies in the world with operations the professional party for cash consideration of approximately spanning four continents and seven countries.
This divestment enabled us The scale of growth and the success of the experience, leadership to exit from a non-core asset while securing Company would have been inconceivable had our transportation needs for the foreseeable it not been for the hard work and dedicated skills, integrity and future on advantageous terms.
The Board support of our stakeholders shareholders, balance of interests intends to pursue further attractive employees, clients and trading partners.
opportunities to improve return on capital I would like to take this opportunity to reected in the employed.
We gave careful consideration express the Boards sincere appreciation to the performance of our assets and the and congratulate you all on this shared membership of the strategic options available and decided to anniversary.
I am confident that the Company classify certain underperforming assets as is well placed to continue to deliver value current Board and assets-held-for-sale, namely EVRAZ Vitkovice to all stakeholders through the delivery Steel and EVRAZ Highveld Steel and of operational excellence and sound Committees represents Vanadium, thereby paving the way for ongoing financial results.
In March 2013 we made the next step in this process by announcing the to promote the execution of a non-binding term sheet on the sale of our stake in EVRAZ Highveld development of the to a consortium of South African investors.
Alexander Abramov Company and set Dividends Chairman of the Board In 2012, EVRAZ continued to make dividend EVRAZ plc ambitious challenges payments in line with the Companys stated for management.
dividend policy of targeting a long-term average dividend payout ratio of at least 25% of consolidated net profit adjusted for non-recurring items.
In July 2012, following shareholder approval at the AGM, EVRAZ paid a final dividend in respect of 2011 in the amount of 17 cents per share US$228 million in total.
In addition, in August 2012, EVRAZs Board declared an interim dividend of 11 cents per share US$147 million in total based on the results for the first half of 2012.
The Board, having reviewed the results in respect of the financial year to 31 December 2012 and after taking into account the substantial deterioration in the respective prices of steel and steel raw materials towards the year-end, has decided to forgo the recommendation of a final dividend in respect of 2012 in order to preserve the financial standing of the Company and provide greater flexibility to manage the current market environment.
10 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Overview Strategy Operating Review Social Responsibility Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc EVRAZ plc 11 11 Annual Repor Annual Report and Accounts 2012 t and Accounts 2012 Strategy
