2 2 E Ex xp pe er ri ia an n A Annu nnual Re al Rep po or rt t 2 20 01 12 2 Bu Bus si in ne ess ss o ov five er rv vi ie ew w Chairmans statement This has been another excellent year for Experian.
Each of the Groups four regions and four global business lines has delivered strong organic revenue growth.
We have also continued to invest throughout the business and made a number of important strategic moves that will help secure our long-term growth.
Si S Si S r John Pe r r Joh hn Pea ac ce e e Chai Ch Ch C a air rm m man an telecommunications where operators are Sustained value creation remains Experians focusing hard on building customer loyalty, top priority and I believe we can be proud of our achievements in this respect.
In the in the utility market where the challenge is five years since demerger, notwithstanding preventing fraud and energy theft, and in the the often challenging conditions in some of public sector where there is a major drive our biggest markets, Experian has provided for greater efficiency.
In the US, were also shareholders with returns totalling more helping physicians and hospitals to manage than 90%, which compares with an average billings as patients become responsible for a of 16% for the FTSE 100. larger proportion of their healthcare bills.
We made further strides during the year Driving growth across the Group towards Experians goal of becoming the Expanding our operations into major global leader in digital marketing services.
emerging consumer economies is one of In EMEA Asia Pacific, for instance, this is several key drivers of growth for Experian, now our single largest revenue contributor with over a third of our revenue now coming as marketers look for more cost-effective from fast developing markets outside of the ways to reach their customers and develop US and UK.
A particular highlight this year more personalised communications.
In was the acquisition of Computec, which Brazil, we accelerated our digital marketing has expanded our credit bureau presence development with the acquisition of Virid, the into Colombia, Peru and Venezuela.
countrys leading email marketing business.
Latin America is a very attractive region We continued to strengthen our position economically for us and we are finding no as a trusted consumer brand for helping shortage of further opportunities in Brazil, individuals to manage their credit profile and where we are continuing to extend the range protect against the threat of identity theft.
of Experian products available and are now In the UK, our CreditExpert product helped preparing our clients for the legalised sharing grow our Interactive revenues in the region of positive credit data.
I am pleased to say that we also The Group has also continued its global reached an agreement to dispose of our nondiversification outside of financial services core businesses in comparison shopping with other industry sectors now representing and lead generation, maintaining the Groups 68% of our revenue.
Were building clear strategic focus on data and analytics.
substantial businesses in sectors such as Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 3 Constant product innovation underpins all lasting legacy for Experian.
Paul was always almost 3,500 hours.
Environmentally we have our activities, with over 10% of our revenue a generous mentor to his team and, in exceeded our three-year target, reducing generated from products developed in just liaison with his family, we are establishing an our energy from utilities as a proportion of the past five years.
Weve been investing in employee scholarship award in his name.
He revenue by 21%, while our ethical progress new data sources around the globe and in a is missed by everyone who knew him.
has been typified by achievements such major new Decision Analytics product suite, as the successful roll out of our new global P52 Strengthening our Board PowerCurve, which saw the successful code of conduct.
launch of the first phase last September.
Our Since the year-end, Brian Cassin has joined Our employees continue to astound us new Business IQ product in North America Experian as our new Chief Financial Officer.
by the strength of their commitment to is also transforming the way we deliver Brian was previously with Greenhill & Co, volunteering and fundraising for all manner business information to clients and were the global investment banking firm and of good causes.
And while we remain now set to introduce it to the UK.
has 20 years experience in the corporate focused on financial education and support financial advisory sector.
Brian was already for new entrepreneurs, our people are Engaging our workforce well known to us as a strategic advisor and also deeply connected to the issues of I am confident that he will make a great importance within their local communities.
Experians success owes a great deal contribution to Experian in the years ahead.
to the outstanding efforts of a very We are especially mindful of the committed workforce, which is why I am also pleased to tell you that the Board challenges that communities face in our the Groups ability to attract and inspire and its committees have been further emerging markets and this year our senior talented people has always been a priority strengthened by the appointment of Deirdre management conference takes place in for us.
Since the introduction of our annual Mahlan and George Rose as non-executive Mumbai where our leaders will see and Global People Survey in 2007, Experians directors from September 2012.
Both have experience a range of local social issues.
employee engagement scores have extensive boardroom experience and will We want to use this to give them a greater steadily improved and we are now intent bring a wealth of management and financial awareness of the wider social context for our on closing the remaining gap with global expertise to Experian.
I believe they have the business and its continued growth.
personal qualities and experience that are Listening to and taking account of the views important to us in continuing to create value A major Group-wide initiative is underway, of stakeholders underpins all our actions for our shareholders.
led by our CEO, Don Robert, to unite our and we have recently embarked upon a people around a common understanding In order to provide continuity following comprehensive stakeholder engagement of what makes Experian special and to Paul Brooks death, David Tyler has kindly project, involving shareholders, clients, ensure that these defining characteristics agreed to remain on the Board until suppliers, employees and our communities.
help shape every aspect of how we work 31 December 2012, when he will retire.
You can read about this and about our together across the world.
Weve called it David played a key role in the successful broader progress in Experians latest P18 the Heart of Experian and are using it to demerger of Experian in 2006 as the finance corporate responsibility report at strengthen the qualities that have made us director of our former parent company www.
who we are, while continuing to embrace and we are very grateful to him for his wise the diversity that is the hallmark of any counsel and support since then.
A business in excellent shape successful global business.
Experian has come a long way in less than P47 Recognising our responsibilities six years as a public company and this last Paul Brooks With growth comes an even greater year has again combined strong financial It was with the greatest sadness that we awareness of our wider social, ethical and performance with real strategic progress.
learnt of the death in January of Paul environmental responsibilities and we have Theres no doubt that the business is in Brooks, our Chief Financial Officer.
Paul was made good progress again on a number excellent shape today with a first class an immensely talented and inspirational of fronts.
The community programme management team and a colossal sense leader, who played a central role in building continues to grow and all our regions now of purpose.
I want to thank everyone at the Group we are today.
He was admired have employees engaged in raising funds Experian for all their hard work and to both inside and outside the Group as an and giving their time.
Volunteering overall, congratulate them on an outstanding exceptionally able CFO and leaves behind including time outside of normal working achievement.
a very strong finance team that will be a hours spent on Experian projects, was up by
