Overview Chairmans Statement A SUCCESSFUL YEAR Mark Abrahams IN MY FIRST FULL YEAR AS CHAIRMAN OF FENNER, I AM DELIGHTED TO Chairman REPORT ON THE PROGRESS MADE IN THE YEAR.
BOTH DIVISIONS OF THE GROUP HAVE PERFORMED WELL WHICH HAS RESULTED IN A RECORD FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE.
consumption following the extremely mild conveyor systems to the mining sector, Financial highlights winter and uneconomical pricing of natural furthers Fenner Dunlop's strategy of being Revenue increased by 16% to 830.6m with gas albeit coal stockpiles are slowly returning the supplier of choice for engineered conveyor predominantly strong demand levels from the to more normal levels with a recovery in US solutions in Australia.
energy and mineral extraction sectors.
natural gas prices and increasing US coal Underlying operating profit reached a record export activity.
People level for the Group, advancing by 30% to During the year, we welcomed Vanda Murray 118.8m.
Operating profit also increased by Our strategic initiatives have progressed well.
to the Board as Senior Independent Director.
Following recent investments, global Her strengths lie in sales and marketing, manufacturing capabilities were leveraged to Underlying earnings per share increased by particularly in organisations with a wide meet customer demand patterns.
In 28% to 36.1p and basic earnings per share geographical reach, which complements the December 2011, the acquisition of Allison increased by 23% to 30.3p.
Custom Fabrication further strengthened our position as the leading provider of engineered Free cash flow generated amounted to At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in conveyor solutions in North American 63.0m.
From this, we were able to fund January 2013, David Buttfield will leave the markets.
34.3m for acquisitions and return 18.0m to Board after 10 years.
This includes extending shareholders in dividends whilst still reducing his tenure following the untimely and sad In the Advanced Engineered Products division, debt.
Our closing net debt was 97.7m 2011: death of David Campbell in 2010.
On behalf of growth was underpinned by strong demand 101.8m.
the Board, I would like to thank David for his from the oil and gas sector and investment to valuable contribution.
The latter In recognition of the increased quality of the includes initiatives to develop identified Groups earnings and our confidence in the I believe that our employees are critical to our growth markets, both organically and future, the Board is recommending an continued success.
I would like to take this acquisitively.
In September 2011, the increase in the final dividend to 7.0p per share opportunity to express my thanks to all our acquisition of Transeals enabled greater which gives a total dividend for the year of employees around the world for their access to the Australian mining and oil and 10.5p per share 2011: 8.0p, representing a commitment and dedication.
Governance In September 2012, after the year end, three Overview The growth, strength and resilience of Fenner bolt-on acquisitions were completed.
We have remained focused on our long-term is built on the bedrock of strong governance American Industrial Plastics complements strategy and shorter-term goals and have and high business standards.
These our existing capabilities and provides achieved significant progress in both areas.
principles remain part of our fundamental specialist expertise in precision machining of core values.
Norwegian Seals expands our In the Engineered Conveyor Solutions division, presence in oil and gas to the subsea sector.
we experienced strong trading conditions for During the year, the Board reviewed our policy Mandals, which produces lay-flat hoses, much of the year although construction on diversity which resulted in a Board provides high value added solutions to markets remained weak.
Our southern Diversity Statement being implemented.
The customers needs in fluid handling markets.
hemisphere and European operations Nomination Committee considers diversity in performed consistently well throughout the all forms when making appointments with the In October 2012, we exchanged contracts to year.
"In the latter months, we experienced best candidate being selected based on merit acquire Australian Conveyor Engineering some slowing of order intake from the coal ""ACE"" and expect to complete this regardless of gender, ethnicity or religious sector in our US operation as a result of the transaction at the end of November 2012. beliefs."
This philosophy on diversity runs re-alignment of customer output with ACE, which specialises in high capacity throughout the Group.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012 5 Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Overview The Board has made several site visits around We remain mindful of the current global the Group which included operations within economic uncertainty.
Given both anticipated the USA, the Netherlands and the UK.
These end market trends and the very strong first visits have helped to broaden the nonhalf last year, we expect our performance to executive directors knowledge of the Groups be more heavily weighted to the second half of business.
As a result of our investment programme over A detailed review of Corporate Governance recent years, Fenner is a much stronger and is set out on pages 31 to 39 more resilient business serving a more diverse customer base.
The fundamentals of our core markets underpin healthy, long-term Corporate Responsibility growth, and we continue to be encouraged by To Fenner, conducting business in an the number of identified opportunities for appropriate manner means delivering high sustained value creation.
standards of health and safety to provide safe working conditions, a respect for the environment in which we work and behaving with integrity.
As an organisation, we believe that being both a good neighbour and Mark Abrahams employer and having a positive influence in Chairman our communities will contribute to the sustainability of our business.
The Group Health & Safety Management System Framework is embedded worldwide and facilitates a continually improving health and safety culture.
Concern for the Groups impact on the environment is a fundamental part of our corporate business strategy as we contribute towards a sustainable future.
Our Code of Business Conduct sets out the behavioural standards expected of all employees.
The cornerstones of the Code are fairness, honesty and integrity.
A detailed review of Corporate Responsibility is set out on pages 50 to 56 Outlook The year just ended was one of excellent growth, delivering record results.
Reflecting this performance, the improved quality of the Groups earnings and our confidence in the future growth of the business, the Board is recommending a 31% increase in the dividend for the year.
Revenue Underlying operating profit Dividend per share 830.6m 118.8m 10.5p 16% 30% 31% 2011: 718.3m 2011: 91.4m 2011: 8.0p Financial performance measures described as underlying within this report are before amortisation of intangible assets acquired and, where applicable, notional interest.
Underlying earnings per share is based on the basic weighted average number of shares in issue.
