Chairmans statement During the year our portfolio continued to provide diversity, with separate businesses moving at different stages through the economic cycle.
Martin Gilbert Chairman tothe industry on our UK Bus business, the Group The Group, which has grown maintains market leading positions and across rapidlythrough a programme of our operations we are taking action to strengthen acquisitions over the past 20years, our businesses for the future.
We are the only is going through an important operator to have pre-qualified for all four of the rail phasein itsdevelopment.
franchises that have come to the market so far and believe that we are well placed to develop Under the leadership of Tim OToole there these and future opportunities from refranchising.
is a resolute focus to drive greater operating Therefore, at this time and reflecting our longer performance and discipline, increase term view, the Board remains committed to its management capability and harness our vast current policy of dividend growth through to the knowledge and expertise to attract customers end of the financial year 2012 13.
The Board has in ever greater numbers through the consistent proposed a final dividend per share, subject to and reliable provision of high quality, value for approval by shareholders, of 16.05p, an increase moneyservices.
of 7.0% making a full year payment of 23.67p.
During the year our portfolio continued to provide Thedividend is covered 1.7 times by adjusted diversity, with separate businesses moving at basic EPS and will be paid on 17 August 2012 different stages through the economic cycle.
toshareholders on the register at 13 July 2012.
While addressing the challenges of the current trading environment in certain markets in which we operate, management has a clear focus Dividends per share pence to create a stronger business and is taking Progressive dividend growth since 2004 the necessary action to ensure the Group is 23.67 firmly placed to deliver sustainable growth for 22.12 20.65 18.75 the longer term.
We continue to prioritise cash 17.05 15.50 generation to support capital investment, debt 14.10 12.81 11.65 reduction and dividend growth.
Dividend Notwithstanding the period of transition in UKRail and the impact of the current weak economic 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 environment and reduced Government funding 02 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Board Mick Barker joined the Board on 1 January 2012 On 14 May 2012 we announced the as Non-Executive Employee Director, replacing appointmentof Chris Surch as Group Martyn Williams who retired from the role at the FinanceDirector replacing Jeff Carr, who left end of his term on 31 December 2011.
We thank Martyn for his important contribution.
I would theGroup in November to take up the role of also like to welcome Mick to his new role and  of Royal Ahold NV Iam confident that he will continue to provide basedin the Netherlands.
valuable input to the Board on behalf of the Chris joins us from Shanks Group plc where Groups employees.
hehas been Group Finance Director since Outlook May2009.
Prior to joining Shanks he held Finally, on behalf of the Board I would like to seniorfinancial roles at Smiths Group plc extend our sincere thanks and gratitude to our andTIGroup plc.
He began his career at employees across the UK and North America.
 where he qualified Their professionalism and ongoing commitment asan accountant.
Together with a strong track to serving the 2.5 billion passengers that we record of financial leadership and budgetary transport each year is vital to our success now planning, he has extensive operational, strategic and for the future.
I am delighted to welcome Chris to the Board of FirstGroup and Iam confident that his considerable experience and record of achievement will be of great benefit Withexperienced to the Group.
It is anticipated that he will join the management that is focused Group on 1 September 2012.
We are grateful to Nick Chevis for his support and valuable oncreating a stronger contribution as Acting Finance Director.
business for the future, the We are reviewing Board composition and a Board is confident that the formal international search process is underway Group is well positioned to to recruit additional fully independent NonExecutive Directors to further strengthen the deliver sustainable long term Board and support the Group through this valueforshareholders.
important stage of its development.
During the year the following Board changes took place.
Sidney Barrie, Commercial Director, retired Notwithstanding the prolonged period of at the end of March.
Having joined the Board in economic uncertainty and the impact of 2005 he had a long association with theGroup, challenging trading conditions in certain in an advisory capacity, going back to the original areas in which we operate, the Group management and employee buy-out of GRT Bus has leading positions in its core markets.
Group PLC, and played a significant part in the Withexperienced management that is focused success of the Group over many years.
We thank oncreating a stronger business for the future, him forhiscontribution and wish him a long and the Board is confident that the Group is well happy retirement.
positioned to deliver sustainable long term valueforshareholders.
Audrey Baxter, Independent Non-Executive Director, stepped down from the Board on 31December Martin Gilbert 2011.
We thank Audrey for her support and Chairman advice since she joined the Board in 2006 and 23 May 2012 wewish her every success for the future.
Operating profit referred to throughout this document refers to operating profit before amortisation charges, ineffectiveness on financial derivatives, exceptional items, profit loss on disposal of properties and discontinued operations.
EBITDA is operating profit lesscapital grant amortisation plus depreciation.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 03
