Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012 Chairmans Letter As a stand-alone global specialty chemicals and materials Company, we now have the opportunity to demonstrate our position as the preferred supplier of high performance materials and chemistry to our customers.
Peter Hill, CBE Chairman 2011: 94.4m and adjusted Earnings Per right depth and mix of skills, experience, DEAR SHAREHOLDER Share EPS increasing 2.1% to 24.6p 2011: knowledge and independence to maximise 24.1p.
Adjusted cash generated from the opportunities for Alent and its INTRODUCTION operations was 86.0m 2011: 93.0m and shareholders.
The biographies of our Board I am privileged to introduce this first Annual represented a cash conversion of 88% of are set out on pages 44 to 45.
Report of Alent plc as an independent adjusted operating profit.
company, following the demerger of GOVERNANCE Cookson Group plc in December 2012.
In DIVIDEND The Board is committed to the principles of May 2012, the Cookson Board undertook As stated in the Alent Prospectus, the Board best practice in corporate governance.
We a strategic review which concluded that is recommending a final dividend of 5.5 act in accordance with the principles of the a demerger was the best option for pence per share, subject to shareholder UK Corporate Governance Code, issued maximising the value of the Cookson Group approval at the AGM on 21 May 2013. by the Financial Reporting Council, and and creating value for its shareholders.
Ultimate responsibility demerger was completed in December 2012 Alent is a cash generative business for the management of the Company rests and Alent is now listed on the London Stock with the opportunity for investments with the Board of Directors.
The Board Exchange and is a constituent of the FTSE to enhance its growth prospects, both focuses primarily upon strategic, policy and 250 in the Specialty Chemicals sector.
through organic investments including new governance issues, acting in accordance product development, and through bolt-on with the best interests of shareholders as a As a stand-alone global specialty chemicals acquisitions.
The Board intends to pursue a whole.
It also approves the Group strategy, and materials Company, we now have the progressive dividend policy that reects this oversees the allocation of resources and opportunity to demonstrate and to build on strategy, with dividend growth expected to monitors the Groups performance.
our position as the preferred supplier of high be at least in line with underlying earnings performance materials and chemistry across growth, targeting a dividend cover in the DIVERSITY the electronics, industrial and automotive near term within a range of 3.0 to 2.8 times.
The Board recognises the benets to the markets.
Company of diversity, both within our HEALTH, SAFETY, ENVIRONMENT & We set out in this report how we will execute operations and at Board level.
We support SUSTAINABILITY HSES and further develop our strategy.
We focus the Davies Review Women on Boards as on our existing specialist high growth The Board has overall responsibility for well as the Financial Reporting Councils end-markets while also developing new Alents HSES policy and for monitoring its statement on proposed changes to the ones, bringing to market new high-margin implementation.
While our activities in this Code relating to gender diversity on Boards.
products while continuing to enhance our important area continue to be of a high operational efficiencies and expanding our standard and there were no major incidents OUR PEOPLE OEM sales, while developing our technology during the year, as a new Company I look Finally, on behalf of the Board, I would like and innovation leadership.
We believe that forward to increased focus on this area.
to thank all of our people for the invaluable this strategy will result in our continuing to contribution they make to our continuing deliver value for our shareholders.
Alents growth and development Alent begins its new corporate life with over recent years is as a direct result of RESULTS what I believe to be a very strong and their persistent hard work, dedication and Alent improved its business fundamentals experienced Board, bringing together new achievement of results, and I believe we all and doubled its adjusted operating profit appointees as well as Directors with historical look forward with enthusiasm and confidence.
Despite a difficult macroknowledge of Alent and its industries.
Our economic environment in 2012, that growth management team in particular has many Peter Hill, CBE continued during the year with adjusted years of experience in our business and in Chairman operating profit increasing 3% to 97.2m our markets.
I believe the Board has the 28 March 2013 STOCK CODE: ALNT 03 OUR COMPANY
