14 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Chairmans statement F Fresniiillllllo p plllc moved d d st tead d diiillly y f f forward d d on execut tiiing g iiiiit t t ts s s s d d d d diiiiis s s sc c c ciiiiip p p p pllllliiiiin n n ne e e ed d d d d o o o or r r rg g g g ga a a an n n niiiiic c c c g g g g gr r r ro o o ow w w wt t t th h h h h s s s st t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gy y y y y, r r r re e e es s s su u u ulllllt t t tiiiiin n n ng g g g g iiiiin n n n r r re e ec c co o or r rd d d d g g g go o olllld d d d a a an n nd d d d s s st t t ta a ab b b blllle e es s siiiillllv v five e er r r p p p pr r ro o od d d du u uc c ct t t tiiiio o on n n. We were pleased to announce the appointment of Octavio Alvdrez I am pleased to report another year of good asFresnillo plcs new Chief Executive officer following the retirement of long-time CEO Jaime Lomeln.
Mr Alvdrez is an experienced and operational performance for Fresnillo plc, effective leader.
We are confident that he will build on the Companys which is particularly notable in a year of past achievements and, with Board guidance and the support of an outstanding executive team, lead Fresnillo to the next stage of growth challenges for the mining industry and and performance.
His first initiatives as CEO display a keen alignment management transitions in our Company.
with our values of operational excellence.
Market environment Precious metal miners faced volatile metal prices, higher production costs and growing social and environmental pressures.
The weak gold price of the first half of the year recovered during thesecond half of the year as central banks increased reserves andinvestors sought protection against economic uncertainty andpossible ination.
Demand also improved in certain markets suchas India and China.
As a result, the average realised gold price increased 5.6% over 2011, to US$1,674.1 per ounce.
After five months of continuous decline, the silver price hit a low of US$27.34 in July, from where it recovered some lost ground and closedthe year at US$30.2.
Physical purchases by investment funds provided support for silver prices, whilst lower industrial demand, thedebt crisis in the euro zone and weak economic growth in the United States limited the recovery.
The average realised price of silver was US$31.4per ounce, 9.8% lower than in 2011.
Across the industry, producers also faced an increased shortage of skilled labour and higher unit costs for operating materials such as explosives, tyres and reagents.
In addition, the global decline in new high grade ore deposits affected cash costs per ounce as miners continued to invest in lower grade, less economic deposits.
The industry also received additional and deserved scrutiny for its community and employee relations this year following a number oflabour conicts and social concerns.
Whilst our Group has long enjoyed productive and beneficial relationships at the local level, weare not immune to such risks and thus continue to prioritise community relations and investments in areas that reinforce the Alberto Baillres creation of stakeholder value.
Non-executive Chairman Average realised price US$ per ounce Gold Silver 1,674.
1 31.4 5.6% 9.8% Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements www.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 15 Advancing our strategy in precious metals 2012 2008 Debut on S S S S S S S Se e e e e e ea a a a a am m m m m mlllllllle e e e e e es s s s s s ss s s s s s s t t t t t t t tr r r r r ra a a a a an n n n n ns s s s s s siiiiiiiit t t t t t t tiiiiiiiio o o o o o on n n n n n London Stock Exchange o of f f n ne ew w C C CE E EO O O:: O O O Oc c c ct t t ta a a av v v viiiiio o o o A A A Alllllv v v vd d d d dr r r re e e ez z z z Adjusted revenue US$ Strategy and Governance My Board colleagues and I remain committed to prudent financial 2012 2011 policies that ensure sufficient cash on hand to invest in optimising existing operations, pursuing organic growth and early stage 2,287.2 million 2,307.4 million acquisition opportunities, as well as maintaining a healthy dividend stream.
The approach of our Board is to take the long view, with a value creation strategy that does not change with unpredictable 0.9% short-term shifts in market dynamics.
We conduct regular reviews ofthe Groups financial liquidity and future cash requirements, and willcontinue to make our capital allocation decisions accordingly.
It seems appropriate to reafrm the Groups value creation strategy aswe approach the fifth anniversary of the listing of Fresnillo plc Performance shares on the London Stock Exchange and at the mid-point of our Against this backdrop, Fresnillo plc moved steadily forward on ambitious 10-year growth targets.
We will continue to pursue executing its organic growth strategy, resulting in record gold and operational excellence and the disciplined development of new stable silver production.
The continued ramp-up of Saucito, combined projects by investing across price cycles, whilst bolstering the safety with the increase in the Silverstream volume, offset the anticipated and sustainability framework in which we operate.
Financial returns, decline in silver grades at Fresnillo.
Gold production benefited from the job creation and economic development of our local communities start-up of the Noche Buena mine which was completed on schedule must always be hallmarks of this strategy.
and on budget in March 2012, as well as increased contributions from We are not immune to a number of challenges, having grown from Cinega and Saucito.
The benets of our consolidation strategy in three operating mines in 2008 to six mines and a satellite today, three mining districts are evident in the efficiencies achieved in the andanother nine major projects expected to come on line in the next Herradura, Cinega and Fresnillo districts.
This pace of growth requires a skilled management team We are also pleased to report significant progress in continuing to capable of scaling up across all areas of the operation, from budgeting grow our strong ore resource base.
In addition to our extensive drilling and planning to talent management and government relations.
campaigns, we carried out underground development to confirm Since our UK listing and inclusion in the FTSE 100 index in 2008, we resources at San Julin, Orisyvo and Centauro Deep, completed the have also sought to build on the governance structures and processes pre-feasibility studies for Juanicipio and San Julin, and increased ore that were put in place at that time.
As our  Board reserves at most operations with particular success at Noche Buena Evaluation review demonstrated a year ago, we have a Board structure and Saucito.
The Groups production and project implementation and processes which are working effectively, although we have schedule is on track to meet our growth targets.
Furthermore, a large continued to seek ways to improve them during the past year.
number of prospects in early stage exploration, in both current Wehave made significant strides in recent years in areas such andnew districts, should ensure our longer term project pipeline.
asriskgovernance and anti-corruption policies and procedures, Fresnillo plc reported adjusted revenue of US$2,287.2 million in 2012, whilstmaking more measured but nevertheless significant progress down 0.9% from 2011, and EBITDA of US$1,311.5 million, 14.8% lower inother areas such as succession planning.
than in the previous year.
Attributable net profit, excluding Silverstream Notably in 2012, we appointed one new Independent Board Director, effects, was US$652.1 million, down 17.2%.
These gures reect the Ms Mara Asuncin Aramburuzabala, one Non-independent Nonchange in average silver prices, the anticipated natural decline in silver executive Director, Mr Alejandro Baillres, and welcomed former grades at the Fresnillo mine, and higher production costs, factors ChiefExecutive officer Mr Jaime Lomeln as a Non-executive Director.
which were partially mitigated by higher tonnages of ore processed, They bring a broad range of experience in Mexican and international higher gold prices and the devaluation of the Mexican peso against business that will broaden the perspectives of Board discussions, the US dollar.
Furthermore, cost control measures and efficiency andstrengthen the overall mix of skills and experience of the Board.
gainshelped maintain our position in the lower quartile of production cost curve.
Cash holdings totalled US$613.8 million at 31 December 2012, and withno debt on the balance sheet our capital funding options remain exible.
Miners have come under some pressure to take on more debtin a bid to increase shareholder returns, yet over the decades that I have worked in this industry, the idea of re-leveraging balance sheets has emerged with almost as much frequency as cyclical downturns and calls for fide-leveraging.
16 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Chairmans statement continued Advancing our investment in safety US$ 2009 2012 2.6m You will nd more information on ourHSECRsystem on pages 78-94 2011 5.2 million Risk capital investment US$ Sustainable development As a Board and through our HSECR Committee, we work to ensure 2012 2011 that the Group adheres to responsible and sustainable business practices.
I remain personally focused on the areas of safety and 318.9 million 179.0 million community relations as critical components of our licence to operate.
It is thus with profound regret that I report the six fatalities that 78.
There is nothing more important than ahuman life and we must strive to ensure that our workers and contractors are protected from injury and accidents.
The Board The Board has authorised a total budget of US$279.6 million to be reviewed each of these incidents as well as the actions taken by invested in exploration and early stage underground development management to bolster safety policies and training procedures.
in2013, a decrease of 12.3% over the US$318.9 million investment in Thereviews of safety performance are not perfunctory, with 2012.
As we look ahead to the second half of this decade and our 2018 remuneration tied in part to safety performance.
Whilst progress commitments, this investment reects our disciplined approach to hasclearly been made year over year, we must do better.
allocating risk capital to the continued profitable growth of the Group.
The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 42.4 US cents Outlook perOrdinary Share, which will be paid on 8 May 2013 to shareholders We expect market volatility to be a permanent factor in the on the register on 19 April 2013.
The dividend will be paid in UK pounds environment in which we operate, given an increasingly complex sterling unless shareholders elect to be paid in US dollars.
There is no certainty that thefundamentals will remain in place to support long-term demand I want to express my appreciation for the thoughtful participation and for both silver and gold, but we are well positioned to supply those timely contributions of my fellow Board members, and my deepest markets at competitive costs and profitable levels for our stakeholders.
gratitude to the people of Fresnillo for their daily efforts and demonstrated commitment to advancing the Companys strategy.
Fresnillo plc also benets from its primary and long-term operational presence in Mexico.
The countrys newly elected government seemskeen to retain and strengthen business friendly policies.
Mexico must still contend with such challenges as shortfalls in publicsecurity and education, but the political transition has been marked by an encouraging outreach to the private sector for shared opportunities to reinforce the economic foundations of the country.
Alberto Baillres I am confident that Fresnillo plc will continue to advance its proven Non-executive Chairman strategy in precious metals in 2013.
The dynamic leaching plant at Herradura will be commissioned during the year: construction has commenced at San Julin, opening up a significant new mining district, and is expected to remain on track: the expansion of Saucito has beenapproved and we will analyse the best way to further optimise production, including the potential construction of a plant to treat pyrites which would improve gold and silver recoveries.
Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements www.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 17 Strategic Review Herradura: We are evaluating an expansion of the To create value for stakeholders across mainpit and assessing the potential development precious metal cycles, we focus on ofanew underground mine.
high-potential silver and gold projects thatcanbe developed into low-cost, world-class mines.
Q&A with the Chief Executive 18 Market Overview 24 Our Business Model 28 Strategy and KPIs 33 Our risk management framework 46
