Overview Chairmans statement Building on strong foundations for the future As part of my planned introduction to the role of chairman, I have had the opportunity to visit a variety of the groups operations in different parts of the world and have met with many of its senior leaders in a range of forums.
I have been extremely impressed by the enthusiasm and professionalism of the groups managers.
I have also been able to meet most of the companys larger shareholders.
Keeping in touch with investors is an essential part of my role and I intend to maintain regular contact with them in future.
This is my first statement in a G4S annual report, Financial performance The macroeconomic conditions in many of our markets having taken over from Alf Duch-Pedersen as continue to be difficult.
In much of Europe, growth is nonchairman of the board in June last year.
Neither existent and the problems with US Government spending are well known.
Against this backdrop, the groups results Alf nor I appreciated then the extent of the in 2012 are strong, with good organic growth overall challenges the group would have to face during and excellent cash conversion.
Our wide geographical spread and involvement in developing markets with the second half of 2012.
However, although my higher GDP growth has stood us in good stead and in first few months in office were something of a developed markets where outsourcing trends are strong, we continue to make good progress.
In the light of this baptism of re in some respects, I am pleased to performance and in view of our confidence in the groups say that we have come through these difficulties strategy, the directors propose a final dividend of 5.54p DKK 0.473 per share, payable on 14 June 2013.
With and have learned a lot as well.
It is important an interim dividend of 3.42p DKK 0.322 per share paid to keep a sense of perspective too.
The group on 19 October 2012, the total dividend for the year will amount to 8.96p DKK 0.795 per share.
This represents operates in so many parts of the world, providing a5% increase on the total dividend for 2011. vital services to thousands of customers and doing Reputation and risk management so to the very highest standards.
This underlying No consideration of the companys performance in 2012 strength in depth is reected in the companys can ignore the Olympics contract.
It made headlines and brought us to the publics attention, especially in the UK, results for 2012. and for all the wrong reasons.
With help from PwC, the board conducted a thorough review of the circumstances surrounding the groups performance on delivering the Olympics contract to ensure that the reasons for the problems were properly understood and so that any necessary remedial actions could be indentied and taken.
It was very important to me as the new chairman, and to the whole board, that we took whatever steps were necessary to learn these lessons, no matter how painful this process might be.
We are satisfied that there was no systemic problem in the way that the group operated its business and that it was the unique nature of the Olympics contract and the compressed timeframe in which it had to be delivered which were at the heart of the groups failure to deliver all that it should have done on this occasion.
Nevertheless, we have introduced stronger mechanisms for reviewing risks in general and contract risk in particular, including lowering the value threshold for contracts requiring boardapproval.
06 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic review Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 20042012 total shareholder return performance Value p 400 Q G4S Q FTSE 100 index Q Peer group 300 8.96p Total dividend per share up 5% 200 100 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 The new, strengthened, Risk Committee will be a focus which the board needs and has taken account of the fact for this activity and a newly created chief operating that, over time, we will lose the skills and experience officer role will increase the ability of the executive team ofsome of our current board members as they retire to ensure that risk management is at the heart of key ormove on.
I am delighted therefore that we have been able to recruit The board review also concluded that there had been no Paul Spence and Adam Crozier and that we will shortly significant shortcomings in Nick Buckles performance, nor be joined by Tim Weller.
Their qualities will be invaluable any serious failings attributable to him in connection with to the board and to the group as we continue to develop the Olympics contract.
Consequently the board decided thebusiness.
it was in the companys and its stakeholders best interests that he should remain as our CEO.
I was and remain At the conclusion of this years AGM, and having served entirely confident that this was the right decision.
for nine years, both Paul Condon and Bo Lerenius will retire from the board.
The whole board will be sorry to Away from the media frenzy in the UK in the summer, see them go and I am very grateful for their support in the hundreds of thousands of the groups employees continued short time we have worked together.
to provide outstanding service levels in what can sometimes be difficult and occasionally dangerous circumstances.
Any As usual, the board conducted a review of its own objective assessment of the groups capabilities should of performance in 2012.
Taking account of the conclusions course be based on the excellent work which the group has of that review, the board has set itself a number of clear always provided and continued to provide throughout 2012. objectives for 2013 and I intend to report in future on We understand though that reputations are hard won and how the board has performed in relation to them.
sometimes too easily lost, so we are determined to repair the damage the group suffered in the summer by continuing The future to do what we do best and doing it well.
Rebuilding the 2013 will be a time of both change and consolidation for trust and confidence of the UK Government in G4S is an the group.
There have been a number of changes at both essential part of that process of course and the settlement board and group executive committee level and there with the organising committee of the Olympic Games and will be new challenges involved in making our new risk recent contract awards by UK public bodies are indeed management processes a seamless part of the way we good news.
operate and in ensuring that our services always meet orexceed our customers expectations.
The board 2012 saw change on the board, with the retirement of Alf The group will however continue to grow and develop Duch-Pedersen and my appointment as his replacement.
and I have learned in the short time that I have been I would like to thank Alf for his service to the group, both involved with the company that, in this aim, it is well as chairman since 2006 and before that as a director of served by dedicated and professional employees all over the company and its predecessors.
a board is not just a corporate governance nicety, it is also vitally important if a board is to function as effectively John Connolly as possible.
The Nomination Committee has therefore Chairman considered carefully the range of skills and experience G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 07
