PERFORMANCE 04 05 Chairmans statement Delivering value for shareholders BOE SJTL NBOBHFS IBT KPJOFE UIF CVTJOFTT Performance and dividend Strategy Conclusion and outlook helping us to enhance our risk management With the housebuilding expansion plan now This years excellent performance sets The Group achieved an outstanding financial processes.
Risk will remain an important performance during the year, with significant complete, the board intends to continue to the baseline for the future.
The board has focus for the board going forward.
increases in revenues and profits and a focus this business on the regions and a clear strategy in both housebuilding and strong financial position at the year end.
market segments where it has significant construction, which will serve us well in the We continue to follow the debate regarding expertise and experience.
This will deliver market conditions we expect to face in the executive remuneration and rmly support This is the result of our three-year disciplined growth and allow us to expand coming years.
the view that pay should reect performance.
"housebuilding expansion plan coming to margins, while at the same time increasing The board believes that Galliford Try has the GSVJUJPO ""U UIF UJNF PG PVS SJHIUT JTTVF JO the Groups cash generation and supporting The Group is nancially robust, has a right structures in place to align our executive many considered this plan to be ambitious."
The housing market unique business model and real competitive teams rewards with shareholders interests remains robust in the South East and the strengths throughout its operations.
This Its successful delivery is testament to the and the long term success of the business.
vision and skill of Greg Fitzgerald and our board believes the new strategy will stand gives us a sound platform from which we executive team.
It also reects our prudent us in good stead in these conditions.
People approach in construction, where we continue Galliford Try could not have achieved its UP GPDVT PO QSPKFDUT UIBU BMMPX VT UP BDIJFWF The strategy in construction is unchanged.
recent performance without the skills, acceptable margins and generate cash.
With markets remaining challenging, we will hard work and dedication of our people.
continue to focus on delivering margin and The growth in housebuilding and the The Groups strong financial performance has cash, with a view to resuming growth when continued good performance in construction MFE UP BO JODSFBTF JO FBSOJOHT QFS TIBSF markets recover.
Ian Coull reect their efforts, and I thank them on the Chairman This higher level of earnings, coupled with the boards behalf.
expected rise in cash generation resulting Our hybrid business model operating both from the new housebuilding strategy housebuilding and construction businesses During the year, our company secretary discussed below, gives us the opportunity to has been highly successful for us in recent Richard Barraclough retired after 22 years signicantly increase the dividend payout.
As always, the board will ensure that the with the Group.
Frank Nelson, our finance way our business model develops and adapts director, also announced his intention to retire The board is therefore recommending a to meet the changing business environment at the end of September 2012, by which time final dividend of 21 pence per share, to be continues to deliver best value to shareholders.
he will have completed 25 years with us.
paid on 16 November 2012 to shareholders Both have made a significant contribution on the register at 5 October 2012.
Together Governance to Galliford Try and we wish them well for XJUI UIF JOUFSJN EJWJEFOE PG QFODF QFS TIBSF I am pleased to report that the standard the future.
this gives a total dividend of 30 pence for of corporate governance in Galliford Try UIF ZFBS VQ DPNQBSFE XJUI MBTU ZFBS remains high.
Although the Company was With excellent performance, a disciplined The board was delighted to welcome The total dividend is approximately twice not a member of the FTSE 350 at the start of strategy and an increased and sustainable Kevin Corbett as company secretary and covered by earnings.
The board will pursue the financial year, we were already following dividend, Galliford Try is well placed to legal director, and a member of our executive a progressive and sustainable policy for future best practice for FTSE 350 companies generate further value for shareholders.
"CPBSE, FWJO KPJOFE VT GSPN ""&$0."
and complying with the UK Corporate where he was Chief Counsel, Global.
Our subsequent return to the FTSE 350 in October 2011 did not Later in the financial year, Graham Prothero therefore require us to make any changes XJMM KPJO UIF CPBSE BT mOBODF EJSFDUPS BOE XF to our governance practices.
have put interim arrangements in place until UIFO SBIBN KPJOT VT GSPN %FWFMPQNFOU During the year, the board spent considerable Securities PLC, where he is Finance Director.
time considering the Groups approach to risk management.
An experienced internal audit Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 PERFORMANCE 06 07 Chief executives review Achieving our strategic objectives This strategy will enhance the quality of our Group is a good place for our people to Strategy and progress earnings and improve our cash ow, enabling develop their careers.
We value long service O XF TFU BO BNCJUJPVT HPBM PG EPVCMJOH us to pay the substantially increased dividend and have numerous employees who have the size of our housebuilding division by 2012. described by the chairman on page 04. been with us for many years.
The aim was to create a business that could deliver around 3,000 units a year, requiring us Sustainability Part of our attraction as an employer is our to build up our management resources and straightforward, people-oriented culture.
We The importance of sustainability to our strengthen our market position in the south of aim to treat our people and clients fairly, and business is reected in our vision: to be the country, by investing the proceeds of our to live by a strong set of values: excellence, leaders in the construction of a sustainable SJHIUT JTTVF JO BUUSBDUJWF TJUFT passion, integrity and collaboration.
We recognise that our long term effective way of embedding these values is success depends on contributing I am delighted to report that we have for our employees to see them in action, in economically, environmentally and socially achieved everything we set out to do the day-to-day decisions we take throughout to the communities in which we operate.
BOE NPSF O XF EFMJWFSFE VOJUT the business and in the way we interact with of housing and the Group achieved a profit each other.
We also make sure that we share More and more, the innovative solutions CFGPSF UBY PG b NJMMJPO BIFBE PG UIF our success stories, to reinforce our values we offer to our construction clients make b NJMMJPO XF UBSHFUFE CBDL JO and spread good practices.
an important contribution to their sustainability.
In housebuilding, we help Our new strategy for housebuilding will deliver Outlook create vibrant communities and provide disciplined growth, focusing on the more properties that meet or exceed strict Both housebuilding and construction are in robust southern market, where we currently environmental standards.
As in previous strong positions with clear strategies going IBWF BSPVOE PG PVS CVTJOFTT 5IJT XJMM years, we received excellent feedback in forward and are well placed to benefit from allow us to: our customer surveys in both businesses.
opportunities in their respective markets.
t leverage our Linden Homes brand, which At the year end, housebuilding had secured is recognised for high-quality, individually Sustainability also means that we must all the land it will need for 2013 and around EFTJHOFE EFWFMPQNFOUT work in the right way.
Galliford Try has PG JUT SFRVJSFNFOUT 5IF CVTJOFTT t GPDVT PO QSJNF TJUFT JO QSJNF MPDBUJPOT industry leading levels of health and safety also had a good level of sales in hand, at t boost our strategic land development and we continue to look for ways to do b NJMMJPO BDUJWJUJFT better.
During the year, for example, we t minimise our reliance on consortium launched a dynamic new brand, toolkit $POTUSVDUJPO FOKPZT HPPE MFWFMT PG WJTJCJMJUZ PS NBKPS HSFFOmFME TJUFT and coaching for our behavioural safety IBWJOH TFDVSFE PG JUT QSPKFDUFE XPSLMPBE t reduce our execution risk, by focusing on programme called Challenging Beliefs, for 2013 whilst maintaining its order book at areas with greater demand and higher This year saw us exceed our three-year Affecting Behaviour.
b CJMMJPO XJMM CF POF PG UIF QFBL TFMMJOH QSJDFT BOE housebuilding growth plan and deliver a years for work in the water sector under the t increase our housebuilding margins, by further solid performance in construction.
We also made further progress with our AMP5 frameworks, which will help offset maximising the efficiency and effectiveness Both businesses have strong positions environmental performance.
Having set lower activity in other construction markets.
We are aiming to add and the right strategies to succeed.
B UBSHFU PG B SFEVDUJPO JO PVS DBSCPO an incremental three percentage points to emissions intensity by the end of 2013, We welcome the Governments initiatives our housebuilding operating margin by the we were pleased to have achieved an to stimulate housebuilding and the end of 2015.
This will be mainly realised on SFEVDUJPO CZ UIF FOE PG construction market.
new sites with the margin benefit coming through more strongly in the financial year More information about our approach to Overall, we are pleased with the Groups 2014 2015 and beyond.
sustainability and performance can be found position as we enter the next financial year on pages 36 to 41 and in our separate with the board confident about the In construction, we expected conditions to be sustainability report.
opportunity to deliver further growth difficult and we were proved right.
Our strategy and create further shareholder value.
continues to be based on winning work in People and culture markets where there are barriers to entry and I want to sincerely thank everyone in Galliford we are able to add value for our clients, thus Try for their hard work and contribution to earning an appropriate margin.
In the context our success this year.
Conditions have often of difficult markets, construction had an been tough but the Group is resilient and encouraging year and met our expectations, Greg Fitzgerald nancially sound and our reputation is as winning a number of important contracts.
Chief Executive strong as it has ever been.
I believe that the We believe that we are well positioned to resume growth when markets allow.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
