"""# Chairmans statement GKNs excellent position in global markets across its businesses, a strong focus on technology, together with a culture of operational excellence, provide a solid platform from which to continue our strategic progress."
In my first Chairmans statement, I am pleased to report that 2012 was a year of strong progress for GKN from both an operational A year of and a strategic perspective.
strong progress Results We delivered an excellent set of results with management sales increasing to 6.9 billion, reflecting organic sales growth of 6%.
This was a very pleasing achievement in a year which saw uncertainty in many of our markets.
Management profit before tax for the year increased 19% to 497 million and we continued to make progress on improving the Group trading margin which increased to 8.1%.
Management earnings per share were 26.5p, an increase of 17% over the prior year.
In light of this strong performance and our confidence in the Groups prospects, the Board is recommending to shareholders an increased final dividend of 4.8p per share which will bring the dividend for the year to 7.2p.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012.
0N Our people Strategic progress Such a strong financial performance would not have been During the year we made significant progress towards our possible without the hard work and commitment of our strategic objectives.
On 1 October we completed the acquisition 48,000 employees worldwide.
On behalf of the Board, I would of Volvo Aero, the aero engine division of AB Volvo, a leading like to thank them all for their contribution during 2012. designer and producer of aero engine components.
Combining the lightweight metallic technologies of this new business with GKNs existing expertise in composites has The Board created an aerospace business which is more balanced The Boards commitment to high standards of corporate between structures and engine products and which is well governance is unwavering and our procedures are described positioned to benefit from the expected long term growth in in some detail in the corporate governance report on pages the civil aerospace market.
A key governance issue is ensuring that the Board comprises a diverse group of strong individuals who In GKN Driveline, following the acquisition in 2011 of Getrag collectively bring a mix of skills, experience and knowledge Driveline Products, our all-wheel drive AWD business is now to the boardroom.
I believe that these criteria are clearly fully integrated into our global driveline systems platform: our reflected in the composition of the GKN Board which we objective is to exploit our technology and leadership position strengthened further at the beginning of 2013 with the to drive further growth in AWD.
appointment of Angus Cockburn, Finance Director of Aggreko Our Powder Metallurgy business has also made good progress plc, as a non-executive Director.
Angus experience of in expanding Design for PM applications with significant international business and his financial background will potential for future growth.
provide significant expertise both to the Board and to the Audit Committee.
Building on the 2011 acquisition of Stromag, GKN Land Systems has broadened its capability in power management John Sheldrick, who has been a non-executive Director of the applications.
Company since December 2004 and Chairman of the Audit Committee since January 2006, is retiring from the Board at the annual general meeting on 2 May 2013.
On behalf of the The future Board I would like to take this opportunity to thank John for GKNs excellent position in global markets across its his contribution to the Board since 2004 and in particular his businesses, a strong focus on technology, together with a exemplary chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
We were culture of operational excellence, provide a solid platform pleased to announce the appointment of Shonaid Jemmettfrom which to continue our strategic progress and deliver long Page as Chairman of the Audit Committee to succeed John.
I look forward to the future with Shonaid has been a non-executive Director since June 2010 confidence.
and her strong financial experience and knowledge of the Group make her ideally suited for the role.
With a strong executive team and a good balance of executive and non-executive knowledge and experience on the Board, I am firmly of the view that we will continue to build on the success of the Company and make further progress on our Mike Turner CBE strategic objectives to the advantage of all our stakeholders.
Chairman Finally on Board matters, Roy Brown retired at the AGM in May after 16 years as a non-executive Director, eight of those as Chairman of the Company.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank him formally for both his commitment and his contribution to the Group over that period.
I was delighted to succeed Roy as Chairman at such an exciting time in the Groups development.
