2 GSK Annual Report 2012 Chairmans statement Despite a challenging environment, I believe 2012 marked another year of progress for GSK in the delivery of our strategy and in generating more sustainable returns to shareholders Over the past five years, under Sir We continue to make changes to Andrews leadership, the Group has been the Board as we plan for the future fundamentally changing to improve and implement proactive succession growth prospects, reduce risk and deliver planning.
I would like to thank both Sir enhanced returns to shareholders.
Crispin Davis, who is standing down at this years AGM, and Larry Culp, who The benets of this strategy were retired from the Board in September, for evident during the year, with strong their outstanding contributions over performances in our emerging markets, recent years.
and other growth businesses offsetting much of the impact of the signicantly In April, we appointed Lynn Elsenhans worsening outlook in Europe.
At the same and Jing Ulrich as Non-Executive time, GSKs R&D organisation delivered Directors.
Respectively Lynn and Jing unparalleled output with six key new have brought experience running global products submitted for approval and there companies and deep knowledge of is growing evidence that we can replenish emerging markets to Board discussions.
the late stage pipeline on a sustainable Additionally in January, we announced basis.
This is clearly of critical importance that Hans Wijers, currently chairman to the longer-term prospects of the Group.
designate of Heineken and previously CEO of Akzo Nobel, will join GSK as Ultimately the aim of our strategy is to a Non-Executive Director from this deliver sustainable earnings per share years AGM.
growth EPS and improved returns to shareholders.
GSK delivered at core EPS I would also like to thank Sir Robert of 112.7p but returned 6.3 billion to Wilson for agreeing to remain on the shareholders via dividends and buybacks Board for an additional year to provide in 2012.
This brings to nearly 25 billion continuity and advice as new Board the amount returned to shareholders members settle into their roles.
since Sir Andrew joined the Board at the We have now met our original aspiration start of 2008. to have more than 25% female Operating in a responsible and ethical representation on the Board by 2013, and way is essential for the commercial we remain committed to continuing to success of GSK.
As Chairman of the improve geographic and gender diversity Corporate Responsibility Committee, I at Board level.
was pleased to see the continued progress In summary, while our operating during the year in our efforts to improve environment remains challenging, global access to our medicines, with it is also not without substantial further agreements reached to supply our opportunity for companies that deliver vaccines to the worlds poorest countries innovation and act with responsibility.
at low prices and to encourage research The Board has every confidence in the into neglected diseases.
The Group also strength and resilience of Sir Andrew took industry-leading steps to improve and his senior management team, and transparency of its clinical trial research.
believes the Group is taking all the Oversight and management of risk necessary steps to build a stronger GSK remains a key focus for the Board.
that can generate sustainable value for In July 2012, the Group successfully shareholders and society.
resolved a series of long-standing legal matters with the US Government.
These primarily related to historical sales and marketing practices.
The Board recognises that these matters do not reect the company that GSK is today.
Fundamental changes have been made to compliance, marketing and Sir Christopher Gent Chairman selling procedures in recent years and significant progress made to embed a culture in the company that puts patients first and demands integrity in all behaviours and activities.
