10 Review of the year ChAIrMANS STATeMeNT ANOTher SuCCeSSFul yeAr This year has seen substantial growth in sales, profits andearnings.
We are recommending a final dividend of18.1pper share, up 7.7% onlast year.
During the year, Governance we also acquired a further 13 pubs for This has been another very successful The board sets itself high standards year for Greene King with substantial 18.7m and exchanged or completed ofcorporate governance, supported on16additional sites for development, growth in sales, profits and earnings.
byitsnomination, remuneration and Revenues were up 9.4% to a record which are spread up and down the country.
The details of our 1,140.4m with operating profit before compliance with the UK Corporate exceptionals at 236.2m, up 6.4%.
Profit Governance Code, on which we are Disposals before tax and exceptional items was a reporting for the first time, are contained In line with our strategy to reduce the record 152.0m, up 8.6%, and adjusted in the corporate governance statement.
size of our tenanted and leased estate, earnings per share was up 10.0% at 53.0p.
wedisposed of 115 non-core pubs and other properties during the period for People Dividend 29.9m, marginally ahead of the book Our consistent delivery of industry-leading value of the assets concerned.
A strong second half of the financial year, value, service and quality would not supported by confidence in the companys bepossible without the talented and future, has led the board to recommend a industrious people who work in our pubs, Board final dividend of 18.1p per share, up 7.7% our brewing operations and at our head In July, we were pleased to welcome on last year.
This takes the total dividend office.
I would like to express my sincere MikeCoupe to our board as a non-executive for the year to 24.8p per share, up 7.4%.
thanks to them all for their efforts and director.
He is the group commercial The final dividend is expected to be paid their achievements, both individually director of J Sainsbury plc and brings on 10 September 2012 to those shareholders andcollectively, in delivering another valuable executive multi-site retailing on the register at the close of business on year of significant progress for Greene King.
We face the future with great confidence in the ability of our team.
We welcomed Matthew Fearn to the company as group finance director Acquisitions As part of our Retail expansion strategy, inSeptember.
He was previously withBrakes Group, fide Vere Group plc we completed the acquisition of Capital Pub Company in September for 96.0m.
andWhitbread plc and has a wealth ofsector-related experience.
At the time of the acquisition, Capital Tim Bridge had33 high quality, largely freehold sites Chairman 27 June 2012 Greene King plc Annual report 2012 3 gnk ar12 front RB RB.
