06 Introduction Chairmans Statement The key to the success of Halfords is, and will continue to be, our service ethic and our service offerings backed up by the very best product ranges.
Dennis Millard Chairman This has been a challenging year for the UK consumer and the Friend of the Motorist Halfords was not immune to this difficult trading environment.
the Best Cycle Shop in Town Our customers have tightened their purse strings in response to increased taxes, an uncertain employment landscape and a lack the Starting Point for Great Getaways of confidence in the face of recessionary conditions for much of The underlying shift in emphasis of the strategy is recognition of the year.
Our automotive customers were particularly hard hit by the changes in customer preferences and the opportunities it continued rises in fuel prices to unprecedented levels and by presents for Halfords.
The strategy plays to the strengths of further increases in motor insurance which, in turn, was reflected Halfords, recognises and addresses the opportunities and by a decrease in miles driven in the UK.
There were, however, challenges and underscores the uniqueness of the Groups range some bright spots and we made good progress in our key of products and services, its heritage and strong brand.
growth areas, Car Maintenance parts fitting, Autocentres and Importantly, it sets out a clear direction of travel for all of our Cycling, where the market continued to grow as more people stakeholders.
The strategy will seek to accelerate the transition recognised both the pleasure and beneficial health aspects of of Halfords from a traditional retailer to a contemporary provider cycling.
Against this backdrop, Group revenue declined by 0.8% with Targeted investments in the key enablers of the strategy our Retail down 2.3%, partly offset by strong growth from Retail store and Autocentre portfolio, IT and operating systems, Autocentres where revenue grew by 12.9%.
An adverse mix web offerings, marketing and, most importantly, in our people effect and input cost pressures for Retail and an increase in lower have been and are being mapped out and will commence in margin tyre sales by Autocentres resulted in an overall 100 basis the year ahead.
However, the transition will unfold more fully over point decrease in the Groups gross margin.
Our Retail cost base the years ahead to ensure that we have a business that is fit for was closely managed but upward pressure on occupation, purpose for many, many years to come.
staffing and support costs, albeit mitigated by lower warehouse and distribution costs, resulted in a 3.6% rise in operating costs, The backbone of the business and the key to the success of whereas those of Autocentres rose in line with revenue growth.
Halfords is, and will continue to be, our service ethic and our As a result, Group underlying profit before tax was down 26.6% service offerings, backed by the very best product ranges.
will be relentless in our pursuit of service excellence and the mantras Helpful and Trust.
Without this, our strategy and A pleasing feature of the year was the Groups continued robust customer proposition will not resonate with our customers.
cash flow performance with free cash flow, before dividends and Management will strive to ensure that every member of the capital transactions, of 70.4m being generated.
This enabled Halfords Group is attuned to this message.
I am sure that the the Board to recommend an unchanged final dividend of 14.0 12,000 colleagues in our Retail and Autocentres businesses and pence per share which would amount to 22.0 pence for the year, Head Office will rise to the challenge.
In this regard, the Board 1.53 times covered by earnings per share of 33.7 pence and 1.6 thanks them for their dedication in this difficult trading year and is times by free cash flow.
In addition, a share buyback programme confident that they will continue to focus on delivery of the very was initiated in April 2011 with 62.3m being outlaid in the best products and services to our customers.
In total, 106.5m was returned to shareholders in the period and, with a Net Debt:EBITDA ratio of 1.1 at 30 March This year, our Chief Executive, David Wild, set out to build a 2012, the Groups financial position remains sound.
management team of contemporary skills and experience that would be best suited to face the challenges ahead.
He has During the year, management embarked upon a deep and succeeded in doing so and the Board would like to thank David wide-ranging review of the business, its strengths, weaknesses, and his team for managing a difficult trading environment with opportunities and threats.
The Board has been an integral part of some skill whilst dedicating much time and effort to crafting the this process: contributing, challenging and supporting the output.
strategy and plans for the future.
Lastly, I would like to thank my The resultant vision for Halfords to Help and Inspire our Board colleagues for their support and for their passion to help Customers with their Life on the Move is underpinned by three Halfords achieve the very best for its shareholders.
pillars of the strategy: 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Halfords Group plc Online version 07 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012 halfords.
com cs Since the beginning of the year, economic conditions have remained difficult and the uncertain and worrying situation in the Eurozone has cast a cloud over the UK economy.
In addition, the record rains in April and early May have dampened the normal early spring spending on Leisure products which has affected our business.
Nevertheless, we believe that our colleagues will be able to meet the inevitable challenges in the year ahead and that the execution of our strategy means Halfords is in good stead to grow the business in the years thereafter.
Dennis Millard Chairman 30 May 2012 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Financials Governance Resources Business Review Introduction 08 Business Review 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Halfords Group plc Online version 09 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012 halfords.
com BUSINESS REVIEW About Halfords Market Review 10 Group Strategy 12 Strategic Pillars 14 Shareholder KPIs 16 Retail KPIs 18 Autocentre KPIs 20 People Powering the Next Generation 22 Performance Chief Executives Review 26 Finance Directors Report 34 Risks and Uncertainties 40 Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Report 44 Read online: halfords.
com br 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Financials Governance Resources Business Review Introduction
