04 Hays PLC AnnuAl RepoRt & FinAnciAl StAtementS 2012 chaIrmans statEmEnt balancIng profItabIlIty In todays complEx world wIth InvEstmEnt to dElIvEr our long-tErm goals and we propose to pay a final dividend of appropriately reflects the way the Group is 1.67 pence, which is in line with our onedeveloping, and is fully aligned to the focus third two-thirds split, and results in a full and goals of our executive management team.
year dividend of 2.5 pence, down 57% on pEoplE the previous level.
Over the last year I have continued to The Board fully understands the importance travel and meet our people around the to shareholders of paying a sustainable and Group.
What strikes me above all is their progressive dividend.
We believe that future professionalism and their focus on solving dividends should be covered by earnings in the challenges of our clients and candidates 3 the range 2.0x 3.0x and we are committed around the world.
Our people are undoubtedly to growing the dividend when cover sustainably our key asset and over the past year we have 3 reaches 2.5x.
continued to welcome new experts into the Group, as well as opening new Hays businesses govErnancE and board in Chile, Colombia and Malaysia our 33rd As Chairman, one of my primary country.
I am convinced that the long-term responsibilities is to ensure that the Group opportunities for growth we offer, as well operates to the highest standards in all as the unrivalled support and development alan thomson Chairman aspects of governance and risk management.
opportunities available, mean that our We are making good progress in broadening people will continue to find Hays a place our corporate responsibility programme.
This year the Group has where they can forge exciting and rewarding When I joined Hays in late 2010, it was clear careers.
I would like to personally thank them delivered good organic fee and to me that the Group takes all of these all for their hard work and commitment aspects very seriously and this remains the profit growth in the context of throughout the year.
Transparency is central to this, and an increasingly uncertain you will find more detail about our approach summary economic environment.
and progress over the last year in the We have continued to make significant governance section starting on page 34, progress in 2012.
The fast-changing 1 Group net fees increased by 8% in 2012 andin our separately published Corporate economic backdrop we have faced has as we benefited from the diversity of the Responsibility Report.
meant that we have had to become more Groups operations both by geography and selective about areas of investment to I was delighted to welcome Pippa Wicks specialism.
Management focus throughout ensure that we maximise opportunities to the Board as a non-executive director on the year has been on defending the Groups for growth whilst defending the financial 1 January 2012.
Pippa is a member of the financial performance in more challenging performance of the Group.
For as long as the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration markets, whilst selectively investing for economic outlook remains uncertain, we will Committees and is currently Managing growth in more buoyant areas.
As a result, continue with this approach.
Longer term, Director at AlixPartners.
She brings with her a the Group delivered good growth in the structural growth opportunities for our wealth of experience and, along with Victoria 1 2 underlying operating profits of 9%, whilst industry remain undiminished and the Board Jarman who joined our Board in October 2011 3 earnings per share increased by 5% and will continue to focus on ensuring that the and who I introduced in last years Annual our cash flow performance was excellent.
Group takes full advantage of them.
Report, has had an immediate positive impact.
dIvIdEnd At this years Annual General Meeting, Paul alan thomson Increased global economic uncertainty Stoneham will be retiring as a non-executive Chairman slowed the pace of the Groups profit growth director having served on the Board for as the first half progressed and as a result furthEr InformatIon eightyears.
Iwould like to thank Paul for his first half operating profit was only 2% commitment and contribution in that time.
P. 34 For more detail go to our Corporate sequentially higher than the previous half.
It is critical that the make-up of the Board Governance report Considering this, and the Boards view at reflects not only the shape of our business that time regarding likely growth in Group For more detail on our approach to today, but also evolves to reflect what is profitability in the second half of the year, we corporate responsibility visit a fast-paced, structural growth industry.
com  decided that, whilst the dividend remained Whether that is in terms of responding affordable, it was no longer appropriate to to the development of new media and 1 L FL like-for-like growth represents organic growth maintain it at its previous level, which had technology, understanding the changing of continuing activities at constant currency, before been uncovered by earnings for two years.
needs of our clients or reflecting the rapid 2 2011 figure is before exceptional credit of 4.1 million.
We therefore took the very difficult decision internationalisation of the business, my focus 3 Earnings per share, from continuing operations only, in February to reduce the interim dividend is on ensuring that the make-up of the Board before exceptional items.
