16 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Chairmans statement 2012 provided the mining industry with a number of challenges to which our team has responded with energy and confidence.
In 2012, we produced 13.6 million attributable ounces of silver and 111.8 thousand attributable ounces of gold, a total of approximately 20.3 million attributable silver equivalent ounces.
region of $400 million with earnings per 2012 Overview share of $0.19.
The Board has decided 2012 has provided the mining industry to maintain the total dividend at 6 cents with a number of challenges to which per share.
This balances Hochschilds I believe our team has responded strong financial position and outstanding with energy and confidence.
The near-term potential for significant outperformance of the Companys share earnings growth with the Companys price over the course of the year was short-term capital expenditure evidence that a growing number of commitments as well as current stakeholders agreed that our organic industry-wide pressures.
growth pipeline represents the best opportunity to generate long-term In November, we announced the purchase sustainable shareholder value.
This of Andina Minerals, our first sizeable resilience in the face of continuing global acquisition since 2009.
I am confident that economic uncertainty is testament to our we have secured an attractive opportunity achievements in meeting our production at a purchase price signicantly below targets once again, making considerable recent comparable transactions.
The move progress with our Advanced Projects into large scale gold assets is entirely despite the delays caused by changes consistent with our long-standing in the Peruvian permitting process and Company Maker exploration strategy.
identifying and executing acquisitions Our Board has already visited the site such as Andina Minerals with and whilst there are undeniable potential long-term potential for significant challenges in bringing the deposit into value enhancement.
production, the Volcan project represents a viable option to diversify our asset base In 2012, we generated revenue of just over by building a strong presence in a very A worker at the Arcata mine $800 million leading to EBITDA in the prospective area of Northern Chile in the long term.
Our organic growth strategy continued to unfold during 2012 and during the year we approved two feasibility studies and subsequently made excellent progress at our two Advanced Projects with significant targets met in procurement, engineering and construction and also in both projects social development programmes.
We did experience delays in the process of obtaining the final construction permits but I remain excited by the potential of these projects to increase our current production levels by 50% and also the significant exploration upside opportunity at Inmaculada.
Our exploration-led strategy and the current capital constrained industry environment require that disciplined resource allocation and effective risk management be inherent in all our initiatives across the four countries that A view from the Crespo Advanced Project Business review p14-61 www.
We have ensured that we are Digital City where we dedicated performance and our growth opportunities not only focusing our exploration capital signi cant financial and human clearly show that we are on the right on the most promising prospects, but resources to create a digital hub at track and in 2013 we can expect further also that we retain the discipline to exit the town of Chalhuanca located close progress on the development of our or farm-out deposits or prospects that to our operations at Pallancata.
In addition, there do not clear a fide ned set of hurdles.
The project sought to improve access to is signi cant potential and indeed the year saw meaningful progress at many education and to encourage economic financial strength to continue to add of our projects both in the Company Maker sustainability through the installation of optionality to our extensive project pipeline and Medium Scale categories, and I am free internet access for the whole town.
through organic development or further con dent that we will begin to witness the Further details of all of these initiatives value enhancing acquisitions.
bene ts of our green eld investment as will be provided in the Annual Report.
Board composition well as further success in brown eld On the issue of safety, we continue to I am delighted that we were able to exploration.
I rmly believe this is the key make progress with an 8% reduction announce during the year the appointment to creating long-term shareholder value.
in the Groups accident frequency rate.
of Enrico Bombieri as an Independent However, there is still a lot more work to Operating responsibly Non-Executive Director.
Enrico brings be done as, most regrettably, there were Underpinning our strategy is our a wealth of global capital markets four fatalities at our operations during commitment to operate responsibly.
experience from his previous roles as 2012.
In keeping with Group practice, During 2012, Hochschild Mining was a senior member of management at all mining activity was suspended granted the Socially Responsible JP Morgan.
I would also like to take this immediately after each incident while Company accreditation by Peru 2021, opportunity to express my gratitude to investigations were carried out.
We an organisation that reviews companies Sir Malcolm Field for agreeing to postpone consider each accident to be avoidable eff orts in this crucial area.
As a mining his retirement from the Board until the end and we therefore took the active decision company, we are conscious of the impact of 2013 allowing us to further bene t from to re-emphasise managements zero our activities have on the environment.
tolerance policy on accidents by To assist us, we seek to rely on leading On behalf of the Board, I would like to designating 14th November 2012 environmental reporting systems and thank the entire talented Hochschild as the Hochschild Safety Day when so I am delighted that an external audit team for another year of strong production across all sites was has con rmed that systems at our performance, and our shareholders suspended and we conducted active operations remain compliant for your continued support.
We also advanced during the year with Outlook the implementation of our Community Despite ongoing price volatility, long-term Eduardo Hochschild Relations strategy acknowledging our precious metal fundamentals remain Executive Chairman social commitment to operate in longrobust as in ation fears continue to drive 12 March 2013 term harmony with our communities.
demand and resource scarcity restricts A notable initiative for the year was supply.
Looking ahead, our consistent TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN indexed to the Hochschild Mining plc share price since start 2008 800 600 400 200 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 FTSE 350 Index Hochschild Mining plc
