REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Chairmans statement While the Groups performance in the short term cannot be immune from the economic environment, we continue to focus on its strategic advantages to ensure that it will be well positioned for the economic recovery over the long term.
Against this economic backdrop, the Board has During the year we launched our volunteering decided not to recommend a final dividend this policy, giving colleagues the annual opportunity year and therefore the full-year dividend is to request two days paid time off to volunteer represented by the interim dividend of 4.7p.
I am also delighted to report Future dividends will be set at a level which is that, with the support of both our colleagues sustainable and which reflects the trading and our customers, we raised over 2m for prospects and financial position of the Group.
our charity partner, Teenage Cancer Trust: This year has seen benchmark profit before helping them improve the lives of young people tax reduce by 60% to 102m as a result of the with cancer.
Our businesses Earlier this year I announced that I would have responded with robust management of be retiring after the Annual General Meeting in costs and by maintaining a clear focus on July, after 12 years working with the Argos and Oliver Stocken cash.
We have also continued to develop our Homebase businesses as Chairman of Home Chairman multi-channel capabilities and to invest to Retail Group and, prior to the demerger in 2006, improve our customer proposition.
Our as a non-executive of GUS plc.
It has been a leadership positions in the home and general privilege to be associated with these businesses merchandise market are supported by our and the great people that work in them.
integrated infrastructure, scale and experience.
I would also like to thank each of the directors The Group has used the strength of its who have served on the Board during my tenure recognised and trusted retail brands to expand for their commitment to the Company and its its product ranges and related services.
businesses and the diligence with which they The recent addition of Habitat to the Group have undertaken their responsibilities, as well has added further breadth to the Groups great as the support they have provided to me own-brand ranges such as Chad Valley, as Chairman.
Schreiber, Hygena, Bush and Alba.
As the UKs leading multi-channel retailer, However, our greatest asset is without doubt I believe that Home Retail Group is uniquely our colleagues.
The commitment and effort positioned to capitalise on renewed of our colleagues in every part of the business consumer confidence to emerge, in the longer underpins our resilience and our potential.
term, a stronger competitor in a more On behalf of the Board I would like to thank them consolidated market.
for their ongoing valuable contribution and service to our customers.
I would also like Oliver Stocken to thank them for all the support they provide Chairman to the communities we serve.
6 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012
