OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The identification of the regulatory issues in our UK business in October 2011 has made this the most challenging year in HomeServes history.
We took immediate action to address these issues and have implemented a thorough and extensive change programme in our UK business.
While this is taking longer and costing more to implement than originally planned, we are pleased with the progress we have made.
Our International businesses have continued to JM Barry Gibson make strong progress throughout the past Chairman, HomeServe plc 12 months with 12 new affinity partnerships agreed, customer numbers growing by 14% to 1 2.2m and adjusted operating profit from our established businesses in the USA, France and Spain increasing to 28.5m 2011: 16.0m.
HomeServes policies continue to free customers from the worry and inconvenience of home emergencies and repairs with over 1.6m emergency repairs carried out over the past 12 months.
These jobs were carried out using a network of over 4,000 directly employed, franchised and sub-contract engineers and with a continued investment in our service delivery capabilities.
HomeServes products continue to meet clear customer needs and our business model continues to offer long-term value.
1 Excluding amortisation of acquisition intangibles, joint venture taxation and exceptional expenditure, see Financial review and note 5.
2 Excluding amortisation of acquisition intangibles, joint venture taxation, exceptional expenditure and re-measurement of joint venture interest on acquisition of control, see Financial review.
3 Excluding amortisation of acquisition intangibles, exceptional expenditure and re-measurement of joint venture interest on acquisition of control, see Financial review and note 13.
4 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements RESULTS UK In the year, revenue was up 14% to 534.7m 2011: During the year, our UK business identified a 2 467.1m and adjusted profit before tax was up 8% number of potential failings in its sales and to 126.0m 2011: 117.1m.
The growth principally marketing, complaints handling and associated reflects continued development in our International governance and controls.
The UK business is businesses and the benefit of acquiring full control making progress in implementing the necessary of Domo in France in December 2011 originally a steps to restore its customer focus and ensure joint venture, partially offset by a reduction in UK its customers are receiving the high standards 1 operating profit as a result of the suspension of of service that we expect to deliver.
This includes sales and marketing activity.
Adjusted earnings strengthening the UK management team as well 3 per share increased by 8% to 28.0p 2011: 25.9p.
The business continues to have a strong balance The UK management team has a constructive sheet and generates high levels of free cash relationship with the Financial Services Authority flow.
Net debt at 31 March 2012 was 66.0m FSA, with regard to the business improvement 2011: 11.8m and reflects the acquisition of the initiatives being undertaken.
remaining 51% shareholding in Domo for 82m.
The FSA has informed us that they intend to On a statutory basis, revenue increased by investigate certain historic issues.
The FSAs 14% to 534.7m, profit before tax increased by investigation will take a number of months 32% to 138.0m and earnings per share to complete.
The Groups statutory result includes a gain of 55m due to the reWe re-started our UK sales and marketing activity measurement to fair value of our original on a phased basis, following its temporary 49% shareholding in Domo at the time of the suspension in October, as our retraining and acquisition of the remaining 51% as well as process enhancements were completed and 24m of one-off costs relating to addressing tested.
As mentioned above, it has taken longer our UK issues.
than we originally anticipated to re-start activity, but we remain confident that the actions we are implementing are in the long-term interest of all stakeholders.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 5 OVERVIEW INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT AND BOARD CHANGES We have achieved strong growth in our In July 2011, we announced that Jonathan King International businesses during the year.
would return to the UK as Chief Executive Officer of our UK business, replacing Jon Florsheim.
Also in HomeServe USA has continued to sign up new July we announced the appointment of Tom Rusin affinity partners, including EPCOR Utilities Inc. as Chief Executive Officer of HomeServe USA.
EPCOR, our first Canadian water utility and Florida Public Utilities, a gas and electric utility.
We now Following the announcement in October that have over 1 million customers in the USA.
Andrew Sibbald had stepped down as a NonExecutive Director, we announced the appointment In France, we were very pleased to be able to take of Ben Mingay to the Board as a Non-Executive full control of Domo in December 2011 with the Director in December 2011.
Ben is a Managing purchase of the remaining 51% shareholding from Partner of Smith Square Partners, an independent Veolia, as well as agreeing a long-term marketing corporate finance advisory firm, and has more agreement with them.
Owning 100% of Domo than 20 years experience as a corporate finance will enable us to develop the product range adviser.
I would like to thank Andrew for his further and to sign new utility and appliance support and contribution to HomeServe over the manufacturer affinity partners in France in past four years and welcome Ben to the Board.
The transition to full ownership by HomeServe has gone well and we are continuing In January 2012, we announced the creation of to develop our plans for further growth in France.
the new Board position of Chief Operating Officer and the appointment of Martin Bennett, previously In Spain, we have achieved strong growth in Chief Financial Officer, to this new position.
customer and policy numbers: whilst in our Martin now has responsibility for the effective and New Markets segment we are continuing to test efficient delivery of HomeServes operating model, acquisition marketing in Italy and have signed IT systems, best practice and risk management a test agreement with BS Energy in Germany.
across all our geographies working closely with the country Chief Executive Officers.
Martins initial DIVIDEND priority is to support Jonathan King UK Chief The Board is proposing a final dividend of 7.67p per Executive Officer and the UK business on claims share bringing the total dividend for the year to and network management, underwriting, systems 11.3p 2011: 10.3p, an increase of 10%, reflecting and efficiency.
its confidence in the long-term prospects of the business.
6 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements We have today announced the forthcoming SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK appointment of Johnathan Ford as Chief Financial HomeServes products continue to meet clear Officer.
Johnathan is currently the Group Finance customer needs and our business model continues Director of NWF Group plc, an AIM listed specialist to deliver long-term value.
We are addressing the agricultural and distribution group.
Johnathan is shortfall in standards that we identified in our UK expected to join HomeServe on 1 October 2012. business and have already taken a number of Until this time David Bower, Group Finance Director, actions to improve the business.
will continue as Interim Chief Financial Officer and I would like to thank David for stepping into this role We are confident that we can create a smaller, during this challenging period.
more customer focused UK business from which to grow, whilst achieving strong progress in our PEOPLE International markets.
It has been a difficult year for HomeServe, and particularly our staff in the UK.
The actions we JM Barry Gibson are implementing to restore our customer focus Chairman are resulting in significant changes within the UK 22 May 2012 business, including a reduction in the number of people.
I would like to thank all of the UK team for their professionalism during this period of change and am confident that the actions we are taking will strengthen the quality and consistency of our service to customers and result in increased employee engagement in the future.
In our International businesses, we continue to increase the number of people we employ as we grow our customer and policy numbers.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of our people for their contribution in what has been a challenging year for the Company.
