Chairmans statement RESULTS property liabilities related to the Groups former ownership of MFI.
I am pleased to report that in 2012 8Le &oard is proposing a final Taking into account this underlying Howden Joinery Group continued to dividend in respect of 2012 financial gearing, the Board believes grow and develop in a challenging of 2.7p per share, giving a it is appropriate for the Group to be economic environment.
We have total dividend for the year of able to operate throughout the consistently outperformed the 3.0p per share 2011: 0.5p working capital cycle without market through staying true to our incurring bank debt.
Therefore, successful model and the principles the Board has concluded that the which underpin Howdens business.
Group now has the balance sheet Strong price discipline, underpinned strength to allow it to move towards by successful product introductions a more normalised dividend policy.
and further efficiency improvements The Board intends to move over the in our supply chain, led to an medium-term to a dividend cover of increase in gross margin to between 2.5x and 3.5x, with one-third 61.5% 2011: 59.7%.
of the previous years dividend being Our 2012 performance also paid as an interim dividend each year.
reects the strength of purpose The Board will monitor the Groups of our management team and the cash balances in light of future commitment of our staff to providing investment opportunities, anticipated a service of value to all who depend peak working capital requirements 08 on Howdens.
I would like to take and the trading outlook.
this opportunity to thank them all for The Board is proposing a final their hard work throughout the year.
dividend in respect of 2012 of 2.7p per share, giving a total dividend DIVIDEND for the year of 3.0p per share The Board intends to target a capital 2011: 0.5p.
structure that is both prudent and recognises the benets of financial BOARD leverage and, after considering During the year I have taken all other uses of capital, to return measures to review the effectiveness surplus capital to shareholders, by of the Board and to ensure way of either ordinary dividends or continued achievement of the alternative returns of capital.
The Group has a substantial number We are now conducting a search of property leases for the depot for a new non-executive director network, together with a material to succeed Angus Cockburn, who deficit in the Group pension fund has decided to step down from and a small number of legacy Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2012 the Board having served nearly Howdens currently employs 180 OUTLOOK seven years as a non-executive modern apprentices, and a further Howdens is a young business director.
Angus, who chairs the Audit 50 apprentices are being recruited.
that has already laid strong Committee, will remain on the Board We are also proud to support the foundations for further growth.
for the time being to ensure an Howden Joinery Bursary, the first It has also demonstrated that it orderly handover to his successor.
scheme of its kind in any industry, can succeed even against an In appointing a new director, we will which funds first year wages for economic backdrop that continues seek to ensure continuing strong apprentice joiners in companies who to be both challenging and governance of our audit function and would otherwise be unable to meet uncertain.
We intend to continue to maintain a robust, diverse and these costs themselves.
To date, the to invest in the service, products representative Board.
Bursary has created opportunities and people that will enable us for 40 young people across the to deliver long-term value to our MANAGEMENT AND country.
We plan to pursue this and customers and shareholders.
ORGANISATIONAL other successful initiatives, including DEVELOPMENT our support programme for NVQ and Will Samuel diploma courses that are helping to Chairman In a rapidly evolving market, train the next generation of joiners.
we plan to assure the long-term 27 February 2013 wellbeing of your Company through Howdens commercial success the continuing development of a is founded on good relationships competent and effective senior between individuals who treat each management team.
We are currently other with fairness, openness and reviewing the roles of the Executive 09 respect.
This approach is reected Committee in order to understand in the active involvement of our where there may be opportunities staff members in numerous different to improve the organisation.
In causes in their local area.
Last parallel with this work we are taking year their initiative and commitment steps to ensure that all our senior raised approximately 817,000 managers have the appropriate mix for the benefit of over 2,000 of skills and abilities to lead the community activities.
The Groups longstanding SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION partnership with Leonard The programme of growth and depot Cheshire Disability continues opening that we have pursued since to thrive.
Howdens helps to fund Howdens started trading in 1995 LCDs recruitment and training has led to the creation of over 6,300 programme which offers social jobs, around two-thirds of which support and mentoring to disabled are in local depots.
We support young people, and donates the creation of local employment kitchens to a number of opportunities and the development Leonard Cheshire homes of the technical and commercial across the country.
skills required in the joinery trade.
