Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 06 Chairmans Statement The Group has had another successful The Group is well placed in the shale Despite the world economic year of further expansion as management revolution, particularly following the integrate the activities of the companies 2011 acquisition of Hunting Titan, and is uncertainty, global demand for acquired in 2011 and continue to invest actively exporting their technology to energy continued to grow.
substantial capital in new facilities.
other areas of shale potential such as Europe and the Far East.
Underlying profit before tax from continuing operations in 2012 was Activity in the Gulf of Mexico has fully 123.6m 2011 79.8m, a 55% returned to the levels it enjoyed prior to increase.
Reported profit before tax the tragic Macondo incident of 2010.
Our from continuing operations was facilities serving that market are stretched, 80.7m 2011 38.8m.
with further expansion under way.
In Europe, the North Sea is busy and, once Despite the world economic uncertainty, again, several of our recently expanded global demand for energy continued to facilities are experiencing high utilisation.
The industry we serve Similarly, our activities in South-East Asia needs not only to provide for that growth and in China are moving ahead strongly.
but also to replace rapidly depleting reserves, leading to increasing demand Within Hunting Energy Services, Well for our sophisticated and highly Construction activities had another engineered products.
highly successful year emphasising the deep strength of several of the core Within that general picture, the great activities we have been developing success of new methods of extracting over many years.
Well Completion, unconventional oil and gas the shale the largest contributor, had a satisfactory revolution has had extraordinary effects, year with profits well ahead of 2011. particularly in the US.
The resulting excess The smaller Well Intervention activity supply of natural gas has led to low US reported continued volatility in the year, prices for that commodity, but similar however activity levels are anticipated drilling and production methods are being to improve across the coming year.
The result is that crude oil production in the US is rising after many years of decline.
Company Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 07 Captions L-R: Precision machining.
Design engineering are features of Hunting products.
For over 70 years, the Group has had Underlying diluted earnings per share Your Company has once again had a small oil exploration and production from continuing operations were 57.5p a good year in strong markets and I business in the southern US.
We have 2011 38.7p, an increase of 49% on the am confident we will be able to take decided to produce from existing previous year.
Reported diluted earnings advantage of further developments wells but not to invest further in new per share from continuing operations in this exciting industry.
exploration and production projects, were 40.0p 2011 20.3p.
I thank all our staff throughout the world for our continued success.
Gibson Shipbrokers, a world leader in its Capital expenditure on new industry, did well to produce fine results and replacement facilities was in difficult and highly volatile markets.
even greater in 2012 than in Shareholders of longer standing will the previous year.
know that the Group once had many aviation-related activities in its stable.
The Richard Hunting C. B. E. last of these, the Canadian company Field We are recommending a final dividend Chairman Aviation, was sold during the year to the for 2012 of 14.0p per share, payable on 7 March 2013 management.
We wish the company 1 July 2013 to shareholders on the register every success in the future.
on 14 June 2013, giving a total of 18.5p for the year, a 23% increase.
Capital expenditure on new and replacement facilities in 2012 was even greater than in the previous year.
Despite Dividend per share p this, the Group generated more than 12 18.5 54.6m of cash with the result that net debt reduced by a similar amount.
The 11 15.0 balance sheet is in excellent shape, with 10 12.0 financial gearing reduced during the 09 10.5 year from 30% to 20%.
