Chairmans Statement This year has seen continuing To support the broadening customer commitment to quality and exceptional momentum in our business.
Another base and the diverse range of efforts are exemplary.
strong year of growth in licensing technologies we provide, the business Thank you too for your keen interest activity and an increasing number of continues to invest in its key resources.
partners shipping devices incorporating These investments enable us to our technology have led to a 30% provide the customer support that our increase in revenue to 127.5m with partners require to deliver world leading adjusted profit before tax increasing by products, and will enable us to scale 53% to 36.8m.
325m devices were to the levels necessary to maintain our shipped in the year by a more diverse leadership in the markets in which we range of partners and across a broader operate.
We are particularly pleased Geoff Shingles range of our technologies.
with the progress being made by our Chairman recent acquisitions and also in our The Technology business continues efforts in the area of connectivity which to strengthen with notable licensing is of ever increasing importance in the agreements with a number of strategic markets we address.
partners, across the full range of our technologies.
These agreements Scaling the business and the challenges will provide the momentum for the around this are treated as an important business to grow in the coming years aspect of our development.
As part of in all the dynamic markets that our this we have taken and will continue to partners cover.
take steps to ensure appropriate levels of governance commensurate with our Pure has continued its development growing business.
In this regard we in international markets, in particular have strengthened our board with the with the launch of a Digital Audio appointment of two new Non-Executive Broadcasting DAB radio network in Directors.
We will keep this aspect of Germany.
These overseas markets our development under review and have offered us more than 50% year on rene our approach in preparation for year growth and have helped to offset the opportunities and challenges ahead.
the continuing tough retail environment in the UK.
The year has also seen the I must again mention and give huge development of important strategic credit for the success of the Group and products which will be important for its exciting progress to our some 1,200 the business going forward.
