Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials 5 Chairmans Statement Im pleased to introduce our 2012 annual report which describes how were putting our strategy for growth into action, and how we ensure that were governed in the best interests of our stakeholders.
Iain Napier Chairman Weve made further good progress this year, growing sales while We have further enhanced the skill set and mix of backgrounds effectively managing our costs and cash ows.
and experiences of the Board with a number of appointments during the year.
Our focus on building total tobacco brands is delivering quality growth across our total tobacco portfolio, including particularly Matthew Phillips, Group Corporate & Legal Affairs Director, was strong performances from our key strategic brands.
appointed to the Board as Corporate Affairs Director on 1 June 2012, re ecting the signi cant role Corporate Affairs plays in 1 Improved Returns for our Shareholders supporting our sales growth strategy.
We grew total adjusted operating pro ts by 4 per cent and delivered 8 per cent adjusted earnings per share growth to We also appointed two Non-Executive Directors: Malcolm 201.0 pence.
Reported earnings per share were 68.1 pence, Wyman and David Haines.
Both bring considerable international 2011: 177.3 pence, re ecting the write down of our Spanish experience across a range of industries.
At our 2012 Annual goodwill, as a result of the deterioration in the Spanish economy.
General Meeting, Pierre Jungels retired from the Board as a We explain this further in our finance section on page 35.
Non-Executive Director and as a result Mark Williamson was appointed Senior Independent Director and Malcolm Wyman We are increasing our dividend payout ratio to 52.5 per cent of was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Id like to adjusted earnings per share and your Board is recommending a thank Pierre for his signi cant contribution to our success and final dividend of 73.9 pence, bringing the total dividend this year wish him well for the future.
In Conclusion Sustainability and Responsibility 2012 has been another successful year and I would like to thank By running a successful business, we make a positive all my colleagues: both those on the Board and our talented contribution to the economic and social well-being of many people around the world for their dedication and hard work.
We employ 37,000 employees and contribute around 20 billion every year in taxes.
Our ongoing strategic focus aims to ensure that we continue to create long-term sustainable value for our shareholders.
We also actively work with governments, non-governmental organisations and other stakeholders on issues of common concern, such as the illicit trade of tobacco products and protecting natural resources, which underpins our long-term sustainability.
More details on our initiatives and progress are included in this report and on our website www.
com Iain Napier Governance and Board Chairman As Chairman, it is my responsibility to make sure that Imperial Tobacco is governed and managed with openness, honesty and transparency.
The Board and I are committed to ensuring this is the case.
1 Throughout the Annual Report percentage increases and decreases in our adjusted results are on a constant currency basis unless stated otherwise.
2 This will be paid on 18 February 2013 to those shareholders on the register on 18 January 2013.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials 6 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Review Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials 7 What you will nd in this section: Strategic 8 Chief Executives Review 11 Key Performance Indicators Review 12 People and Values 14 Sales Growth Drivers 18 Total Tobacco Were making great progress 20 Key Enablers generating quality sales from quality 22 Case Study: Russia brands to drive sustainable returns.
Building Total Tobacco Brands JP JP JPS S S JP JP JPS S c con on o ont ti tinu nued ed ed t t to o o re re reso so sona na a a a a at t t te te te te s s st tr tro o o on o on n n n n n n ng gl gly y y wi w with th th v v val alue ue ue se se s ek ek ekin in i g g g g co co ons ns nsum um um mer er ers s s an an and d d d d d d we we w we we d d fide e e e e el el el e el e e elllliiv iv iver er red ed ed d v v v ver er ery y y po posi siti ti t five five re re re re resu su s lt lts s in in in n A A Aus us ustr tr t al alia ia a a a a a a an nd nd nd nd nd d t t th he he he he U U U U U U U U U U U UK K K K K K K K K K K K K K wh wh wher e ere e e we we we m m mad ad a e e ga ga ga ga gain in ins s iin in in iin c c c c c cig ig ig ig igar ar ar ar aret et et et ette te te te tes an an an an nd d d d d ne n ne ne ne n ne ne ne e e e e e e e e e e c c c c c cut ut t t t tob ob obac ac acco co co c. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012
