Chairmans statement I am delighted to report that the strength of Inchcapes differentiated business model, together with our global portfolio, a clear strategy and passionate colleagues, enabled the Group to deliver record results in 2012.
The Group also benefited from normalised supply conditions in Australia and Singapore in 2012, following the disruption caused by the Japanese earthquake and tsunami in March 2011.
In Australia, our Subaru distribution business achieved an excellent performance, selling 18.2% more vehicles than in 2011.
In Singapore, where the new vehicle market declined 5.4% in 2012, our South Asia business signicantly outperformed with sales up 31.6%.
Overall, year on year profit growth in four of our six geographic segments more than offset challenging trading conditions in Europe and the pressure on new vehicle margins in our Russia and Emerging Markets segment.
The Group retains a strong balance sheet, ending the year with net cash of 276.2m.
The Group follows a disciplined approach to capital allocation which ensures that the cash which we generate is deployed to drive long-term shareholder value creation.
In February 2013, we announced the acquisition of Trivett Automotive Group, Australias leading premium automotive group.
PERFORMANCE Group sales increased by 4.4% to 6.1bn for the full year to Inchcape has delivered a record 31 December 2012.
Sales growth was achieved in all of the profit in 2012. geographic segments, other than Europe which experienced a decline of 23.5% as trading conditions, particularly those in Greece, continued to be challenging.
Many of the markets Ken Hanna delivered results ahead of our expectations, including the UK Chairman which saw sales grow by 3.6%.
Our 4.6% Group trading margin is a 0.1ppt improvement on last PROFIT AFTER TAX year.
The highly focused approach by the Group to managing the cost base has resulted in a reduction in overheads before exceptional items as a percentage of sales to 10.1%, 0.4ppt lower than 2011.
190.4m 28.8% profit before tax and exceptional items of 250.3m was 10% 2011: 147.8m higher than 2011 and a record for the business.
On a statutory basis, profit before tax was 251.5m, 24% above 2011.
Adjusted DIVIDEND earnings per share rose by 12% to 39.7p, representing a three year compound annual growth rate of 14%.
The three year earnings performance is best viewed in the context of the corresponding three year compound annual 14.5pper share sales growth rate of 2.9%, which demonstrates the potential for 32% the Group to deliver significant operational leverage as we 2011: 11.0p continue to grow the top line.
We are set to benefit from structural growth in many of our markets and over the medium term will start to see recovery in markets that have remained difficult over the past three years.
Cash generated from operations during the year was 249.2m which represents a 95% conversion of statutory operating profit.
12 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CAPITAL EXPENDITURE OUTLOOK The Group continued to be selective on capital expenditure As a leading global premium automotive group, we are set in 2012, ensuring that cash was allocated to the right growth to benefit from the forecast growth in both the global new car prospects that meet our high return requirements.
We are market and the global car parc, as we operate in the right expanding our capacity in Chile, Peru, Poland, Australia markets, represent the right brands, trade in the right categories, and Russia.
We have also made further strategic greeneld deliver the right nancials and we are pursuing the right growth investments in China, with our new Porsche site in Nanchang strategy.
We therefore expect the Group to deliver a robust set to open in 2013 and a Mercedes-Benz site in Jiujiang that performance in 2013, notwithstanding the increased competitive will be completed later in the year.
Moreover, the Group is extremely well positioned to take BOARD advantage of the exciting growth prospects in Asia Pacic Following seven years service, David Scotland retired from the and Emerging Markets which are underpinned by population Board on 10 May 2012.
Vicky Bindra has taken over the role of growth, wealth creation, increasing car penetration and industry Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee from premiumisation.
We are confident that Inchcape will continue David, who we thank for his tireless commitment to the Group.
to produce sustainable earnings growth and strong returns for our shareholders.
DIVIDEND The Board has decided to increase the dividend payout ratio from 30% to 40% at this years final dividend and is recommending a final dividend of 10.5p per share giving a total dividend for the year of 14.5p per share 2011: 11.0p, up 32%.
The increase on 2011 and in the payout ratio is a reection of the confidence the Board has in the business and is consistent with our progressive dividend policy.
Subject to approval at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on 16 May 2013, the Ken Hanna, final dividend will be paid on 19 June 2013 to shareholders of the Chairman Company on the register of members at the close of business on 24 May 2013.
ONLINE DRIVER REPORTING FORMAT We continue to minimise the APPROACH TO GOVERNANCE AND CORPORATE environmental impact of our printed RESPONSIBILITY CR report by reducing the print run, length We view governance as a continually evolving set of principles and weight of paper used, while aiming and the Annual Report gives the Board an opportunity to to raise the quality of the report communicate to our stakeholders how we have incorporated these principles in order to underpin the delivery of the Groups SEE ONLINE: www.
The Corporate governance report on pages 42 to 49 www.
com yearinreview2012 aims to set out clearly how we have structured the Board, how we have reviewed and evaluated ourselves and our processes and what changes we have made to ensure the Board and its committees remain effective.
In 2012 the CR Board Committee, responsible for the strategic direction of the Groups CR programme, continued to develop a global approach to making responsible economic, environmental and social behaviour fundamental to the way we work.
PEOPLE On behalf of the Board, I wish to express my sincere thanks to all our colleagues across the Group for their outstanding commitment and support in 2012. www.
