Informa plc Chair Chairm man ans s S St ta at tem emen ent t Derek Mapp Chairman It has been another successful year for the Group.
Eurozone crisis created a challenging backdrop for our I am delighted with the financial results, which show conference businesses in Europe and we took the view that another year of healthy growth in adjusted earnings some of our smaller, domestically focused operations were despite what has remained a challenging macrounlikely to recover quickly and, hence, were better off being economic environment.
I am equally encouraged by the managed locally, outside of the Group.
This led to the disposal operational progress that has been made throughout of our operations in Austria, Hungary and the Czech Republic.
Behind the headline figures, a huge amount of We also continued to reduce event volumes in our other work has been done to improve the quality of earnings, businesses, encouraging our teams to focus on larger events, increasing the proportion of our more resilient, visible with the potential to run annually and be geo-cloned into income streams and cutting our exposure to volatile different markets.
Similarly, within our Professional and areas.
This required some difficult decisions to be made Commercial Information division, management were focused by our management teams and I commend them on their on improving the quality of its earnings stream in 2012 and so fortitude and commitment.
These actions undoubtedly pro-actively cut out products with volatile revenues, one-off leave the Group in a stronger position as we enter 2013. in nature or across verticals where we have little critical mass.
The year began well, with another solid renewal season for our We also took the decision to sell Robbins Gioia in May.
Demand for our content remained high, as followed a difficult period of trading for the business, which is illustrated by strong growth in usage year-on-year.
We also saw heavily geared to US government contracts in an era when the a further shift in preference towards our digital products, aided current administration is looking to bring outsourcing contracts by our new platform, T&F Online, although encouragingly, back in-house.
This, together with the disposal of some European access via third party platforms also grew strongly.
Digital Conference businesses, reduces volatility significantly across innovation lies at the heart of Informa and we are committed Informa, improving the quality of underlying earnings.
to investing across all our businesses to ensure we stay at the forefront of new developments.
In 2012, across all of our The corporate training market remains challenging in the publishing assets, 74% of revenue was classified as digital.
current macro-environment when companies are still more focused on protecting the bottom line than investing to Our events businesses also started the year well, with a strong drive the top-line.
At some point this will change and we are performance from our large events in the Middle East, such as well placed to capitalise on this through our market leading Arab Health and Middle East Electricity.
However, the 02 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV OVE ER RV VI IE EW W Informa plc brands and deep training content resource, as evidenced biology textbooks of its time, while in January we ran our th by the strength of our pipeline of potential contracts.
Arab Health exhibition in Dubai for the 37 year.
We were also active in deploying capital into bolt-on All of the Groups achievements are only possible due to acquisitions again in 2012.
This included MMPI Canada Inc, the creativity, hard work and commitment of our teams the leading exhibition company in Canada, which fits across the world.
We believe we have a unique perfectly with our strategy to grow our large events entrepreneurial culture at Informa which allows us to exposure, where revenues are more robust and margins innovate freely and react quickly to opportunities.
In total, our large events now represent 44% of the therefore like to end by thanking all our people for another Events and Training division 2011: 38%.
We also continue to fantastic year and wish them all the very best for further search for attractive subscription assets and the acquisition success in the year ahead.
of Zephyr Associates, Inc. in October is a good illustration of the type of business we covet.
In total, subscription income Derek Mapp represents 67% of our publishing revenue.
Chairman All our acquisitions are carefully assessed and have to meet strict financial and strategic criteria before we commit capital.
This is reflected in the returns we generate from all our recent A HUGE AMOUNT OF deals, which are comfortably ahead of our cost of capital.
Another strategic focus for the Group is to build our presence WORK HAS BEEN DONE in fast-growing emerging economies and we made further strides forward on this in 2012.
In total, 18% of revenue TO IMPROVE THE QUALITY originated in emerging markets, up from 14% last year.
This reflected strong growth in our Brazilian business following the acquisitions we made in 2011, as well as good organic OF EARNINGS growth across the Middle East and Russia.
I am pleased with the progress we have made in embedding our core values, principles and ethics throughout the Group to ensure that all employees understand and adhere to the behaviours expected of them in their day to day activities.
We also pride ourselves at Informa on the balance and attractions of the workplace for our employees.
In particular, we have a strong track record of equal opportunity, which is reflected in Group statistics that show that approximately 56% of our total workforce is female and around 47% of management across the Group are female.
Equally, we are very focused on delivering value for our shareholders.
This is reflected in the long-term strategic objectives we set ourselves and the frequent, rigorous assessment of our progress in achieving them.
It is also borne out through our strong track record of dividend payments.
We fully recognise the importance of consistent, growing dividends to our shareholders, hence we have actively increased our payout ratio in recent years, including in 2012.
I am absolutely delighted that we have been able to raise the dividend over 10% this financial year, underlining our confidence in the Group.
Looking ahead, I am confident that Informa can continue to go from strength to strength.
The proactive approach we have taken to managing our portfolio in 2012 leaves the Group in a stronger position than ever before.
Underpinning each of our businesses, we have unique brands with long histories that resonate across their respective industries.
For example, this year will be the 30-year anniversary of The Molecular Biology of the Cell, one of the most important See Corporate Responsibility, page 32 !
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 03
