Executive Chairmans review Dear Shareholder, how Rupert Pearce has stepped into the role of Chief Executive and is leading the business.
He has led a series of changes in Significantly, our full year results for 2012 showed a solid return management and in our structure to coincide with our objectives to growth for our core Mobile Satellite Services business.
This is of focusing on our customers more closely and to align along despite a difficult environment, with the pull-out in Afghanistan and vertical lines of business.
We have a stronger management team the pressure on global maritime shipping rates.
Results for 2011 in place as a result, which is focused on delivering our revenue and included significant revenues from our Cooperation Agreement profitability growth targets.
The Board of Directors has confidence with LightSquared which did not continue at the same level in 2012. they will achieve this.
If we exclude these, our underlying revenues in 2012 increased by just over 6%, which is a real and positive development for us.
To simplify how we present ourselves to the market, we brought Our cash flow remains strong and our balance sheet is healthy.
together all our subsidiary companies to operate under the Inmarsat brand name and we believe this has been beneficial for We are proposing a final dividend, payable at the end of May, of all our stakeholders our partners, customers and employees.
We are delighted once again to deliver Our global workforce is now more than 1,600 strong and with improving dividend payments.
The total dividend proposed and over 45 nationalities employed across the business.
This represents paid for 2012 will be 10% higher than in 2011.
This increase delivers how we have remained a truly global business.
It gives us local on the commitment we made to grow the dividend by 10% per knowledge and experience to serve our partners and customers year for three years and completes this commitment.
We remain throughout the globe.
We have an outstanding Board of Directors committed to a goal of sustainable increases in dividend payments and have the right mix and skills to support our business going going forward.
Nevertheless, we plan to add two new non-executive Board members over the next two years so that we maintain an 2012 saw some significant changes for Inmarsat as a business.
appropriate refreshment of Board membership in the years ahead.
We split the role of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer at the This year, we supplemented our annual assessment of Board beginning of the year.
The Inmarsat plc Board is delighted with effectiveness with an independent outside advisor.
The review confirmed the effectiveness of the Board, while recommending some fairly minor areas for improvement which we will implement.
No specific areas of concern were raised.
For over 30 years, our business has served mission critical communication needs, providing services where terrestrial networks dont effectively go.
Continuing to provide customers with high levels of reliability, with the most advanced services that technology allows, remains fundamental to how we serve our customers in the future.
We can achieve this by enhancing our L-band Inmarsat-4 broadband services for continued long-term growth and soon by successfully launching our advanced Andrew Sukawaty new Ka-band Inmarsat-5 generation of Global Xpress services.
Executive Chairman The services offered on our new Ka-band satellites when launched, combined with our existing L-band services, will provide a comprehensive package of global coverage, high speed, bandwidth, mobility, quality and reliability unrivalled in the satellite industry.
In addition, our L-band service will benefit from more capacity, improved coverage and extended life through the addition of, in effect, a fourth Inmarsat-4, called Alphasat.
Long-term Infrastructure Investment Inmarsat-2 Launched 1990-92 2014 Inmarsat-3 Launched 1996-98 2018 Inmarsat-4 Launched 2005-08 2023 Lifespan of current fleet Future launches Alphasat Future launch of an L-band satellite 2013 2028 Inmarsat-5 Future launch of 3 Ka-band satellites 2013-14 2029 04 Inmarsat plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012 2012 Operations Governance Financial statements This European Space Agency supported satellite is targeted Inmarsat plc Board to launch in mid-2013 on an Ariane 5 launch vehicle.
The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success Serving the maritime market is our heritage, with safety at its heart.
of the Group and determines the nature and extent of the risks We remain the only satellite provider which meets the International the Group should take to achieve its strategic objectives.
Maritime Organizations standards to offer the Global Maritime Distress and Safety System GMDSS, providing mariners with the unique opportunity to reliably make a life-saving call.
In addition, to ensure the future of global maritime safety services, we are making the necessary investments to qualify our services for safety on our Inmarsat-4 platform.
Aviation safety has also been a prime global service offering for us: here too we are investing to expand safety services to be available on our new generation SwiftBroadband service.
Investing in future safety services is an important part of our public service remit, part of our history and Our strategy is clear and we are focused on how we will achieve it.
an important part of our future.
Although the economic and geopolitical climate remains difficult for our business, we expect growth for communications in remote We also support a number of important humanitarian efforts.
Therefore, we are investing at the Central to these is our continued support of Tlcoms Sans highest level in our history to continue our leadership in the Frontires TSF.
TSF is a telecommunications relief aid agency, growing global market of satellite communications.
Behind that which is often the first aid agency into disaster areas.
Their work, investment stands a committed workforce with significant with our services in support, benefits not only other aid agencies experience in the markets we serve.
I would like to thank them and governments as they assess initial requirements, but also for another year of extraordinary efforts to keep Inmarsat as the supports displaced families, enabling them to contact family global leader in mobile satellite communications.
On the humanitarian relief side, we also support the International Telecommunications Unions ITU Emergency Congratulations to Rupert Pearce and the executive Telecommunications initiative and this year we were honoured management team for their leadership in taking the Company to receive their Humanitarian Award for this life-saving work.
back to growth and for delivering this message to investors.
Our stock performance over the year seemed to recognise this We also frequently sponsor both significant sporting events and and we were pleased and proud to have been selected Best charities which uniquely demonstrate the role Inmarsat services Communications PLC in the UK Stock Market Awards recently can play in remote environments.
Examples include our support announced in London.
of Guo Chuan in his solo non-stop around the world sailing challenge, as well as the completion of another successful We want to thank our shareholders for their continued support, round the world Volvo Ocean Race.
We have also supported and our partners and customers for trusting us to provide them Race2Recovery, which was the first team made up predominantly with communications services which are vitally important to them.
of wounded service personnel to complete the worlds toughest It is a responsibility that we take on with the highest degree of off-road race the Dakar Rally.
We continue to be involved and contribute in many areas of Andrew Sukawaty the space industry whether through our involvement with Executive Chairman dedicated government agencies, collaboration work with 7 March 2013 government and education research organisations, trade associations, or our involvement with the valuable work of the Space Data Association SDA which focuses on the groundbreaking work of space logistics.
Our Multiple Paths To Growth Help Us Achieve Our Mission Handheld voice Government & military Aero passenger Managed services connectivity Broadband services Low data Capacity rate leasing UAVs ATC Our mission To serve mission critical 1979: Global L-band established franchise communications needs 2014: Global Ka-band satellites and network where terrestrial networks dont go or are ineffective.
Government & military VSAT services Maritime & Energy Aero passenger connectivity Enterprise Inmarsat plc 05 AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012
