2 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Chairmans statement I am pleased to announce another year of strong growth by Intertek and the continued delivery of the Groups successful strategy.
Interteks customers include some of the worlds leading brands and companies, as well as their suppliers and governments in developing and developed countries.
Intertek helps customers to assess their products, processes and assets against a wide range of quality and related safety, regulatory and performance standards.
Our services include testing, certication, auditing, inspection, advisory, training, outsourcing and quality assurance.
Our work takes us into almost every eld imaginable, including consumer products, electronics, petroleum, minerals, pharmaceuticals, chemicals and food.
Results The Group generated revenue of 2,054m, an increase of 17% Sir David Reid Chairman over the prior year.
Excluding acquisitions, revenue growth was 8.6% at constant exchange rates.
Operating profit was 283m, up 21% over the prior year.
Adjusted operating profit increased I am pleased to announce another year to 335m, up 19%, and our adjusted operating margin was 16.3%.
Excluding acquisitions, adjusted operating profit was up 12%.
of strong growth by Intertek and the Earnings and returns to shareholders continued delivery of the Groups The Companys share price registered another year of strong successful strategy.
performance in 2012 increasing by 52% and outperforming the wider UK market.
Looking on a one, three or five year basis, the total shareholder return of Intertek shares also shows the Companys excellent delivery of growth to shareholders on a sustained basis.
Basic earnings per share were 108.2p, up 25% over the prior year and adjusted diluted earnings per share were 131.2p, up 22%.
An interim dividend of 13.0p per share 2011: 10.7p was paid to shareholders on 16 November 2012.
The Directors will propose a final dividend of 28.0p per share at the Annual General Meeting which will make a full year dividend of 41.0p per share 2011: 33.7p, an increase of 22%.
Capital allocation Intertek continues to generate good cash ow, with 2012 adjusted cash ow from operations of 345m, an increase of 10% on the prior year.
The Group increased organic capex over the prior year, spending 115m, which represents 5.6% of revenue, up from 4.6% of revenue in 2011.
This ratio sits within our usual range of between 5% and 6% of revenue spent on capital investment.
The Groups allocation of capital aims to pursue organic investment to drive sustained growth and shareholder value across the medium and longer term.
It also aims to ensure we pay dividends and to progress the amount of that dividend in line with earnings per share growth and to complete bolt-on and strategic acquisitions.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 3 Acquisitions The Group has robust ethical policies and control procedures We continue to make targeted acquisitions and in 2012 to ensure that good business ethics are embedded throughout completed six acquisitions for a cash consideration of 40m our organisation.
These policies, procedures and our internal 2011: 460m including the strategic acquisition of Moody performance against them are continually reviewed and aligned International for 450m.
Further details of these acquisitions with best practice.
Our compliance initiatives cover a range are given in the Operating Review by division and in note 10 of dimensions including internal training and communications, to the financial statements.
independent internal and external auditing, whistle-blowing hotlines, external communication and collaboration with industry With our strong financial position we will continue to make partners and customers.
advantageous bolt-on acquisitions and to evaluate strategic acquisition opportunities to increase shareholder value.
We have increased our disclosure on ethical compliance in 2012, and further details can be viewed in the Sustainability and CSR The Board report on page 28.
On 1 July 2012 we welcomed Louise Makin and Lena Wilson to the Board as Non-Executive Directors.
Further details of Our people their business experience can be found in their biographies Interteks people, their skills and experience, and the way on page 37. in which they work together to support our customers are qualities that are at the heart of the Groups success.
More than In line with the Corporate Governance Code and the 2011 35,000 Intertek people work to support our customers in over Davies Report, the Board is composed of members with a wide 100 countries.
range of complementary skills and business experience and is comprised of 22% female and 78% male members.
The Board As a growth company Intertek offers interesting careers and continues to have the strength and experience required to professional development for our people.
We are proud to perform its duties effectively and is committed to the highest be able to create new employment opportunities in the many standards of corporate governance.
different communities in which we work.
In 2012, we welcomed over 3,000 new employees to the Group through organic growth Sustainability and acquisitions.
Interteks work is helping to improve the quality and safety of the products and services used by people around the world every day.
The ongoing development and training of our people is essential By helping companies to produce greener, safer products and to to Interteks continuing success and to fullling our long-term operate in a more sustainable way, Intertek makes a substantial growth potential.
During 2012, the Group introduced the Intertek positive impact on the planet and human health that far Executive Academy to support and develop the talent and outweighs our own use of resources.
capabilities of Interteks next generation of global leaders.
We also extended our internal online training programmes, We are committed to the continuous development of our which give employees access to more than 100 courses, own sustainability.
Whilst being a service provider means that webinars and instructor led training programmes.
Interteks operations have a lower impact on the environment than other business sectors, we have an ongoing commitment to I am pleased to report that Intertek completed its first global sustainability and are mindful of the impact our operations have Group-wide employee satisfaction survey in the year, to on our communities, employees, customers and the environment.
benchmark workplace culture, employee sentiment and satisfaction.
62% of employees surveyed responded, with results In 2012, we increased the monitoring and reporting of our indicating a good performance in many areas but also identifying sustainability performance.
This included increased health areas for improvement.
Another survey is planned for 2013. and safety measurement and the introduction of new personal and workplace safety initiatives.
We extended our environmental The Board extends its thanks to all of our employees for their impact monitoring and emissions reporting.
Further details hard work and endeavour in 2012 which has allowed the Group can be found in the Sustainability and CSR report on page 28. to achieve continued success.
Integrity Outlook As a provider of independent quality solutions, the integrity The Group continues to implement its clear strategy in delivering and ethical conduct of our people and businesses is central global quality solutions in a market with strong structural growth to our values as an organisation and is critical to our customers drivers.
This, together with experienced management and a and to the success of our businesses.
sound financial position, means that Intertek remains able to capture opportunities to deliver resilient growth and performance despite times of economic uncertainty.
The Board is confident that the Group will deliver on its growth plan in 2013 and into the future.
