Chairmans Statement A year of significant progress Invensys has made significant progress in a number of areas which will stand us in good stead for the future.
Our divisions have each improved their market position and we have reinforced the URXSVQDQFLDOVWDELOLW Sir Nigel Rudd, Chairman Underlying EPS p Dear Shareholder Wayne Edmunds has settled in well to his During the past year, Invensys has made new role and his actions in strengthening significant progress in a number of the management team around him areaswhich will stand us in good stead XQGHUOLQHVWKH%RDUGVFRQGHQFHLQ 13.4p for the future.
As our Chief Executive theexecutive team.
Whilst the additional Wayne Edmunds explains in his costs on a small number of contracts 8QGHUO LQJ 36ZHUH S statement on pages 8 to 9, our divisions have adversely affected our overall S GRZQ have each improved their market performance, these should not detract position and we have reinforced the from the significant progress made in Groups financial stability with new positioning our businesses for the future.
600 million five-year banking facilities I am particularly pleased that Invensys Rail Dividend p and, as part of its triennial review, has signicantly grown its order book and nochange to the funding plan of that Invensys Operations Management has theInvensys Pension Scheme UK.
seen excellent underlying order growth across each of its lines of business.
Invensys 4.4p Controls continues to perform well against Recommended final dividend the background of very difficult market RI SSHUVKDUH S conditions in its appliance segment.
Also WRWDOGLYLGHQGVRI SSHU each business is ensuring that it continues VKDUH S XS to meet market needs by investing in refreshing and updating many of our coretechnology platforms.
06 Invensys plc $QQXDO 5HSRUW DQG $FFRXQWV Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Dividend and dividend policy The Board Outlook  On19May2011, DeenaMattarwas Invensys Operations Management markets , which  remain buoyant and we expect our brings the total dividends payable in director.
 software and equipment lines of business   to continue to perform well.
Deenahasjoinedthe business will benefit from its strong order pershare, anincreaseof10%.
book but growth in its operating margins approval by shareholders at the Annual will be moderated by the effects of the On28July2011, DavidThomaswas , thefinal .
 Invensys Rail had a very successful year in  .
 DRIP  markets and these orders will increasingly is available for this final dividend, which Controller, having previously been a senior benefit revenue in the year as we begin to willenable shareholders to reinvest their partnerinErnst&YoungLLPspecialising .
Operating dividends directly into Invensys shares.
in long-term industrial contracting margins are expected to remain within  businesses and has held a number of our medium-term target range but are balance the income needs of shareholders  expectedtobearound15%fornext  andCEO roles within the divisions.
He is a yearbecause we intend to take a more  .
conservative view of profit recognition our growth prospects.
In particular, the inthe early stages of some of the large On29November2011, VictoriaHull  contracts in new markets.
 required in working capital, particularly director.
  onlargeprojects, andinresearchand Officer with responsibility for the customers are expecting a year of more development, the opportunities to make management of legal, compliance and stabledemand, particularlyinNorth bolt-on acquisitions to increase our .
She America and Europe, and we expect technology base and market presence, joinedInvensysin2001, sincewhenshe continued success in commercial  has been an integral member of the andwholesale.
anopportunity arise to reduce our .
Overall we are looking forward to a  yearofimproving performances across Accordingly we remain committed to our andbenefits of diversity and will continue ourbusinesses.
progressive dividend policy with future to take this into account in our recruitment  process whilst ensuring that candidates are the long-term sustainable trend in selected on merit and ensuring there is an underlying earnings per share and free appropriate range and balance of skills, cashflow.
Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
