Chairmans statement Key highlights Independent evaluation of board effectiveness Your company has in place concluded positively with only minor improvement astrong, highly competent, board recommendations As a result of the board review process, board thatperforms well.
diversity has improved New operational structure better supports future growth strategy and facilitates greater board interaction with senior management John Connolly Final dividend of 24.8 pence recommended, which Chairman would make a total of 36.5 pence, 20 per cent above 2011.
This time last year, I wrote about what I had found since skillsand determination to take the company forward.
joining AMEC some months beforehand.
My knowledge Importantly, the board should reflect the diversity of ofthe company its governance procedures, strategy, theorganisation.
customers, people and markets has increased We all recognise that increasing diversity is vital for our dramatically since that time, but my fundamental opinion future success.
We need greater diversity of thought to has not changed.
We have a highly energised and inform our decisions, whether represented by the gender extremely able team at AMEC, who demonstrate their mix, nationality, ethnic background or any other measure.
sheer professionalism and expertise every day.
Our Simplistically, AMEC is an engineering company with its customers rely on our ability to deliver their projects on roots in the UK, Canada and the US and our employee time, on budget, and without causing harm.
We take this base reflects this history.
We are looking to widen the pool responsibility seriously and it is this proven ability to deliver of talent from which we select our most senior leaders.
excellence that will underpin our future growth.
Iam delighted that AMECs management team is now During 2012 we made progress on each of the priorities 30per cent female and that during 2012, a rigorous Iidentified at the start of the year.
In particular I would external search resulted in the appointment of Linda liketo highlight the work we have been doing on board Adamany as a non-executive director.
These are important effectiveness and composition, on AMECs strategy beyond signals to the organisation about our objectives.
2015, on succession planning and on improving our Linda joined the board in 1 October 2012 and hasalready governance framework.
made a valuable contribution to our discussions.
A qualified accountant and US citizen, she hasmore than 30 years The board experience of the global energy sector and significant Let me start by commenting on our board.
One of our knowledge of the operations of AMECs major customers.
keypriorities for 2012 was to conduct an independent On a wider point, the board objectives for 2013 include evaluation of board effectiveness, an exercise which had agreeing our policy on diversity and the measurable last been undertaken in 2008.
This took place in the first objectives we wish to set to track progress.
half and, I am delighted to say, concluded that your company has in place a strong, highly competent, board I will discuss AMECs new organisational structure and that performs well.
There were some relatively minor itsimpact on our strategy in a moment.
One immediate suggestions for improvements and these are explained impact was that Neil Bruce left the company and the board further on page 46. on 5 October 2012.
I would like to thank him for his contribution to the board and to AMEC over the years.
The ultimate goal of your board is to collectively and effectively lead the company in delivering long-term In Colin Day and Neil Carson, the AMEC board contains sustainable success for the benefit of all of our shareholders.
two non-executive directors who are highly respected, If itis to achieve this, the board needs to contain the right serving chief executives at other companies.
I am mix of individuals, each with the relevant experience, sometimes challenged on whether they have sufficient 6 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials time toallocate to AMEC, given the commitments of their the pleasure of talking to our employees on a regular basis executive roles.
I firmly believe the board gains enormous and so see how seriously we take our commitment to benefit from the up-to-date and highly relevant experience safety, how involved we are with our communities and how they bring to discussions and each has demonstrated that hard we work to win repeat business from our customers.
they dedicate the amount of time needed to meet what Others recognise this too: in2012 we were yet again sector isexpected of them in their roles as directors of AMEC.
leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability index and judged to Together with our other non-executive directors I believe be one of Canadas top 100 employers.
we have in place the appropriate mix of skills and Performance and shareholder returns experiences which make this an effective board.
The companys performance in 2012 remained good, Board priorities particularly when viewed against a backdrop of economic I believe there are three key elements to the role the board uncertainty.
As reported in more detail in the Chief Executives should take in supporting successful, sustainable growth.
review and elsewhere, our company achieved revenue growth in 2012 of 28 per cent and growth in earnings per The first is to debate and agree the strategy the company 1 share of 14per cent.
We expect continued growth in 2013. isto follow and then monitor performance against the strategic goals.
AMEC is now halfway through its Vision As a result of our confidence in the future, the board 2015 growth strategy and is delivering ahead of schedule.
isrecommending a final dividend of 24.8 per share.
Hence board discussions in the latter part of 2012 turned Thismakes a total of 36.5 pence per share for the year, to how we achieve success beyond 2015.
We agreed that a20per cent increase over 2011 and a dividend cover strategic fundamentals remain broadly unchanged but of2.2times 2011: 2.3 times.
If approved, it will be paid feltthat a new structure could better maximise future on1July 2013 to those shareholders on the register at growth opportunities.
The companys operations are now 31May2013.
It is the boards intention to continue with managed by three presidents, one in each geography, each aprogressive dividend policy.
reporting to the Chief Executive and responsible for our Given the strength of the balance sheet, a 400 million share business in their region with a specific focus on our four buyback programme was instigated in February 2012 and markets oil & gas, mining, clean energy and environment has now been completed.
Looking ahead The second element is ensuring the company has the On your behalf, I would like to thank Samir Brikho, rightpeople in place to deliver its targets.
This means not hismanagement team and all of AMECs 29,000 people only assessing the management skills currently in place fortheir hard work and valuable contribution in 2012. but also ensuring that mechanisms exist to develop future talent and plan for succession.
The board now has more We at AMEC understand what we do well, have built solid, regular, and deeper, interaction with the leaders of the long-term customer relationships, and are well positioned companys three geographies.
I see this as a positive result across the energy market.
The economic outlook remains of the new organisational structure.
Remuneration is a challenging but we remain firmly focused on delivering our keypart of our people plan and that of directors remains Vision 2015 goals.
very much in the public eye.
We have redesigned our remuneration report to show more clearly how we link short and long-term incentives to hard measures of improvement in the companys performance, in line John Connolly withthe strategy see page 56.
Chairman The final element is ensuring there is an appropriate 14 February 2013 levelof governance in place, a topic I elaborate on later, on page 38.
During 2012 we updated our Code of Business Conduct training and made it compulsory for allemployees.
We have been working to simplify our global mandatory policies and procedures, making them easier tounderstand and so comply with.
The revisions will be launched in early 2013.
But good governance needs to be more than just a set of policies and procedures: it should 1 Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations before intangible amortisation and exceptional items inform the decisions our employees take every day.
I have AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 7
