Chairmans letter David Tyler Chairman Underlying profit before tax was up 7.1 per cent to 712 million.
Dear shareholder, Underlying earnings per share were up 6.0 per cent to 28.1 Your Board is pleased to report pence.
This year, your Board recommends a final dividend of 11.6 pence per share, making a full-year dividend of 16.1 pence, on what has been a good year for which is an increase of 6.6 per cent over the previous year, covered 1.75 times by underlying earnings.
We have continued focused on delivering returns to shareholders.
The Board plans to outperform the market for a to increase the dividend each year and now intends to build cover to two times over the medium term.
number of years by remaining A winning team true to our values of providing I would like to thank all of our colleagues for their efforts great quality, service and value in providing excellent service to our customers.
Our people are, of course, the face of Sainsburys, and are central to our to our customers.
We continue to invest in their training and development, and in ensuring Sainsburys is a great place to work.
I am delighted that they share in a bonus of over 60 million this year, meaning that over the last five years we will have awarded over 300 million to colleagues in this way.
This year we have added strength and depth to our management team.
In January 2012, Sarah Warby joined the Operating Board as Marketing Director, having previously been UK Marketing Director at Heineken.
We also changed two roles on the Operating Board in March 2012.
Helen Buck, previously Convenience Director, became Retail Director responsible for performance across our supermarket estate: and Roger Burnley, previously Retail and Logistics Director, became Managing Director, General Merchandise, Clothing and Logistics, leading our growing non-food business while retaining responsibility for logistics.
2 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Business review Business review Chairmans letter continued Proposed full year Sainsburys remains dividend 16.1p, up 6.6%, cover 1.75x focused on delivering returns to shareholders.
16.1p The Board plans to dividend increase the dividend each year.
In May 2012 we announced that Bob Stack has decided to Outlook stand down as a Non-Executive Director of our plc Board at the The wider economic situation looks likely to remain uncertain, AGM in July 2012.
I would like to thank Bob for his outstanding but by helping our customers make their money go further contribution since his appointment in January 2005, both and Live Well for Less, we have demonstrated we can succeed as a valued member of the Board and as Chairman of our against this backdrop.
Furthermore, the business has some Remuneration Committee.
During his tenure, the Remuneration exciting growth opportunities including our multi-channel Committee has progressively introduced a range of plans which strategy to help our customers to shop the way they want, and have effectively incentivised management through the recovery our store space strategy which brings our great food, clothing and growth phases of the last seven and a half years, which has and general merchandise to new customers.
been very much in shareholders best interests.
Sainsburys has developed a sound reputation for strong governance of We have laid strong foundations for growth.
Your Board believes remuneration while he has chaired the Committee.
these will allow us to achieve our vision to be the most trusted retailer where people love to work and shop.
Mary Harris will succeed Bob as Chairman of the Committee and we are currently conducting a search for a new Non-Executive Director to join the Board.
The value of our values Our unique values and strong culture are at the heart of the Companys success.
This remains as true today as it was 143 years ago.
In October 2011, we published a new 20 by 20 David Tyler Sustainability Plan with bold targets.
We believe they are key Chairman to the long-term sustainability of our business and can bring increased sales, deeper customer loyalty and greater efficiency, as well as improved colleague development and satisfaction, all ultimately contributing to shareholder value.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 J Sainsbury plc 3
