26 27 Introduction Financial Despite a loss of 2.2 million from the newly acquired Blacks and Risk business, Group profit before tax adding back exceptional items exceeded consensus market expectations at 76.0million 2011: Review 81.6 million but nevertheless final group profit before tax after exceptionals decreased by 11.2 million to 67.4 million in the year primarily from an increase of 5.4m in the charge for exceptionals which included: Recognition of a provision of 3.5m for the future onerous property costs at the Groups existing warehouses pending the full utilisation of the new facility at Kingsway in Rochdale during 2012 Impairment of the goodwill and brand name pertaining to the acquisitions of Kooga Rugby Limited and fascia name of the Cecil Gee business Costs for the closure of the loss making Canterbury business in North America Redundancy costs of 3.5m in stores, warehouse and central operations for the recently acquired Blacks business Taxation The effective rate of tax on profit has decreased by 2.1% to 26.8% primarily due to a decrease in the standard rate of corporation tax.
Excluding both exceptional items and prior year adjustments, the effective core tax rate has decreased from 28.9% to 27.7%.
This core effective tax rate continues to be above the standard rate due to the depreciation of non-current assets and the professional fees on corporate transactions, both of which do not qualify for any form of tax relief.
Earnings per Share The basic earnings per share has decreased by 16% from 114.84p to 96.27p.
However, the Directors consider the adjusted earnings per share to be a more appropriate measure of the Groups earnings performance since it excludes the post-tax effect of exceptional items other than the loss on disposal of non-current assets.
The adjusted earnings per share decreased by 9.4% from 116.86p to 105.89p.
Dividends A final cash dividend of 21.20p per share is proposed, which if approved, would represent an increase of 10% on the final dividend from the prior year.
Added to the interim dividend of 4.10p per share, this takes the full year dividend to 25.30p, which is an increase of 10% on the prior year.
The full year dividend has therefore grown by 198% in 4 years.
The dividend is covered 3.8 times by basic earnings per share and 4.2 times by the adjusted earnings per share.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Net Cash and Treasury Facilities Risk Factors The year end net cash position has decreased by 25.8 million to Any business undertaking will involve some risk with many risk 60.3 million.
Gross capital expenditure excluding disposal costs factors common to any business no matter what segment it increased in the year by 12.7 million to 45.7 million including operates in.
The Directors acknowledge however that certain 19.4 million on fit out of the Kingsway warehouse.
A further risks and uncertainties are more specific to the Group and the 41.4 million was spent on the acquisition of businesses in the markets in which its businesses operate.
The principal risk year including repayment of legacy indebtedness.
factors are assessed below: In spite of the heavy level of capital expenditure and cost of acquisitions, the Group generates significant amounts of cash in Retail Specific its operations enabling the delivery of a further substantial Brands enhancement in dividends to shareholders.
The retail fascias sell a mixture of third party and own brand The working capital cycle means that the Group does use the product.
They are heavily dependent on the products and the 60m revolving credit facility and 15m working capital facility brands themselves being desirable to the customer.
Therefore, during the year although we continue to look for opportunities the Group needs all of its third party and own brands, including to reduce seasonal demand at the traditional quarter days by the brands licensed exclusively to it, to maintain their design and negotiation of monthly rents as a standard term on all new leases.
marketing prominence to sustain that desirability.
Further, the Group is also subject to the distribution policies operated by The existing facilities have been used to fund both the some third party brands.
increased capital expenditure and investment activity in the year with no requirement for other Group facilities to be put Ultimately, the Group seeks to ensure it is not overly reliant on in place.
The Board believes that the existing facilities are a small number of brands by offering a stable of brands which is appropriate to the Group as they can be used to fund constantly evolving.
This includes actively seeking additional investments in the Groups existing businesses and enable brands which it can either own or license exclusively.
quick decision making on significant future investments whilst providing flexibility over the short term seasonal peaks in the Retail property factors working capital cycle.
The retail landscape has seen significant changes in recent years Interest rate hedging has not been put in place on the current with a number of new developments opened and a high volume facility.
The Directors continue to be mindful of the potential of retail units becoming vacant.
The Group can be exposed where volatility in base rates, but at present do not consider a long term it has committed itself to a long lease in a location which, as interest rate hedge to be necessary given the inherent short term a result of a more recent retail development, is no longer as nature of both the revolving credit facility and working capital attractive to the customer so suffers from reduced footfall.
This position is reviewed regularly, along with the level Wherever possible, the Group will seek either to take out new of facility required.
leases for a period not exceeding 10 years or to negotiate lease breaks, thereby limiting this potential exposure and affording The net cash position has continued to benefit from improved the Group increased flexibility to respond to such changes.
merchandising controls over stocks in the retail fascias.
Trade creditors continue to be paid to terms to maximise settlement When the Group determines that a store performance is discounts with the period end creditor days being 39 2011: 33. unsatisfactory it approaches the landlords to agree a surrender of the lease.
Where this is not possible, the Group would seek to assign the lease or sublet it to another retailer.
This may Foreign Exchange Exposures necessitate the payment of an incentive to the other retailer.
The The Groups principal foreign exchange exposure continues to be Group is mindful of current economic factors and the adverse on the sourcing of own brand merchandise from either the Far impact on the potential for disposal from the high volume of East or Indian Sub-Continent which usually has to be paid for in vacant units already available as a consequence of US Dollars.
A buying rate is set at the start of the buying season a number of retailers going out of business in recent years.
typically six to nine months before product is delivered to However, assigning the lease or finding a sub-tenant is not stores.
At this point, the Group aims to protect the anticipated without risk because if the other retailer fails then the liability to US Dollar requirement at rates at, or above, the buying rate pay the rent usually reverts to the head lessee.
The Group through appropriate foreign exchange instruments.
monitors the financial condition of the assignees closely for Following the Groups recent acquisition of the trade and evidence that the possibility of a store returning is more than assets of the Blacks business, the Groups forecast requirement remote and makes a provision for the return of stores if this risk for US Dollars in the period to January 2013 is now $107 million.
The Board reviews the list of assigned leases Cover is in place for 2012 for $103 million meaning that the Group regularly and is comfortable that appropriate provisions have is currently exposed on exchange rate movements for $4 million been made where there is a probable risk of the store returning of the current years estimated requirement.
to the Group under privity of contract and that there are no further stores where there is a possible risk of the store returning.
The Group is also exposed to the movement in the rate of the Euro from the sale of its UK sourced stocks to its subsidiaries in Europe.
However, the Group has a natural hedge on this exposure as the Euros received for that stock are then reinvested back in those European subsidiaries to fund the development of both new stores and refurbishments.
28 29 Retail Specific continued Distribution Specific Warehouse operations Credit risk Following the acquisition of First Sport in 2002, warehousing The distribution businesses could have a credit risk if credit operations have been split across two main sites.
The Group has evaluations were not performed on all customers requiring now taken possession of the new warehouse in Rochdale and credit over a certain amount.
If the credit report presents an whilst the consolidation of activity and increased automation adverse picture the management of the business concerned take within the picking process will bring significant operational and a commercial decision as to whether credit should be given.
cost benefits, there is an increased risk from both equipment and All customers are monitored closely with outstanding amounts system failure, together with the inherent risk of having all the chased rigorously and future supplies stopped where necessary.
The Group is working with its insurers on Provisions are made for customer debts where there is a probable a robust Business Continuity Plan which will come into effect risk of non-payment.
once the new warehouse becomes operational in mid 2012.
The Group has also invested a significant amount of time on All Businesses developing a robust change management plan to reduce the Economic factors execution risk associated with the transition from the current warehouses to the new facility and thereby ensure that there is As with other retailers and distributors into retail businesses, the no interruption to supply to stores.
The warehouse at Peterlee demand for the Groups products is influenced by a number of will be handed back to the landlord on 30 June 2012 and the economic factors, notably interest rates, the availability of Board are confident that sufficient contingency has been built consumer credit, employment levels and ultimately, disposable into the timing of the transition plan to ensure that this deadline incomes.
This is particularly relevant at the current time, where will be met.
there are significant cutbacks within national and local government and so many consumers have had to cut back on Seasonality non-essential spending.
The Group seeks to manage this risk by The Groups core retail business is highly seasonal.
Historically, offering a highly desirable and competitively priced product the Groups most important trading period in terms of sales, range, which is differentiated to that of the Groups competitors.
profitability and cash flow has been the Christmas season.
Lower Indirect taxation than expected performance in this period may have an adverse impact on results for the full year, which may cause excess The Board are mindful of the fact that Governments across inventories that are difficult to liquidate.
Europe are seeking to raise their tax yields to deal with their nations long term deficit.
One way that a number of IT governments have done this is by increasing the rate of Value The Group relies on its IT systems and networks and those of Added Tax.
In regard to the Groups current locations, there have the banks and the credit card companies to service its retail been rises in the last 18 months in the UK, Republic of Ireland customers all year round.
The Board is conscious of potential future rises in The principal legacy enterprise system is ideally suited to the Value Added Tax.
operations of the business, but it has always been heavily reliant When Value Added Tax is raised part way through season on a very limited number of key development staff.
This risk has then the Groups businesses cannot pass the rise on as the price been mitigated by improving documentation of the system and of the product is already known by the consumers in the relevant increasing the development team.
However, the Board are retail market.
It is not always possible to pass on rises in new mindful that it is difficult to recruit people with the relevant season product as to do so could make the product unattractive technical knowledge of the language that the legacy system is to the consumer and the Groups retail businesses are mindful of written in and so is actively considering a number of third party the potential for ticket shock where they are introduced to price enterprise systems.
points that they have not been used to seeing in a store.
The Board has decided to start a programme to replace the Wherever possible the Groups businesses look to work with their legacy enterprise system.
However, whilst a move to a third respective suppliers on ensuring that the cost of the product is party system would reduce the risks in the current system there maintained at a level that makes it possible to achieve an would be significant execution risk during the migration work appropriate margin.
We are also investing additional time and which will take a number of years to complete.
Further, the effort in ensuring that markdown activity is reduced through introduction of a third party system will bring additional costs strong and focused merchandising.
both in terms of the initial development and ongoing support.
In the Groups Distribution businesses the Board are mindful Any long term interruption in the availability of the core of the fact that they are acting as supplier and so face reverse enterprise system would have a significant impact on the retail pressure from their Retail customers.
The Group manages the hardware operations element of this risk by the principal IT servers being housed in a third party location which has a mirror back up available should the primary servers or links fail.
Loss of business caused by terrorism, riots or natural disaster The Group has insurance policies in place to cover the risk of stock loss, property expenditure and loss of trade in the event of a terrorism, riots or natural disaster.
The standard cover for loss on trade is one year but some stores have extended periods of cover where a rebuild would take in excess of one year.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Reliance on non-UK manufacturers Treasury The majority of both third party branded product and the Whilst the Group does not have any borrowings from its core Groups own branded product is sourced outside of the UK.
syndicated facility currently, any borrowings that will be made The Group is therefore exposed to the risks associated with are at variable rates linked to LIBOR.
Further details of the international trade and transport as well as different legal Groups interest rate risk are provided in note 23 on page 87. systems and operating standards.
Whilst the Group can manage The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign the risk in the supply chain on its own and licensed products, it exchange risk arising from various currency exposures but has little control over the supply chain within the third party primarily with respect to the US dollar.
As described earlier, this brands.
As such, the Group is exposed to events which may not risk is managed through the use of appropriate foreign currency be under its control.
Further information is also provided in note 23 on The Group works with its suppliers to ensure that the products page 87. being sourced satisfy increasingly stringent laws and regulations Acquisitions in new geographical markets governing issues of health and safety, packaging and labelling The Group has expanded its international presence significantly and other social and environmental factors.
Wherever possible, this expansion is undertaken by way Costs of acquisition of a local business where there is a strong local During the year the Group faced increased costs in both cotton, management team who are familiar with the market and fuel and other energy with the cost of fuel in particular country that they operate in.
We look to incentivise the increasing further in the current year.
management team through an appropriate reward structure which compensates them at an appropriate level for the The price of cotton is monitored constantly by the Imports achievement of demanding yet realistic performance targets.
team with orders placed wherever possible at an opportune time and at fixed prices.
A number of measures have been introduced in recent years to reduce the impact of fuel cost rises: Appropriate software used to manage the distribution of product to stores so that vehicles are fuller and fewer vehicle journeys made The Groups distribution facilities have been designed to accommodate double decker trailers Annual fixed price contracts agreed on electricity Brian Small Group Finance Director Intellectual property 12 April 2012 The Groups trademarks and other intellectual property rights are critical in maintaining the value of the Groups own brands.
Ensuring that the Groups businesses can use these brands exclusively is critical in providing a point of differentiation to our customers.
The Group therefore works with third party organisations to ensure that the Groups intellectual property is registered in all relevant territories.
The Group also actively works to prevent counterfeit product being passed off as legitimate.
Personnel The success of the Group is partly dependent upon the continued service of its key management personnel and upon its ability to attract, motivate and retain suitably qualified employees.
To help achieve this continued service, the Group has competitive reward packages for all of its staff.
More specifically for the retail businesses, the Group also has a long established and substantial training function which seeks to develop training for all levels of retail employees and thereby increase morale and improve staff retention.
This then ensures that knowledge of the Groups differentiated product offering is not lost, thereby enhancing customer service.
