Operating Review: Chairmans statement Iain Napier, Chairman Growth Risks and uncertainties p. 32 Menzies Aviation Operating Profit m 2012 35.6 Corporate Governance p. 36 2011 32.3 2010 24.6 2009 15.8 2008 14.1 Stability Menzies Distribution Operating Profit m 2012 28.8 2011 28.8 2010 28.8 28.6 2009 23.9 2008 John Menzies plc Annual Report 2012 12 We have over 22,000 employees Our Board Final Dividend During the year the Group entered worldwide dedicated to turning aircraft round safely and on time or the FTSE250.
The current structure making sure the UKs newspaper of the Board does not fully meet the retailers have product ready for sale criteria set out in the UK Corporate when they open up each morning.
85p Iwould personally like to thank have been reviewed by the eachand every employee for the Nomination Committee and the Up 5% contribution they made during 2012.
Board is committed to achieving compliance over a sensible timeline.
Prospects The size and structure of the Board Underlying EPS The Group continue to enjoy a strong and its committees are reviewed financial platform with excellent annually.
Whilst we are committed prospects.
At Menzies Aviation we tocompliance with the Code we will continue to expand by winning believe we have an excellent new customers and opening up in balance, with an appropriate 73.4p mixtureof skills and experience.
The growth dynamics of the aviation industry remain good and we believe that Menzies Aviation In the meantime Ian Harrison, with its global reputation for service a Non-Executive Director, who is excellence and industry leading non-independent under the Code safety record are very well placed will be stepping down from the toprosper.
At Menzies Distribution Board after the Annual General Meeting in May.
Ian has been on the acquisition of Orbital Marketing Services Group provides a the Board since 1987 and has made synergistic business with traditional Introduction a significant contribution to the wholesaling but also brings with it The Group continues to trade on a Group over the last 25 years.
expertise in new growth markets strong footing with both divisions and I look forward to the evolution returning good results.
Market Paul Dollman has intimated his of this entity over the coming years.
conditions are tough but despite this desire to retire from the Group we continue to deliver on our targets.
after 10 years as Group Finance Our strategy remains unaltered.
Menzies Aviation overcame airline Director and accordingly will not John Menzies plc is committed to failures and currency headwinds to seek re-election at the Annual delivering shareholder value through again turn in a strong performance.
General Meeting on 17 May 2013. investment in our operating divisions Future prospects remain strong as I am delighted that Paula Bell will be where sustainable returns can we seek to deliver on our organic and joining on 10 June 2013.
At Menzies from Ricardo plc, a global multiDistribution, the acquisition of Orbital industry consultancy, where she Marketing Services Group provides held the post of Group Finance the division with a highly synergistic Director for over six years.
During business that will offer growth hertime at Ricardo she has played innew areas.
an important role in the successful strategic evolution and growth of Results Overview thebusiness and helped drive Iain Napier Underlying operating profit rose 4% strongcost and cash management.
Chairman to 58.4m reflecting another good She is also a Non-Executive Director year for the Group.
During the year of Laird plc where she chairs the 18.4m of non-recurring items were Audit Committee.
incurred as Menzies Distribution rationalised their branch network People andMenzies Aviation took decisive We continue to operate in uncertain management actions to eradicate economic times.
Our people are loss making cargo handling ourbiggest asset.
Menzies Aviation thisthrough our S. P. I. R. I. T. initiatives continued to deliver the Groups which run through both operating growth ambitions with operating divisions.
S. P. I. R. I. T. encompasses profit up 16% on a constant currency the values and behaviours that basis while Menzies Distribution eachandevery employee heldprofits flat at 28.8m which embraces everyday.
By following isacommendable performance our S. P. I. R. I. T. we can deliver inrecessionary times.
great service to ourcustomers and continue to enhance shareholder value.
John Menzies plc Annual Report 2012 13
