Our business Operational review Governance Financial statements 11 Living our V g alues ues Chris Johnson, Mechanical Engineer for Wood Group Mustangs IMV business.
Supporting our clients with innovative solutions, IMV are recognised as industry leaders for project execution services in the thermal heavy oil sector.
Innovation Innovation Integrity management group, Wood Group Kenny, Australia This year the integrity management and solutions software business of Wood Group Kenny introduced an innovative software product to the market which provides us with a competitive advantage in the world of asset data and integrity management.
This all-of-facility integrity management system is the culmination of a two-year development and testing programme.
Our upstream business accounted for just Inpex.
Our onshore pipelines business has Wood Group Engineering under 40% of divisional revenue.
Detailed performed well in the USA, benefiting from engineering work continues on the Ichthys the award of the Shell pipeline and terminals 2012 2011 and Mafumeira Sul projects in Australia and EPCM contract and general activity levels in $m $m Change Angola, which are scheduled to complete in the shale regions.
Strength in the Gulf Revenue 1,787.3 1,458.6 22.5% Downstream, process & industrial activities of Mexico was driven by FEED and detailed accounted for just over 15% of revenue.
EBITA 220.0 162.0 35.8% engineering work on projects including Performance in the second half improved, Anadarko Lucius, Exxon Hadrian, Chevron EBITA margin 12.3% 11.1% 1.2pts although the market remains highly Jack & St Malo and Williams Partners competitive.
We have visibility on prospects including detailed engineering following from ongoing and executed FEEDs, along with Outlook additional projects with existing customers.
In 2012, Wood Group Engineering delivered Wood Group Engineering delivered very In Canada we have seen good growth a second consecutive year of over 30% strong growth.
Revenue increased by 23% over the last two years, but experienced a EBITA growth as the division recovered and EBITA increased by 36%, principally slowdown in activity in the last quarter which from the trough in 2010.
Looking ahead to reecting increased activity in upstream and is continuing in 2013.
2013, we anticipate revenue growth and subsea & pipelines.
EBITA margin increased margin improvement to lead to EBITA growth from 11.1% to 12.3%, largely as a result of Our subsea & pipeline business accounted of around 15%.
This is supported by our higher volumes and improvement in pricing for almost 45% of revenue.
Our subsea current order book, prospects in a number in some areas.
activities remained strong in the North Sea of key regions including the Gulf of Mexico, Headcount increased by 12% from 9,100 to and Australia where we continue to work on the Middle East, the Norwegian North 10,200.
The increase was heavily weighted projects including BP Quad 204 and Chevron Sea and Asia Pacic, and our view on the to the first half of the year, reecting the Gorgon.
Elsewhere, we continue to work on overall market which should benefit from the timing of significant contract awards in the next phase of ACG in the Caspian and forecast increase in E&P capex in 2013 of upstream.
on Block 18 in Angola, and have recently around 7%.
been awarded the subsea FEED work on the Abadi FLNG project in Indonesia for
