6 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Business Review Overview Chairmans Statement In my first statement as Chairman, I am delighted to report that Johnson Matthey Tim Stevenson Chairman performed very strongly in 2011 12.
During the year the company benefited from good demand for its products as well as robust precious metal prices, particularly in the first half.
The groups continuing strong performance is enabled by our long term investment in research and development R&D and our strategy of organic growth, complemented by bolt-on acquisitions.
Together these have enabled the company to achieve leading positions in a number of rapidly growing markets.
The result is another year of strong growth in underlying earnings per share, which were up 29% to 153.7 pence.
The groups cash generation has also been strong: at 31st March 2012 Welcome to this, our first the groups net debt including post tax integrated annual report, pension deficits to EBITDA ratio was 1.0 times.
As a result of this very good which I hope will provide you performance the board has carried out with a deeper understanding a review of the groups balance sheet of the many aspects of our structure.
The outlook for the group business, its performance, remains strong: we believe it has ample resources to fund forecast capital its long term prospects, its expenditure and a further increase in R&D.
governance and, ultimately, The board is therefore recommending how we deliver value to our a special dividend to shareholders of stakeholders.
100 pence per share, which represents a total payment of approximately 212 million.
Sustainability continues to be a key element of the companys strategy and I am very pleased to be introducing this, Johnson Mattheys first integrated annual report, which describes all aspects of our financial and non-financial performance.
I believe that this reflects both our values and our determination to build a sustainable business, as well as communicating to all of our stakeholders our commitment to sustainable growth.
In this years annual report we have also included more comprehensive governance reporting, including in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 84 to 99 which forms a key part of the Report of the Directors.
7 This is in light of changes introduced Since joining the company, I have met To conclude: as you will read in this by the UK Corporate Governance Code a number of Johnson Mattheys major annual report, Johnson Matthey is in very the Code, which replaced the Combined shareholders and received positive feedback good shape and continues to make good Code on Corporate Governance in June on the company and its strategy.
I am keen progress in delivering value to its 2010.
While we reflected certain aspects to maintain regular dialogue with our shareholders and other stakeholders.
of the Code on a voluntary basis in last shareholders and look forward to meeting The drivers of our business remain firmly years annual report, this years Corporate many of you at this years AGM when there in place.
Despite current global economic Governance Report fully reflects a number will be an opportunity for us to discuss the uncertainties, I am confident that we will of substantial changes in corporate companys business and achievements.
continue to benefit in the years ahead from governance reporting.
I hope that this This is my opportunity to thank my our continuing and increasing investment integrated annual report will provide you predecessor, Sir John Banham, for his in R&D, our emphasis on efficient with a deeper understanding of the many strong leadership of the board and many manufacturing infrastructure and the aspects of our business, its performance, efforts on behalf of the company over quality of our people around the world.
its long term prospects, its governance the five years that he was Chairman.
and, ultimately, how we deliver value to our John brought to the board his wide customers and to other stakeholders.
ranging experience of both corporate and I joined the board as Chairman public sector leadership and governance.
Designate in March 2011 and was very He was also a tireless ambassador for the pleased to have been appointed as company and an eloquent and enthusiastic Tim Stevenson Chairman of your company at the close of advocate of its achievements and Chairman last years annual general meeting AGM.
On behalf of all of us at Johnson I recognise that an effective board Matthey, I thank him for his important is central to the long term sustainable contribution and wish him all the very best success of the company.
In the Governance for his retirement.
section of this years annual report we Sir Thomas Harris retires from the describe the structures and measures in board at the close of this years AGM place which are designed to ensure its having served as a non-executive director continued effectiveness and we review since April 2009.
I would like to thank Tom how the principles of the Code have been for his wise counsel and contribution to the applied in the year, focusing on the role work of the board over the last three years and effectiveness of the board.
We and wish him the best for the future.
describe in particular the board and There is no doubt that our most committee performance evaluations important investment is that which we completed last year and underway this make in our people.
These have been especially important development and, most importantly, the for me in my first year as Chairman.
wellbeing of our employees is vital to the I chair the board at an exciting stage success of our business.
In this respect of Johnson Mattheys development.
Not I am delighted that we have made such only are its businesses making excellent good progress towards achieving our progress, realising the benefits of the target of zero accidents during the year.
companys long term strategy and Since joining the company I have met investment in R&D and facilities, but our many of our employees around the world.
Sustainability 2017 programme continues I have been repeatedly impressed by their to achieve good progress towards meeting enthusiasm, professionalism and dedication its objectives and targets.
Its focus on at every level of the organisation.
On improving resource efficiency in our behalf of all our stakeholders, I thank our manufacturing operations and developing employees for their hard working more sustainable products for our contribution to another successful year.
customers should make a major contribution to growth in the years ahead.
