Chairmans Statement moderated during 2012, although it has shown some tangible signs of acceleration since the start of 2013.
Copper traded relatively well given the In vesting economic backdrop.
The average LME price in 2012 was $7,949 per tonne, a 10% decline on the previous year, but this was the best performance of any base metal and, for growth amongst all major metals, second only to gold.
Copper is supported by restricted supply and continuous demand from a wide range of applications and it remains our favoured metal.
In May 2012, I announced my intention Costs have continued to rise with pressure to step down as Chairman of Kazakhmys from a variety of sources including lower by the time of our 2013 Annual General grade as our existing mines mature.
After eight years as Chairman combination of lower copper prices and rising costs squeezed profitability and and with the major growth projects improving efficiency is a key strategic now rmly in progress, I believe this is focus for the Board.
the right time to hand over to a new We continue to hold 26% of ENRC, which Chairman.
I will of course maintain had a market value of $1,546 million at the my involvement with Kazakhmys, as end of 2012, compared to $3,289 million at executive chairman of Kazakhmys the end of 2011.
ENRC suffered from pricing Corporation LLC, and as a major weaknesses for its key commodities and an shareholder and a non-executive increase in debt with the acquisition of new assets.
In light of the significant difference for Director of Kazakhmys PLC.
over a year between our carrying value of the ENRC investment and its market value, it has been necessary to write down the investment to a value approaching recent In 2005, we became the first company from Kazakhstan.
A key focus for the Board is market valuations.
The holding continues to Kazakhstan to obtain a primary listing on to ensure the successful delivery of these offer strategic opportunities and provides the London Stock Exchange.
Since Listing major projects and the subsequent diversication of earnings through ENRCs we have aimed to balance the needs of generation of future projects.
The Boards different stakeholders, acknowledging our objective is to maximise the value of this Our first obligation is to ensure the personal obligations to shareholders, employees, investment for all shareholders.
The approach and the wider community in Kazakhstan, to health and safety has changed markedly The major asset in our power division where our resources are based.
Our Listing over the last eight years, but clearly has is our 50% holding in Ekibastuz GRES-1, has allowed us to compare ourselves to the some distance to go until we reach our which again performed well, benefiting best peer group of international mining core target of zero fatalities.
In 2012 there from continued investment in the power companies and has helped drive higher were 19 fatalities, compared to 24 in 2011 station and rising demand for power in expectations of ourselves.
Safety is a key indicator of Kazakhstan.
We have announced that we The successful raising of finance, both operational performance and operational are in discussions regarding our holding in through our Listing and the subsequent debt management have to make safety their first Ekibastuz GRES-1.
It is an excellent business facilities, has enabled us to bring our growth priority.
All fatalities are both unacceptable and we remain committed to having captive projects to reality.
In 2012 we announced the and avoidable and the Board will continue power for our operations, but the Board approval of Aktogay, and together with the to demand continuous and significant believes that the value of this asset, which is development of Bozshakol we are now improvement in health and safety.
the largest power station in Kazakhstan, is moving towards a new Kazakhmys, which inadequately reected in our share price.
The economic backdrop remained uncertain will be dominated by large scale, open pit throughout 2012, but there is some basis for I am delighted that Simon Heale has agreed mines, producing higher volumes of copper optimism.
Europe continues to be held back to take on the role of Chairman.
Simon at a relatively low operating cost.
This by structural problems, but there has been joined the Board in 2007 and has served growth will transform the Group, taking improvement in the US, as it moves on from as Chairman of the Audit Committee for copper cathode output from around 300 kt the trough of the financial crisis and benets five years.
His knowledge of the Group will to over 500 kt, and will ensure a globally from low energy prices.
Growth in China assist him greatly in his new role and I will competitive future for copper mining in 6 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report: Chairmans Statement Detailed Information Financial Statements For more information see pages 22 Summary Corporate Governance 50 Governance Framework support Simon as required.
As I mentioned Copper remains an attractive metal, with Lynch-Bell will be standing for election last year, it was likely that the Board would a favourable demand and supply balance.
as a new non-executive Director at the seek to moderate our payout level as we are With both of our major growth projects Annual General Meeting and will become entering a period of high capital expenditure, now funded and in development we have a Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Michael which is in keeping with our exible dividend clear route to transform our business over has extensive experience in the sector.
The Board will remain policy.
The lower dividend also reects the focused on the delivery of these projects, lower level of earnings.
Once the first of Since Listing, our non-executive Directors improving the efficiency of our existing our major projects is commissioned in 2015, have provided continuous support and assets and ensuring the personal welfare the Board anticipates increasing our payout advice and I should like to thank the Board of our employees.
level, subject to market conditions.
for their assistance during my time as Chairman.
Each of our Directors has skills It should be noted that after this final dividend Vladimir Kim relevant to our business, which combined we will have returned a total of $1,776 million Chairman with their personal commitment has led to shareholders, compared to $491 million to invaluable input.
The non-executive raised at the time of Listing.
Our cash returns Directors make regular visits to our compared to our market capitalisation are operations and interact with operational Key achievements amongst the highest in the sector.
management, which has helped maximise since Listing benefit for all concerned.
Over the past three years, with the support of the China Development Bank, we have The Directors recommend the payment raised $4.2 billion in debt for our major of a final dividend of 8.0 US cents per share growth projects.
In 2012 we replaced or $42 million.
This payment, together with our other existing corporate debt facility the interim dividend of 3.0 US cents per with a $1 billion pre-export facility from a share, represents 11.0 US cents per share, or $58 million for the year as a whole.
In the consortium of banks.
Our debt is generally first few months of 2012 we repurchased long-dated, but the Board is mindful of Listing in London 6.1 million of shares, at a cost of $88 million, ensuring that the Groups financial strength In 2005 Kazakhmys became the which completed the share buy-back is maintained.
first company from Kazakhstan to programme, amounting to $166 million, list on the London Stock Exchange.
Meet our new Chairman Simon Heale joined the Board of Kazakhmys in January 2007, becoming Chairman of the Audit Committee in December 2008.
Q: First thoughts on becoming Chairman of Kazakhmys?
A: I am delighted to become Chairman.
We are entering a dynamic period as the Secured $4.2 billion loan facilities growth projects turn from plan to reality.
In 2010 and 2011 we completed Q: What will be your strategic focus?
arrangements for long-term A: Supporting management in their delivery of the growth projects and in managing funding of $4.2 billion towards costs at the existing operations, as they transform Kazakhmys to a company dominated the development of our by a smaller number of large, low cost mines.
I am committed to improving our safety growth projects.
record and I am pleased to be joining the Group HSE Committee.
Q: How do you bridge the gap from London to Kazakhstan?
A: I have visited the operations often and I am conscious of the significant position the Group holds in Kazakhstan as an employer and economic contributor.
I will maintain good contact with operational management, to ensure the working of the Board remains relevant to the operations and its employees.
Progressing our major Kazakhmys has worked hard to combine the growth projects opportunities of new economies with the disclosure The securing of the long-term and regulation of the London market.
I want to debt has enabled the Group to ensure that transparency and good governance commit to the delivery of the remain central to our behaviour.
major growth projects, which To read Simons biography see page will transform the output and 20 Board of Directors cost base of our operations.
