02 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Chairmans statement We are continuing to develop significant growth opportunities Progress in our markets In Hull and East Yorkshire, I am delighted to say In summary 2011 12 was a year of further successful development that our KC brand continues to outperform its peers of the Group, with strong progress in a number of key across the rest of the UK, delivering growth in what areas.
That progress is reflected in the quality of our is regarded as a mature and declining market.
This year, the Group has focused on maintaining results and especially in the continued strength of the Demand for broadband and bundled services progress against its longer-term ambitions.
continues, offsetting the decline in call revenues.
Highlights include: Our focus for the year has been our growth agenda, We invested also in deploying an initial phase of growing our market share in the provision with a particular emphasis on growing our market fibre based broadband services, achieving speeds of ofmanaged services to UK organisations: share in the provision of managed services to UK 100Mbps and transforming the user experience for working with our partners to deliver organisations.
We have been successful in attracting our customers.
Meanwhile we have completed the newandinnovative solutions: and strong brands from the enterprise markets and in removal of all not spots in our regional network, continuing to build relationships with key customers, allowing us to provide minimum 2Mbps broadband deploying our initial phase including Asda, Morrisons, Dominos and Phones4U, speeds to all our customers, three years ahead of the .
while strengthening still further our position in the government targets for Digital Britain.
Public Services Network PSN market.
In September, the Group was promoted into the The PSN model is one that is being adopted by FTSE 250 index, making it one of the 350 highest localauthorities across the UK as a means of valued public companies in the UK.
While this delivering a range of public sector services across stands as a testament to the Groups very one common platform.
It offers organisations such successful restructuring over the past three years, as councils, health authorities and other regional we do still need to complete our transformational public bodies the opportunity to gain access to a journey by succeeding in our growth and market menu of services, without the need to go through leadership ambitions.
We continue to invest in our their own individual procurement processes.
This growth areas and, whereas currently the growth allows a more cost effective means of providing being achieved is offset by residual decline in services to their communities.
We are delighted revenues from activities in which we are not thatour Kcom brand has been selected to provide investing for growth, we are very confident of our PSNs to Staffordshire, Dorset and the East prospects and fully committed to achieving our Midlands EMPSN.
plans for this phase of the Groups development.
Securing such contracts would not be possible Dividend without the strong relationships we have in place The Board is proposing a final dividend of 2.67 with key partners such as BT, Cisco, Avaya and pence per share 2011: 2.50 pence per share.
Our specialist teams work closely with addition, the Board reiterates its commitment to ourpartners to make sure we build the right delivering a minimum of ten per cent per annum servicesto serve our markets.
dividend growth over the current financial year, reflecting its confidence in the Groups cash generation and continued performance.
We have achieved a great deal during thepast twelve months and we can be confident about the opportunities that lie ahead.
Bill Halbert Executive Chairman Watch our full year results webcast atwww.
com investors Directors report: Directors report: Overview Financials Business review Governance 03 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Board update Our people 2011 12 Following consultation with our largest shareholders, The success of the Group you see today is heavily Full year dividend the Board has asked me to remain in my role dependent on the quality of its people.
This extension delivers customers measure our performance on the skills, continuity in leadership through the next phase capability and service we deliver.
ofthe strategic development of the Group.
4.00p Iamdelighted to continue working with the Board The progress we have made this year would not and management team at KCOM Group as we have been possible without the commitment, focus move towards achieving the Groups ambitions.
and dedication of everyone across the KCOM Group.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank Committed minimum I believe that we continue to have an extremely all our employees for their continued support of our dividend growth for effective Board at KCOM Group, with a very open business and the ambitions we share for the future.
2012 13 culture where challenge and debate is actively encouraged.
We have a balance of Executive Outlook andNon-Executive Directors, who bring diversity The KCOM Group continues to deliver growth ofexperience and expertise to the Board.
We have inprofits and generate excellent cash conversion 10% also a strong Senior Independent Director who which, together with our strong balance sheet, isavailable to both shareholders and other enables the Group to continue its investment Boardmembers if any issues were ever to arise, ingrowth in its chosen markets.
The results forexample, in relation to my combined role.
demonstrate the progress we are making towards Ourannual Board evaluation highlighted the our longer-term objectives.
The Board expects mutual trust and respect between Board members theGroup to continue to perform in line with as a key area of strength, along with the level of expectations in the current year.
contact that the Board has with our senior executives, which was a specific area for focus this year following feedback from the Board evaluation Bill Halbert lastyear.
Further information onthe way the Board Executive Chairman operates can be found onpage 33.
31 May 2012 Our ambition To become an acknowledged leader in the markets we serveandan automatic partner of choice for individual consumers andorganisations in those markets Helping customers benefit from Improved Supporting An enhanced Leading performance innovation experience technology creating more to exploit key value across personal and harnessing the power productive working propositions, processes organisational networks of communications environments and relationships
