Overview 6 Chairmans statement Revenue 2011: 2,179m We will continue to pursue growth areas across each of our three operating divisions.
2,069m Net cash balances 2011: 165m 129m After investment of approximately 50m during the year.
I am pleased to report a solid set of results for Kier Group plc for Board changes the year ended 30 June 2012.
Underlying pro t before tax, before At the annual general meeting in November 2011, we announced the amortisation of intangible assets relating to contract rights the appointment of Amanda Mellor as a non-executive director and exceptional items, improved 2% to 70.0m 2011:68.9m of the Company with effect from 1 December 2011.
Amanda is and earnings per share on the same basis increased 6% to currently Group Secretary and Head of Corporate Governance 156.8p 2011:148.4p, enhanced by a 6% reduction in the of Marks & Spencer Group plc, having previously been Head of effective tax rate.
Investor Relations at Marks & Spencer and Director of Corporate Relations at Arcadia Group plc.
Throughout the year, Amanda Revenue at 2,069m, was 5% lower than last year has made a signi cant contribution to the Board and to its 2011:2,179m.
However, the operating margins were resilient Risk Management and Audit, Remuneration and Nomination in both the Construction and Services divisions, at 2.5% Committees.
There was also a more substantial contribution from the Property division, Outlook including the housing businesses, with a 44% increase in its With our order books in Construction and Services at a combined operating pro t to 22.0m 2011: 15.3m.
level of 4.3bn we have entered the new financial year in a good position with 95% of the Construction divisions targeted revenue The Groups cash performance remained stable, despite a more and 91% of the Services divisions targeted revenue for 2013 challenging working capital environment, with average Group secure and probable.
The Property division with its pipeline now month-end net cash of 95m 2011: 129m, after investment standing at over 1bn will continue to be a key contributor to during the year of approximately 50m.
This produced a Group the Group results and will create opportunities across all the net cash position at 30 June 2012 of 129m 2011: 165m.
divisions, thus maintaining our well-balanced business model.
Taking into account the performance of the Group, its cash We will continue to pursue growth areas across each of our three position, and continuing the Groups progressive dividend policy, operating divisions and with our committed and professional the Board proposes to increase the total dividend for the year staff and the diversity of our business model: we remain well by 3% to 66p 2011: 64p, which is more than twice covered by positioned in todays changing environment.
adjusted earnings per share and re ects the Boards con dence in the business.
The final dividend of 44.5p will be paid on 28 November 2012 to shareholders on the register at close of Phil White CBE business on 21 September 2012.
There will be a scrip Chairman dividend alternative.
Overview Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 7 Phil White CBE Chairman The role of our Committees Risk Management and Audit Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Board of Directors Committee The Board is responsible to Chair Phil White CBE Chair Chris Geoghegan shareholders for the success of Chair Richard Bailey The Nomination Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises the Company.
The Board develops comprises the Groups nonThe Risk Management and Audit the non-executive directors.
Chris the Groups strategy, monitors and executive directors.
Phil White is Committee comprises the nonGeoghegan is the chairman of the reviews its business performance the chairman of the committee.
The committee makes and controls risk.
The Board has The committee is responsible for a chartered accountant with recent recommendations to the Board on the put in place reporting processes monitoring the composition and and relevant financial experience, Companys framework of executive and other controls which are balance of the Board, making is the chairman of the committee.
remuneration and determines, on its designed to ensure that it is recommendations to the Board The committee is responsible for behalf, speci c remuneration packages provided with relevant information on new Board appointments and overseeing the Groups internal audit for each of the executive directors.
on a timely basis, which set succession planning.
The director responsible for In doing so, it takes the advice of authorisation limits and which internal audit reports to the chairman independent external consultants.
reserve certain signi cant matters of the committee.
The committee for the Board or its committees.
is also responsible for monitoring and reviewing the performance, independence and objectivity of KPMG, the external auditors.
