02 Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 B USINESS REVIEW Daniel Bernard CHAI RMANS Chairman STATEMENT This growth has been achieved whilst adhering to our values as a I a m pleased to report another responsible business.
We aim to trade responsibly with respect to our customers, our staff and our shareholders, as well as the environment strong performance by Kingsher.
and the communities in which we operate.
We remain members of Adjusted pre-tax profits were up the FTSE4Good Index and the DowJones Sustainability Indexes.
Kingshers growth has also been achieved against an extremely 20.4% to 807 million and the difficult economic backdrop, particularly in the UK and within the dividend was increased by 25% Eurozone.
With consumers across Europe suffering pressure on their disposable incomes, our management team has concentrated on selfto 8.84p.
The balance sheet also help initiatives to strengthen our business, rather than relying on any market improvement.
These initiatives have included managing our remains strong.
costs, cash and stock as well as continued expansion of direct sourcing, development of our common core product range and more innovation in products, services and multi-channel retailing.
I would like to mention a few operational highlights.
Retail profit grew in each of our three main operating divisions.
In France, both Castorama and Brico Dpt outperformed a market that was slightly stronger than the UK.
In the UK & Ireland, B&Q profit increased by 11% in a home improvement market which remained challenging.
It also expanded its Adjusted pre-tax profit business through the acquisition of 29ex-Focus stores, with 27 already open under the B&Q banner and trading well.
Screwx had an excellent year, opening 53 net new Trade Counters and continuing to establish 807M itself as a leader in multi-channel retailing.
Elsewhere, profits grew in Poland and Turkey and our losses in China were signicantly reduced.
20.4% As you know, 2011 12 marks the end of the four-year Delivering Value phase of our strategic plan.
I am pleased that this first stage in our Pre-tax profit journey has been such a success and I congratulate the management on their performance.
To have delivered this growth in such challenging times for economies across Europe is a tribute to the strength in depth 797M we have within the management team here at Kingsher.
18.8% I am confident that the Delivering Value plan has provided the foundations for the next phase of our development, called Creating the Adjusted basic EPS Leader.
By making home improvement easier for customers, developing a common core product range, and expanding our businesses both in existing markets and new ones, I believe Kingsher can become the 25.1P true leader in home improvement retailing.
You can read more about this plan on pages 6 to 9.
22.4% I would like to pay tribute to John Nelson, who retired as Kingshers Deputy Chairman in 2011 after nine years on the Board.
Johns wise Basic EPS counsel was extremely valuable to Kingsher and the business made good progress during his tenure.
I would like to welcome Mark Seligman, who joined the Board as Senior Independent 27.5P Director in January.
Mark is a distinguished investment banker with over 30 years of experience in the City and Im sure his knowledge 31% will be of great benefit to the Group.
It is important to thank our 80,000 staff whose hard work and Full year dividend enthusiasm has been the driving force behind our performance.
Retailing is very much a people business and success is a team effort.
We are at a very exciting stage in our journey, and although 8.84P the economic backdrop is difficult I believe that challenges present opportunities and that Kingsher is well placed to make the most 25% ofthem.
