Overview 10 In addition to growth in the UK our field have added to the expertise of the Chairmans retail businesses in Ireland, Belgium Board and we value their input to our and Spain posted a combined deliberations and decision making.
statement 1 51% increase in operating profit.
Corporate Governance This reinforces the sustainability of The Board strives to provide the these often unsung parts of our right leadership, strategic oversight business and there is good future and control environment to sustain potential too with the possibility of delivery of value to our shareholders increased opening hours in Ireland, over the long term.
The Board receives the addition of machines to our shops a detailed operational update on in Belgium and ongoing expansion key strategic priorities at every into new regions for our Spanish joint meeting and holds the executive venture, Sportium.
team accountable for the execution Moving to our Digital business, whilst of these.
Peter Erskine considers experiencing a frustrating delay to the We remain committed to high business performance, launch of our new sportsbook website standards which is fundamental to in the summer, we end 2012 having the role of corporate ensuring the confidence and support taken significant steps forward.
of our shareholders, with whom governance and how Our investment in new trading I maintain an ongoing and open technology is starting to pay back Board changes position dialogue, meeting with many of through significant progress in our them over the course of the year.
Ladbrokes for 2013. trading and liability management, which has contributed to an underlying Full details on how the Board and its increase in our sportsbook margin committees apply the principles of and improvement in the quality of good corporate governance can be our earnings.
We expect to sustain found in the Corporate governance this improvement going forward.
We have also continued to expand our Dividend product range with more Bet in Play The Group recommends paying a final events and markets, new slots and dividend of 4.6 pence per share taking more gaming opportunities.
We have the full year dividend to 8.9 pence per a clear road map of further product share, an increase of 14.1%.
This is in improvements going forward and are line with our policy of a target dividend increasingly focusing on improved cover of approximately 2.0 times customer relationship management.
It is also pleasing to begin 2013 The dividend will be payable on with a genuine opportunity to further 9 May 2013 to shareholders on differentiate our customer offer from the register on 22 March 2013.
Peter Erskine that of our competitors, with the Summary acquisition of the Betdaq exchange Chairman Ladbrokes is showing clear business allowing us to offer the and pleasing signs of improved full spectrum of sports betting Dear Shareholder performance as we deliver opportunities to customers.
2012 has seen Ladbrokes continue against our strategy and goals.
Ladbrokes remains highly cash on its upward path with record With the reinvigoration of our Digital generative and we are pleased to see revenues in our UK Retail business, business gathering pace we look a further reduction in debt this year continued improvement in our Digital forward to making further advances as well as an increased dividend.
offering, some advances internationally in 2013. and the continued strengthening of Board Changes our balance sheet.
Christopher Rodrigues has decided Over the years many have questioned to retire at the 2013 Annual General the sustainability of high street betting, Meeting having served nine years as so to secure a record year in terms of an independent non-executive director.
This is the We thank Christopher for his third consecutive year of growth in considerable contribution over the Peter Erskine profit per shop and we owe a particular years and wish him well for the future.
Chairman note of thanks to our shop colleagues During 2012 we further strengthened 1 for their dedication and hard work.
the skills and diversity of the Board, With our new operational structure, an with the appointment of two new increased focus on local competition non-executive directors, Richard Moross and continued improvements in our and Christine Hodgson.
Richards machine offering, we are confident of experience in online businesses and further progress and we will continue Christines knowledge in the technology to invest in new shops in 2013.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
