Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information Chairmans statement Results and strategic progress Board changes As part of our process of Board change, two of our long serving Board members, Bill Spivey and Andrew Robb, stepped down at the Annual General Meeting in May 2012.
I would like to thank Bill and Andrew for their invaluable service to the Company.
We welcomed Paula Bell to the Board in March.
Paula, who is also Chairman of our Audit Committee, brings a wealth of finance and business experience.
David Lockwood was appointed Chief Executive with effect from 13August 2012.
Since Davids appointment there have been a number of organisation changes to encourage more collaborative working across the business in pursuit of a single vision for the Group, which was presented to City stakeholders in a Business Review in December 2012.
He has also made a number of internal organisational changes which allows more collaborative working across the business units and enhances the operational culture.
Thesenior 250 leaders in Laird attended a working conference to explore and understand how, as a collective leadership, more value can be delivered to customers and ultimately shareholders.
Nigel Keen Chairman Dividends The Board has declared a 2012 final year dividend of 6.6 pence 2012 has been a year of significant change for Laird per share 2011, 5.3 pence, resulting in a total full year dividend The Group delivered a robust set of results with strong growth in of 10.0 pence 2011, 8.0 pence, in line with our recommendation profit, outstanding cash conversion, improving margins and increased for dividend payments to deliver a compound annual growth rate revenues driven from the now fully integrated acquisitions.
Revenue averaging 24% from 2010 to 2013. on an organic basis was level with last year largely as a result of market The Boards dividend policy is to increase returns to shareholders conditions which, with some notable exceptions, remained subdued.
overtime, while taking account of both the underlying profitability Whilst remaining focused on cash generation, we have continued and cash requirements of the business.
to invest in our business, and brought on additional capacity in China during the year.
Our focus on providing a high level of service Employees and fullment remains a major strength of our business and this We have performed well during the year due to the hard work excellence continues to deliver results.
ofall our employees, whether it is through innovation, high levels of customer service or reliable fullment.
I would like to thank all In March 2012 we announced the acquisition of two businesses, employees for their professionalism and commitment which allows Microwave Materials Group NV the holding company of Emerson us to achieve this goal.
Emerson & Cuming has allowed us to expand our product range in our Performance Materials We have a well nanced business base from which our excellent division and bolster our leading position across the breadth of the teams can deliver innovative and valuable products to our customers EMI electromagnetic interference shielding market.
Although we operate in an uncertain economic now integrated into our Wireless Systems division, brings expertise environment we are confident that we will continue to provide in wireless modules used particularly in difficult environments increasing value for all our stakeholders now and in the years for radio communications.
In the second half of the year, we tocome.
completed the exit of our Handset Antennae business which had been overshadowing the underlying strong performance of our two Nigel Keen divisions for some time.
Chairman 28 February 2013 3 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Laird PLC
