Chairmans Letter Lonmin Plc [ 06] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 We have taken definitive steps to secure our financial future.
Looking ahead with renewed confidence A Chairmans Letter from Roger Phillimore Dear Fellow Shareholder, This has been a year where issues of business and commerce have been overshadowed by tragic loss of life, violence, unrest and fear.
Events at Marikana and elsewhere mark a watershed for post-Apartheid South Africa, and leave everyone involved in the country asking questions and seeking answers.
What is clear, though, is that if South Africa is to deal with the historic issues of poverty and dissatisfaction which underpin much of the unrest we have witnessed, it will require a growing and effective private sector to provide the jobs so desperately needed.
It is business which will help to deliver much of the growth which, in turn, will help to provide the economic, educational and social platforms for change.
Given the countrys extensive natural resources, mining will be a key part of that.
The future of your Company, like our peers, is intrinsically linked with the future of South Africa.
The Government of the Republic recognises the importance of this link.
Whilst there are those who attack the mining industry as being to blame for many of South Africas ills, and demand it does ever more to address them, I am confident that the government realises that loading more and more costs on to the sector during difficult times can only lead, in the long run, to serious damage to the nations economy.
Certainly miners have a role to play, and perhaps greater responsibility than others given the labour-intensive nature of our businesses.
Your Company accepts that challenge, and that responsibility, but we must also be clear that the change all of us who love South Africa wish to see cannot be delivered by businesses alone.
We are a crucial component, but only by working in partnership with government and other stakeholders can transformation be delivered.
To play our part morally and legally, we must be financially and commercially healthy.
We are a business: without being successful at what we do we can do nothing to help South Africa.
What is clear from the terrible events of August and September is that, for both government and the mining industry, the reality of what happened has bred a new determination to work in partnership for the betterment of South Africa, and to do all we can to ensure such awful scenes never take place again.
Financial Issues Post Year End Since the year end there have been a number of significant financial events affecting your Company, the full details of which are contained in a number of relevant documents you will, I hope, have seen by the time this Annual Report is published.
Chief amongst these was our announcement on October 30 that we intended to raise approximately US$800 million in a Rights Issue, the Prospectus for which was published on 9 November 2012.
Roger Phillimore Chairman Lonmin Plc Chairmans Letter [ 07] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Rights Issue This was designed with one thing in mind: to help Your Companys key operational challenges this year our shareholders maximise returns in the long-term were safety, managing costs and labour relations See p 11 for more from this Companys excellent assets, operational before the events of August and September.
information turnaround and position in the market when it improves.
Lonmin can be proud of its safety record.
It is the The fact that this Rights Issue is fully underwritten is safest South African platinum mining company, having a real vote of confidence in our business, as well as achieved the lowest Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate in South Africas ability to deal with its short-term LTIFR amongst the primary producers, and a number problems and move forwards.
of our shafts have set records in South Africa for fatality-free shifts.
The Rights Issue is vital, so as not to lose the benefits of your Companys fundamental strengths: Constant vigilance and procedures notwithstanding, regrettably two colleagues lost their lives in mining Operations located in the worlds premier PGM related incidents this year.
deposit Long life mineral resource base backed by longYour Company is determined to continue to be the term New Order Mining Rights safest platinum miner in the business.
Our Significant inherent value in existing infrastructure commitment to zero harm remains undiminished and mineral reserves and safety will always be our first priority.
Attractive long-term fundamentals for PGM Rising wages and other price increases in areas such markets, despite short-term volatility as power drove gross costs up this year.
Unit costs Maximisation of value through vertical integration were of course significantly impacted by the seven Operational gearing weeks we were unable to mine due to the illegal strike Safety Record Industry leading expertise in processing UG2 ore at Marikana.
The cost of agreeing the wage settlement The Rights Issue should also be viewed against the which ended it will add approximately 14% to our background of our clear strategic focus on future wage costs in 2013 over our normalised costs for plans for our outstanding asset at Marikana.
Included in this are the awards negotiated in 2011 for implementation in October 2012.
Markets, Operations and Costs Platinum miners were hit hard by a combination of Industry Challenges lower prices and rising costs, and instability in the The issue of nationalisation seems to have slipped latter part of the year.
down the political agenda in South Africa during 2011 12, with many mainstream politicians publicly Much of this year saw a continuation of the global stating that it would neither be practicable nor economic instability with issues in Europe in particular desirable.
However, there remains the issue of multiheavily impacting sentiment across global markets.
faceted intervention by the state which over time could amount to nationalisation by stealth.
Your The Events at Marikana, and subsequent strike action Company is working hard, in partnership with its at almost all other South African PGM producers industry peers and business organisations, to have, given the importance of South African address this.
producers to global PGM production, in a short space of time altered the outlook for the supply side of the Responsible mining companies operate to the PGM industry.
These events have increased operating standards laid down by the International Council on costs for Lonmin and other companies in the South Mining and Metals ICMM.
They have much to offer African PGM mining industry, while at the same time their host nations and, because of this, we and our Wage Costs creating supply constraints which have contributed to peers continue to make clear to government that a an increase in PGM prices.
Your Board believes that balance must be maintained between the distribution the disruption to the South African PGM mining of wealth generated by mining companies and industry is also likely to result in some capacity recognition of the commercial and competitive reductions in the near term as higher cost operations environment in which they operate.
are forced to reduce output or close down, and or in the longer term as reduced capital expenditure plans Transformation today defer the production of replacement or growth Your Company has long taken the view that delivering ounces in the future.
Your Board believes that these on its ambitions and responsibilities in these areas is factors should sustain improved pricing for PGMs.
an essential element of its licence to operate in South Over the longer term, your Board also believes that Africa, both legally in terms of its obligations under the improved PGM pricing should be supported by Mining Charter or morally in terms of being a good underlying positive demand dynamics.
Automotive corporate citizen of the country.
demand is expected to be driven by a combination Lonmin has a good record and one it can be proud of, of increasingly stringent emissions legislation, the but it has also delivered more slowly in some areas, ongoing extension of this regime to non-road notably the difficult issue of housing, than it would have applications and a positive outlook for vehicle sales liked, despite strenuous efforts.
Addressing these in US and Chinese markets.
Although Chinese shortcomings is a priority, but I would not wish this to growth expectations have recently been downgraded, eclipse the good work we have done in recent years.
consumer expenditure in China is still expected to increase with positive implications for jewellery sales.
com See p 33 for more information See p 12 for more information Chairmans Letter Lonmin Plc [ 08] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate The socio-economic realities of South Africa are such Outlook Governance that no company, however large, can resolve the Sales of Platinum is forecast to be around 660,000 issues of housing, unemployment, poverty and ounces for the 2013 financial year, significantly dissatisfaction which exist in the country.
Your impacted by the Events at Marikana which have Company is wholly committed to both the BEE and resulted in lower capital spend, the suspension of Transformation agendas, to being part of the future mining at K4 and the time it takes to ramp up the success of the Republic of South Africa, and of being operation back to previous levels of productivity.
a force for good in the country.
In doing so, it will grow Metal prices have shown some recovery as recent and ensure returns for its investors.
industrial unrest across the industry has in a short space of time altered the outlook for the supply side of Role and effectiveness of the Board the PGM industry.
Lonmin is extremely well positioned Your Company is committed to the highest standards to benefit from a strong pricing environment when of corporate governance.
it comes thanks to the quality of our ore body, our un-utilised shaft capacity, our immediately available The continuous improvement opportunity presented ore reserves, and the capacity and quality of our by a formal review of the Boards effectiveness is Processing Division.
Ordinarily, we would have done such a review in August September 2012, but given all the recent events the Board judged that it would be Employees inappropriate to conduct such a review in 2012.
The We are a large Company, averaging some 28,000 Board does not believe that this decision creates any employees and another 10,000 contractors.
It has additional risk for shareholders, and believes that the been my practice to thank them each year for their Board and decision can be justified given that the time otherwise work, dedication and loyalty.
Given the nature of our Management needed for a review was utilised to address the business and the risks associated with it this thank See multiple issues then facing the Company.
It is currently you, on behalf of our shareholders, is always heartfelt p 58-60 intended that an independent facilitator will manage a and genuine.
for more rigorous review process in 2013. information This year, though, our people have been through something unprecedented.
The bravery we witnessed Management amongst employees determined to come to work Your management team is to be congratulated for despite terrible intimidation, amongst managers who the strong operational performance of the business faced down angry, armed mobs of people and then, through July, with marked improvement in the ultimately, the courage of the entire workforce in performance of safety initiatives, production and coming together in the wake of the deaths of so many costs.
The terrible Events at Marikana happened days colleagues and friends to help your Company return after Ian Farmer, Chief Executive Officer CEO, was to operations.
The Board appointed Simon Scott to act as CEO in Ians We have seen terrible things in 2012, but, as is often absence, and he has done a frankly remarkable job the way in times of crisis, we have also seen the very in leading the strong executive team in returning the best of people.
For everything our people have done business to stable production and developing the this year, much of it beyond anything we could have renewal plans for the future.
My thanks are due to expected of them, my thanks are particularly them for their exceptional commitment to Lonmin.
The Board recognises the Companys need for Sales Guidance permanent leadership and will take such actions as are necessary to establish this at the appropriate time.
Dividend Whilst dividends are not affordable in the short-term, Roger Phillimore Lonmin has confidence in the future demand for Chairman PGMs and its expectation is for prices to firm in response to anticipated supply deficits in the future.
We are also determined to increase the effectiveness of our operations, in both production and cost terms.
While there are challenges to be overcome in achieving this, our current planning anticipates positive free cash flow from the 2014 financial year onwards.
The return to stronger earnings and cash flows will permit the resumption of dividends at some point.
When we do resume the payment of dividends we would intend to follow the existing policy of declaring an ordinary final dividend at a rate which the Board expects can at least be maintained in subsequent years.
See p 61 for more information See p 13 for more information
