OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT recognise that over the next two years we will bear a heavier In a very tough year, we made signi cant capital expenditure burden as we seek to complete the development of Minas-Rio and Grosvenor in Australia, after progress in overcoming the most serious which we expect capital expenditure to be moderated.
challenges to our business, to the bene t We have a substantial potential pipeline of high-quality growth options in the most attractive commodities.
However, given of everyone invested, directly or indirectly, the increased challenges involved in developing large and complex green eld sites, the Board will apply a highly in Anglo American.
disciplined approach to the allocation of capital, with smaller, lower-risk brown eld expansion projects more likely to nd favour.
Prior to Board approval of large green eld projects Sir John Parker we will explore the merits of seeking suitable partners.
DELIVERING VALUE In these volatile times, boards have a heightened responsibility to ensure that management delivers enduring value for shareholders.
That is why, following almost a year of studying various options and social plans, we have OUR PERFORMANCE announced a proposed major restructuring of our Platinum Given the It was a dif cult year for the mining industry and business.
We aim to return it to a sustainable pro t and a more increased Anglo American encountered its share of challenges.
secure future for the 45,000 employees who would remain.
challenges Against a backdrop of a marked economic slowdown in I am glad to report we have had positive dialogue with the involved in China, a troubled euro zone and only a sputtering recovery South African government, with a joint commitment to work developing in the US, the industry faced falling prices, while pro tability together on this restructuring and the nalisation of our large and was further impacted as costs continued to rise well above recovery plans.
complex in ation in many countries.
In our own business, in South green eld It is pleasing to report that, following the dispute with the Africa, we had to contend with lengthy illegal industrial action sites, the Chilean state copper producer, Codelco, we were able to at our Platinum and Kumba Iron Ore operations which Board will retain majority control of Anglo American Sur and to establish ultimately had the effect of tipping Anglo American Platinum apply a highly a new relationship that positions us to build a strong future into making a loss for the year.
In the first half of the year, disciplined for our business in Chile.
We were also able to generate we also encountered operational setbacks in our Copper approach to $2.3 billion of incremental proceeds for shareholders business, where output is now stabilising.
At our largest the allocation compared to the original option price.
capital project, the Minas-Rio iron ore project in Brazil, a of capital.
diversity of problems led to a revised delivery date and Our acquisition from the Oppenheimer family of its 40% capital-cost increases.
This led us to review the carrying shareholding in fide Beers now gives shareholders greater value of the asset, writing it down by $4 billion after tax.
exposure to the worlds No.
We believe fide Beers is well positioned to capitalise on the positive fundamentals in diamonds, with the supply of gem diamonds DIVIDENDS AND CAPITAL ALLOCATION likely to fall well short of demand over the long term.
In spite of all these challenges affecting cash ow, the Board was able to recommend a final dividend of 53 cents per share, SAFETY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT giving a rebased total dividend for the year of 85 cents, a 15% increase, re ecting our con dence in the underlying business.
The number of people who lost their lives on company This increase completes the rebuilding of our dividend from business fell to 13: sadly, this is 13 too many.
Our lost-time zero in 2009, to a new base level competitive with our injury frequency rate, which had reached a plateau in recent diversi ed peer group.
years, also resumed a downward trend.
Overall, during Cynthia Carrolls six-year watch, on a like-for-like basis, the The three major projects we commissioned in 2011 Barro annual number of deaths Group-wide fell by half.
This step Alto nickel, Los Bronces copper expansion and Kolomela iron change in performance is great testimony to Cynthias ore have all been ramping up.
At Minas-Rio, however, the safety leadership, as well as the commitment of her senior inevitable knock-on effect of permitting and other delays have management team.
Their tireless endeavours in leading the resulted in the projects capital expenditure rising to an safety agenda have brought about real and lasting change in expected $8.8 billion, if a Group-held risk contingency of the way we approach our drive for zero harm.
I know our $600 million is consumed, with the first iron ore shipment due incoming chief executive Mark Cutifani, during whose watch by the end of 2014.
I am con dent, however, that Minas-Rio at AngloGold Ashanti, over a similar timeframe, the companys will become one of the worlds great high-quality iron ore safety record improved signi cantly, is also determined to take mines, with high potential cash generation and a published the lead on this most fundamental of issues.
resource base of well over 5 billion tonnes, a more than fourfold increase since acquisition.
As a company, Anglo American takes climate-change mitigation and water management particularly seriously Anglo Americans objective is to maintain a strong investment with targets for these included in the performance contracts grade rating which demands rigorous capital discipline.
We 02 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Overview AN EVALUATION OF THE BOARD BY AN REPRESENTATION OF WOMEN EXTERNAL FACILITATOR, WITH NO PRIOR ON THE BOARD RELATIONSHIP WITH ANGLO AMERICAN, WAS COMPLETED IN FEBRUARY 2012.
27% For more information turn to page 96 For more information turn to page 91 of our business unit CEOs.
It is pleasing, therefore, that our membership since late 2009, to serve for at least another The number approach to sustainable development continues to receive year as the senior independent non-executive director.
of people who global recognition.
At the Quellaveco copper project in In terms of the Boards composition, the biggest change, lost their lives Peru historically, a challenging environment in which to of course, was Cynthia Carrolls decision in October to step on company conduct mining operations we successfully concluded down as chief executive and from the Board, in April, with business fell a community dialogue table: this resulted in groundthe agreement of the Board.
Cynthias leadership has had a to 13, while breaking agreements that satisfy our host communities transformational impact on Anglo American.
She developed our lost-time on water use, the environment and social responsibility.
In a clear strategy and created a strong and uni ed culture and injury frequency 2012, Anglo American was recognised for the 10th year a streamlined organisation.
rate, which running for excellence in sustainability by the Dow Jones had reached Sustainability Index, achieving the highest ranking in the Cynthia lived out Anglo Americans values to the full and her a plateau in mining industry.
We were also awarded a platinum ranking legacy includes, among many other things, a step-change recent years, in the 2012 Business in the Community Corporate improvement in safety, sustainability and the quality of also resumed Responsibility Index, the UKs leading voluntary benchmark our dialogue with governments, communities and other a downward of corporate responsibility the only mining group to secure stakeholders around the world.
As a Board, we not only trend.
thank her but wish her all success and good wishes in the years ahead.
For more information turn to page 27 GOVERNANCE I led the Boards global search to identify the best possible candidate for the role of chief executive.
Mark Cutifani was Over the past few years, governance pressures on listed the Boards unanimous choice to succeed Cynthia, and he companies have been growing in intensity.
Shareholders, will take up his post on 3 April 2013.
Mark comes to us from institutional and individual alike, have sought to hold AngloGold Ashanti, where he led the successful restructuring underperforming managements and boards to account.
and development of its business.
He is an experienced In the 3 years I have been chairman of your company, listed-company chief executive who has a focus on creating therefore, I have sought to refresh and strengthen the value, and a seasoned miner, with broad experience of mining Board by bringing in members with a range of skill-sets operations and projects across a wide range of commodities and experiences that can add value to our business and and geographies, including South Africa and the Americas, as maintain capital discipline.
It is in that light that we appointed well as his native Australia.
He is a highly respected leader in Anne Stevens in May 2012.
Anne is an engineer with the global mining industry, with values strongly aligned to extensive industrial experience, including operating in a those of Anglo American.
range of South American countries in which we are present.
In terms of enhancing the Boards contribution to I also wish to take this opportunity to thank Dr Mamphela Anglo Americans affairs, during the year the Board joined Ramphele, who stepped down in July, for the wealth of the companys most senior executives in an internal strategy experience and insight she brought to the Boards affairs.
forum, and will do so again in June 2013.
In addition, the Mamphela, who was a key gure in South Africas struggle results of an external effectiveness review of the Board, which for democracy, later had a distinguished career, including I commissioned in 2011, were presented to the Board in serving as vice-chancellor of the University of Cape Town 2012.
The results of the review, together with details of all of and as a managing director of the World Bank.
our governance arrangements, can be found in the Corporate Peter Woicke will also be standing down from the Board at the Governance section pages 90134 of this report.
He has been a director since 2006 and chairman of the Safety and Sustainable S&SD Committee OUTLOOK for the past three years.
Peter has brought a wealth of experience and knowledge about development in emerging During 2012 there were signi cant macroeconomic policy economies to our proceedings and has ensured that Anglo changes, which should support a stronger recovery in 2013 American remains at the forefront of the major sustainability and beyond.
There are now clear signs of an upturn in US issues facing our industry.
We are indeed grateful for his housing, which should reinforce a broader economic recovery leadership in this important area of our operations.
helped by ultra-loose monetary policy.
In China, the authorities have also eased policy to stimulate faster growth.
We are fortunate to have Jack Thompsons extensive But the countrys newly installed leadership is mindful of the mining experience and knowledge of safety to take over need to rebalance the economy, which will restrain growth as chairman of the S&SD Committee and to build on over the next few years.
In Europe and Japan, activity has Peter Woickes excellent work.
been weak, but there are signs of improvement and changes The Board is also proposing the appointment of Dr Byron in policy should boost growth in 2013.
In the medium term, Grote as a non-executive director at the forthcoming AGM.
we see continuing robust demand for industrial commodities Byron has more than three decades experience in the natural as emerging economies continue to industrialise and resources sector, including nine years as chief financial of cer advanced economies invest in upgrading their infrastructure.
He will be retiring from BP and stepping down from the BP board in April.
It is intended that Byron will, after a period of induction, take over the chairmanship of the Audit Committee from David Challen, who has rendered outstanding service in this role.
I am glad that David, whose independence is not in Sir John Parker doubt, has agreed, given the extensive changes to Board Chairman Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 03
