Overview Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 02 Chairmans statement My first full year as Chairman has been one of continued progress for M&S.
Our executive team has driven forward our business plans with consistency and pace.
The strategy, set out by Marc Bolland in November 2010, withstood the test of continued evaluation by the Board.
Despite challenging market conditions that have put ongoing pressure on our customers budgets, we are all agreed on our course.
The key now is execution of our strategy to become an international, multi-channel retailer.
As a Board, we have undertaken an Over the last 12 months we maintained ordered transition towards our now our focus on these key aspects and will Our plan has established governance structure.
continue to do so in the year ahead.
We have in place a talented group of stood the test With implementation of our strategy individuals with a rich mix of experience.
underway, the Board provided ongoing of continued We are unied by a shared ambition to enquiry and support to our executive guide M&S to the very best future: directors: ensuring they deliver the evaluation and delivering sustainable growth as an business plan effectively and efficiently international, multi-channel retailer.
Performance and dividend Robert Swannell We looked carefully at our Board Chairman In a tough market, M&S has made composition, considering the skills progress on a number of fronts, with required to better inform our debate.
Our results demonstrate recognised the need to strengthen our a good performance against our Interim dividend paid on consumer and international experience strategic goals.
We made important 13 January 2012 and were therefore delighted to welcome improvements in our UK business our two new non-executive directors: enhancing our stores and products 6.2p per share Vindi Banga and Miranda Curtis, both of and strengthening our brand.
whom have abundant expertise in these Final dividend to be paid Our Multi-channel business grew elds.
We will continue to ensure that we on 13 July 2012 ahead of the market and we saw have the right balance of skills as we double digit growth in our priority move forward.
Louise Patten and Sir David Michels We are committed to delivering Total dividend for retired this year.
I would like to thank consistent returns to our shareholders.
2011 12 them both for their considerable We intend to pay a final dividend of contributions to the Board and I must 17.0p per share 10.8p: in line with the dividend policy pay particular tribute to David in his set out last year.
roles as Deputy Chairman and Senior Governance and the Board Independent Director.
I am delighted Last year, I set three clear priorities for that Jan du Plessis agreed to succeed the Board: David as Senior Independent Director.
First, to debate and agree the best Having the right people in this business strategy for the Company and hold is critical to our success.
Over the last the executive team accountable for 12 months the Board has devoted more its execution: time to ensuring we have the best team Second, to ensure we have the most to deliver the best results, not just today talented team to execute this strategy but over the longer term.
and plan effectively for their succession: As set out by Marc Bolland on page 14, And nally, to set the tone of doing our executive directors are part of a the right thing, supported by the right strong Management Committee, which governance structures and their was further strengthened this year by the effective implementation.
arrival of Laura Wade-Gery as Executive Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Overview Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 03 Director, Multi-channel E-commerce.
None of this will inhibit your ability Our governance principles We continued to look ahead: focusing to come to our AGM and hold us Leadership on developing leadership and future accountable.
That is your right Strategy, performance, responsibility talent across the business to secure and, as ever, we encourage all our and accountability are at the heart robust succession plans.
shareholders, large or small, to attend.
We How we do business As part of our ongoing efforts to engage interrogate each area to ensure I believe that openness and more closely with our shareholders, we high-quality decision-making, that in transparency lie at the heart of good considerably improved the quality and turn drives a culture of continuous business practice.
This applies as much quantity of information available online.
to our readiness to embrace the rapid I encourage you to explore and make See page 42 for Leadership change in a digital world, as it does to use of these enhanced resources at our willingness to be accountable for marksandspencer.
Effectiveness how we do business or learn when we Our performance is independently Looking ahead make mistakes.
reviewed on a regular basis to We have a clear plan for the business ensure that the Board remains Nowhere is this ethos more evident and we are committed to its execution.
focused, is provided with actions than in Plan A.
Five years since launch, We remain convinced that it is the for improvement and meets targets our environmental and ethical right course.
programme continues to be at the heart The retail environment remains See page 44 for Effectiveness of how we do business.
We have made challenging in the UK, and in some of M&S a more efficient and more Accountability our international territories.
This only innovative business: setting ourselves Strategic decision-making is serves to illustrate how vital it is that we ambitious targets and holding our discussed within the context of risk, are listening to our customers, staying progress up for continual scrutiny, as ensuring that we understand and, true to our values and relentlessly we further encourage our customers where possible, mitigate those risks and consistently executing our strategy.
and suppliers to get involved in Plan A. to which M&S is exposed.
In doing so we will strengthen our We think it is right to continue to set business and our relationships with See page 45 for Accountability ourselves a high bar in this area.
Our all our stakeholders in the future.
customers, our shareholders and our Engagement employees expect this of us and it I never fail to be impressed by the Building relationships with private makes good business sense.
dedication and pride in their work and institutional investors is shown by our employees at all levels.
fundamental to achieving our goals.
As a Board, we listened to the objective I would like to thank them for all they We do so through face-to-face feedback we received from last years do to make this business special.
meetings and a range of independent Board evaluation and communications channels.
conducted a further external review of See page 49 for Shareholder Engagement our effectiveness this year.
Details of how we have implemented actions as a result of these findings are outlined on page 44 of the Governance section.
Shareholder engagement Robert Swannell The Notice of Meeting that accompanies Chairman this report highlights some changes that will be included in our AGM.
Future meetings will adopt a more businesslike approach, with an earlier start time and discussion focused on the performance of the Company.
VIEW this annual report online http: annualreport.
