Chief Executives review Headline operating profit margin second half 13% Annualised payroll savings 80m Headline operating profit conversion to cash 149% Melrose owns a group of businesses with strong market positions During the year there have serving different sectors and operating in different parts of the world, which has provided the Group with a considerable degree been many positive operational of protection from the economic downturn.
achievements in the Group, During the year there have been many positive operational achievements in the Group, but the highlight has been the but the highlight has been the excellent cash generation.
Although this was achieved partly excellent cash generation.
on the back of lower capital expenditure in the year, it was largely as a result of profit and greatly reduced levels of working capital.
Indeed, during the year 149% of headline operating profit was converted into cash, resulting in net debt at the year end of 321.7 million compared with 543.1 million at the beginning of the year.
Net working capital of the Group was 8.8% of sales at 31 December 2009 compared with over 16% for the FKI group prior to its acquisition by Melrose.
This has been achieved as a result of the consistent application of focused cash management disciplines throughout the year, rather than by the use of temporary period end squeezes on working capital.
08 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2009 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information In addition, timely action by operating management to reduce Outlook The fragile signs of global economic recovery that emerged in the costs in their businesses greatly limited the impact of the downturn in sales on profit.
Since the downturn began, in excess of second half of 2009 have continued to build and as we enter the new year there is undoubtedly a much improved feeling of confidence, 80 million of payroll related costs on an annualised basis have been taken out of the businesses.
It is estimated by management albeit tinged with some caution.
that approximately 70% of these costs are volume related and In our early cycle businesses this upturn has already been reflected will therefore return as sales recover, with the remaining 30% in higher sales, whilst in our later cycle businesses order books being of a more permanent nature.
have been improving, which will translate into higher sales as appropriate.
On the back of operational efficiency gains in our The Energy division as a whole had a very satisfactory year.
manufacturing plants and lower costs, this should feed through Although sales in the year at Brush Turbogenerators were down strongly into better performance.
on the previous year, profit was maintained.
This was achieved by substantial operational efficiency gains at the three manufacturing Barring any unforeseen events, we are very positive about the plants, cost reductions and an increasing proportion of higher potential of the Group for this year.
With signs of a gradual upturn in orders in this business going into the new year and with a lower and more efficient cost base, we are confident that 2010 will be a good year.
In the Lifting division although Bridon had a record profit year in 2009, Crosby had a difficult year.
Bridon benefited from a very strong opening order book with a good mix of high margin offshore oil and gas sales.
Although this line of business is projected to David Roper decline in 2010 it will be counterbalanced by higher levels of 10 March 2010 activity in other sectors such as the bridge and stadia business.
On the back of the continuing improvements in operational efficiency Bridon is well positioned to grow strongly as the upturn in the global economy develops.
Crosby suffered a significant decline in sales in 2009 on the back of the fall in the gas price in late 2008, yet still managed to achieve a return on sales in excess of 10%, reflecting the intrinsic quality of the business.
On the back of a significantly lower cost base and with signs of the distributors restocking, 2010 should see an improvement in the trading result.
As another of Melroses early cycle businesses, Dynacast was quick to feel the effect of the economic downturn and as a result sales were significantly lower in 2009 than in the previous year.
However, actions to reduce costs limited the impact on profit.
With positive signs of Dynacasts markets improving, there is confidence that 2010 will be a year of recovery.
