Operating and financial review Chief Executives review of the market and strategy In this section: Adam Fowle Chief Executive Current trading Outlook The market Our strategy Mitchells & Butlers performance has improved through the 2009 financial year.
This is a consequence of the effective implementation of our value and volume strategy together with rising consumer confidence since the start of August which has resulted in a sales increase and a recovery in the trend of net margins in the second half.
FY 2010 has started well and Mitchells & Butlers remains in a strong position despite challenging macro economic conditions.
This review OFR has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
It also incorporates much of the guidance set out in the Accounting Standards Boards Reporting Statement The Operating and Financial Review.
All numbers except where stated are before exceptional items.
04 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Operating and Financial Shareholder Overview financial review Reports statements information Glossary Mitchells & Butlers performance has Like-for-like food and drink sales were up 1 improved through the 2009 financial year.
5.9% and 2.0% respectively with a strong This is a consequence of the effective performance in residential pub food sales.
implementation of our value and volume The High Street segment has been resilient strategy together with rising consumer with sales flat on last year.
Net margin confidence since the start of August percentage has improved compared to which has resulted in a sales increase the same period last year.
and a recovery in the trend of net margins in the second half.
FY 2010 has started Outlook well and Mitchells & Butlers remains in a Trading in the new financial year has started strong position despite challenging macro well, supported by a recent small upturn economic conditions.
Inflationary cost pressures are currently more stable and less The second half of the 2009 financial year severe than last year with total regulatory and not only benefited from increasing sales inflationary costs in the full year expected but also saw reducing pressure on margins.
to increase by around 20m inclusive of This, coupled with lower energy costs, the benefit of energy costs declining by meant that the rate of net operating margin some 10m.
Against this, our efficiency and absolute operating profit decline and productivity improvements continue, experienced in the first half significantly supported by process and infrastructure reduced through the second half.
In the first developments from which we are aiming to 2 eight weeks of FY 2010 these performance achieve savings of around 20m this year.
The Woodland improvements have been maintained.
Sizzling Pub Co. Whitby Current trading is underpinning the Current trading performance in the first half of FY 2010, 2.
The Oystercatcher Vintage Inns, Climping, West Sussex In the first eight weeks of FY 2010 trading however the outlook for the second has strengthened with like-for-like sales half is uncertain.
It is clear that at a macro growth of 3.2%.
level some of the factors that are assisting performance may turn negative in the Current trading FY 2009 second half of FY 2010.
In particular the 8 weeks to 52 weeks to outlook for disposable income and consumer Like-for-like sales 21 November 09 26 September 09 confidence could be dampened if VAT and Total 3.2% 1.6% other taxes were to rise.
Notwithstanding Food 5.9% 3.1% Drink 2.0% 1.8% this, Mitchells & Butlers strong brands, Residential 4.4% 2.5% 3 excellent sites and good operational High Street Flat 0.2 % skills leave the business well positioned.
The Crown Ember Inns, Four Oaks, Sutton Coldfield 43bn 20m 41% The eating-out market has doubled in value Our efficiency and productivity improvements Food now accounts for 41% of managed over the past two decades to be worth 43bn continue, supported by process and infrastructure sales up from 11% 15 years ago developments from which we are aiming to achieve savings of around 20m this year For our latest financial information www.
com investors Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 05 Chief Executives review of the market and strategy continued The market therefore has declined in value terms by The market consumer expenditure The eating-out and drinking-out markets 0.7% per annum since 2004, despite price 19842008 m combined are worth some 72bn.
The rises of 4% over the same period, resulting two main trends that are impacting these in annual volume declines of almost 5%.
In 80,000 markets are: contrast the off-trade has reduced its beer 70,000 prices by 1.9% per annum and seen annual 60,000 50,000 1.
The growing appeal of eating-out volume growth of 2.5%.
40,000 The eating-out market has doubled in 30,000 20,000 value over the past two decades to be Segmenting the market 10,000 worth 43bn.
Growing wealth, increasing Mitchells & Butlers believes the two key 0 distribution, and a number of social factors dynamics of the eating and drinking-out particularly the increase in the proportion of markets to be the consumer occasion and working women, which now stands at 70% consumer income levels.
Our research Nominal Real of the adult female population, up from 56% suggests that there are a number of drink Eating-out 8.3% 3.3% in 1971, have all contributed to this growth.
only occasions that vary along a spectrum, Drinking-out 4.6% -0.4% In the past year the eating-out market has broadly defined by energy levels.
These Total 6.4% 1.4% declined, as it did in the 1991 downturn.
range from a quiet drink, through weekend However, we expect the market to return nights out, to higher energy special Source: ONS NB Eating-out market includes soft drinks to long-term growth as the UK economy occasions.
There is a similar spectrum of emerges from recession.
food led occasions, ranging from a pragmatic alternative to cooking through to celebrations.
Food value growth vs market 2.
The declining appeal of drinking-out Income levels are also important.
The top % In contrast the drinking-out market is worth 30% of the UK population by income some 29bn and has been static in value account for 53% of the entire market.
In terms over the last five years, with annual contrast, the bottom 30% account for just 10 volume decreases of 4% being offset by 11% of the market.
Although income does 5 price increases of a corresponding size.
This not explain all elements of the market, trend is particularly true of beer, the largest it is a useful proxy for understanding 0 drinks category, accounting for over half of different attitudes to price and quality -5 the on-trade drinks market.
This is driven by trade offs.
Income also offers an insight -10 a decline in the number of drinkers who visit into the different ways the UK population Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 FY 2008 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2009 FY 2009 FY 2009 the pub on a regular basis solely to drink is currently responding to the downturn.
beer to a third of the number 20 years ago, Income is therefore one of the dimensions primarily as a result of the low price of beer around which Mitchells & Butlers reorganised Mitchells & Butlers like-for-like value Total market in the off-trade.
The on-trade beer market its operation in September 2009.
Pub market Source: CREST data, the NPD Group and Company Promotional offers Opposite page 29bn This year we have invested 270,000 in a combined Total drinking-out spend in the UK has press and radio campaign to remind customers of remained static in the last five years what a great deal Toby Carvery offers on a Sunday lunchtime.
This activity has driven both sales and Top: The Hollybrook profit growth of 3%.
Cost efficient broadcast Ember Inns, Littleover, Derby advertising requires brand name recognition and good Bottom: Food Innovation Centre distribution.
We therefore have the opportunity to Hemel Hempstead repeat this style of activity with a number of our brands.
06 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 1984 1986 1988 1990 1992 1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 Operating and Financial Shareholder Overview financial review Reports statements information Glossary Food, drink We served 129 and service excellence million main meals last year, thats over 1,350 meals per pub per week.
through During the year, we formally investment commenced our Kitchen NVQ in kitchen programme with over 1,400 skills employees having undertaken a course to date.
We also opened a new kitchen skills academy dedicated to improving the quality and speed to customers of our food.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 07 Food, drink We sold 574 million and service excellence drinks last year, thats an average of over 9 drinks per member of the UK population.
through Our focus on cellar training has focus on resulted in almost 1,000 cask service marque accredited pubs and quality cask ale volume growth of 18% in the year.
08 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Operating and Financial Shareholder Overview financial review Reports statements information Glossary New channel operating structure advantage of the increase in demand for Beer market volume outperformance We have adopted a new structure of three eating-out and thereby to exploit profitably MAT change in volume % channels based around the affluence levels its long-term growth.
We have developed of our customers, namely Value, Suburban menus combining both quality and value and City & Country.
In the Value channel, whilst at the same time investing in our 0 price is a vital component of the market.
kitchen capacity which has helped us more -2 The average food spend per head is than double food volumes in the decade -4 4.76 and the main competition is staying and made food the largest product in our -6 On Trade at home.
At these price points, service sales mix at 41% of total sales.
In FY 2009 we -8 MAB efficiency is vital to deliver profit.
In contrast, have increased our relative outperformance -10 in the City & Country channel the of the eating-out market to 10 percentage Oct 06 Apr 07 Oct 07 Apr 08 Oct 08 Apr 09 Oct 09 competition is other pubs and restaurants points with same outlet like-for-like where food quality and service levels are food volume growth of 7% against a pub Mitchells & Butlers the critical component of the offer.
This is eating-out market down approximately 3%.
On-trade reflected in average food spend per head Source: BBPA, Company within this channel of 9.94.
The Suburban Generate drinks market share gains Same outlet like-for-like channel is positioned in the mid-market The rapid volume decline in the on-trade where a strong price offer is important drinks market has lessened in the second mid-week but evenings and weekends half of the year, partly as a result of a slight require a more premium positioning.
reduction in the rate of supermarkets aggressive drinks discounting.
However, the 1 To sustain our sales growth within the major on-trade market product categories market we have refined our value and are still all in decline with beer and cider volume strategy to ensure that these volumes down 6%: wines down 5%: spirits differing notions of value are being down 5% and soft drinks down 2%.
This satisfied appropriately across the eating decline is particularly reflected in pubs with and drinking-out market.
With some of poor amenity and limited food capability.
the very best brands and formats in the sector we aim to create value by improving Against this challenging background the profitability of these brands through Mitchells & Butlers has performed well.
our existing pubs, but we will also be Our wine and soft drinks have remained in seeking to expand the distribution of volume growth.
Our spirits volume declines our key brands on an individual pub and were materially better than those of the restaurant basis as and when opportunities on-trade market: and in beer and cider, present themselves.
volumes have been held flat, thanks in large part to like-for-like cask ale volumes Our strategy up 18% at a time when the on-trade beer The key elements of our strategy are: market has continued to be in decline.
Leading the eating-out market 2 Over the last decade our understanding of the UK market combined with our 1.
The Crown & Greyhound operational skills have helped us to take Metro Professionals, Dulwich, London 2.
Watergate Toll Toby Carvery, Bolton Opposite page 16% 4% Like-for-like draught cider volumes up Like-for-like soft drinks volumes up 16% in the year 4% in the year in a market down 2% Top: The Old Contemptibles Classic Pubs, Birmingham Bottom: Bells of St. Marys Crown Carveries, Prestatyn Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 09 Chief Executives review of the market and strategy continued Value and volume cycle The success of our value and volume strategy means we can reinvest gross margin and our Reinvest margin in Increase value Staff training, labour productivity and purchasing gains to quality value scheduling, incentives provide our customers with even better quality and value Reduce costs Increase volume Supply chain Increase buying Capacity management efficiency power of productivity 1 1.
The Hedgehog Evolving a portfolio of styles of pubs Extract volume-driven efficiencies Vintage Inns, Lichfield to drive sales A key element in our trading strategy is Mitchells & Butlers has a track record of targeting the best combination of price, developing and evolving its offers to keep volume and mix, to generate profitable pace with changing consumer expectations.
Our operational focus is on This has enabled us to build long-term maximising the cash received after direct brands such as Toby 37 years, Vintage costs.
Therefore, as a result of retail sales Inns 17 years, ONeills 14 years, and growth of 3.4% and despite the inflationary All Bar One 14 years and then to evolve cost pressures, cash gross margins were up them to ensure that they remain fresh and 1.3%.
The key effect of our pricing strategy relevant to our customers.
More recently, was to sustain volume growth in food, formats such as Crown Carveries and which in turn helped to generate a return Premium Country Dining Group have to drinks sales growth for the first time been rolled out and we now have 111 since before the smoking ban.
and 57 pub restaurants respectively trading in these formats.
Overall volume growth enables purchasing synergies and cost efficiencies We are achieving sales uplifts of over 35% to be achieved, enhancing profitability.
on the pre-acquisition levels of the 44 pub For example in the year, our purchasing restaurant sites acquired from Whitbread team have held our like-for-like food cost PLC in September 2008.
This, following of goods inflation to 11m, below that of the successful integration of our larger the general food cost inflation.
In addition, acquisition in 2006, further demonstrates during the year we have increased the effectiveness and strength of our offers.
contribution per labour hour by 5.2%, serving 14 million more main meals and 3 million more drinks with 700,000 fewer staff hours.
Opposite page 5.2% 35% During the year we have increased We are achieving sales uplifts of over 35% contribution per labour hour by 5.2% on the pre-acquisition levels of the 44 pub restaurant sites acquired from Whitbread PLC Top: Travellers Rest in September 2008 Sizzling Pub Co. Caversham, Reading Bottom: All Bar One Canary Wharf, London 10 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Operating and Financial Shareholder Overview financial review Reports statements information Glossary Food, drink In declining markets and service excellence we sold 3 million more drinks and 14 million more meals with 700,000 fewer staff hours in the year.
through 49,000 people have received attracting our entry level Stepping Stones and retaining training and we have recruited exceptional and trained almost 15,000 under people 21s in the year.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 11 Food, drink With 3% of UK pubs and service excellence but 10% of sales, we have the scale to deliver both excellent quality and value.
through For example we now purchasing contract 15 million bottles strength of wine from around the world per annum as well as 6 million rump steaks.
12 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Operating and Financial Shareholder Overview financial review Reports statements information Glossary Extend the skill base of excellence In addition to the completion of the 1 throughout the estate conversion to our brands of the 44 pub We continue to attract and train exceptional restaurant sites acquired from Whitbread people looking to develop their career in PLC in September 2008, we have targeted licensed retailing and currently employ over our capital expenditure on the key areas 42,000 people throughout the estate.
This of the business prioritised in conjunction allows us to support the delivery of our with customer feedback.
We have strategy through continually improving the therefore focused on carrying out 1,260 operational capability of the business.
refurbishments with spends of 40,000 or below.
In addition during the year we At the pub level training is conducted with have spent an average of 79,000 on 575 all new staff, as well as specific ongoing larger projects, increasing amenity levels coaching to improve bar and floor service and supporting the growth of the business.
productivity and increase staff product This targeted approach has sustained our knowledge.
In addition in support of high amenity levels and supported the sales our food growth strategy, our staff have growth in the business.
undertaken over 1,400 NVQs during the year predominantly related to the training Conclusion of new chefs.
Furthermore, in January a new Mitchells & Butlers has produced a robust purpose-built kitchen skills academy was operational performance in challenging opened in Watford providing a dedicated conditions.
Our strategy is delivering good 2 state-of-the-art training facility.
Training sales growth and our continual operational 1.
The Plough is a central factor behind our overall staff developments are optimising our scale Fen Ditton, Cambridge turnover rate improving by 24 percentage advantages and firming up net margins.
The points to 92% in the year, one of the best Company has sold 129 million meals in the 2.
Martello Inn Toby Carvery, Clacton-on-Sea in the pub industry.
year and grown average food sales per pub by 9%.
The second half trend in net profit Actively manage the estate to margin recovery continues.
The first eight maximise value weeks of FY 2010 have started well and the In a pub market suffering from a dearth of strength of the Groups brands, locations, capital investment in both maintenance and operational skills and cost management new product development, our continued mean that we are well positioned for the capital investment in our pubs is giving year ahead.
us further competitive advantage and supporting our market share gains.
Browns Old Jewry, London Opposite page 42,000 9% We currently employ over 42,000 people The Company has grown average food sales per pub by 9% over the year Top: The Swan Inn Vintage Inns, Horning, Norwich Bottom: Cantine Sgarzi Vineyard Italy Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 13
