qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 11:48 Page 06 MITIE Group PLC 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review A review of our strategy by the Chief Executive MITIE is in a strong position.
We have an As an organisation that deals with change excellent track record, an experienced on a daily basis for our clients, we also management team, a strong balance continually assess the efficiency of how we sheet and a broad client base.
The current market conditions have reinforced this behaviour and we are Overall the Group is performing very well taking a responsible approach to the and making strong progress.
We are seeing review of our activities, with the long-term a clear trend for increased outsourcing future of the business our priority.
We have and a drive for efficiency as client budgets considered the ways we engage with our come under pressure during this stage of clients, our management structure and the economic cycle.
We expect to benefit our risk profile.
from this trend, and see opportunities for growth as we contribute to our clients We are being cautious about the credit cost and operational efficiency through risk that we take on at the moment.
extended scope outsourced solutions This could have an effect on our top line and the introduction of innovation in growth in certain markets but our client asset management.
Our financial strength, acceptance criteria will give us stability strategic consultancy, management in the long term.
Our margins are under experience and broad range of services pressure, but this is not a new trend mean that MITIE is an attractive partner and we are skilled at focusing on the for both new and existing clients alike.
maintenance and development of our margin performance.
Naturally, we protect Against this backdrop of opportunity our margins by ensuring that we always however, certain areas of our business have an efficient cost base.
such as our interior fit-out, retail engineering and our plumbing business with its exposure As part of this process, we have to the new build housing market have been made changes to the structure of our affected by the recession.
With effect from 1 April 2009 our business are continuing to experience our Engineering Services division has challenging conditions.
However, as markets been renamed Asset Management to improve they should be some of the first demonstrate the move away from the to benefit.
traditional contracting environment to a total asset lifecycle approach which will include consultancy, design, installation and maintenance and we Our strategy: will be enhancing our asset maintenance capability going forward through the To deliver stakeholder value combination of Engineering Maintenance through a focus on sustainable and Services.
Property Services becomes Property Management to show the wider profitable growth.
range of property management and project management abilities that we now offer, Strategy achieved by: whilst Facilities Services becomes Facilities Management to reflect the shift in emphasis 1.
Clients towards total facilities management and Deliver value to our clients by providing world-class service: multiple services contracts as clients look for better value and improved levels of service.
People Recruit, motivate and retain the best talent in the industry: Our teams are highly motivated, focused on supporting our clients in these very 3.
Risk uncertain market conditions, and are using Take a long-term view to protect our business and manage risk: their experience and fresh thinking to give 4.
We are pleased Act responsibly and build a reputation that enhances that we are dealing with the current our brand to all stakeholders: climate really well and are securing some great new contracts.
Integration Leverage our strong position to secure more integrated and larger scale contracts: 6. profitability Focus on growing a profitable business, maintaining margins: 7.
Acquisitions Supplement our organic growth with selective acquisitions.
qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 11:49 Page 07 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 07 Business review 1.
Risk Our clients are at the centre of everything It is easy to say that our people are We take risks everyday as part of our daily that we do.
If we do not have satisfied our greatest asset but they really are.
In business it is our duty to understand clients who are prepared to make a We are only as good as the people that the risks we face, appreciate the impact positive recommendation about MITIE prepare our client strategies, manage that those risks may have on our people, we do not have a sustainable future.
projects and facilities, and deliver services.
clients or wider stakeholders and to From their first day with us, our people As they are so important to us, we have devise appropriate strategies to manage, are trained to think about our clients a three part people strategy.
mitigate or eliminate these risks.
What does the client want does all of that and we then ensure that Firstly, we make sure that each employee from MITIE?
How can we contribute to everyone in the business understands their has the best possible career journey with their business and organisational issues?
role in our risk management process and MITIE.
We have a consistent approach can behave accordingly.
Our clients expect us to deliver value that reinforces our culture and values.
In this economic climate, We evaluate skills, identify gaps and Having an appropriate risk management we continually evaluate our cost base provide appropriate training and support process does not mean that we are so to ensure that we are deploying resources to ensure success.
We use a performance measured in our approach that we lose efficiently.
This applies to all areas of management process so that we can be competitive advantage.
We classify our our business and we run a lean business fair in our measurement of performance risks into four areas, strategic, operational, to make sure that our clients feel the full and appraisal.
This encourages good financial and compliance.
Strategic risks benefit from our efforts.
levels of performance and minimises are those that could affect our long-term employment risks.
Operational risks Our clients represent the future of our arise from our day-to-day activities which, business so we make sure that we have Secondly, we have an integrated if not managed, could affect business the best possible relationships with them, Human Resources HR team structure performance.
Financial risks have a understand the issues that affect them to provide a professional and efficient direct impact on our financial position and regularly engage with them at all service that meets the needs of our and compliance risk covers risks that levels.
To make sure that we are getting people and the future requirements relate to legal and regulatory sanctions it right we conduct client satisfaction of the business.
We employ specialists in and damage to goodwill arising from surveys to check that we are providing key areas including the management failure to comply with applicable laws a quality service and are in tune with our of TUPE, pensions and employment law.
The third part of our people strategy The assessment of risks is part of our makes sure that we will have the right culture.
Every MITIE business has a risk talented people for the future.
We have register that identies the particular issues a structured approach to succession relating to that part of our operations planning, reward and incentivisation, and activities.
These are consolidated leadership, management development into the overall MITIE Group risk register, and professional development.
It gives which considers our high-level risks and is us a motivated MITIE team that is reviewed and considered by our Board.
determined to outperform the market.
Our risk management team conducts The result is that we have a very people regular reviews and assessments centric business with a strong leadership to ensure that our risk identication and and management style but with the management processes remain relevant exibility to drive the Group forward.
to the shape of our business, the wider market conditions and most importantly that any risk mitigation strategies are being followed.
People Our MITIE Stars awards recognise Risk Management people who show true passion for We empower our people to stop their work, going above and beyond and think before doing their work.
Safety is part of our culture.
Clients We apply strategic thinking, management skill and an unrivalled range of services to meet our clients needs.
qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 11:49 Page 08 MITIE Group PLC 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review A review of our strategy by the Chief Executive 4.
Integration 6. profitability Corporate Responsibility CR has always MITIE is an integrated business.
Integration Ultimately, the objective of any commercial been at the core of the way we work at is important for efficiency and supports organisation is to be profitable.
MITIE has MITIE and is an essential part of our culture.
our client proposition of seamless service a 21-year track record of continuous Our success for over 21 years has come delivery.
All of our businesses use common profitable growth.
We have a total financial from having a responsible business model systems and processes and are transitioning focus on profits and cash.
In these markets that has responded to the ever-changing to a common financial and HR platform.
with changing risk proles it is still important requirements of an increasingly wide This is important because as clients ask us to achieve revenue growth through taking group of stakeholders.
CR is part of our to provide a wider range of services they market share, but it is crucial to maintain business strategy because it helps us want to be dealing with just one MITIE profit margins and be paid on a timely to deliver sustainable profitable growth.
team that operates the same way.
basis for the work we have performed.
Our cash conversion target is 90%.
We have five pillars in our CR framework.
Integration however, is more than systems: it is also about attitude, We manage our financial performance Health and Safety is critical.
We employ ownership and leadership.
with a series of key performance indicators over 50,000 people and good health that are consistent and applied throughout and safety performance is vital for Increasingly, our clients want us to be the business.
their wellbeing and improves business integrated with their own operations performance.
so that we can help them to achieve their business and organisational goals.
Community engagement is also important.
They want a seamless service that Our people want to work for a company reinforces their corporate image, that is recognised for helping to make so that their employees and clients a difference to the lives of others, cant tell where they stop and we start.
whether that is through our volunteering This is crucial and allows them to maintain programmes or charity work.
a complete focus on their core business The environmental agenda makes it areas and activities.
imperative for us to manage and reduce our impact on the Environment.
We also support our clients to improve their energy efficiency, reduce waste streams and improve cost efficiency.
Focusing on our People helps to improve business results.
We train, develop and reward our people well, which improves retention, motivation and stability.
We develop our Service Delivery capabilities to support the needs and core businesses of our clients and the changing market.
This helps to maintain our longterm relationships and contributes to the successes of our respective organisations.
15 10 5 888990 91 92939495 96 97989900010203040506070809 profitability Integrated offer We recognise that focusing on At Heathrow Terminal 5 our people profitability rather than top line growth are an integral part of the travelling is a key factor in creating value for experience.
our stakeholders, so we have always Responsibility based the senior teams incentives We invest in seven MITIE Construction on profit-related performance.
Skills Centres in secondary schools The results?
A 21-year track record around the UK, providing over 1,000 of continuous growth in earnings.
14-16 year-old boys and girls and their communities with access to construction skills and qualications, career advice and work experience.
qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 11:49 Page 09 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 09 Business review 7.
Acquisitions We monitor our progress towards We have a low market share in all of our meeting our strategic goals through markets.
We expect to grow organically our financial and non-financial key by taking market share from competitors but we are also well positioned to create performance indicators, which are stakeholder value through acquisition.
At 31 March 2009, we had no net debt set out on pages 12-13. and undrawn committed funding facilities of 220.0m out of a 230.0m total facility.
This gives us the financial capacity and flexibility to make selected, value enhancing acquisitions should the Board consider this to be appropriate.
Our approach to acquisitions remains conservative.
We are looking for quality businesses with strong management teams that complement or fit within our existing business and operate in growth markets.
Acquisitions We have a track record of delivering and integrating selective acquisitions to support our strategic growth objectives.
