Chief executives review David Hathorn CEO Group revenue Emillion 6,345 5,257 The 2009 financial year was both Throughout this period, the Mondi challenging and rewarding for Mondi.
Group has risen to the challenges we 2008 2009 The impact of the global recession on faced, taking decisive actions to reduce capacity, lower the overall cost Mondis business has been significant, Underlying operating base and optimise cash flows, while with difficult trading conditions profit Emillion still continuing to invest in our two prevailing particularly in the first half of 441 major projects in the lower-cost, high- 2009.
These were first evident in growth markets of Poland and Russia.
294 Europe in late 2008 and, following a As a result, Mondi is now a better delay of about six months, profitability quality business than it was a year in South Africa was impacted.
2008 2009 ago and we believe that we are very However, European trading improved well positioned to deliver enhanced as the year progressed, with the Cash generated from shareholder value in the future.
operations Emillion benefits of price increases in key grades starting to take effect in the 867 795 Results final quarter, ensuring that Mondis performance for the year exceeded The Mondi Group is pleased to have expectations.
delivered financial and operating 2008 2009 16 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group Group revenue of E5,257 million results for the year that were ahead Average return on capital employed, E1.55 billion facility which expires on of expectations, with Group revenue a key measurement of Mondis 22 June 2012. performance, was 7.6%.
While this is of E5,257 million and underlying a disappointing outcome in relation The Group proposed a final dividend operating profit of E294 million.
to the Groups target of 13% across of 7.0 euro cents per share to give a Although down by 17% and 33% total dividend of 9.5 euro cents per the cycle, it nevertheless represents respectively compared with the a resilient performance given the share for the year.
previous year, these figures still backdrop of an extremely difficult signify a very sound performance Delivering on our business environment.
Importantly, given the difficult trading conditions.
strategy we are confident that the actions The fourth quarter brought volume taken over the past year place the The year under review has reinforced improvements across all main paper the validity of our Group strategy.
business in a stronger competitive grades, price increases in most of Three pillars continue to underpin our position than it was when it entered the key packaging grades, and a strategy: the downturn, allowing it to take full stable pricing environment in the building leading market positions in advantage of any improvement in the European uncoated fine paper UFP packaging and UFP, particularly in business cycle.
Results were also boosted high-growth emerging markets: delivering a high-quality, low-cost by a strong performance by Mondi Furthermore, the focus on cash asset base, through maintaining Packaging South Africa MPSA.
flow optimisation was extremely our position as a low-cost producer However, the South African exportsuccessful, with working capital in our markets by selectively focused businesses continued to inflows for the year amounting to investing in production capacity in suffer under the weight of a strong E248 million and capital expenditure, lower-cost regions and exploiting South African rand and low product outside the two major projects, the benefits of upstream prices.
integration, including forestry: and As a result, net debt declined by focusing on performance, E173 million to E1,517 million, Good progress was made with the especially continual productivity despite capital expenditure of improvement and cost reduction, restructuring of Mondis cost base around E300 million on the two delivered through business and the implementation of additional major expansion projects in excellence programmes and cost savings initiatives.
The bold cost Poland and Russia.
savings target of E180 million was exceeded, with E251 million of cost Building leading market Mondi enjoys a strong liquidity savings being delivered.
We exited positions position and, as at the end of or mothballed around 930,000 tonnes December 2009, the Group had Our focus has been on achieving the of high-cost paper capacity in just nearly E1 billion of undrawn right product mix and geographical over two years and closed or sold committed debt facilities, E0.8 billion focus, and by doing this we have 18 converting sites.
of which is available in terms of a continued to increase the quality of Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 17 Directors report Chief executives review continued our earnings.
There have been several requirements from the west to the east Revenue by destination 2009 initiatives in this regard.
These include into eastern Europe, Turkey, Russia reducing our lower-margin exports of and China.
This trend is also supported Emerging markets 53% paper from Merebank in South Africa by the structural growth that is being Mature markets 47% in favour of higher-margin exports of experienced in emerging economies, pulp from Richards Bay, while at the which means that our packaging same time removing costs.
In our products and office paper enjoy a much European UFP business we have higher growth rate in these markets.
The increased our sales focus on our home lower cost base in these economies markets of central and eastern Europe, adds momentum to this shift.
Revenue by origin 2009 while in our European Corrugated By the end of 2009, 75% of our net business we have also changed our operating assets were located in product and geographical mix by Emerging markets 58% emerging markets, in line with our Mature markets 42% exiting from a number of western vision of focusing on low-cost, highEuropean markets.
Cumulatively these growth regions and on businesses actions have reduced the Groups offering leading market positions and revenue by E484 million, removed operational synergies with existing E107 million of fixed costs and businesses.
While our strategy clearly enhanced underlying earnings for the focuses on emerging markets, Mondi year, compared to the prior year.
Net operating assets enjoys a uniquely strong market 2009 position in the bags & specialities While we have taken steps to reduce segment in both eastern and western 1 Emerging markets 75% capacity, we have maintained our ability Europe, where specialities continue to Mature markets 25% to take advantage of any upswing in the enjoy very attractive growth rates.
We market as the economy improves.
will therefore continue to support our 1 Certain assets have been mothballed, 13% relates to major projects in Poland and Russia market position in bags & specialities rather than permanently closed, and we with our existing western European have expanded our capacity in the assets.
In our European corrugated higher growth eastern European and business, our only remaining assets Russian markets.
These actions position are in Austria and Germany which are Virgin-based production the Group well for the long term, with integral to our Polish corrugated 2009 the structural maturity of some of our operations.
In our UFP business, the products in the north-western only remaining western European Emerging markets 81% hemisphere markets increasingly asset is the Neusiedler mill in Austria, Mature markets 19% evident.
Among other things, this is which makes speciality products that driven by the shift in the manufacturing achieve higher selling prices to base with its impact on packaging compensate for the higher costs.
18 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group New 470,000-tonne recycled containerboard machine producing well ahead of expectations of high cost production capacity These products are an important part some time in the making.
The global first saleable production from the paper industry has struggled for some new, 470,000-tonne lightweight of the overall UFP product offering.
years to recover from overcapacity, recycled containerboard paper with resultant low prices and weak machine in Swiecie, Poland.
We Delivering a earnings, thus heightening the need anticipate that this installation will high-quality, low-cost for consolidation and closures.
Our have the lowest operating cost of asset base approach, combined with numerous its type and up to 50% of its The Mondi Groups vision of cost savings initiatives, has brought production will be accounted for developing a modern, high-quality, about a significant decrease in our cost by physical integration with our low-cost asset base has been base.
We believe that the increased surrounding box plant network.
supported by management resolve level of industry rationalisation that Start-up of the machine was and a rigorous approach to asset has taken place over the past year as ahead of schedule and the project management.
In just over two years a result of difficult conditions has is expected to come in around 4% we exited some 930,000 tonnes of improved the underlying fundamentals E20 million below budget.
high-cost paper operations Europe of the industry.
The project to modernise the & International, 810,000 tonnes: Syktyvkar mill in Russia continued South Africa, 120,000 tonnes, Despite financial constraints, to make good progress and is on Mondi has continued to invest in amounting to around 14% of the track for completion in the second large-scale, low-cost, high-quality Groups global capacity.
Severe weather assets to complete our long-term 18 converting sites were rationalised conditions did impact the project modernisation programme, with over the same period.
timetable and a small cost overrun the ultimate aim of shifting the of up to 4% is now anticipated Groups production base further Our actions in 2009 in particular will, resulting in a capital cost of up to down the cost curve.
An excellent we believe, prove to be prescient.
This project will lower demonstration of the success While some of these assets might the Groups cost base in Russia, achieved is to be found in the have survived the next cycle, this increase energy production with recycled containerboard market downturn has been sufficiently severe the benefit of selling surplus energy segment where, in less than three to warrant our decisive actions.
In to the energy grid, improve internal years, our average cost position addition, the resultant improvement efficiencies and increase integrated relative to other producers has to the supply demand balance is paper output.
improved from the third quartile favourable to industry fundamentals.
In late August 2009, the new to the lowest quartile.
machine-glazed paper machine This is a very visible demonstration of at Steti in the Czech Republic was We are particularly pleased to report the implementation of our strategy and successfully commissioned on time on the substantial progress made our rapid response to the challenging with our key projects, which will global environment.
It bears repeating, further secure the Groups position as For further information please go to the however, that for our industry, this a cost leader in its chosen markets.
Business review on page 22 of this report: or click on www.
com AR09 challenging environment has been In September 2009 Mondi saw the Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 19 Directors report Chief executives review continued and within budget, at a total cost enjoy increased levels of free cash Major mill expansionary spend generation.
While growth clearly of E47 million.
It has an annual Total E2.1 billion 2004 2009 remains an option, we will be capacity of 45,000 tonnes and disciplined with respect to acquisitions the grades produced on this Emerging Europe, and expansionary capex, and will including Russia 64% machine are both cost-effective South Africa 29% allocate increasing free cash flow to and technically advanced.
This Rest of the world 7% debt reduction and to improving the investment is part of our ongoing cash returns to our shareholders.
programme to modernise the Steti asset base.
Focusing on performance The Group is coming towards the end Net operating assets by Our relentless approach to cost saving geography % of a significant, 10-year programme is well established and received of modernising its asset base, 2004 greater attention during this year of 2005 with most large operations being recession.
Cost optimisation and the 2006 overhauled.
This underpins our longdesire to be the lowest cost producer 2007 term strategy, embarked on in the 2008 in our industry is entrenched within our 2009 late 1990s and early 2000s, when culture at Mondi.
Cost savings on the 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% the Groups aggressive acquisition scale that we have achieved in the Emerging markets programme enabled it to acquire a past year in the order of 5% of Mature markets substantial base in eastern Europe operating cash costs will be difficult to sustain.
We will consistently target and Russia.
Once secured, these levels of more than 2% a year, which is assets, together with our South still significant.
Cost savings of some African operations, required significant E251 million were achieved by year modernisation, with just over end, 31% of which addressed fixed E2 billion being spent on the major costs, which, excluding depreciation, mills over 10 years on expansionary increased only marginally relative to projects.
Altogether, these assets revenue, from 25% in 2008 to 26% today represent around 75% of our in 2009.
This is a commendable net operating assets.
achievement given the revenue pressures experienced as a result of Even if the economic recovery is slow the difficult economic conditions.
and earnings do not improve sharply, the substantial investment made Stringent management of working during the past years means that we capital has also delivered significant are now entering into a period where cash benefits, with inflows of some shareholders should, on average, E372 million in working capital 20 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 75% of net operating assets in emerging markets over the past three years decisively to circumstances, and that further supply side reductions may be E248 million in 2009. knows how important it is to focus on required to ensure that supply and the areas that we can control.
Mondi announced in the fourth quarter Inevitably the numerous restructuring Encouragingly, however, we have seen of 2008 that capital expenditure and cost-cutting actions taken during a steady improvement in industry the year led to a 10% reduction in outside of the two major projects order volumes, with some recent price our total employee base.
We pay would be curtailed, with new capital recovery in the European packaging tribute to those people who have expenditure approvals limited in the grades.
This improvement in our short term to 40% of depreciation.
unfortunately lost their jobs as a trading environment, together with the consequence.
It has been a tough The benefits of this decision in terms various restructuring actions taken year for many people and we hope of cash flows have been clearly over the course of 2009, positions that 2010 brings new opportunities.
While we continue to operate Mondi well for the year ahead.
in terms of this policy, as trading Ensuring our future conditions improve we expect to return to more normal levels of The Mondi Group sees safety and ongoing capital expenditure.
sustainability as critical to the future of David Hathorn our world and of our business.
Our Chief executive officer Paying tribute to our efforts to reduce the environmental people impact of our products and to support communities, through corporate social In any year it would be remiss not investment, education and training, to pay tribute to the people of Mondi, employment and small business in this year it would be even more so.
development, among other things, I have mentioned our costreflect this.
We publish a sustainability optimisation culture and would like to report, which is externally assured acknowledge the way in which this and further details about our has been embraced by our 31,000 sustainability performance are employees around the globe from available on our website at those who work in the nurseries www.
where our seedlings germinate and the forests that we tend, to those Outlook involved in our world-class production facilities and those sales people who Looking ahead, it is clear that the get our products to our customers.
Groups performance will largely I thank them all for their significant depend on the pace and extent of the contribution to the Group.
Our people global economic recovery.
take pride in being part of a Furthermore, while there has been successful business, one that is substantial industry capacity prepared to respond quickly and rationalisation over the past year, Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 21 Directors report
