Business Review Chief Executives Report This is a great business, with hugely dedicated and skilled employees who have a passionate focus on helping our customers make the most of their money search.
We also reduced our offline Q: What have been marketing spend.
Television your main priorities and advertising spend achieved much achievements in your first greater cut through with our year as Chief Executive Savings on household bills Officer?
campaign fronted by Peter Jones.
This campaign played a strong role, A: I was appointed Chief Executive when combined with our extensive Officer during what can only be PR coverage, in building our brand described as an unprecedented trust with customers.
global financial crisis and a UK Peter Plumb recession.
This, of course, helped In the second half of the year we Chief Executive Officer to shape the main priorities for increased our investment in our core my first year.
Those priorities were systems as we continued our focus reshaping the business for lower on product development and volumes, ensuring critical investment innovation.
This resulted in a remained prioritised to capitalise on significantly improved motor a returning market, as and when it insurance channel being launched in happens, and most of all, focusing beta during the year which went our organisation even further on fully live in February 2010.
In helping our customers make the January 2010 we also launched an most of their money.
improved credit card channel and have a programme of delivery in The first six months of the year were place for other major channels in spent stabilising and reshaping the 2010.
Together, this will significantly business.
We reduced our team by improve our customer proposition approximately 80 people, a burden and customer experience in these shared across the business and at all important channels.
levels, delivering an annualised saving in excess of 2m.
My final and most important priority has been to place our customers Our marketing team was challenged even further into the heart of our to deliver more for less.
We now run regular focus marketing spend including both groups, testing out new ideas with search engine marketing and real customers.
We have continued partners was significantly reduced.
to invest in better analytics tools this This was delivered through the use year, giving our design teams of sophisticated bid management granular data on how customers use tools and additional investment in and interact with our services.
our marketing team, to harness further the benefits our brand, expert content and breadth of services give us in natural online 10 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Business Overview Business Review Management Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Financial Statements General downturn in the economy during 2009 2009 with increased advertising Q: How have you worked which has made trading challenging.
maintained a clear strategy of only In 2009, Group revenue declined by acquiring visitors at a level which A: First and foremost, as a major 23% to 136.9m and adjusted made financial sense.
This resulted in shareholder in the Company and as EBITDA declined by 26% to 36.0m a decline in revenue for the year.
an Executive Director, Simon has from 48.4m in 2008.
The Group However in the second half of the been very supportive of our new maintained its overall market share year following the launch of the strategy and vision.
On a personal although it surrendered some share Peter Jones campaign and level, Simon and I compliment in Travel which was managed for improvements to the website, the each other and work well together.
Insurance vertical grew over the Simons industry expertise has same period last year.
helped me settle into my role The Group was able to successfully quickly.
flex its cost base to protect its In a year of financial uncertainty for operating margins.
The Group has our customers, visitors to our Money In his new role, Simon has focused remained strongly cash generative and vertical remained consistent.
However, on product development and ended 2009 with no debt and a cash with a shortage of credit products, innovation across the Group, areas balance of 53.8m after the payment particularly in the first half of the year, he is passionate about and in which of the special dividend and the interim revenue decreased in the year by 44% he clearly has a great deal of dividend on 16 October 2009. to 38.1m.
The secured lending market knowledge and experience.
in particular suffered from a radical In the first quarter of the year we reduction in the supply of credit and a Q: Clearly the global closed the non-core intermediary tightening of underwriting criteria.
financial crisis has business primarily due to the negatively affected difficulties faced in the mortgage The Travel vertical also suffered in market last year.
2009 with revenue declining by 15% most businesses.
What to 16.3m following market trends has been the impact on The Insurance vertical remains the and the business was actively Moneysupermarket.
Groups largest vertical, accounting managed for margin.
for 55% of Group revenue up from A: As a business working in the 44% in 2008.
Home and travel financial services sector, we have insurance performed particularly clearly and directly been affected by well, however, the motor insurance the tightening of credit markets and market remained very competitive in The UKs favourite comparison site!
com Group PLC Annual Report 2009 11 Business Review Chief Executives Report continued Travelsupermarket.
com was We will continue to work closely With our new offline marketing with our providers to ensure that we campaign, we will be looking for redesigned during 2009, improving offer our customers the best greater cut through than we have the customer proposition and possible range of products and achieved with previous campaigns.
It customer usability of the site.
Our dedicated rates team is a very competitive market the year, we launched a cruise constantly scour the market for and what you say is potentially channel, increasing the breadth of changing rates and deals, striving to more important than how much offering in the Travel vertical.
offer customers the capability to you spend.
compare the whole of market and Revenue in the Home Services best buy products.
On international, we have stronger vertical declined substantially in ambitions than ever to take our 2009 compared to 2008 chiefly due Our redeveloped channels provide a model to new markets.
However, our to a year of more stable gas and richer data set on our customers.
green field market entry test in electricity prices compared to 2008.
This will ensure we are better placed Germany has taught us a great deal During the fourth quarter, the Group to talk to our customers about this year.
Germany, a country whose re-launched its vouchers channel relevant services and deals.
Our personal finance market did not enabling customers to obtain customer communication escape the global crisis, has proven to discounts on a much wider range of programme will become an ever be very different to operate in.
Our different products and services.
more important part of our business innovative personalised loans website as we build long term relationships went live during 2009 and is the most As a business that concentrates on with our customers.
helping every household to make However, we have learnt a great deal the most of their money, our Most importantly, we will complete about the need in Germany to customer proposition is more the rollout of our new advertising support online service offline.
In the important now than ever.
campaign a great deal easier UK, customers are happy to self serve fronted by Omid Djalili.
Our brand but in Germany a degree of offline Q: What are your plans for adverts were aired in early January, support is required through a shortly followed by our new motor 2010 and beyond?
insurance adverts in mid January.
The economics of such a service is The adverts have been well received A: The actions we took in 2009 will much less attractive and indeed by our customers.
provide a strong platform for 2010 expensive as an organic entry and I am confident that we will see strategy.
We are therefore winding the results of that work during the Q: This seems to be down this test whilst we explore other year and into 2011. different to your strategy options for international growth.
What has We have set out on pages 4 to 7 the changed?
key elements of our strategy for Q: What do you see as 2010 as we continue to focus on Moneysupermarket.
coms A: Although the recession meant how we can help households make key strengths?
that my priority was to stabilise the most of their money.
the business in a market with A: We are a business with many significantly lower credit availability We will continue our development important strengths.
Principally, I see and travel product demand, we momentum across the business, them as team, scale and brand.
continued investment in teams and ensuring that in 2010 our technology for the long term good customers continue to receive This year has seen a major of our business.
Investments were market leading services whilst transformation within our business made against the clear strategic building a better service template I referred to above.
in how we build and enhance our infrastructure for our providers.
website based on customer The major changes in strategy behaviour.
We start 2010 with a have been ones of marketing much more agile business, both priorities and our approach to curious and innovative.
2010 will see a continued website development plan, our core motor, home and credit card channels will be able to respond to market 12 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Business Overview Business Review Management Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Financial Statements General changes in almost real time, sure that we offer them the best something we certainly were range of products, ensuring that unable to do last year.
Our new whatever their financial needs, we as executive team brings a strong mix a business can help them make the of skills to the business ranging from most of their money in 2010. blue chip marketing to hands on provider experience.
Q: When do you expect things to improve?
We are the UKs number one price comparison website and our scale A: Clearly 2009 has been a difficult brings distinct benefits to our year for the Group.
However, we business in two main ways.
Firstly, have maintained market share in key our breadth of services means that verticals and I believe the business customers have many reasons to has now stabilised with the worst visit us throughout the year to make behind us.
This not only gives us the financial benefits of I remain confident that the work we a diversified product range, but also are doing across the business and gives us a real opportunity to cross the enhancements we have made sell products from our different and will continue to make in 2010 verticals.
Secondly, we gain benefits will ensure the Group is well from our marketing efficiency, both positioned to capitalise on its online and offline, an area that we strengths when growth returns to made good progress on in 2009. our markets.
Our business is now 10 years old.
I am very much looking forward to Moneysupermarket.
This is a great valuable brand which is highly business, with hugely dedicated and recognised and trusted by our skilled employees who have a customers.
passionate focus on helping our customers make the most of their Q: What do you think will money.
Thats a good place to start be the challenges for the 2010 from.
A: 2010 will be another challenging year for the business as we seek to execute our strategy outlined Peter Plumb above and focus on delivering Chief Executive Officer our ambitious plans for 2010 and beyond.
There will remain challenges in the wider economy this year, particularly in the credit markets, and it will be critical that we remain flexible and responsive to changing market conditions and evolving customer needs.
Our breadth of services will however continue to be a source of great strength.
We will continue to focus on our customers and on making Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2009 13
