32 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Chief Executive Officers review Group results The Groups well-established strategy of reducing our exposure to economically cyclical, more commoditised markets has served us well.
Operating profit margin before restructuring and one-off items in 2009 was a highly creditable 9.4%.
The performance of the NP Aerospace business in particular merits highlighting, having achieved stellar results in 2009 with revenues of 186.2 million compared to 72.0 million in 2008 and operating profit of 28.8 million compared to 10.7 million in 2008.
This is primarily attributable to significant business with the UK Ministry of Defence in providing high-specification vehicle and personal ballistic protection solutions.
Mark Robertshaw Given the challenging market environment, Chief Executive Officer we have kept a tight and rigorous focus on cash generation and on the health of our balance sheet throughout the year.
Our five-year banking facilities, which were I am extremely proud of coming to the end of their term in 2009, were successfully renewed in the first quarter what Morgan Crucible has during a period of significant uncertainty for the worlds banking system.
The fact that achieved in 2009 against we were able to bring two new banks into our syndicate of lenders at a time of such turbulence in financial markets was a very a backdrop of the most pleasing endorsement of the strength and resilience of your Group.
Furthermore, I am difficult market environment pleased to report that we ended 2009 having successfully maintained our position on the for industrial companies key net debt to EBITDA financial covenant at 2.1 times, which is exactly where we were at the end of last year.
This is having purchased for many decades.
a further 11% stake in NP Aerospace to move us to a majority equity holding of 60%.
We are also in a position of being able to recommend a full-year dividend in line with the prior year.
33 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements combined with demand slowdowns in Divisional highlights newer end-markets such as solar and US All of the Groups Divisions have shown body armour.
Nevertheless, the business pleasing resilience during this period of pronounced global recession, with each made a respectable profit contribution in delivering sound profit levels in 2009.
2009, with an encouraging pick-up in orders I have already commented on the excellent seen in the latter part of the year.
performance of NP Aerospace in its maiden One area where all of our businesses did an set of figures as a majority-owned Morgan excellent job during the course of the year Crucible business.
was in aligning their cost bases with prevailing demand levels.
Their decisive actions during The Technical Ceramics Division also a period of pronounced economic downturn deserves special mention for delivering were a key factor in your Group weathering 25.1 million of Divisional EBITA before this difficult environment so robustly.
I would restructuring and one-off costs, like to extend a personal thank-you to all representing an operating profit margin our employees for their commitment and of 12.2%.
Revenues were 206.0 million individual contributions towards making compared to 212.2 million in 2008, this happen.
driven by the Divisions increasing exposure to more secular growth markets, with our Looking forward medical business performing especially Even though we have seen some degree well.
The integration of the businesses we of recovery in many end-markets in the acquired from the Carpenter Technology latter part of 2009, our expectation is that Corporation in 2008 was delivered the demand environment is likely to remain successfully to plan.
challenging and will certainly be unpredictable.
The Insulating Ceramics Division has also The deep global recession of 2009 was a demonstrated a much improved resilience thorough test of our strategy and business of operating profit margins compared to model, which have stood up to this stern previous downturns, achieving 8.0% in examination in a pleasing manner.
The Divisions strong and increasing Looking to the future, I am therefore business presence in emerging-market confident that Morgan Crucible is emerging economies including China, India and Latin from the downturn as a stronger, more America helped offset the weakness of resilient business which is well placed to western-world economies.
Good progress capitalise on opportunities as 2010 develops.
was also made in the Divisions operating efficiencies driven by the Thermal Ceramics World Class Manufacturing programme.
The Carbon Division, excluding NP Aerospace, arguably had the most difficult environment of our Divisions in 2009 with market downturns in core industrial markets
