888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Chief Executive Officers Review Introduction Business Overview While the economic backdrop remained hostile and continued to Our strategy is underpinned by a number of core objectives: impact performance both in terms of trading and fluctuating exchange rates, 2009 was the year that validated the strength of the Groups l Maintain and improve our position as a leading B2C operator combined business model: a world class B2C operator and an l Become a leading B2B provider with a focus on new entrants innovative and comprehensive B2B service provider.
and major opportunities l Make strategic B2C and B2B acquisitions to enhance our During the first nine months of the year, our B2C business remained market position under pressure from the challenging economic environment.
The l Position ourselves to benefit from market trends and regulatory fourth quarter of 2009 saw a welcome return to more normalised changes trading, with much stronger performance.
Our stand-alone B2B l Remain the most responsible company in the sector business which was branded Dragonfish in March 2009, continued to show good growth with a number of new strategic deals signed, These are the building blocks of our business and we are committed including an agreement with Linden Lab, operator of Second Life for to delivering a strong performance in each of these areas.
payment processing and an agreement with bwin Italia for casino tailored for the newly regulated Italian market.
B2C Whilst the market for our B2C business remained challenging we Throughout the period we maintained investment and innovation retained our focus on innovation to ensure our offering remains at the in both divisions, using our working capital wisely and, as you will forefront of the gaming experience.
This included: exciting visuals, see from the look and feel of this annual report, creating a new increased interactivity, more community focus and a new customer corporate identity and refreshed sub-brands for our B2C offering, loyalty programme.
We also introduced a number of recession now launched to our customers.
busting promotions and products, giving our customers the opportunity to be entertained whilst being sensitive to their spending From a financial perspective, in spite of the difficult environment, we capacity, thus increasing their entertainment value for money.
Total Operating Income was US$247 million 2008: US$263 million with 33% increase in TOI in Following the success of 888ladies, our UK-focused Bingo B2B.
EBITDA was US$46 million 2008: US$56 million.
The business offering, we introduced new social networking features which remains highly cash generative and as at 31 December 2009 our cash make the playing environment more social, such as enhanced chat position was US$87.5 million 31 December 2008: US$98.4 million.
Before share benefit charges of US$7 million 2008: US$8 million.
Under the leadership of the B2C Managing Director the business has taken on a new focus, leveraging new products and marketing campaigns to deliver further growth.
A new Bingo TV campaign was launched in the UK to stimulate Bingo growth.
The innovative Poker Ashes tournament was launched and televised featuring celebrities such as Shane Warne and Darren Gough.
In support of this, a large-scale poker league was launched in hundreds of pubs.
com A live casino product targeted at European customers was launched Total Gaming Services is the strap line that underpins Dragonfishs during the first half of 2009 and includes Roulette, Blackjack unique positioning.
Our clients are given the opportunity to benefit and Baccarat.
Following extensive customer consultation, a new from the advantage of our comprehensive end-to-end service, global Poker version was rolled out incorporating 25 features and design reach, resources and contacts, and specific experience across local changes and we also introduced a new best of breed poker loyalty markets.
This comprehensive offering, unique to Dragonfish, is built programme.
on our extensive experience as an operator and, as such, is a major differentiator from other B2B providers.
888sport, while still a nascent business unit for us, continued to gather momentum during the year.
We introduced a new in-play Dragonfish has its own Managing Director who is responsible for all betting application as well as an innovative video stream feature B2B activities.
These include business development, Programme promoting our most popular events, all assisting in driving additional management & integrations, Client executives Unit, Client marketing & growth to the domain.
operations, B2B marketing and PR and B2B Finance.
This structure as a stand-alone unit ensures that the confidential separation between In December we acquired the Wink Online Bingo business.
The the two activities is retained.
transaction marked a further expansion of our emerging offering segment and is invaluable in helping to support our domination of the A number of deals were signed during 2009, some of which have online bingo industry.
Wink Bingo runs several online bingo networks opened up new territories for us as referred to below.
including WinkBingo, PoshBingo and BingoFabulous.
The network is operated on the Dragonfish bingo infrastructure and had over 60,000 Phumelela in South Africa, where we will be providing a active players at the time of acquisition, making it one of the most comprehensive sports-book offering: poker and casino in the Balkans popular sites for online bingo in the UK.
with Loper Gate: and with Probability to develop and execute opportunities for mobile gaming and mobile lottery services in a In the third quarter of 2009 we began a restructuring and rebranding of number of territories including China, and South and Central America.
Following a comprehensive branding study, it In September we signed a landmark deal with Harrahs International became clear that we needed differentiated sub-brands for each product.
Entertainment, to provide services to its non US facing customers We carefully researched how we could launch a new streamlined, marking the first ever B2B deal with a major US Casino operator.
distinctive and digital modern look without alienating our players and with the potential to attract thousands of new ones.
The decision was taken During the year we also announced three new bingo partners, to build on the strength of the 888 brand and enhance its visual display, MoonBingo, BingoHollywood and Costa Bingo, cementing our while also promoting four key B2C sub-brands with a reinvigorated look position as a global leader in the provision of bingo services.
In November, Dragonfish signed an e-payments deal with Linden Lab, Dragonfish an agreement which extends our offering of Total Gaming Services In March we reached an important landmark in the transformation of into Total Payment Services and highlights the increasingly diverse our B2B business, launching it under its own brand Dragonfish.
nature and strength of Dragonfishs operations.
We have various This stand-alone brand is indicative of 888s intention to become a existing and potential gaming partners interested in our e-payment major player in the B2B market, highlighting Dragonfishs status as an solutions demonstrating this giant step beyond our core operations independent business unit within the 888 Group and emphasising its into the retail environment.
difference from our traditional B2C offering.
indd 05 30 03 2010 12:33 30 03 2010 12:33 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Chief Executive Officers Review continued People Responsible Gaming Key to the sustainable success of our business and, in turn, the As we state constantly at 888, playing is not just a matter of delivery of shareholder value, is the continued development of our entertainment we take our play very seriously.
team who have once again delivered these excellent results.
Entertainment is our core business and it has an impact both Looking around the Group today, I am most encouraged by our on the people who enjoy it and the environment in which it significant and growing pool of talented employees.
Conducting our business responsibly is fundamental and development programmes are designed to support employees to the sustainability of our business and its future success.
With at all levels, from senior managers to those who are at an early stage responsibility comes transparency and we believe that transparency of their career.
is created through communication and so, as part of that, we took the decision to share the way we conduct our business with all our We remain committed to enable our employees to fulfil their potential stakeholders.
During the year we published our first stand-alone and share in the Groups success.
While we recognise that we still have much to achieve, we are committed to a We believe we have engendered the right culture within our proactive policy of corporate and social responsibility that reflects the business and we are committed to our corporate values: leadership, high professional and ethical standards we have set for ourselves.
innovation, excellence, customer centricity, collaboration and caring, all of which helped us withstand the tough trading conditions 888 is committed to provide responsible gaming products that throughout the year.
comply with the highest standards of gaming safety, security and fair practice that exist globally.
We regularly collaborate with external and Late last year, 888 mourned the passing of one of its founders, Dr regulatory bodies who guide us on all aspects of responsible gaming.
Aharon was a committed and passionate supporter For more details see our website: http: safe.
of 888 and we shall miss his unique contribution in the future development of the Company.
Our own dedicated responsible gambling website 888responsible.
com provides a full guide to responsible practices Regulation and is a source of practical support for all those involved in gaming 888, as a regulated and responsible company, is constantly reviewing or those who seek to understand the gaming environment.
We are actual and potential changes in the online gaming regulatory regime most proud of our work in this area and will continue to see it as a all over the world.
This serves both to allow the Company to pursue key element in creating a sustainable, growing business.
any possible opportunities to seek, receive and operate under local licences, as well as to guide decision making in relation to its Our 2010 Focus existing operations.
Especially in Europe, the Company is pursuing We aim to grow our B2C business through various strategic licensing possibilities in Italy where the 888 Group already holds a initiatives, including the rebranding and refocusing around products.
licence, France and other jurisdictions.
In addition, 888 is looking We expect further expansion of our geographical footprint, largely into potential licensing opportunities outside Europe.
We believe led by the anticipated regulatory changes that the industry is facing, that the online gaming industry is making big strides towards offering us a much more favourable environment for years to come.
being fully regulated in an increasing number of jurisdictions, in an unparalleled manner which will change for ever the industry In casino, our strategic goal is to maintain our dominant market landscape.
The unique position of 888 makes it well placed to take leading position by continuing to offer the right variety of products advantage of these changes.
and we want to capture as many customer segments as possible.
In pursuit of this goal, we will integrate more products and continue to enhance the customer experience introducing innovative products such as a 3-D virtual casino.
com As regards our poker business, we will continue to focus on product Outlook innovation and customer needs, and will be launching a major In conclusion, in 2009 we made significant progress in a challenging upgrade to our gaming environment and player experience later environment.
Our strong business fundamentals and successful this year.
We will also be introducing various features designed growth strategy are the basis of our long-term sustainability.
to enhance the online poker-playing experience beyond what is available today, aiming to attract a bigger audience to our offering.
We will continue to drive further organic growth, leveraging our enhanced geographic footprint and our dual business model.
In We will aim for greater focus on acquiring new players to our sports parallel, we also remain committed to further acquisitions as part of offering, promoting additional events and investing more in brand the ongoing industry consolidation and also achieving our strategic recognition in specific countries.
We will present unique features as goals.
well as exclusive promotions around the main sports events of the year led by the football World Cup.
2009 was the year in which While 2009 was challenging, the overall market is on a growth sport betting became a real revenue-driver for us: we plan to build on trajectory.
Casino continues to grow and Bingo has significant these achievements and grow our market share in 2010. growth potential especially outside of the UK while Poker remains challenging.
We remain excited that sportsbetting is still a major Bingo will remain a key growth area for us, especially following the opportunity for us.
Last but not least, Dragonfish presents significant acquisition of Wink Bingo, and we will focus on penetrating new additional growth opportunities which we plan to exploit, both in the geographies throughout the year, bringing the message of bingo to Total Gaming and Total Payments environments.
Financially and operationally we have a strong platform to grow our For Dragonfish, 2010 will see a continuation of the successful businesses further and look forward to continuing to provide all our growth strategy, focusing on regulated markets and integrating a stakeholders with value both now and in the future.
number of new products and services to deliver strong organic growth for partners, whilst targeting new partners with the Total Gaming Services proposition.
We feel that we have a unique offering, unparalleled in the market, and will continue to seek major new deals throughout the year.
The year will also see ongoing activity with our current partners, who will enjoy a variety of new games and capabilities that will assist them in growing their own businesses.
Gigi Levy Dragonfishs first independent global payments agreement with Chief Executive Officer Linden Lab will also be launched in 2010, followed by additional payment processing management agreements.
