Chief Executives Review 6 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Summary of its fashionable lingerie ranges, posting Product Categories The rise in sales across all of the groups a robust increase in sales over the period.
A key strength in our business is the core product and customer categories Fashion World grew revenues by 10% offer of an extensive range of products, reflected the focus on our core strengths by promoting its value offer to the with multiple options around size, colour, targeting niche customer groups and price-conscious customer in her forties.
length and fit which cannot easily be delivering relevant products with an We also saw strong growth from our accommodated in a high street store, emphasis on the correct size and fit.
menswear title, Jacamo, which was but which we can service through our This was achieved whilst also attaining launched in August 2007.
record levels of customer satisfaction.
success is attributed to the fashionable branded offer in large sizes that are not Sales in our ladieswear division increased Sales growth has come from both our readily available on the high street, and by 7% this year to 352m and account established and newer brands and the a customer base confident and happy for 53% of the total.
We offer an extensive continued investment in e-commerce to shop from home, particularly online.
choice of clothing in sizes 12 to 38 with has seen a further increase in online sales.
an increasing proportion with multiple Additionally we commenced trials to sell The mid-life group is our largest category, length options.
The growth in our internationally, notably launching our with sales of 406m which grew by 7% younger titles has increased demand Simply Be brand in Germany.
Although the majority for our designer and branded ranges.
of sales continue to be generated from We continue to work with designers such The reduction in the operating margin our established brands, including JD as Caryn Franklin and Anna Scholz to from 15.0% to 14.4% reflects an Williams, Ambrose Wilson, Fifty Plus and produce ranges tailored to the needs increased charge for bad debts, Oxendales titles, it is encouraging that of our customers, and in 2008 launched including a more conservative another of our newer brands, Marisota, a new range in conjunction with Jeffrey approach in our year end provisions, is showing real strength.
Launched in the Rogers, branded Jeffrey and Paula.
In anticipating a deterioration in economic autumn 2007 season, it has quadrupled addition we work with a number of brands conditions.
The offer of credit remains its sales by targeting middle aged women with exclusivity in larger sizes such as a fundamental, and successful, part of with contemporary clothing in a wide Joe Browns, Ben Sherman and Lonsdale.
range of sizes, lengths and fittings.
Premier Man achieved a 16% increase This year we collaborated with fashion 2009 will no doubt be a challenging year in sales, in line with our strategic aim to celebrity Gok Wan, who designed an as the economic conditions are uncertain.
improve our market share in menswear.
exclusive range of shapewear for our However we believe that our business Simply Yours lingerie catalogue which model is flexible enough to adapt to the Our oldest customer group saw an achieved high exposure in the national prevailing circumstances.
increase in sales of 6% this year to press and magazines.
Our partnership 56m, fuelled by Nightingales, a brand with Gok complements our focus on Customer Groups and customer file which we acquired providing fashionable lingerie for women, Our customers are recruited across an out of administration last year.
in an extensive range with bra sizes array of over 20 brands, each of which from 32A up to 56L.
Figures from TNS has its own target customer profile and Across all our titles, we have seen sales Worldpanel show we are the UKs number product offer.
We group them into three growth from both established customers one online retailer of corsetry and lingerie.
age bands for simplicity: and new customers recruited during the year.
Our established database has grown Menswear has seen strong growth with Younger targeting customers aged by 4%, and the average spend for these sales up 27% to 57m, driven by the 30-45 years customers increased by 7%.
Due to the success of both our younger and midlife economic conditions, we took a more titles, Jacamo and Premier Man.
Although Mid-life targeting customers aged cautious view on recruitment in the the target markets are different in age the 45-65 years second half but new customer sales success in both brands has come from Older targeting customers aged for the year still rose by 8%.
over 65 years Continuing the trend that has occurred over recent years, our youngest customer group has once again seen the fastest growth, with sales up 21% to 200m.
Simply Be has continued to perform exceptionally well with sales growth of 23% and is now our largest title in this category, demonstrating the attraction that our size 14 to 32 offer has to the fashion conscious female in her thirties.
Simply Yours benefited from the combination of an increased recruitment activity and the popularity N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 7 Chief Executives Review 8 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 offering more fashionable merchandise Gross Margin and Credit customer and product contribution in larger sizes, exclusive to us.
Menswear The group gross margin is a complex at the operating profit level and we are now accounts for 9% of our total sales, amalgam of the different rates of gross satisfied that our credit acceptance and it remains a key area of focus within margins in product groups, customer criteria continues to strike the right our plans to drive future growth.
groups, financial income and bad debts, balance between risk and reward.
which in total reduced from 55.3% to Our specialist knowledge in footwear 53.2%.
The growth in clothing sales to We have also taken a number of other continues to benefit our customers with both women and men was beneficial actions as a precaution against future our wider fitting shoes and multi fit range, to the gross margin rate, but this was customer defaults.
Minimum payments utilising our own bespoke lasts, emphasising offset by the increase in sales of branded have been increased for newer customers our commitment to providing the perfect merchandise and home and leisure and we have restricted credit availability fit.
Footwear sales increased 8% including products which have a higher average for certain customer and product strong sales growth from Viva La Diva, item value but a lower margin rate.
combinations where we have identified our online branded offer that targets the an unacceptable level of risk.
We have younger fashion-conscious customer.
The faster growth rate for the younger an experienced team managing our customers was beneficial for financial credit business and remain confident Home and leisure sales grew 16% income but has contributed to a higher in our ability to manage it through this and now account for 28% of total sales.
charge for bad debts, which increased economic cycle.
In the year we launched the Brilliant from 5.6% to 7.9% of total revenues.
Gifts website and catalogue, which saw There are two other contributory E-Commerce strong sales throughout the year as well factors to this increase.
The third party E-commerce offers significant as during the Christmas period.
Sales of debt collection market has toughened opportunities, as customers increasingly electrical products continued to do well, considerably as a result of the economic become accustomed to using the internet with our customers being late adopters downturn, reducing both the yield we as an ordering channel.
A key benefit we for computers, flat screen televisions achieve and moving from up-front gain is that average order values online and satellite navigation for cars.
payment to payment as collected.
This are over 25% higher than for orders has resulted in a net increase to the bad though other channels, driven by wider We actively encourage our customers to debt provision for both past and future ranges available on our websites and shop across the various ranges we offer, collections.
In addition, we recognise the the ease of searching and browsing and a key measure is the proportion that historical rates of default may not reflect the entire offering.
In addition, costs to purchase items from each of our ladies the dramatic downturn in economic serve customers online are lower than by clothes, underwear and footwear ranges.
conditions and we have pre-empted telephone, and we see a higher level of This has increased to 15% and these this trend by taking a more conservative repeat orders.
During the year we have customers are proven to not only spend approach to the bad debt provisions, continued to invest significantly in our more, but also show higher loyalty and which at the year end totalled 41.1m, websites presentation and functionality, repeat orders.
However we assess contributing to an increase in online sales N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 9 Chief Executives Review of 38% to 225m, now accounting for The switch of parcel delivery from Additionally, we are trialling a version of 34% of our total sales compared with Hermes to Parcelnet was successfully our UK Simply Be website, but priced in 28% a year ago.
This varies by title, and accomplished this year and has led euros, to a few European countries and we see our highest uptake on our younger to faster delivery times.
We now have plans are in place to extend this further.
titles, although strong growth is coming an online order-tracking system which This is a very low-key trial at present with from all age groups.
enables customers to check the progress minimal marketing expenditure.
of their order, reducing the number of Our websites now offer new features enquiries by telephone.
We see expanding internationally as a and regular updates that encourage our significant potential opportunity.
We have customers to shop on them for longer During the year, we achieved an increase invested 1m in start up costs for this and more frequently.
Style tips, catwalk in average item value of 6% and, together venture and anticipate a trading loss in videos, online exclusives, fully guided with the higher average order values 2009 10 of a similar amount.
navigation and innovative email marketing online, this has enabled better collation campaigns are just some of the measures within our delivery packages, contributing People that have been implemented.
to distribution costs reducing in total by 1%.
In 2008 we carried out an all employee satisfaction survey, with high response Our increasing penetration online is Moving forward we will continue to invest rates and positive results throughout the reflected in our market positioning in the in improving the service we offer our business.
We are determined to maintain key product categories as shown below: customers, as well as ensuring we have our strong corporate culture of focusing capacity in place to manage the ongoing on results, embracing diversity and business growth.
International In recognition of our commitment to We have traded successfully in Ireland Health and Safety we were awarded by for many years and in February 2009 The Royal Society for the Prevention of we made our first steps into mainland Accidents, a Gold Award in recognition Europe, notably with the launch of Simply of Excellence in Safety Performance and Be in Germany.
This comprises a German Safety Management.
language catalogue and transactional Service website.
Marketing activity to recruit Outlook and Current Trading In the year we achieved our highest customers has commenced and we The continual development of our ever customer satisfaction levels, will monitor the results over the coming core business, the ongoing growth as measured by bi-annual service months.
The decision to choose Germany of e-commerce and the launch of our questionnaires that are circulated was due to the large potential customer international trials have given us a strong to customers.
This reiterates our base with similar physical dimensions to platform to take into what is predicted commitment to reaching and sustaining our UK customers and to its established to be a difficult year ahead.
The low the excellent standards that our home shopping infrastructure for contact fixed costs in our business mean we customers expect from the company.
We will not be have a flexible business model which offering extended credit in this trial.
can be adjusted readily to reflect market 10 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 11 Chief Executives Review 12 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 13 Chief Executive Chief Executives Review s Review conditions.
Our focus on niche customer of success.
We are confident we will areas of e-commerce and the international and product groups results in a high continue to offer our customers products trials.
Our borrowing facilities of 320m degree of customer loyalty and our at competitive prices.
are in place until 2012 at advantageous customer profile with an average age margins compared with prevailing rates of 56 has traditionally been more stable The development of our e-commerce and we plan to maintain our headroom in economic downturns.
platforms will continue in the year with around the present levels.
This will, to a further improvements to site functionality, large degree, be dependent on reducing We are encouraged that our sales for the including better display of product details the growth in debtors which we would 8 weeks to 25 April 2009 on a like-forand images to encourage higher order expect with the actions we have taken.
like basis are up by 6.1%, with a similar rates and retention, and also for account The current rates of LIBOR will reduce distribution amongst customer and management, which will help customers our interest payable significantly which product groups to last year.
The gross resolve their queries online and reduce provides a natural hedge against any margin rate is 1.2% lower than in this calls to our contact centres.
We are increase in defaults from our debtors.
period last year, although we anticipate constantly refining our visibility to search an improving trend in the second half of engines and experimenting with social 2009 will be a challenging year but the year.
The outlook is uncertain and media as part of our marketing activities.
we have got off to a good start and the we have been cautious in our budgeting strength of our customer base, the ongoing preferring to wait until customer spending The internet will increasingly become the growth from new titles and product and payment patterns become more dominant channel of choice from which ranges, and the opportunities afforded by settled.
A further challenge is the impact our customers will order, but catalogues e-commerce give us confidence that the of sterling devaluation against other will remain a fundamental part of our business will continue to make progress.
This will inevitably lead model.
However they will be progressively to some pricing pressure in the autumn used to drive customers online, where a although we have hedged 85% of our more extensive range of merchandise will direct dollar requirements for the next be available, which will change frequently 12 months at an average rate of $1.80 and increasingly have video content to to 1.
However, purchases through import demonstrate the features.
agents and branded manufacturers are Alan White more exposed to currency fluctuations, In light of the prevailing economic although we have been working hard conditions we will manage overheads throughout the supply chain to minimise and cashflow extremely tightly whilst the impact, with a reasonable degree continuing to invest in the key strategic 14 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 JD WILLIAMS 2009 HL 749 XD MARISOTA 2009 00001 03400 A JD WILLIAMS 2009 HL 749 XD MARISOTA 2009 00001 03400 A SIMPLY BE 2009 BF 749 XD 8435 SIMPLY BE 2009 BF 749 XD 8435 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 15 SIMPLY BE 2009 BF 749 XD 0205 SIMPLY BE 2009 BF 749 XD 0205 JACAMO 2009 BF 749 XD 0205 MARISOTA 2009 BF 749 XD 0205 Chief Executives Review 16 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 17
