PAGE CHANGED CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW continued A sustainable future Our strategy to be at the heart of home The Group is at the heart of the biggest changes taking place in TV entertainment convergence for the payTV from high denition to converged industry will enable us to work with our home entertainment communications: whole home networking to customers on what we believe will be the MultiDweller and 3D.
Our success and that of our payTV customers, next evolutionary shift in our industry.
despite the macro economic climate, has demonstrated the value many consumers place on high quality home entertainment.
to the open internet for OTT services Pace has strong relationships with as well as interactive applications such all the leading technology partners as widgets.
And the set-top box, in the digital ecosystem.
Our people unlike most other consumer electronic and products are empowering pay TV devices, can be upgraded as they operators, enabling them to deliver operate on a managed payTV network: services over all digital platforms, ensuring end-users are easily kept while at the same time allowing them abreast of the rapidly changing content to protect premium content.
It is a proposition that becomes even more important as the Today, that premium content is core set-top box becomes increasingly high denition and will soon include complex due to the convergence of increasingly bandwidth hungry home entertainment.
technologies such as 3D, ultra high denition and whole home services.
Driving technology evolution With Paces technology, the payTV operator has the network capability, PayTV operators have successfully used service proposition and business advances in broadcast and broadband model to deliver these new services technologies to deliver compelling and finance the high quality content services that engage consumers and that makes TV such an engaging deliver income growth for the industry.
This is particularly true The majority of consumers want of event TV, from shows such as products that are coupled to services.
X-Factor and American Idol to major This removes the customer care sporting events such as The Super headaches of billing, technical support Bowl, the football World Cup and and uncertainty around whether the the Champions League.
This content technology in which they have invested commands massive audiences will soon become obsolete.
almost half of US homes tune into the Super Bowl final demanding and As a result the quality, demand for and generating billions of dollars on which spend on digital home entertainment many media and sports industries is growing and Pace continues to depend.
be at the forefront of this technology evolution.
Our strategy to be at Pay television operators are moving the heart of home entertainment quickly to take advantage of hybrid convergence for the payTV industry will technology.
Already many of our enable us to work with our customers customers are moving towards hybrid on what we believe will be the next platforms that combine broadcast and evolutionary shift in our industry.
We have led the market in this eld with products such Moreover, we are already seeing the as Le Cube for Frances Canal and shift occur and Pace has already Vision for BT Vision in the UK.
demonstrated early leadership in product development.
Consumers used Hybrid set-top boxes are powerful to HD and PVR and now hybrid set-top devices that pay TV operators are boxes, will then want smart connected currently using to add huge libraries devices that give them the exibility to of on-demand and catch-up TV for manage and view both professional as their customers.
These boxes can well as personal content anywhere in be easily evolved to provide access their home.
07 PACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT will be adding new customers and In October of last year, Pace galvanising distribution routes.
released its first whole home product HCS in the US.
It was released to industry acclaim and there has In summary been significant customer interest.
We are already working with our Our expertise in home content customers and partners on the nextsharing products has also put us generation of set-top boxes and new in a fantastic position to capitalise technologies.
These will continue on the convergence market, going to push the boundaries, featuring beyond TV content to the heart advancements in whole home PVR, of entertainment in the home.
We support for more applications, OTT are convinced that set-top boxes, services and widgets, better energy particularly hybrid PVRs, will establish efficiency and of course 3D.
We are a TV-driven home network: it is a at the leading edge of technological cost-effective, secure and exible change and have a clear strategy device.
to be at the heart of convergence for digital TV that we continue to Our market is constantly changing successfully execute against.
This and 3D now offers opportunities.
In capitalises on our many relationships the short-term, consumers investing with customers, partners and in 3D TVs can get a taste of 3D suppliers as well as our technical with some of our existing boxes.
But this medium is for the longer We now have the ability and capability term, as consumers start seeing to take advantage of the right market more of its amazing capabilities opportunities to further develop our and full 3D becomes a requirement business.
This will demand further developments in set-top box Having delivered an outstanding technology.
performance in 2009, Pace has entered 2010 in a strong operating By 2013 there will be an installed and financial position: the pay TV base of 35m 3D capable TV market continues to be positive and screens and we envisage that there is good demand for the Groups we will be supplying operators products.
Against this backdrop we with 3D enabled products sooner expect a combination of solid volume rather than later.
Many of our latest growth and a modestly lower ASP platforms are already 3D-ready resulting from product mix to lead to and ultra HD, which delivers 16x mid single digit revenue growth for the the picture quality of HD, is around year.
Gross margins are expected to the corner.
These developments increase, with a focus on operating also reinforce broadcast technology cost and efficiency generating as the predominant transmission further improvements in operating medium for the coming years, given margin.
We will also continue tight the massive bandwidth required to management of our supply chain deliver 3D over the internet.
as we manage a sector-wide risk of component shortages.
Our ability to develop new markets has been demonstrated in our The Group looks forward to another MultiDweller system.
The range of successful year building on our MultiDweller products is opening position as a leading global player in up the market for advanced digital the digital payTV market.
services by enabling payTV and other operators to reach inaccessible Neil Gaydon subscribers, including places such Chief Executive officer as apartment blocks, hotels and conurbations that previously have not 2 March 2010 been attached to cable networks.
As planned, 2009 saw initial commercial deployment of the divisions agship product and the announcement of the first two customers, Canal Digital and Quadriga.
In 2010 we PACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 08 CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICERS REVIEW Our record growth is underpinned by robust financial management, a strong balance sheet and operational excellence.
The Pace business grew dramatically in 2009 as we benefitted from our market leading position, particularly in the delivery of high denition products, increased global scale and earlier than expected benets of business synergy programmes put in place following the Philips set-top box acquisition in 2008.
Pace France is now a fully operational and profitable part of the Group.
From an operational view point we 2009 to anticipate, manage and plan have actively managed this growth: for any problems within the supply chain, using a range of operational our efficient operating structure tools available to the business.
This allowed us to achieve maximum will stand us in good stead during growth without a proportionate 2010 as we take into account the increase in overheads.
Subsequent sector-wide risk of component to the acquisition we developed shortages.
scalable systems and improved key performance indicators.
These provide Trading and results high quality and best practice financial information to our business units, We achieved record growth in which enable early issue identication revenues and shipments of 1.1bn and rapid decision making.
At the and 17.2m set-top boxes respectively.
same time, to support our overall We signicantly increased profit business transformation, we have before tax, exceptional items and established an internal audit function, amortisation of other intangibles to assisted by external professional 76.5m 2008: 28.5m.
profit before advisors and enhanced our tax, tax was 69.9m 2008: 13.8m.
treasury and cash management Amortisation of other intangibles capabilities.
was 6.7m 2008: 3.7m and basic earnings per share were 17.7p 2008: Pace has good customer order 4.0p, with adjusted earnings per visibility and the team worked well in share of 19.3p 2008: 7.8p.
09 PACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT We continued to win new customers working capital increasing to 36.2m The net interest credit was 0.2m and expand market share with many 31 December 2008: 9.5m.
Capital 2008: net interest charge 0.7m of our existing customers, enabling expenditure increased to 12.9m reecting the positive cash balances us to maintain a balance of revenues.
31 December 2008: 6.6m as held throughout the period.
A tax We delivered 6.2m set-top boxes into we invested in improving our head charge of 18.5m 2008: 2.8m Europe 2008: 4.7m, 9.7m into the ofce facilities, established new relates to UK tax of 3.8m, as Americas 2008: 7.3m and 1.3m into manufacturing lines to support new remaining tax losses were used, the Rest of the World 2008: 1.1m.
customer wins and installed industry overseas tax charges of 13.7m leading reliability laboratories.
Our and a deferred tax charge of 1.0m.
The Group adopted IFRS 8 investment in reliability is a strong Retained profit for the period was Operating Segments from 1 January point of competitive differentiation and 51.4m 2008: 11.1m an increase 2009.
IFRS 8 requires operating over the medium term will support a of 365% on 2008. segments to be identied on the basis reduction in the overall cost of life of of discrete financial information about our products in the eld.
Foreign Exchange components of the Group.
These By currency our revenues are split segments are regularly reviewed Dividend 61% in US$, 32% in Euros, with by the Pace Board, as the Groups Due to the positive net cash and other currencies accounting for 7%.
Chief Operating Decision Maker strong business performance, the Electronics component purchasing is CODM, to allocate resources and Board has recommended a final typically US$ denominated, which is assess performance.
IFRS 8 has dividend of 1.0p per share, giving a reected in the majority of the Groups been applied to aggregate operating full year dividend of 1.5p per share.
Using the balance within this segments on the grounds of similar A progressive dividend policy was currency prole, supplemented by economic characteristics and the introduced in 2009 with the intention an effective hedging strategy and Group has determined that it has one of paying in the region of a one third, treasury policy, we have been able reportable segment.
This position will two thirds split between interim and to minimise the impact of foreign be monitored as the Group develops.
currency uctuations on profit before tax.
Gross margin was 17.6% for the Basis of preparation year, versus 18.1% in 2008.
There Overheads was a negative 0.5% impact on The principal risks and uncertainties gross margin due to the one-off facing the Group, including those Overheads, excluding the impact foreign exchange cost as a result referred to in note 1 to these financial of IAS 38 and amortisation of other of our foreign exchange strategy, statements, have not changed from intangibles were 126.5m 2008: announced in November 2008 that those set out in the 2008 Annual 105.1m, excluding exceptionals, provided certainty to manage the Report and Accounts, except for incorporated a full year of the business through 2009.
Gross margin inclusion of the impact of new overhead base from Pace France.
progressively improved from H1 to H2 accounting standards applicable R&D spend before capitalisation of 17.2% to 17.9% as the benefit of the in the period.
development expenditure in line with Groups larger buying power started IAS was 71.7m 2008: 59.6m to take effect.
Average selling prices, as we continued to invest in higher Outlook which are a feature of product mix, specication products such as HD Pace is operating in a growing increased during the year from 57 to PVR and new technologies.
An marketplace with excellent product 66 with a H1 to H2 progression of amortisation credit in relation to and technology capabilities.
This development reects capitalised development expenditure customer base leads the payTV the growing number of HD boxes in of 2.8m 2008: charge 0.9m is industry ensuring that Pace is at the the second half after high volume DTA reected in the income statement.
We have shipments in the first half.
established strong fundamentals Balance sheet in the financial management of the Last year we introduced return Group and are well positioned to take There was a net inow of cash into on sales operating margin on a advantage of ongoing future growth.
the business, further strengthening product-by-product basis as a new our cash position and we nished performance measure this reects the period with a net cash position Stuart Hall the benefit of volume shipments and of 73.5m 2008: 37.7m.
As a Chief Financial officer pricing on absolute profitability, rather result we have been able to continue than just gross margin, which is not managing the business from our own 2 March 2010 always directly linked with profit.
cash and are in a strong position to The ROS benchmark in place for consider potential acquisitions to each product has ensured that the broaden our capability in digital TV full impact of all activities on overall technologies.
We continue to have a profitability is considered.
In 2009 our standby 35m revolving credit facility overall ROS was 6.7% 2008: 3.9% with the Royal Bank of Scotland.
due to the growing global demand for our products and technologies, The balance sheet also reects our coupled with our scale and strong significant business growth, with net operating performance.
The Group is assets increasing 36% to 196.3m on track to achieve our 8% medium 31 December 2008: 143.9m and net term target.
