DIRECToRs REPoRT | BUsINEss REVIEW Chris Loughlin Chief Executive south West Water Limited South West Water CHIEF EXECUTIVES OVERVIEW Given the current economic conditions, our Another successful year strategy of striking the right balance is key: our plans are mindful of the impact further Against an uncertain global economic investment in our assets has on the level of bills for South West Water background, South West Water has had a strong when customers are least able to afford higher performance this year, improving customer charges.
We have also ensured that overall service, delivering further operational efficiency funding requirements are minimised at a time with improvements and achieving sound financial results.
when the cost of new financing is expected to be at a premium.
We have targeted our plan to South West Water has a clear vision, Pure Water, to both operational reflect customer priorities, whilst challenging Pure Service and Pure Environment, which was ourselves to deliver increased efficiencies.
at the heart of our Strategic Direction Statement published in December 2007.
Underpinning the efficiency and This strategy has also worked well during this vision is the strategy of striking the right balance financial year.
South West Water has made between investing to improve our services, excellent progress by: financeability and, importantly, customer customer service affordability.
improving service to customers, tackling affordability issues and levels of It is now over a year since the companys vision customer debt was launched.
The vision and strategy have been used to focus delivery in what has been completing required investment in our the penultimate year in this regulatory cycle assets and infrastructure for the benefit of 2005-2010 and as the basis for our detailed our customers and the environment plans which have been developed for the next five-year cycle 2010-2015. delivering further operating efficiencies Significant preparation has been undertaken ensuring there is efficient financing in this financial year ahead of the Price place secured into the next 2010-2015 Determination due in November 2009 by Ofwat regulatory period.
for the 2010-2015 regulatory period: Some of our key operational results and in August 2008 we submitted our achievements in the last 12 months have draft business plan detailing targeted demonstrated the benefits of our focused improvements to customer services and a approach through our Pure Water, Pure Service modest number of water and environmental and Pure Environment vision.
quality improvement projects in April 2009 following the feedback from the public consultation on our draft plan and a comprehensive review of our proposals, we submitted our Final Business Plan to Ofwat.
6 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts
