CHAIrMAn AnD CHIEF ExECUTIvES rEvIEW From left Peter Hambro, Chairman with Dr Pavel Maslovskiy, Chief Executive Officer.
2009 was a successful year in the life of our Company but not without some challenges, and as we move into 2010, we find ourselves in a strong position that is reflected in our financial performance for the year.
earnings have risen by 263% versus 2008 to US$0.98 per share.
In line with these results and the Boards previously-stated aim to return money to investors from profits, we felt able to resume dividend payments.
Three corporate initiatives defined the year for Petropavlovsk.
The Aricom acquisition strengthened the Companys financial and strategic position, the move to the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange confirmed our place in the mining mainstream and the rebranding of the company as Petropavlovsk reinforced its historical and geographical significance.
The team delivered record full year production of 486,800oz in spite of a maintenance delay at Pioneer and small pit-wall movement at Pokrovskiy.
This record production figure demonstrates the effectiveness of our phased approach to the development of our project pipeline.
the production increase has coincided with gold price strength in 2009 and we are confident that we will be able to deliver our forecasted production growth over the next few years.
Thanks to the nature of our deposits, the skill of the workforce and management control, our mines are producing gold at a consistently low total cash cost, putting Petropavlovsk in the as we move into 2010, we lowest cost quartile for global gold producers.
find ourselves in a strong The Pokrovskiy mine continued its resilience in 2009 producing some 190,100oz and remains an important base for the position that is reflected in development of the Groups other assets in the Amur region.
It is expected that current exploration work will provide sufficient our financial performance resources to extend the life of the mine to 2020 and beyond.
Pioneer has become the engine driving our current production for the year.
During the year we commissioned the second stage risen by 263% versus 2008 of the modular processing plant and thus the mine was able to increase production by 56% to 234,100oz.
Delivering Stage 2 to US$0.98 per share.
without incident allowed us to bring forward the anticipated completion of Stage 3 of the Pioneer processing circuit from the second half of 2010 to the first half of 2010, which will enable us to increase immediate production capacity.
exploration at the Pioneer mine has also continued during the year providing an increase in the quality of reserves and resources, including two new ore bodies with high-grade samples, and the establishment of a continuation of the high-grade andreevskaya ore zone.
02 Petropavlovsk PLC annual report & accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information The cornerstone of our business to date has been the Groups Outlook ability to progress greenfield deposits thanks to our phased every spring we try, with the help of our colleagues, to give you a developmental process, supported by our in-house technical vision of the road ahead of us.
We are sure that 2010 will present teams.
In this regard, the progress of our next gold projects at the Group with further opportunities and challenges and that these Malomir and Albyn confirm the robustness of this model.
Malomir will again be caused as much as anything by movements in the remains on track to begin production in the second half of 2010 and international financial system.
We also believe that the gold price ongoing exploration of the deposit has confirmed the potential for and thus our Group will benefit from this.
additional, non-refractory resources that may allow the mine to employ the simpler and cheaper, direct cyanidation technology for We also expect that the movement of economic power from a longer period.
As a result of active exploration activities, the Albyn West to east will continue apace and expect that our iron ore deposits potential has grown significantly during 2009 so as to business, with its comparatively short delivery distances to China, become a profitable development for the future.
With its location will benefit from this.
close to Malomir in the north-east of the Amur region, the project is Commercially, the third production line at Pioneer and the start of currently expected to start production at the end of 2011 ramping production at Kuranakh both due in the first half of 2010, Malomirs up to an anticipated full production output rate of 205,000oz, double commissioning in the second half and the achievement of third our initial estimates.
party funding for our iron ore strategy are our short-term strategic Crucial to the Groups phased developmental strategy is the role goals.
We believe that the albyn deposit and our other development of our in-house technical teams, made up of the engineering, projects will ensure longer-term success for the Group.
Many of the technological From a management point of view, we have been lucky enough and engineering advances that have driven the mine development to add the experience of Dr Graham Birch to our team of have been down to the investment made in our in-house expertise.
We welcome Dr Birch, who has recently An example this year has been the commissioning of the Groups retired from Blackrock where he was in charge of major investment new metallurgical testing plant in Blagoveschensk which enables in the mining industry, and believe his insight will benefit us greatly.
us to test, at bulk sample rates, almost any metallurgical recovery process.
We remain confident that the Group has the right team, the right expertise and the right experience to ensure that the achievements We continue to believe that our iron ore business is a source of of the last 15 years will continue to be built upon as we move into significant potential value and will be a major contributor to our another key phase of our growth trajectory.
as founders and value creation.
the acquisition of aricom plc delivered a developing shareholders, we would like to thank the whole team directors, non-precious Metal Division with a range of iron ore projects, all managers and employees, as well as our banking, legal, accounting with the potential to deliver shareholder value because of the and technical advisers for their contributions to our 2009 success logistical advantage that they enjoy over a number of other and we look forward to the Group continuing to move forward suppliers to China.
With construction being finalised at the Groups in 2010. first iron ore mine at Kuranakh, concentrate production is due to ramp up to its full output by the middle of 2010.
However, the main focus of the division has been the financing for the development Peter Hambro Dr Pavel Maslovskiy of the larger iron ore projects at Kimkanskoye, Sutarskoye and Chairman Chief Executive Officer Garinskoye, a term sheet for which was announced on 23 March 2010.
It is hoped that this financing will be finalised during 2010.
Petropavlovsk took several decisive steps in 2009 to strengthen its balance sheet including the acquisition of Aricom, the repurchase in full of the US$180m gold equivalent exchangeable bonds and a US$105m equity placing.
Later in the year, thanks to a rising share price, holders were able to convert nearly all US$140m of our 7.125% convertible bonds into equity.
the result of these transactions was that, with the addition of cash-flow throughout the year, the Group had net debt at the 2009 year end of only US$19m reduced from US$389m a year ago.
We further strengthened our balance sheet in February 2010 by the issuing of US$380m of 4% convertible bonds due 2015.
Petropavlovsk PLC annual report & accounts 2009 03
