Chief Executives statement Robert Schofield, Chief Executive DELIVERING OUR BUSINESS MODEL The Groups strategy remains unchanged.
The Group has acquired a wide portfolio of well-known brands, many of which have leading positions in their markets, widespread distribution through a large number of customers and a scale advantaged supply chain throughout the UK.
This forms the platform for growing our brands and generating future earnings growth.
Our vision is to be the best in British food with brands you to grow our branded sales faster than their respective really love.
markets by investing in and strengthening our brands and their relevance to todays consumers: Business Model to gain competitive advantage by utilising our Now that the integration of the RHM and Campbells consumer insight and scale to deliver value to businesses is behind us, we are focused on demonstrating customers and to work more effectively with suppliers: our business model and on delivering organic growth over the to deliver efficiency benefits such that supply chain next three years.
Our business model to deliver this growth is: costs and overheads are held flat or decline while volumes grow: and as a result to focus on cash generation and debt reduction.
Successfully delivering this model will drive sales growth, will improve gross margin, will increase operating profit and will enable us to reduce debt over the next few years.
Branded Sales To drive branded sales growth, we will concentrate our investment into the areas with the greatest growth potential.
We judge this potential by a combination of size and growth prospects of the category and the competitive strength of our brands.
Drive We have identified five Drive categories categories which are large and in which we believe we can grow ahead of the market.
Core We have identified four Core categories categories which have more moderate growth potential but in which we have strong market shares.
We aim to grow in line with these markets.
Defend The remaining Defend categories have categories lower growth prospects and our aim is to maintain our market position.
08 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Our brand investment will be prioritised in relation to the We believe that we can grow volumes of Drive brands in competitive strength and growth prospects of the brands.
The total by at least 1 to 2 percentage points ahead of the overall brands which we aim to invest behind in Drive categories are category growth rates.
We aim to grow Core and Defend referred to as Drive brands.
Other brands which will receive brands in line with their markets.
a more moderate level of investment are referred to as Core brands.
Brands which will receive minimal investment are Brand categories referred to as Defend brands.
Drive Brands Some brands in the Drive categories will play a supporting 840m role, will receive less investment than other Drive brands Core Brands and will be treated as Core brands.
In addition, we have a 400m number of smaller brands which, although they compete in Defend Brands the higher growth categories, are included within the Defend 438m classification as, due to their size, they are less likely to receive significant investment.
63.1% of total sales The categories and brands are as follows: DRIVE CATEGORIES 3 year Premier Premiers Category Size m category growth rate brand value share Why this is a Drive category Value Volume Bread 1,826 9% 0% Hovis 26.6% A very large category and we have the No.
Sharwoods A fast growing, large category where we are the Cooking sauces 1,041 7% 3% 18.1% Lloyd No.
Grossman Cake 1,018 1% -2% Mr Kipling 26.9% A large category where we have the largest brand.
Growth opportunity in snacking and lunch box.
Strong branded position with growth opportunity Ambient desserts 301 6% 1% Ambrosia 51.1% Hartleys behind individual desserts snacking and lunch box.
Meat-free 209 2% Quorn 66.8% Strong branded position.
Growth opportunity 0% through increased consumption by vegetarians, meat reducers, healthy eaters and international expansion.
1% Total 4,394 6% 28.2% CORE CATEGORIES 3 year Premier Premiers Category Size m Category Size m category growth rate brand value share Why this is a Core category Value Volume Convenience 298 6% 2% Batchelors 44.8% We have a strong share position.
meals Pickles and 131 6% 0% Branston 36.8% We have a strong share position.
Relish Gravy 126 3% 0% Bisto 74.1% We have a strong share position.
Stock 97 14% 12% Oxo 38.8% We have a strong, though contested, share position and the category is in strong growth.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 09 Chief Executives statement continued If the categories continued to perform in line with the last Over the last three years, the retailer brand categories in three years, we would in total expect to be able to grow our which we compete have declined by 1% in volume.
The Drive brands by between 2% and 4% p. a. in volume, our objective is to generate sales in line with total retailer brand Core brands in line with the market, i. e. at 2% p. a. and keep performance in the relevant categories over the medium term.
Nevertheless, sales in any one period are likely to be more volatile given periodic contract gains and losses as we seek We will use this categorisation of brands dynamically as to manage the best balance between profit and retailer brand market opportunities develop and hence brands may sales volumes.
play different roles at different times.
Using this brand architecture, we believe that in total we can grow our Improve efficiency branded sales faster than the market.
We have integrated the RHM and Campbells supply chains into our Grocery business and have delivered synergies as a result.
Competitive advantage through scale The next stage of the strategy is to extract organic efficiency Premier Foods is the UKs largest supplier of ambient savings from the restructured footprint.
We believe there are grocery goods.
Our business model is to utilise this scale for substantial opportunities to achieve benefits not only from raw competitive advantage.
We believe we can use our scale to material procurement but also from supply chain operations.
reduce costs and working capital by procuring more effectively.
Manufacturing controllable costs in Grocery were 273m in Our focus on the UK and our presence in a broad range 2009.
This includes direct labour, overheads, wastage and of categories gives us a deep insight into consumer trends logistics.
Our aim is to deliver efficiency savings of around 4% in British food.
This insight enables us to work closely with p. a. from these controllable costs.
We believe that this will customers as their chosen category development partners exceed not only overhead inflation in a normal year but also the across our priority markets.
We are currently lead category variable costs of incremental volume.
We will also continue to partner across Drive and Core categories in several major improve our customer service, technical and health and safety customers working with them on recommendations regarding standards which will add further to competitive advantage.
range, space, merchandising and promotional strategies.
Our support functions are already relatively low cost with the The Group also has scale in retailer branded and business integration programme having focused on removing duplication.
These businesses are an important The acquired business processes and systems have, however, element of the strategy as they utilise capacity, largely been retained.
The implementation and roll-out of SAP contribute expertise in product innovation, is beginning to enable more efficient and effective business help to build relationships with processes, and will give us greater scope to improve the agility customers, enhance buying scale of the business and reduce administrative costs over the next and contribute towards overheads.
01 Hovis is the second largest bread brand and the sixth largest food brand 02 2009 saw a new TV ad campaign for Loyd Grossman putting his in the UK.
Bolognese sauce to the test in Bologna, the city where the original sauce was created.
10 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD 47.2 million people eat a Premier branded product fortnightly Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 03 Oxo launched a new X-shaped cube in 2009, the brainwave of a project engineer from the Worksop factory.
These are the two areas in which there is the greatest potential voice of authoritative discovery in Asian meals, cooking sauces for efficiencies but we will strive for efficiencies throughout all and accompaniments.
Although the cake category has been in decline over the last Cash generation three years, we believe that within both cake and dessert In recent years, the operating business cash flows have been categories there are rapidly growing sub-categories comprising absorbed by acquisitions and by costs of integration and individual ready-to-eat formats such as sweet snacks or treats restructuring.
The major projects are largely complete.
Our for one or as components of a lunch box.
Ambrosia, Hartleys priority now is to execute the business model outlined above and Mr Kipling are ideally placed to accelerate the growth in enabling us to deliver not only sustained earnings growth but these sectors.
This will enable us to reduce our financial obligations.
In Core categories we include dry convenience and express meals, in which we lead with the Batchelors brand, pickles, chutneys and relishes where Branston is the market leader, Divisional Strategy and gravy and stock in which we compete with Bisto and Oxo Grocery respectively.
Within the Grocery division, we have a large portfolio of brands with a strong presence in a range of ambient food categories.
The remainder of the Grocery business is non branded including retailer brand and business to business sales.
These In our Drive categories, we believe the biggest immediate businesses utilise capacity, help to build relationships with opportunities lie in cooking sauces & accompaniments, customers, enhance buying scale and contribute towards desserts and cake.
With cooking habits increasingly moving towards the Hovis convenience of cooking with pre-prepared sauces combined Our vision is to make Hovis the biggest and most loved brand with fresh ingredients, we believe there is ample room for further in bakery.
The strategy is focused around Hovis, as a Drive growth of the market.
Loyd Grossman provides a high quality brand, being the best quality bread available and developing product in Italian, Indian and Thai cuisine.
Sharwoods is the advertising which connects emotionally with the UK consumer.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 11 Chief Executives statement continued This strategy has succeeded in increasing market share to Chilled 26.6% of the branded bread market in 2009.
The strategy The Chilled division comprises the branded Meat-free from here is to continue to innovate in the bakery category.
business and the largely retailer brand Brookes Avana chilled Working in conjunction with farmers we have now sourced ready meals and cakes business.
high quality red wheat from the UK to enable us to replace wheat which would have otherwise had to be imported.
As a In Meat-free, Quorn and Cauldron are two major brands within result, in 2010, our branded range will be made from 100% the meat alternative market providing a range of products using British wheat.
These and other product launches should mycoprotein and tofu respectively.
Quorn is a Drive brand as we continue to improve the brand image and drive growth.
believe that it has significant potential in the medium term.
The Growth is also available from expanding in segments of the core consumer who does not eat meat has many occasions market in which Hovis is underrepresented such as white on which Quorn can fulfil his or her needs.
on this market in the first half of this year.
The most significant opportunity is to tap into those consumers who want to eat Retailer brand bread and bakery goods utilise capacity, less meat for reasons of health concern or lifestyle choice.
enhance relationships with customers, add buying scale and Quorn is a healthy alternative to meat and we are working on contribute towards overheads.
plans to communicate this later in 2010.
We are still committed to expanding the brand in overseas markets.
Cauldron will Our Milling business contributes to innovation in Hovis be repackaged in the spring and improvements made to the bakery and provides expertise in the supply of specialist product which we believe will realise the growth potential for flour.
A profitable business, its sales revenue is, by nature, this brand.
volatile as pricing directly reflects input costs.
Brookes Avana has three excellent facilities manufacturing The bread market continues to be competitive with a high retailer brand and branded ready meals and cakes.
We believe the industry business industry is very competitive due to spare capacity.
However, model needs to change in the medium term.
In the Brookes Avana has a well-developed set of innovation and meantime, we believe that the appropriate strategy is to new product development processes and, in tandem with its encourage customers and consumers to value the Hovis strong customer relationships, is well placed to use its breadth brand above others and to continue to grow the brand.
In of expertise to deliver further progress in the future.
this way we should be able to maximise volume through the existing supply chain.
In recent years, we have invested in modernising our supply chain to support the improvement in product quality and volume of sales.
In future, we will focus on improving supply chain efficiency to mitigate cost inflation.
Robert Schofield Further investment in the infrastructure will be made from Chief Executive within the Groups normal capital budget.
01 Bisto granules coming off the production line in Worksop.
Bisto is used in 02 A new TV ad campaign began in September to support the launch of 1.6 bn meals each year.
12 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD
