Chief executives review Action and progress Pursuit of our vision and strategy 2009 was a year of continual external challenge and changed.
However, we continued some activities, which we management response for Arriva, but also one in which we were could have cut to flatter short-term returns.
We invested able to make further progress towards our long-term goals.
288 million in the future of the business, using our buying power to achieve attractive prices in weak markets, and importantly, At the start of the year we were already highly focused on we continued to win substantial new long-term business, with managing cost in the business, in part because of the high a series of contract wins in London and mainland Europe.
fuel prices we knew we had to defray.
That sensitivity was heightened further by the need to respond quickly and Throughout the year Arriva has continued to deliver on its decisively to changes in market conditions, caused by the promises.
We have maintained and improved our credibility recession.
The necessary action was effective, as can be seen with our passengers and with transport authorities across in the results.
Europe, who have appreciated the continuing excellence of our operational performance, resulting in growing levels of In some cases we slowed development activity, in some cases satisfaction reported by our passengers.
we reduced services whilst maintaining the capability to expand again when the time is right.
We also restructured and repositioned our businesses where markets had materially Divisional results before goodwill impairment, intangible asset amortisation and exceptional item Revenue Operating profit 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Mainland Europe 1,604.2 1,394.6 83.9 78.5 UK Bus 961.5 922.4 91.2 99.3 UK Trains 702.6 837.8 12.1 33.7 Central - - 18.8 18.8 3,268.3 3,154.8 168.4 192.7 Associated companies - Mainland Europe 120.5 112.6 10.1 8.9 Group revenue and operating profit 3,147.8 3,042.2 158.3 183.8 Including share of associated companies' revenue and operating profit The commentary that follows refers to the divisional performance disclosed in the table above.
36 | Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Review of 2009 Review of 2009 2009 was a year of continual external challenge and management response for Arriva, but also one in which we were able to make further progress towards our long-term goals.
Mainland Europe Operating profit for the division increased seven per cent to contracted business based on prices at the 2009 year end, 83.9 million 2008: 78.5 million on revenue up 15.0 per cent rising to 7 billion.
Our future rail business in mainland to 1,604.2 million 2008: 1,394.6 million, despite challenging Europe is growing more quickly than future bus business, conditions, particularly in Portugal and the Netherlands.
having grown from 46 per cent of future revenue at the end Our businesses delivered consistently good operational of 2008 order book to 49 per cent by December 2009. performance, with particular focus on cost control.
The division substantially absorbed the 22 million fuel cost 2009 2008 headwind, benefiting from the full year effect of 2008 m m acquisitions.
The exchange rate used to translate euro results Mainland Europe bus 3,527.6 2,898.3 into sterling was 0.89 to the euro 2008: 0.81, offsetting Mainland Europe rail 3,428.9 2,490.0 the small underlying fall in local currency operating profits.
Total order book 6,956.5 5,388.3 A significant regulatory milestone was passed during the year, signalling a step change in liberalisation.
The EU Public Service Requirements PSR regulations, implemented in December, In addition, in Spain we were able to extend our concessions set out the procedure under which clear, transparent and in Galicia and Mallorca, for between eight and 16 years.
time-limited contracts must be in place where public authorities provide support payments for bus and light rail services.
Member States must progressively adapt their organisational PSR explained and contractual arrangements in line with the rules set out in the regulation, and have contracts in place, by December 2019.
In 2009, we were pleased with the business we secured.
Bid successes during the year included the largest rail tender won by the private sector in Germany, via a 50 50 joint venture with our share of lifetime revenue at approximately 500 million: a Danish rail contract with revenues of around 475 million: a Dutch bus and rail contract with future revenues of approximately 600 million, and an extension in our contracted Madrid business with anticipated lifetime revenue of 650 million.
Reflecting these and other contract wins and retentions, our mainland Europe order book was up by 29 per cent in euro terms, with estimated future revenue over the life of 37 David Martin, chief executive Mainland Europe order book was up by 29% in euro terms Chief executives review continued Scandinavia Germany Revenue in Scandinavia was 455.8 million 2008: 404.0 Revenue at our German operations was 416.7 million million.
In local currency, revenue was up five per cent as a 2008: 365.0 million.
In local currency, revenue was up three result of new contracts started in Sweden.
Our credibility and growing market share in Germany is demonstrated by the new contracts won in 2009, which will In Denmark, we re-won the Jutland rail contract, which was due start over the next three years.
The new contract, which adds 12 new trains, is expected to generate revenue of around Our rail interests in Germany are growing significantly.
In July 475 million up to 2018, and has a possible extension to 2020.
2009, we were delighted to be awarded the largest rail tender Our rail operating performance in Denmark continues to be won by the private sector in Germany to date, with a new excellent, with market-leading punctuality contributing to a contract in the north east of Germany, via the ODEG 50 50 joint record level of customer satisfaction throughout 2009. venture.
Local services around Berlin start in December 2011, and regional express services start in December 2012, with Many loss-making contracts which came to us via our both running until December 2022.
Total revenues are more acquisition of Veolias Danish operations in 2007 expired than 1 billion over the life of the contract, of which our share during the year.
We re-bid for all at realistic returns and were is half.
In the same package we also re-won a smaller rail pleased to retain around half the contracts by value.
We also contract around Berlin, extending our existing operations until restructured our Danish business to reduce overheads.
In December 2009 we started operating a 12-year rail contract, won in 2006, as part of a consortium with Austrian In March 2009, we started operating a fleet of around 170 buses operator Salzburg AG, in Bavaria, southern Germany.
In January in the Swedish capital, Stockhlm, with two five-year contracts we re-won, subject to appeal, a substantial part of the Metronom with combined revenues of around 164 million, with optional rail network in the densely-populated Hamburg and Hannover extensions for a further five years.
We finished 2009 as the best regions.
The eight-year contract, which starts in December performing operator in the capital, topping the client body 2010, has revenue of approximately 640 million, of which our performance league table which measures punctuality and economic interest is around 37 per cent.
Also in December 2010, customer satisfaction.
In June 2009, we won an eight-year we will start operating a small 10-year rail contract linking the 138 million contract, with a two-year extension option, to Czech Republic and Germany.
The 56 kilometre line also operate more than 80 buses in the Halland region of southern passes through Poland, where an additional stop is due to be Sweden, starting in June 2010. added at a later date.
More opportunities are emerging in Swedish rail.
In June 2009 We have been working closely with municipal authorities in our second Swedish rail contract got off to a successful start.
In August 2009 our Neieverkehr business started The small seven-year contract, which has a two-year extension operating a small new eight-year bus contract, which was option, runs services between Gteborg and rebro.
jointly awarded with the incumbent city-owned operator, and in December 2009 we extended our existing 300 bus operation in the north for eight years.
38 | Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Record level of customer satisfaction in Denmark Awarded the largest rail tender won by the private sector in Germany to date Best performing bus operator in Stockhlm Review of 2009 Review of 2009 The Netherlands Italy Revenue was 249.0 million 2008: 221.9 million.
In local Revenue was 215.1 million 2008: 190.5 million.
In local currency, revenue was up 1.4 per cent in a difficult year for currency, revenue was up three per cent.
We have continued to trade well in Italy.
The contracted nature While our rail operations are going well, trading conditions in of our bus business and prompt cost control action by the the bus market continue to be difficult for the major operators local management offset some reduction in patronage.
with losses being sustained in this sector.
Disappointingly, the In partnership with local authorities we have developed and settlement agreed with the Dutch authorities on indexation introduced new technology, helping us to improve operating relating to fuel costs, following a national dispute in 2008, has efficiency and customer satisfaction.
New satellite bus tracking not been received, despite local authorities being funded by was introduced in Piemonte and Friuli-Venezia Giulia, which central government.
We are also very disappointed that a new enabled us to redesign networks in response to customer working agreement, the subject of an outline agreement demand.
We also launched online booking systems for our between operators and unions in June 2008, has been revoked major airport connection services and now offer web-based before implementation.
The failure of the Dutch authorities to journey mapping in some regions.
deliver on their promises is disturbing and we will pursue the matter further.
We have submitted a tender proposal to renew our 150 bus operation in the Piemonte area for a further six years, and Operationally, our services in the Netherlands are still performing hope for a positive outcome in the near future.
In 2010 we are well - in the annual independent customer satisfaction survey well placed to explore substantial emerging rail opportunities, carried out for the government, Arrivas bus and rail operations as some regions consider market testing, and continue to ranked above the national average.
Our train operations in the explore additional opportunities in the bus market.
north of the country had the biggest improvement in satisfaction following the successful introduction of new trains on the MerwedeLingelijn line, with seven further diesel trains due for delivery in 2010.
Services in Dordrecht and Waterland were also highly ranked.
We have ordered three new electric trains to be added to our DAV fleet in 2011 to fulfil a new expanded timetable.
Our Netherlands order book grew by 31 per cent in local currency, even though we were disappointed not to re-win the 350 bus Groningen-Drenthe contract, which ended in December 2009.
In December it was announced that Arriva had won the eight-year Achterhoek bus and rail tender in Gelderland, which has anticipated lifetime revenue of approximately 600 million, with a possible 400 million fiveyear extension.
The bus element of the contract is due to start in December 2010 with 130 buses, and 24 trains will enter service in December 2012.
39 In the annual independent customer satisfaction survey carried out for the Dutch government, Arrivas bus and rail operations ranked above the national average Picture from Hendrik Keizer traffic assistant, Arriva Nederland We have continued to trade well in Italy Picture from Alastair Speight bus driver, Arriva North East, UK.
An Autocares Mallorca bus at C an Picafort Chief executives review continued Iberia Operations in Portugal and Spain, including share of associate companies, reported revenue up 19 per cent to 207.9 million 2008: 175.3 million reflecting a strong contribution from our July 2008 Empresa fide Blas y Cia S. L. fide Blas acquisition.
In local currency, revenue was up by eight per cent.
In Spain the majority of our operations in the contracted Madrid transport market are protected from revenue risk, and are performing well.
In December our contract was extended until 2024.
The integration of fide Blas went exceptionally well and won an award from a city-based trade association reflecting excellent relations with our workforce.
Also in December, our concession-based businesses in Mallorca and Galicia benefited from extended expiry dates, ranging between 2017 and 2026.
Portugal has been particularly adversely affected by the economic downturn, with a reduction in public transport patronage overall.
Management teams have focused on stringent cost control, including reducing kilometres operated, fleet and staffing levels, to minimise the impact on our businesses.
The bus market continues to be challenging, with Eastern Europe no fare rises approved by the government.
In light of these factors, and the likely continued abstraction of revenue by the Revenue rose 58 per cent to 59.8 million 2008: 37.9 million, reflecting the first full year of operations in Hungary and Slovakia.
recently extended light rail system south of Lisbon, we have scaled back our Portuguese bus operation to a level In local currency, revenue was up 43 per cent.
commensurate with the changed environment.
The integration and consolidation of our Eastern European businesses is continuing as planned.
With operations in the In January 2010, we were pleased to be awarded a five-year contract with anticipated lifetime revenue of 200 million, Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia, Arriva is well placed to benefit from future liberalisation of the public which is due to start in April, to operate and maintain the Metro do Porto, the city of Portos tram network, as part of a consortium transport markets in Eastern Europe.
in which we have an effective economic stake of 35 per cent.
In November 2009, we acquired the remaining 20 per cent stake in Eurobus Invest, for HUF 125 million, securing full control and preparing the business for future growth as opportunities arise.
In Hungary, our credentials as a good value for money, high performing operator saw us grow our market share in sub-contracting work for the municipal operator in Budapest.
In Slovakia we are reviewing and removing underperforming commercial routes, and have extended concessions in the Nov Zmky region in the west of the country.
40 | Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 The integration of fide Blas went exceptionally well and won an award reflecting excellent relations with our workforce With operations in the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia, Arriva is well placed to benefit from future liberalisation of the public transport markets in Eastern Europe Review of 2009 Review of 2009 UK Bus Around a third of the UK Bus divisions revenue is derived from Our UK Bus division has continued to grow, and delivered a good performance.
Management attention to cost control and contracted operations in London where Arriva maintained its position as one of the largest operators with a market share of swift reaction to changes in demand substantially offset the divisions 30 million fuel cost increase for the year, around around 20 per cent.
Mileage operated for Transport for London TfL increased by two per cent to around 66 million miles.
The half of which will be recovered in the second half of 2010. high quality of our operational performance and management The business made good use of the lead time provided by continues to be recognised.
For the second year in a row, an forward fuel purchasing, controlling costs tightly across its Arriva depot has been named London Bus Garage of the Year operations to absorb much of the fuel price increase.
The business also performed best in the TfL excess profit was 91.2 million 2008: 99.3 million, on revenue up waiting time league table, with the highest number of services four per cent to 961.5 million 2008: 922.4 million.
passenger revenues and higher London contracted mileage We retained 99 per cent of contracted mileage due for renewal contributed to revenue growth.
Efficiency savings included more effective employee scheduling, reduced fuel consumption, in 2009, and won new work, growing the London bus order book by 27 per cent to 984 million.
To date in 2010, we have overhead reductions and improved engineering efficiency.
retained 100 per cent of re-tendered contracts, with contract The commercial UK regional business implemented targeted mileage expected to increase by at least a further two per cent network revisions, reducing commercially operated mileage by in 2010 on the basis of work already won.
3.4 per cent year-on-year to control costs whilst maintaining the viability of the network for future growth in the medium and Tellings Golden Miller TGM, which we acquired in 2008, had a challenging year as its airport business suffered in the recession.
This mileage reduction is reflected in reduced revenue growth but yield per mile improved.
We cut back on a number of services and restructured the business, and were pleased to secure new contracted work at Investment in new vehicles reduced the average age of the Heathrow and Gatwick airports.
fleet to 7.6 years, helping to maintain the quality and attractiveness of our services.
Investment in technology and The Original Tour sightseeing business continues to perform well, with a good summer season in 2009, and our Bus & Coach training also continued.
Around 3,000 buses have now been fitted with the EcoManager system, which delivers overall distribution business maintained profitability.
Further roll-out is planned A change to the benefit structure of the Arriva Passenger for 2010.
Services Pension Plan, the largest defined benefit scheme in Overall customer satisfaction in the UK regional business has Arriva, was implemented with effect from 1 December 2009.
This change significantly moderates the risk from retirement risen every year since the start of annual surveys in 2002, and in December 2009 reached a record level of 93 per cent.
This benefit obligations in the business, and mitigates against future pension cost increases that would otherwise have arisen.
is a result our management and employees can be proud of.
We will continue to strive for further improvements.
Picture from David Sharp planning manager, Arriva North East, UK 41 We reduced commercially operated mileage by 3.4 per cent year-on-year to control costs whilst maintaining the viability of the network for future growth in the medium and longer term Chief executives review continued UK Trains As anticipated, our UK Trains division, which operates the Arriva During the year the franchise benefited from the successful Trains Wales and CrossCountry franchises, was significantly roll-out of e-ticketing, enabling customers to purchase and print affected by the UK recession, mainly through weaker passenger tickets at home, by 6.00 pm the day before departure.
In growth in CrossCountry than envisaged in our bid.
The division September we introduced Train Search, an iPhone application made an operating profit of 12.1 million, compared to a 2008 available as a free download, which helps CrossCountry operating profit of 33.7 million.
customers find train times and stopping details for any UK rail journey.
Passenger revenue grew by 3.5 per cent CP4 explained to 416 million but overall revenue fell In January 2010 the DfT announced proposals for timetable by 16.1 per cent to 702.6 million changes which envisage certain East Coast services being 2008: 837.8 million, due to the effect of the Office of Rail replaced by CrossCountry services.
We are in consultation Regulations Control Period 4 CP4 review which reduced both with the DfT about the opportunities created by the proposed revenue and costs by approximately 150 million in the year, changes, which are anticipated to come into effect in May with a broadly neutral economic impact.
Determined management action delivered substantial cost Arriva Trains Wales savings in both franchises, amounting to some 15 million in Arriva Trains Wales ATW continues to perform well, delivering annualised savings for the division with approximately strong passenger revenue growth, up 7.2 per cent for the year 10 million actually realised during 2009. ended 31 December 2009, and has begun 2010 well with growth of 8.7 per cent for the first seven weeks.
Its excellent operational CrossCountry record also continued, with 94.7 per cent of services arriving at We started 2009 in the expectation that CrossCountry would their destination within five minutes of schedule, up need around 10 per cent passenger revenue growth for the from 92.5 per cent in 2008 confirming the franchise as KPI year in order to maintain the profitability of the UK Trains division one of the top performing train operators in the UK.
against the planned reduction in CrossCountry franchise support payments.
The final figure for the year was an increase Building on the success of a new timetable started at the end of 2.6 per cent, with a weak spring and flat summer lifted by of 2008, ATW introduced significant new services, particularly the later months of the year.
Actual passenger revenue for the in mid and north Wales with the extension of services to franchise was 328 million, compared with revenue of Birmingham International Airport, and from May 2009, the 371 million anticipated in our 2007 franchise bid as adjusted addition of a new half hourly service between Merthyr Tydfil for inflation.
During the first seven weeks of 2010 passenger and Cardiff.
revenue growth has been 8.8 per cent, continuing the recovery During 2010 ATW will continue to work with the Welsh Assembly of late 2009.
Government to explore additional opportunities for further From November 2011, 80 per cent of any shortfall in passenger developing rail services in Wales and the border regions.
revenue below 94 per cent, and 50 per cent of the shortfall between 98 and 94 per cent, against the annual franchise target, is recovered through the risk sharing mechanism with the Department for Transport DfT.
This arrangement continues to the end of the franchise in March 2016.
Had revenue support been in place in 2009, we estimate the impact of additional revenue and operating profit would have been approximately 23 million.
KPI The franchise has further improved its operational performance over the year.
The Public Performance Measure PPM for the year ended 31 December 2009, based on the percentage of franchised passenger trains arriving at their destination within 10 minutes of schedule, increased to 90.5 per cent, from 89.6 per cent in 2008 and 86.3 per cent in 2007.
This is a very satisfying improvement given the complexities of running such a geographically extensive operation, which crosses the boundaries of every rail region in the UK.
42 | Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Determined management action delivered substantial cost savings in both franchises, amounting to some 15 million in annualised savings for the division Review of 2009 Review of 2009 Picture from Mark Scott train driver, CrossCountry, UK.
An ATW Manchester Piccadilly - Carmarthen service calls at Crewe Outlook Consistent pursuit of our vision and our strategy has created a We recognise that we must drive returns from our existing and positive outlook for the business.
The volume of our contracted future business.
We are working on numerous contract and PSR: see business in mainland Europe has increased substantially, further tendering opportunities and see no sign of the recession page 37 for explanation establishing our ever stronger presence in the liberalising limiting interest from tendering authorities across mainland markets of the EU.
Europe, further boosted by the new EU PSR regulations.
In 2010 so far, we have won more than 1 billion of additional Cost saving measures have been implemented across the long-term contract work.
group and, where desirable and possible, operating mileage revised to match demand.
We anticipate a reduction of around Arriva continues to be highly cash generative, diversified and 30 million in our fuel costs in 2010 as a result of our forward focused on its long-term goal of being Europes leading fixing policy.
Action has been taken to reduce the cost of transport operator.
We have a continuing opportunity for future pension benefit accrual in our UK Bus division, while recent tax profitable growth and the skills, experience and management settlements will have significant medium to long-term benefit.
resources to exploit that opportunity.
In addition, healthier passenger revenue growth has returned David Martin in our UK Trains division.
Whilst this revenue is still short of the Chief executive levels anticipated when we bid for the CrossCountry franchise, improved growth will mitigate against the recessionary impact on the business until revenue support for the franchise comes in next year.
43 Picture from Ivan Martin bus driver, SAF, Italy Picture from Simon Kent train driver, CrossCountry, UK.
An Arriva bus in Derby Arriva continues to be highly cash generative, diversified and focused on its long-term goal of being Europes leading transport operator.
We have a continuing opportunity for future profitable growth and the skills, experience and management resources to exploit that opportunity
