DirectorsReport Business Review Chief Executive Officers review Actively transforming our business This has been another good year of all-round progress for the Group.
We have delivered good organic growth, enhanced by targeted acquisitions, improved operating margins and very strong cash generation, and have reorganised our business to focus on technology services and solutions.
Our performance I am delighted to announce a good set of results for the year ended 31 March 2009.
This has been another good year of all-round progress for the Group.
Our strategy is focused on developing high-end provision of services and solutions in growth areas within the important defence, security and intelligence markets.
We have delivered good organic growth, enhanced by targeted acquisitions, improved operating margins and delivered very strong cash generation.
These results demonstrate the strength of the Groups operations.
We have continued to deliver against our strategy.
We have further strengthened our North American presence through our recent acquisitions and increased our profile in the defence, security and intelligence communities.
We continue to grow the business through quality relationships with our customers in the Government, the military and commercial worlds.
This year our results have benefited from the strength of these relationships, resulting in additional, and in some cases new, larger contracts being awarded, building on earlier smaller scale contracts.
This reflects our ability to work as a trusted partner and supplier alongside customers including Governments and agencies on large and important projects where delivery is critical.
Now that our US business has reached a critical mass, we can develop synergies between our US and UK operations.
There are early examples of technologies and know-how being transferred both ways across the Graham Love, Chief Executive Officer A year of progress and delivery 21 May 2009 Our strategy Strengthen our North American presence Maintain and build existing relationships Further penetrate established defence markets Apply technologies to commercial markets 8 www.
