01-20 Achievements R 3 25 10 8:38 AM Page 7 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Profit, production and reserves increased substantially Loulo expansion starts to deliver Tongon on track for Q4 2010 production Robustness of Gounkoto and Massawa projects confirmed Kibali projected to pour first gold in 2014 Strong balance sheet secures development funding At the beginning of 2009, we knew we were in for a tough year but we also believed we were well prepared for it.
Looking back, thats exactly what happened.
We had to deal with some daunting challenges in operations as well as new business, but the team rose magnificently to the occasion, and what was the most difficult year in our history was also the most successful.
In the end, we finished well in every sphere of our business.
Profit was up 79% for the year on the back of a 14% increase in gold production - achieved thanks to a 36% surge at Loulo and despite a 20% decline at Morila.
We advanced the Yalea underground development in the face of some technical hitches and started work on Gara, which will be the second underground mine at Loulo.
Our new Tongon mine is ahead of schedule, and should pour its first gold early in this years fourth quarter.
Our exploration teams enhanced Loulos flexibility, completed the prefeasibility study on Massawa while progressing our regional exploration in this exciting new region, and delivered a major new discovery on the Loulo lease, in the form of Gounkoto, now being fast-tracked through its prefeasibility phase.
On the corporate front, we had a successful fully registered equity placement, ending the year with US$590 million in cash and no bank debt on the balance sheet.
We also completed the contested acquisition of Moto, purchased an additional 20% stake in its Kibali project on behalf of the joint venture, and subsequently managed the successful integration of the company and the project into our business.
None of this would have been possible had it not been for our strategy which is core to our business and a management team that is fully committed to it.
Operations beat the odds The past year was one in which Loulo truly earned its status as our flagship.
The team had to contend with ambitious production targets and the commissioning RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 08 Composite 01-20 Achievements R 3 25 10 8:38 AM Page 8 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K of a complex plant expansion project as well as the demands of a difficult underground development at Yalea, and came up trumps with record production and profit.
This fine performance was made possible by the increase in throughput from the expanded plant as well as the flexibility Mark Bristow - Chief executive provided by our geologists development of the Loulo 3 satellite deposit.
The exploration team continues to add more targets and ounces within trucking distance of the plant.
In December, we decided to take over the work at the Yalea underground ourselves from the contractor: the rate of development and ore production have since both improved.
The effort and attention we concentrated on Loulo and Yalea did not distract us from Gara, which will be the complexs second underground mine.
The boxcut is scheduled for completion in the first quarter of this year and with development due to start in the following quarter, we expect to access the first ore by the end of 2010.
The overall Loulo expansion programme is still on the critical path and continues to receive management attention.
Management is committed to meet its 2010 production goal of plus 400 000 attributable ounces.
Our Morila joint venture was successfully converted to a stockpile treatment operation at the beginning of 2009.
Morila also had a very good year in its GROWING OUR BUSINESS new incarnation, exceeding its production forecast and beating its dividend PROFITABLY target by more than 30%.
While its output will continue to decline, it will remain a strong cash generator for the next two years, after which we plan Forecast attributable as part of the closure strategy, to transform it into an agribusiness for the production Moz 1.4 benefit of the local community.
Tongon takes shape 1.2 In Cte dIvoire, meanwhile, development of the Tongon mine is slightly ahead of schedule and, at this stage, still under budget.
The first mill is already on its foundation, all 14 CIL tanks have been installed and the standby 1.0 power station is being commissioned in stages.
Most of the equipment has arrived on site and construction of the various plant elements is making good progress.
0.8 There are now some 1 600 people on site and the management of the transition from construction to operation has begun.
The operating team 0.6 for the mine has been appointed, the manpower plan completed, and the selection and training of key operators and artisans are under way.
Provided there are no major setbacks, we plan to start feeding ore to the plant by 0.4 October this year.
Should we achieve this, Tongons production for 2010 is forecast to be around 75 000 ounces.
0.2 Progressing the new discoveries Gounkoto, which is some 25 kilometres south of Loulo but within the 0 same mining lease, is proving to be a very exciting discovery.
The scoping study indicated a high grade open-pittable deposit in excess of 2.5 million 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 ounces and, with the prefeasibility study now nearing completion, the PROJECTS project just gets better.
It shows some striking similarities to Morila - a Tongon 89% Gounkoto 80% good consistent grade, a consistent orebody and a relatively simple Loulo 80% Massawa 83% metallurgy with high recoveries - and, of course, its proximity to Loulo offers significant synergistic and logistical advantages.
Morila 40% Kibali 45% Attributable percentage RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 09 Composite 01-20 Achievements R 3 25 10 8:38 AM Page 9 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K These will become even more attractive when the new Bamako Dakar highway is completed, which is expected to be within the next two years.
If all goes according to plan, we could start building a mine there in 2011.
After Gounkoto, Massawa in Senegal, which is already at the feasibility stage, is our next organic growth prospect.
It is more complex than Gounkoto in terms of metallurgy as well as structural controls and modelling, but it offers some significant upside.
The long strike length, the setting at a greenstone belt boundary and the different styles of mineralisation are reminiscent of the famous Obuasi gold deposits in Ghana.
In addition, extensions and nearby satellite deposits could hold considerable potential.
Although technically challenging, it is a significant asset in our development portfolio and the board has approved the prefeasibility study which confirms the project meets our investment criteria.
Getting to grips with Kibali Our team moved on site at the Kibali project in the Democratic Republic of the Congo on 16 October and within a matter of three months their review of the existing data had resulted in a significant upgrade in the quality of the resources and a spectacular increase in the reserves, which now stand at 9.2 million ounces.
While I believe there is a lot more to come, this is already enough to move ahead with the development of the mine.
We recently published a development road map which essentially allows two years for resettlement and site clearing - a massive exercise that will involve the relocation of some 15 000 people over three phases - and a further two years for the construction of the mine, with first production scheduled for 2014.
The challenge now is to convert this road map into a detailed business plan, schedule and budget.
In addition to finalising the relocation action plan and the environmental and social baseline studies, we will be updating the feasibility study to include the new reserves, optimising the underground and pit interface and focusing on critical issues such as the hydropower strategy, the water management plan, the underground portal positions and the backfill and stoping designs.
While the Moto acquisition happened relatively quickly for such a complex transaction, it was in fact not an opportunistic thrust but the product of three years of strategic planning and preparation.
During that time we were often criticised for not joining the mining industrys M&A mania and for what was perceived as our overly conservative focus on organic growth.
As we said then, we were and are not acquisition-averse on principle: we were simply looking for the right opportunity - one that could rank with our own discoveries in terms of value creation potential and strategic significance.
It has not only given us a 45% stake in Kibali - which has every chance to become one of the worlds great gold mines - but it has also broadened our horizons into Central Africa, which we have long targeted as a gold region with great potential.
The engine that drives the train The excitement generated by the Moto Kibali acquisition will not, however, distract us from our key strategy of organic growth through exploration success and our primary objective is still to create value through the development of profitable mining projects.
The past year was one of considerable achievement on the exploration front.
The discovery of Gounkoto was obviously a major event, but so was the conversion of Loulo 3 into a significant satellite deposit, with continuing exploration along the Yalea structure turning up more potential for additional ounces.
At Massawa, the team delivered a positive prefeasibility, while I have already noted the rapid advances they made at Kibali.
All these bear witness to the value of sustained exploration and of an exploration strategy which recognises that world-class gold orebodies are found in world-class gold terrains.
As planned, RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 10 Composite 01-20 Achievements R 3 25 10 8:38 AM Page 10 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K we now have a strong presence in both world-class gold regions in Africa outside South Africa, concentrated in the more significant gold bearing sites and structures in West and Central Africa.
Our exploration success is also evident in the continued growth of our resource base.
As can be seen in the updated reserve and resource declaration which appears elsewhere in this report, the new projects and a resource conversion drive increased group attributable reserves by Senior Randgold executives inspect core samples some 76% last year, laying a strong foundation for the projected growth in at Kibali.
Strengthening the team and the systems The growth of the business has made great demands on our people.
To enable them to cope successfully with these challenges, we continually grow and develop the team.
I have recently also strengthened it, particularly with respect to day-to-day operational oversight, by promoting Samba Tour, previously general manager of Morila, to general manager of operations for West Africa, while Willem Jacobs has joined us to take up a corresponding position for Central and East Africa.
Given that one of our key objectives is the delivery of four new mines in four years, John Steele, the Randgold stalwart who has supervised the construction of the Syama, Morila, Loulo and Tongon mines, has been promoted to technical and capital projects executive.
Following a group-wide review, we have also started implementing a new IT strategy and platform.
RANDGOLD ATTRIBUTABLE RESERVES AND RESOURCES Under great pressure, everyone at Randgold performed exceptionally well last year, and the individual contributions each one made added up to a truly exceptional collective achievement.
I thank all of them most sincerely for Attributable Moz 30 their commitment to the companys vision and values, and their efforts on its behalf.
I would also like to express my deep appreciation to our board for their sage guidance and support.
25 The road ahead Our key performance indicators for the year ahead are: to reach a production of 400 000 ounces at Loulo by achieving the 20 full ramp-up of the Yalea underground development: to start the Gara underground development and access first ore by the end of the year: 15 to commission Tongon and pour first gold there in the fourth quarter: to advance Gounkoto, Massawa and Kibali towards development: and to maintain the flow of quality targets into our prospect pipeline.
10 It is undoubtedly going to be another very challenging year, but with our strategic compass we have mapped the road ahead very clearly, and we are confident that we have the capabilities to achieve the goals we have set 5 ourselves, and once again to deliver real value to all our stakeholders.
0 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 Reserves Resources Mark Bristow Chief executive RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 11 Composite
