Performance and KPIs Priorities 2010 Risks Customer engagement Major upgrade of electronic gaming i The effect of macro-economic conditions equipment in casinos on consumer confidence may lead to a decline in customer visits and spending.
36.9% Expansion of After Dark gaming brand in Mecca Bingo GROUP NET ii The failure of our businesses to provide PROMOTER engaging and valuable experiences may result SCORE Cook-to-order food to be introduced in a decline in customer visits and spending.
into a further 15 Mecca Bingo clubs Extension of Play Points to ten additional casinos 22.1m 2.4m Roll-out of 24-hour opening CUSTOMER VISITS CUSTOMERS 2008: 22.0m 2008: 2.3m Competitive threats Continued expansion of G Casino brand The attractiveness of Ranks businesses may Refinement and further roll-out of be undermined by superior or better value 151 propositions from competitors.
Mecca Full House concepts FOOTPRINT Loss of licence 2008: 147 International development led by No.
of premises Serious breach of gambling regulations may Rank Interactive result in the partial or complete loss of Ranks licences to operate.
Stabilisation of Top Rank Espaa Financing and taxation i Absence of or withdrawal of nancing 10 facilities adequate to meet the Groups G CASINOS requirements.
2008: 6 ii significant increases in the cost of nancing.
iii Reversal of rulings on VAT reclaims.
Taxation Political engagement for creation of Increases in gaming taxation may damage simpler, fairer and more sustainable the Groups profitability.
regime of taxation for gaming and RESPONSIBLE During 2009, HM Treasury announced plans betting in Britain OPERATIONS for the reform of taxation for gaming Formal regulation of online gambling in machines.
If implemented, Treasurys SEE p. 30-34 Spain and harmonisation of land-based proposals may result in an increase in tax costs for Rank.
taxation with online taxation Regulation Given the politicised nature of gambling market governance, Ranks operations may be at risk from adverse changes in regulations, such as restrictions to advertise or to offer certain games.
During 2010, Mecca Bingo The Rank Group is working Ranks contribution to the and G Casino will attempt with the Carbon Trusts research and treatment to raise at least 200,000 Carbon Management of problem gambling for Marie Curie Cancer Care.
programme to cut carbon, was recognised with the energy and costs.
During 2009, Rank The British Safety GamCare has awarded received the Building Councils five-star award its accreditation to Mecca Public Trust Award for for health and safety.
Bingo, Grosvenor Casinos tax reporting.
See progress against our For risks and uncertainties strategy and KPIs on: which could impact our strategy see: p. 10-13 p. 14-15 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 9
