Chief Executive Officers report In 2009, our professional information revenues held up relatively well in what was a difficult year for most of our customers.
However businesses dependent on our customers marketing budgets were hit hard.
In the near term, some of our customer markets remain under pressure but longer term our prospects are encouraging.
We have high quality assets in attractive global growth markets and we are focusing each business on its own top priorities.
Across Reed Elsevier we are committed to delivering world class information and tools that enable our customers to make critical decisions, enhance productivity and improve outcomes and this is combined with a relentless pursuit of process innovation and cost efficiency.
I am convinced that these goals will deliver increased value for our shareholders.
Erik Engstrom Financial results Chief Executive Officer Total revenues were up 14% to 6,071m up 1% to 6,800m: at constant currencies, revenues were flat.
Underlying revenues, i. e. before ChoicePoint and other acquisitions and disposals, were 6% lower.
This decline reflects the impact of the global recession, most particularly the significant downturn in advertising and promotion markets in Reed Exhibitions and Reed Business Information.
Adjusted operating profit was up 14% to 1,570m up 1% to 1,758m, and up 1% at constant currencies.
Underlying adjusted operating profits were 9% lower, with reductions of 5% in the underlying cost base mitigating the impact of the underlying revenue decline.
This together with the increasing profitability of ChoicePoint as we integrate the business delivered a flat adjusted operating margin at 25.9%.
Adjusted operating cash flow was strong at 1,558m 1,745m, with an excellent 99% conversion of adjusted operating profits into cash.
The post-tax return on capital employed was 1.7 percentage points lower at 10.4% reflecting the initially dilutive addition of ChoicePoint and the lower underlying adjusted operating profits.
The ChoicePoint business delivered an encouraging 6% post-tax return on the $4.1 billion investment in our first full year of ownership and returns are set to continue to grow well.
06 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Overview Our business Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Adjusted pre-tax profits were up 6% to 1,279m 6% The LexisNexis legal and risk solutions business 42% lower at 1,432m, and 6% lower at constant currencies, of adjusted operating profit had a challenging year.
The reflecting the higher interest expense on a full year of core law firm business was flat in the US and marginally ChoicePoint financing.
lower internationally reflecting the downturn in the legal industry whilst US directory listings were well behind the Adjusted earnings per share were up 3% to 45.9p for prior year as firms cut back on directory spend.
Corporate, Reed Elsevier PLC 8% lower at 0.79 for Reed Elsevier government and academic markets were lower.
NV, and 9% lower at constant currencies.
This included ChoicePoint made an excellent contribution in its first year, a 4% dilutive effect of the July 2009 equity placing.
growing its profits strongly and boosting overall revenues and profits.
Whilst in the near term LexisNexis will see We use adjusted figures as key performance measures, continuing late cycle pressures in legal markets, the and these are stated before amortisation and impairment fundamentals of the business are sound with good longer charges on acquired goodwill and intangible assets, term growth in the legal industry, from growing legislation, exceptional restructuring charges and acquisition related regulatory complexity and litigation, and increasing costs, disposal gains and losses, and deferred tax effects demand for better integrated solutions to improve that are not expected to crystallise in the near term.
customer productivity and legal outcomes.
To capture Including these items, the reported operating profit these opportunities, two years ago we initiated a multi-year and pre-tax profit were 22% and 36% lower respectively development effort to create the next generation legal at constant currencies principally reflecting impairment product platform and advanced back office infrastructure.
charges in Reed Business Information.
Reported earnings Delivery of these is a priority and we are making good per share were 22% lower at 17.2p for Reed Elsevier PLC progress.
There will be progressive introductions of new and 27% lower at 0.32 for Reed Elsevier NV.
products over the next few years which will provide an integrated customer experience across research, litigation Business progress and priorities tools, practice solutions and client development.
This effort The Elsevier science and medical business 44% of will result in a higher level of capital expenditure going adjusted operating profits had a relatively robust year.
forward and lower margin through continuing development In a challenging academic budget environment, the spend but over the longer term will drive growth and journals business entered 2009 with good subscription operational efficiencies.
In Health Sciences, growing online sales in medical reference, clinical decision support and In LexisNexis risk solutions, the insurance business nursing and health professional education were partly continues to see good growth from the high transactional held back by weak promotion markets.
In the near term, activity in the auto and property insurance markets and the academic budgets will remain under pressure and we are increasing penetration of more powerful data and analytics working with our academic customers to ensure that their products.
In the near term we are focused on completing growing information needs and goals for greater research the integration of the ChoicePoint acquisition and efficiency are met within the confines of their tighter delivering successfully the expected growth, cost savings funding environment.
The longer term growth drivers and financial returns.
In addition, we are seeking to capture are expected to remain strong with growth in scientific high growth opportunities in adjacent risk market discovery and research output and in the global demand segments.
Over the last few years, the risk solutions for healthcare as well as increasing demand for specialist business has been very successfully incubated and grown information and tools that can further enhance scientific within LexisNexis to become an industry leader in its own and medical outcomes.
As a result, during the course of 2010, we intend to separate LexisNexis Legal and LexisNexis Risk Solutions to create two market facing business units reporting directly to me, whilst retaining the benefit of their shared Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Reed Elsevier 07 Chief Executive Officers report continued services.
This will ensure that they have the greatest Outlook possible market and management focus as they Business trends seen in the second half of 2009 are pursue their respective strategies going forward.
continuing in 2010, particularly with regard to late cycle effects in our relatively resilient professional markets.
Reed Exhibitions 10% of adjusted operating profits Advertising and promotion and certain other markets, had a difficult year with customers cutting back on such as employee screening, remain difficult while the promotional expenditure and the net cycling out of biennial rate of decline is expected to slow as comparatives get exhibitions.
Bookings going into 2010 remain cautious easier.
A modest reduction in adjusted operating margin but the rate of revenue decline in annual shows is is expected due to the weak revenue environment and expected to moderate and the year will benefit from the increased investment in legal markets.
While late cycle net cycling in of biennial shows.
The fundamentals of the effects will continue in 2010 and be particularly severe business remain sound with face to face events an important in the first half, Reed Elsevier has high quality assets in part of customers marketing mix with good growth attractive global growth markets and we are confident over economic cycles, high growth in emerging markets, that our longer term prospects are encouraging.
and good returns on new launches and acquisitions.
This is my first report as Chief Executive Officer and I would Reed Business Information 6% of adjusted operating like to take this opportunity to recognise the commitment profits had a very tough year with advertising markets and contribution of all our employees across the company.
severely impacted by the economic recession.
Print I know from my first hand experience in Elsevier what it subscription revenues declined less.
Data services saw takes to make progress in the current business environment good growth delivering high quality industry specific data.
and to continue to innovate whilst simultaneously improving The traditional advertising based magazine business operating efficiency.
Our employees are passionate about model is challenged and significant actions are being what they do and have an exceptional commitment to our taken to restructure the business and realign the cost customers, to each other and to the communities we serve.
base with the reduced revenue expectations.
We are We could not ask for more and I thank them all.
also focused on further developing and growing the data services businesses.
Erik Engstrom In delivering against the priorities in each of our businesses, we will adopt a pragmatic approach to driving business unit performance and creating value for our shareholders: differentiating between our businesses: Erik Engstrom prioritising high growth markets and good returns: Chief Executive Officer focusing on customer value and improved outcomes: and relentlessly pursuing process innovation, customer service quality and cost efficiency.
The business and financial reviews set out in pages 10 to 35 describe in more detail our markets, our businesses, our performance and the outlook by business.
Full report online The Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 are now available to view online.
com ar09 08 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009
