Directors Report: Business Review Chief Executives review Proven resilience Mark Dixon Over the course of 2009 we have delivered a robust performance which underscores the resilience of our business model.
Despite this once in a generation recession and the extremely challenging and unpredictable trading conditions which have resulted, the geographic and product diversication we have established and continue to develop has benefited us, and reects the success of our long term strategy in creating a balanced business mix.
The nature of our business will ensure that we continue to drive sustainable growth Strategy Our consistent long term strategy is that of measured, sustainable profitable growth to maximise benefits for our stakeholders.
1 Business model Companies of all sizes are able to leverage our diverse product range and infrastructure to work in a more efficient manner.
2 Future prospects market moving to Regus We believe there has been a fundamental structural shift toward flexible working, driven in part by the challenging economic environment which plays to our strengths.
3 Read our priorities for 2010 on page 9 4 www.
com Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information For more information visit regus.
com We have taken aggressive action to With continued cash generation producing ready to take advantage of sustainable reduce our cost base and have remained a free cash ow of 80.3 million, we can and profitable opportunities for developing profitable throughout the year.
We be confident that we enter 2010 with a our portfolio and for ensuring we are continue to re-evaluate our costs on an stronger balance sheet than was the case appropriately positioned to take ongoing basis and in particular look to twelve months ago.
advantage of a recovery when it arrives.
continue improving the efficiency of the Our brand awareness continues to grow, business model.
In addition we will take and whilst we are now present in 78 additional cost savings measures as countries, we are confident that we can necessary and without delay, including continue to gain market share and expand centre closures where continued our global footprint further.
We remain underperformance is anticipated.
Restated to reect the implementation of IFRS 8, see note 3 to the financial results.
Overall Strategy and objectives employee demand for a better work-life The Groups strategy of controlled and Despite the severity of the current balance, we feel uniquely positioned in disciplined growth has resulted in an downturn, our strategic approach the market to support our current and increase in total capacity including nonremains fundamentally unchanged that future customers.
consolidated workstations of 1.0% to of continued profit and cash generation Against this backdrop of constant 173,004 workstations in the year and the through controlled and disciplined economic and social change, we will number of actual workstations by 2.9% to capacity growth.
continue to seek to manage our business 163,740 workstations as at 31 December After 20 years in business, we have in a sustainable way, which will have 2009.
The Group has opened 45 new barely scratched the surface of positive impacts on the environment and centres this year with the total number of accommodating the way people work.
on the communities in which we operate.
The new By updating their workplace strategy, We do not consider these goals mutually centres reect the Groups strategy of companies will reduce overall facilities exclusive to achieving our wider strategic focusing on diverse growth opportunities expenses and will be in a stronger and financial objectives, which continue with 87.0% of new centres opened on position for success.
Furthermore, with to be to pursue continued profit and variable or exible lease deals reecting forecast changes over the next decade cash generation.
the focus on low risk opportunities.
New which could see the property market locations included Brasilia in Brazil, Doha fundamentally altered by huge increases in Qatar, Dakar in Senegal, Talinn in in energy and transport costs and Estonia and Platina in India.
Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 5 Expanding our network Investments in systems and technology Directors Report: Business Review Chief Executives review continued The fundamental drivers of our ability to Two thirds of business leaders were ofce space, and benets to employees maximise what we see to be significant implementing extensive innovations to in reducing commute times and in future opportunities for growth remain: their workplace models over the next having an environmental upside.
three years, primarily through Needs of our customers.
These findings also continue to be implementing socially-networked Systems and technology.
supported by independent third party workplaces and trust-based practices.
studies which indicate that: People and processes.
These initiatives actively encourage it will be even more important in the employees to engage and collaborate Needs of our customers future to choose the best location for with likeminded people far beyond the It has been two decades since we a business centre, avoiding locations traditional workplace boundaries with commenced trading from our first centre where workers have to commute long a view to signicantly increasing in Belgium, and our current portfolio of distances by car: and innovation and strengthening nearly 1,000 centres in 78 countries is competitive and creative developments.
business centre operators will themselves a testament to the growth and solidity have to be exible in terms of what they of our brand, now recognised globally More than 40% of business leaders are offer to their customers, and ready to changing their workplace models to as the market leader.
adapt to changes in both what clients become more collaborative in nature.
Late in 2009 we undertook an extensive want and who the clients are.
Technology continues to revolutionise survey of global business leaders to In light of this, we continue to feel how individuals work and how assess what they felt the workplace of companies employ people the strongly that the Regus product and the future could look like.
The following workforce is increasingly working from service offerings available accommodate key trends were identied: home some of the time, with benets to all businesses regardless of size and companies in terms of reduced xedare uniquely placed to accommodate A leading strategy for growth 1 Developing our team members Generating profitable growth Innovative products and services 6 www.
com Developing our brand Operational excellence Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information For more information visit regus.
com anticipated changes to the future booking of Meeting Rooms and their day wherever they are around the workplace on a global scale.
Within the DayOfces online via our real-time globe.
These reports are used to focus current severe trading environment, the reservation sites has been implemented.
effort for the day, plan the coming days Regus proposition also continues to offer Some 11% of all bookings now go and to improve overall performance.
through this route, and we are growing businesses immediate and effective cost We also continue to develop our internal saving options with the added liquidity this number every month with the global inventory and reservation system advantage of no capital investment.
added benefit of an increase in average to meet the changing global demands of booking value via this route.
The service Systems and technology our business.
gives both a more convenient Our global scope requires a constant experience for our clients as well as People and processes need for technological development reducing our cost of sale.
After one of the most challenging years and innovation and 2009 has been no there has been a further advanced for business that any of us can remember, different.
During the year: development of our centre front-desk the efforts of all of our 5,500 team we have launched our online service Point of Sale software.
We now have members have been critical to weathering agreement initiative, which involves a feature rich solution enabling full the storm and to continuing to provide prospective clients being given online support of our clients and centre teams the best level of service possible for our visibility of their proposed, specic in this highly intuitive software.
Our business relies upon agreement, in an easy to use way, our people, and from a strong platform we have implemented our new enabling them to conveniently sign-up for growth in 2010, their continued Business Data Warehouse, which now to the agreement online on their PC, dedication and delivery will be critical sends out a daily action-targeted report without the need for printing, signing to every centre and salesperson in to our maximising our potential.
Regus, who receive them at the start of therefore like to take this opportunity to Business model a globally diversied business 2 Global trend Flexible working Centres Mobile workers Home workers Corporate 2010 planned growth Enabling work from Business world is low Global offering in-between spaces cost entry point leveraging Regus scale Low risk, low cost Lounges, meeting rooms Focussed professional Low risk Emerging economies and VC enhance products tailored to their Easily scalable Multiple brands and productivity and needs such as meeting price entry points effectiveness whilst on rooms and VC Utilise all Regus the move products Regus The Global Brand of Choice Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 7 Directors Report: Business Review Chief Executives review continued thank all of them throughout the Group our business are given the appropriate Responding to market conditions for their significant efforts in the year.
training and encouragement to develop.
Throughout 2009, and in line with our Specic examples in 2009 have included: previously communicated intentions, the During 2009, we launched Group has continued to move decisively Creation of new sales content to reect Reguscareers.
com, on a global basis, to adapt its cost base to the increasingly changes to the sales process and newly and have seen this positively received challenging trading conditions which dened roles.
by both employees and prospective prevailed in the majority of its markets.
This interactive website, Introduction of eld-based Sales and We have delivered full year cost savings tailored for our key global markets, allows Operations Drills to reinforce critical of 54.6 million when compared to 2008, us to: skills on a monthly basis.
which exceeded our expectations but highlight the wide variety of career Development of Leadership Skills which have not left us complacent.
options available globally with Regus Training for Area Directors, Area Costs continue to be monitored closely give a clear day-in-the-life-of Operations and Commercial Directors.
and will be managed at a level which overview for a number of roles Introduction of new eld manuals ensures that they remain appropriate for throughout the Company: and a complete training suite to support forecast activity levels.
In addition, capital provide career building guidance for SmartWorking for centre and area spending is being carefully controlled to existing employees staff: driving forward consistency ensure that we maximise as quickly as of approach and best practice in We have also considerably updated possible the value of any investment customer service.
core elements of our learning and we make and that we focus on growth Creation of additional online learning development programmes to identify and opportunities in the most resilient and train the next generation of leaders, as modules and assessments to reinforce profitable sectors of the global economy.
well as to ensure talented people within key knowledge and skill.
Working capital management also Future prospects market moving to Regus 3 In the throes of a working Culture revolution - changing the way workstyle organisations function and exible Increasingly, people arent going working Real estate to work: work is coming to them buildings, cities Technology - the catalyst: no and work space longer the same need to gather in one place People demographics, Increasingly, people choosing to work expectations and away from the traditional office behaviour Proven increases in productivity via flexible working Sustainability Environmental benefits clear ICT information, communication, web Transport 8 www.
com remains a key focus for the business and reductions in other related asset values.
Outlook we have continued to manage our cash We incurred an exceptional charge of While the outlook remains unclear, ow tightly.
2.6 million in 2009 relating to the particularly for the UK, we are cautiously delivery of the initial phases of this optimistic across our other three At the same time, the Group has restructuring plan.
We remain focused on continued to drive forward with a number increasing revenues, exing our cost of initiatives to increase commercial and Board changes base and further improving efficiency operational efficiencies within its regions, I would like to take this opportunity in order to restore our margin.
We are and we anticipate completion of the to thank John Matthews and Martin experiencing an increased level of growth migration of certain administrative Robinson for their significant contribution opportunities as the trend toward exible functions into our regional service centres to the business over the years.
We have already started leadership within Regus has been with our strong cash position, will allow to benefit from certain cost savings considerable during their tenure and they us to step up our new centre opening associated with these centralised have proven real assets to the business.
programme in 2010. locations, and would expect to garner Douglas Sutherland is an excellent operational efficiencies shortly.
candidate to succeed John as Chairman of Regus and we are delighted that he In December 2009, we implemented Mark Dixon has accepted the role.
a restructuring plan to further develop Chief Executive and accelerate our activities relating to 22 March 2010 the development of our regional service centres.
This plan includes reductions in our worldwide workforce, the closure of certain underperforming facilities, and Our priorities for 2010 Grow our revenue The augmentation of our diverse product range and widening our partnerships will enable us to increase our customer base and cross sell additional new services to the customer.
1 Control our costs We will continue to identify and realise significant cost savings through a combination of operational simplication and leveraging the benets of scale.
2 Grow our capacity The current economic situation is presenting us with excellent opportunities to grow in a focussed and controlled way, both organically and through acquisition.
3 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 9 Directors Report: Business Review 20 years on The easiest way to predict the future is to invent it Since 1989, Regus has consistently developed its portfolio of products and services to meet the needs of our customers to work however, whenever, wherever.
We will continue to invent our future and remain at the forefront of providing quality products and services.
The wall came tumbling down The North American Free Trade The Standard & Poor 500 The population of Earth Apple launch the iPod Area is established index closes above 1,000 for exceeds six billion for the first time the first time 1989 1994 1998 2000 2001 Mark Dixon launches Enters Latin America Opens first ofce Goes public with Purchases U. S. - Regus and opens the and China, opening in United States IPO on the based Stratis first location in Brussels, another 36 centres London Stock Business Centres Belgium across the world Exchange 10 www.
com Face book is founded The Kyoto Protocol Google buys YouTube The European Union The price of a barrel of The global economy faces in Cambridge, goes into effect expands to 27 oil hits an all time high of its greatest challenge in Massachusetts countries US$148 more than 60 years 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Breaks the Acquires major New business centre Exceeds 200,000 400,000 In its 20th year competitor HQ to openings in 35 customers 100 million customers in 950 passes 500,000 of earnings for become worlds capital cities expands locations across customers.
In largest provider of footprint to more than the first time 70 countries, two response to the exible 50 countries thirds of which no economic crisis workspace throughout Asia, longer have a xed launches more new North America, and serviced ofce products than Europe and support in previous 15 years Regus international growth strategy Launches the innovative businessworld membership card enabling users to access any Regus centre for a xed annual cost Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 11
