Strategy and performance 1 Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive Our new values of Service, Relationships and Teamwork were Overview of performance in 2009 developed in close consultation with our front-line colleagues and 2009 has been a year of strong progress for Rentokil Initial.
we have been particularly encouraged by the way in which they Although there has been no easing in the wider economic conditions have been adopted so enthusiastically across the business.
our results exceeded our expectations and clearly demonstrated the effects of the operational strategy we began 18 months ago.
Customer retention continues to be a major focus for the group.
While progress has been made in ensuring personal accountability At actual exchange rates group revenue rose by 5% to 2.5 billion for customer contact management, further improvement is required although it declined by 2.2% at constant exchange rates and in responsiveness, proactive customer contact and in tailoring adjusted pro t before tax grew by 54% to 166.5 million.
ow performance was outstanding at 317 million 2.4 times greater than the 130 million recorded in 2008.
Net debt was Initiatives for 2010 include the introduction of Customer Care reduced from 1.36 billion to 1.11 billion.
staff and further systems development to enable improvement in first-time query resolution.
A Welcome Pack pilot for new We also exceeded our service and cost targets for the year.
The customers and implementation of Account Management Cycles groups state of service is 98.1%, a very respectable performance to ensure customer satisfaction and identify growth opportunities when compared to our peers and a strong improvement on 2008. i. e. cross selling will also be implemented.
Net Promoter Score Cost savings of 82 million were achieved, of which 54 million surveys a measure of customer satisfaction will be cascaded across was delivered by the on-going City Link restructuring programme.
our countries of operation down to branch level and competitor In last years annual report we stated that improving the benchmarking tools will be adopted.
performance of our five turnaround businesses would be key to restoring pro tability for the group.
We are pleased to report that 2.
Developing the capability of our organisation and people City Link, UK Washrooms, UK Pest Control, Australia Washrooms Strong progress was made in 2009 in driving HR initiatives, and Australia Pest Control have made strong progress through the including upgrading functional and operational management, year and are now focused for growth.
City Link in particular reduced performance management and global grading.
its losses from 43.5 million in 2008 to 5.6 million in 2009 and returned to pro tability in the fourth quarter.
Restoring City Link Senior management was strengthened through the appointments to previous levels of pro tability is now the challenge ahead.
of new managing directors and finance directors for Textiles and Washrooms, Asia Paci c and UK Pest Control, with good progress Strategy update already visible.
Senior management was strengthened further through the appointment of a new managing director for the In our 2008 statement to shareholders we outlined our key Pest Control division.
Gaps remain in sales leadership, procurement objectives for 2009.
We were determined to deliver consistent and and innovation.
We will strengthen these functions during 2010. outstanding service to our customers while at the same time driving down the cost of running the business and achieving a high level Performance Development Reviews PDRs were established of pro t to cash conversion from our activities.
The companys and rolled out to 1,900 managers during the year.
Global grading three-year plan continues to focus on the five strategic thrusts has been implemented across the group.
A talent review was introduced last year, progress against which is shown below.
established for the top 120 managers and will be rolled out across the top 500 in the second quarter of 2010.
Delivering outstanding customer service improvements are planned for 2010.
We have made excellent progress in driving customer service during Development of service and sales capability has progressed in the year.
Three sub-initiatives to this thrust are: driving basic service 2009 but requires on-going focus, particularly in sales.
Maximising levels across our business: ensuring accountability for customer performance in this function will be a prerequisite for future relationships across our 500,000 customers: and instilling shared growth.
During the year a Technician Performance Assessment values and behaviours across the group of Service, Relationships programme for Pest Control colleagues was launched in 39 and Teamwork.
countries, assessing service technicians on skills including communication, attitude and engagement with customers and State of Service at the end of 2009 was 98.1%.
Service has improved other colleagues.
Subsequent coaching was tailored to address dramatically across the turnaround businesses of City Link, UK areas of weakness.
A similar programme for sales colleagues will Washrooms, UK Pest Control, Australia Washrooms and Australia be rolled out across the Pest Division in 2010.
Pest Control, all of which have a State of Service at 96% or better.
2 Strategy and performance Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive by reducing capital expenditure from 116% of depreciation in 2008 3.
Delivering operational excellence in all our processes to 83% in 2009.
Our target DSO for 2010 is 47 days, cash conversion and functions at 102% and capex at 95% of depreciation, excluding cash spent Progress has been made in driving common systems across all on restructuring.
businesses and geographies and in updating the group governance framework and standard operating procedures.
The roll-out of Programme Olympic standard hand-held terminals is now advanced in developed markets and adoption of the iCABS contract management system Programme Olympic, so named because our planned completion is driving improved control in Pest Control and Washrooms.
date is in 2012, is a programme of process-led change for our Further global iCABS implementations in Pest Control and business support activities.
Our goal is to deliver the desired Washrooms are planned for 2010.
The Navision finance system organisational and technological requirements to drive a culture of will be implemented across a number of businesses over the Right First Time throughout the organisation.
Our objectives are coming years.
to dramatically improve both customer service driving retention and revenue growth and our financial performance both the During 2009 we entered into a landmark agreement with Google cost base and the balance sheet.
to deploy Google Apps Premier Edition across the groups international workforce.
The new platform provides a single Olympic consists of six programmes.
The first four are process web-based communication and collaboration suite to replace focused: the remaining two property and organisation the existing 180 e-mail domains and 40 mail systems across development are big drivers of administration and overhead costs.
Roll-out will be completed by the The six goals of the programme are: end of 2010.
Prospect to Cash development of best practice processes to 4.
Operating at lowest possible cost consistent with drive the customer lifecycle from prospecting for new customers our service objectives and delivering maximum cash to cash collection A total of 82 million cost savings were achieved during 2009, Procure to Pay development of best practice processes to drive of which 54 million can be attributed to City Links depot the supplier lifecycle rationalisation programme and on-going reductions in vehicle Recruit to Reward development of best practice processes eet and headcount.
to drive the employee lifecycle A review of the Textiles and Washroom divisions processing Record to Report development of best practice processes footprint and its procurement strategy identi ed cost savings to drive accounting processes of around 30 million of which 20 million is anticipated to come from procurement by 2011.
In Belgium two textiles plants and one Property optimise the use of our property portfolio through hospitals services plant are due to be closed early in the second greater utilisation of facilities quarter of 2010 with annualised cost savings of 3.7 million from Organisation Development develop best practice and optimise 2011.
In France the closures of one textiles plant, one hospitals our organisation structure services plant and the at linen operations have been agreed with annualised cost savings of 4.4 million in 2011.
Other European The high level design phase has been completed for most streamlining initiatives are underway in Switzerland, Italy, Spain components of the process programmes with some pilot studies and the Nordics.
Procurement savings in Washrooms have started underway.
A textiles supply chain project has begun to tackle the complex, resource intensive and large procurement opportunity 5.
Delivering profitable growth through organic actions in this division.
and bolt-on acquisitions We anticipate a further 75 million of savings in 2010, over Our focus up until the first half of 2009 was directed at driving and above those delivered in 2009.
These will be realised a customer service and operational excellence agenda.
At the predominantly from the City Link and Textiles and Washrooms beginning of the second half we turned our attention to the growth restructuring programmes.
Our growth strategy will focus on increasing market share in our established markets through effective sales and marketing The group generated operating cash ow of 317 million and service expansion and by acquisition.
In addition we will seek 2008: 130 million, representing 143% cash conversion, and well to develop our presence and capability in growth markets including in excess of our full year target of 95%.
This was achieved through the Middle East, China and India.
reducing Days Sales Outstanding DSO from 61 days to 49 days and Strategy and performance 3 Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive People In the third quarter we embarked on an important project to re ne our markets and marketing propositions within the Washrooms In October 2009 Andy Ransom, Executive Director, took on the and Pest Control businesses with the intention of differentiating role of Managing Director of Pest Control and has relinquished ourselves more clearly from our competition.
Historically we have responsibility for the Asia Paci c division.
As mentioned earlier, left almost complete discretion to local sales teams over how they in 2009 there were a number of changes in the leadership of the present our service offering and where they look for customers.
groups divisions in key businesses to strengthen the capability Work is now underway to better segment our markets, re ne our of the organisation.
customer propositions and identify and develop prospects more effectively.
By doing this we can match our offers to customer In March 2010 Michael Murray resigned as a director and Chief needs, identify the most attractive segments to be in and equip Financial Of cer with effect from 31 March 2010.
The company has our sales teams with the tools necessary to increase sales announced the appointment of Jeremy Townsend as his successor conversion rates.
and this appointment will take effect later in the year.
The board thanks Michael Murray for his contribution during his time with It has become clear to us over the year that our Facilities the group.
Services division would be strengthened by the addition of a manned guarding operation, given the continued move in the Outlook market towards bundled services.
In 2009 we delivered on our promises by substantially improving Goals customer service, maximising cash ow and accelerating cost savings.
We are now mobilising the group to create a platform In last years report we introduced 17 key performance indicators for growth.
Although we see no easing in economic conditions KPIs under three categories: Colleagues, Customers and across most of our markets this year, our objectives are to deliver Shareholders.
These have been introduced across the organisation modest revenue growth, take out more costs and make further with all divisions reporting monthly to senior management on improvements in customer service and responsiveness.
Full details of our performance against these KPIs can in 2010 we intend to lay the foundations for pro table growth in be found on page 6.
Funding and dividend To conclude, 2009 saw your company take many small steps on its threeto five-year journey to recovery.
Our objective for 2010 At 31 December 2009 the group had net debt of 1,108 million.
is to continue along this path but the emphasis will be on laying Of this, 915 million is represented by capital market notes issued the foundations for pro table growth in 2011 and beyond.
Our by the group and the earliest maturity of any of these instruments shareholders, employees and customers continue to give strong is 2013.
The group has good headroom in its bank facilities in support to Rentokil Initial and we thank them for their loyalty, terms of funds available to withdraw and has good and improving commitment and trust.
headroom in relation to its covenant.
Headroom at 26 March 2010 was 285 million.
Full details of the groups capital structure and nancing are set out in the Financial Review on pages 16 to 19.
In view of the continuing economic uncertainty in the markets within which we operate and our desire to strengthen the groups balance sheet to increase our financial exibility, the board has decided not to propose a final dividend to shareholders.
We hope, John McAdam Alan Brown however, that our shareholders will be encouraged by what we Chairman Chief Executive achieved in 2009.
We and the board remain committed to restoring 26 March 2010 the dividend and this will be kept under review as we make further progress in both rebuilding the pro tability and strengthening the balance sheet of Rentokil Initial.
