Chief Executive Officers review of operations A global slump, the deepest since the Second World War, a credit crunch which threatened to bring down the international financial system and, closer to home, six consecutive quarters of declining GDP have not provided an attractive backdrop for consumer-facing businesses.
At the start of the 2009 it was apparent that the UK faced an unpalatable cocktail of economic contraction, rising unemployment and a paucity of consumer and corporate credit.
We expected our sector to face new and sustained pressures which would test the robustness of business Our core objective continues models.
This led us to be cautious about the short-term outlook but, at the same time, to be confident that TRGs to be growth in shareholder robust business model, distinct market positioning, prudent value and our strategy to capital structure, operational discipline including eschewing deep discounting and clear focus would enable it to achieve this is to build a capitalise on the opportunities which might arise whilst also adapting to the more difficult trading conditions which would business capable of delivering prevail.
We did not expect TRG to be immune to the effects of the UK recession, rather we expected our business to long-term, sustainable and demonstrate resilience.
And so, in spite of the difficulties caused by the recession, I am pleased to report that TRG enjoyed another year of good progress.
Both of our divisions performed admirably with our Leisure division delivering modest profit growth and our Concessions division successfully managing an extremely challenging airport marketplace to deliver a very commendable level of full year profit.
Overall, the Groups performance was good with both margins and sales holding up well.
Despite a 2% contraction in like-for-like sales, total sales grew by 4.6%, adjusted pre-tax profits increased by 2% and adjusted earnings per share were 5% higher than the previous year.
Against a challenging backdrop, this represents a very satisfactory result.
The TRG business model and rationale Our core objective continues to be growth in shareholder value and our strategy to achieve this is to build a business capable of delivering long-term, sustainable and growing cashflows.
2009 was a year in which business models were severely tested and I am pleased to report that, once again, we have successfully converted our growing profits into cash at a very healthy rate.
TRGs business model enables the Group to grow in a predominately organic and highly value-accretive way, funded from internally generated funds.
06 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Focus on our customers by providing excellent value and service Our touchstones are cashflow and return on investment.
Results Results marked as adjusted are stated excluding non-trading items This model has enabled our shareholders to enjoy the refer to note 2. benefits of high returns on capital, growth in profits and cashflow and sizeable income distributions from our TRGs trading metrics performed well during 2009: progressive dividend policy.
Total sales increased by 5% like-for-like sales were 2% lower and we sold 35 million meals: TRGs primary focus is on edge of town, out of town, rural, Adjusted EBITDA increased by 3% to 80m: semi-rural and airport locations.
These locations have Adjusted pre-tax profit increased by 2% to 50m: significant barriers to entry, offer good growth prospects Margins held up well with the Group operating profit and enable the Group to generate consistently high returns margin just 0.8% lower and the Group pre-tax profit on investment.
We occupy leading market positions in each margin 0.2% below last year: and of these segments and are well placed to continue to grow Net debt, at 0.8x Group adjusted EBITDA, fell by 12m our business.
Capex and TRG opening programme Our philosophy regarding capital expenditure remains Leisure consistent we focus on cash generation and on securing 2009 2008 a return on invested capital at rates ahead of TRGs Total revenue 353.6m 329.0m weighted average cost of capital.
We will continue to apply the same high levels of analytical rigour, commercial analysis, Operating profit 69.1m 69.0m experience and risk adjustment to each capital project that Operating margin 19.5% 21.0% we undertake.
This approach has served TRG well and we do not intend to deviate from it.
Frankie & Bennys 188 units Frankie & Bennys performed well during 2009.
Turnover, In the light of lower levels of development activity over EBITDA and profit all increased and margins held up strongly.
the past eighteen months, TRG has opened fewer new Last year we opened 10 new restaurants of which three were restaurants than it normally would and this level of new on non-cinema sites.
These are all trading superbly and are development activity is likely to continue during 2010. set to deliver strong returns.
During the year we focused However, we are confident that, in due course, many of the our efforts towards our customers with very close attention projects which have been postponed or delayed will come to to the variety of offering, price point, hospitality and service fruition and those projects should therefore contribute to our standards.
As with all of our brands, we eschewed deep forward pipeline.
At present, it is still not clear when this might discounting and this helped to produce a very satisfactory be although there are tentative signs of new activity in some profit performance.
We anticipate opening between seven quarters of the commercial property market and this is and eleven new Frankie & Bennys restaurants during 2010. encouraging.
During this period of lower levels of new development activity, we will not look to substitute unduly risky and or less attractive projects for those which have been delayed or postponed.
Rather, we will retain our cash until such time as the original projects reappear or other equally attractive opportunities become available.
In the meantime, our surplus cashflow will be applied towards reducing debt, as it was during 2009 with a resultant 12m reduction in Group net debt.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009 07 Chief Executive Officers review of operations continued Chiquito 63 units Garfunkels 22 units Chiquito produced a solid performance during 2009, Garfunkels performed superbly during 2009 finishing with a although profits were a little below the level of the prior year.
Most of our Garfunkels restaurants Profit margins were adversely impacted by two factors: firstly, trade from prominent locations in Central London and they the introduction of a new lunchtime menu which was priced enjoyed a strong and sustained trade throughout the year at a very competitive level and also as a result of food input and I am pleased to report that this trend continues.
cost increases which we did not pass on to customers.
Revenues and margins grew strongly and this resulted in a During the year we opened three new restaurants the double digit growth in EBITDA and profit.
During the second performance of these restaurants has been superb and we half we opened a new Garfunkels restaurant on Tottenham expect all of them to deliver very strong returns.
It is trading strongly and is set to deliver to open two to five new Chiquito restaurants during 2010. excellent returns.
During 2010 we expect to open two new Garfunkels restaurants.
Pub restaurants 42 units Overall, our Pub restaurant business had a good year.
Those Pub restaurants located in the North West of England traded very well, without exception.
Trading in the South East was more variable, with some very good performers and others where results were less buoyant.
As noted in our interim report we have embarked on a programme of aligning the majority of the Pub restaurants towards a less formal Brunning & Price style of operation.
This programme commenced in the summer of 2009 and will continue this year.
The results of these changes have been very encouraging with significant improvements in trading being secured.
By the end of 2010 we will have substantially concluded this programme and we are also looking forward to adding some additional Pub restaurants during the year.
Currently, we expect to open between two and three new Pub restaurants in 2010 and, as we have previously indicated, we believe that further opportunities to accelerate the growth of our Pub restaurant business will arise in the future.
In the meantime, we will look to steadily add to our Pub restaurant estate.
Sticking to our areas of expertise 08 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Building a business capable of delivering long term sustainable and growing cashflows During the year we opened five new airport sites, four at Concessions 52 units Aberdeen airport and one at Manchester airport.
In addition, 2009 2008 we redeveloped a site at Heathrow Terminal 4, which is now trading as the Bridge Bar.
These new sites are trading very Total revenue 82.2m 87.3m well and are expected to deliver strong returns.
We plan to Operating profit 11.0m 12.7m open two to four new airport sites during 2010.
Operating margin 13.4% 14.6% Whilst we do not anticipate a rapid increase in pax during 2010, we are encouraged by the recent positive trend.
Our Concessions division, which operates at eight of the Additionally, we believe that a secular shift away from UKs principal airports, faced very tough trading conditions full-service travel towards low cost travel has been hastened throughout 2009.
Passenger numbers pax in UK airports during these more straitened times and this bodes well for fell by 7.5% over the course of 2009 with some of the larger TRG.
In the medium and longer-term we are confident that airports suffering falls of up to 12%.
The decline in pax our market-leading position and expertise in this segment started towards the end of 2008 and, as I indicated in last means that we are well placed to capitalise on the growth years review, we expected 2009 to be a tough year for that will, in due course, resume.
In anticipation of these tougher conditions we took steps to limit the adverse impact of lower levels of trade primarily by rigorous control of our operations and cost base.
These steps, combined with the turnoverbased rental model under which our airport business operates, meant that we were able to manage the downturn in trade successfully.
As a result, I am pleased to report that our Concessions division produced a creditable level of EBITDA of 15.9m 2008: 16.6m and a profit of 11.0m 2008: 12.7m.
Although these are below the prior year level, they demonstrate both the resilient nature of our Concessions business and also the benefits of rigorous operational and cost controls.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009 09 Chief Executive Officers review of operations continued Market dynamics and the economy The UKs macro-economic landscape has taken on some Eating out has become an increasingly popular pastime for new and unusual features over the past twelve months.
large parts of the UK population in recent years with growth Faced with the threat of a recession becoming a depression trending at levels ahead of changes in GDP and we remain and all of the concomitant long-term deflationary damage confident that the prospects for our market are positive.
that would be implied our authorities, along with those of all Socio-economic factors, such as an ageing population, more of the leading economies, embarked upon unprecedented females in work and levels of disposable income significantly levels of monetary and fiscal stimulation.
This included a higher than in previous generations augur well for our Keynesian style uplift in public sector spending which has industry.
Eating out, particularly at our popular price points contributed to an increase in the level of national debt and 10-16 spend per head, is a relatively small ticket item for involved running a budget deficit above 12% of UK GDP: most people and for many it has become a habitual part of this represents a post-war high.
Additionally, an exceptionally their lives and something that they are reluctant to give up.
loose monetary policy was pursued and this was further augmented through a 200bn quantitative easing Nevertheless, eating out represents, to a significant degree, programme.
This resulted in interest rates remaining low discretionary spend and as such can be flexed according to and a bank rate of just 0.5%: the lowest since records consumers disposable income and confidence.
Whilst these unprecedented measures therefore be nave to assume that our business is impervious appear to have averted a depression, positive impacts to the recessionary forces and poor economic backdrop.
in terms of employment, consumption and growth have, Over the past eighteen months, the reaction of many so far, been fairly limited.
companies within our sector has been to discount selling prices.
In many cases these discounting programmes have There are two key macro-economic variables which been deep both in terms of the level and duration.
Buy one significantly impact our business interest rates and get one free promotions have become commonplace and unemployment.
Over the past year, unemployment has continue to be used frequently.
However, TRG has taken a risen together with its equally corrosive bedfellow, the fear different approach: eschewing deep discounting, our focus of unemployment.
Combined, these two blights can have a has been directed very much towards our customers, dramatic effect on confidence, consumption and household concentrating on value, range of choice across price points, spending and this effect has manifested itself clearly over service and standards.
For whilst those households where the breadwinners have remained in work have enjoyed an To date, TRG has demonstrated a level of resilience and increase in disposable income, as a result of low interest rates popularity with diners that has enabled it to continue to grow and lower inflation, this has not translated into significant revenues and profits and, at the same time, deliver high increases in consumer spend.
Rather, households have used margins we are determined to continue this.
There are a this excess income to pay down debt or to build up savings number of factors that have enabled TRG to withstand the and this has been reflected in a sizeable increase in the economic downturn.
These include our distinct market savings ratio.
This pattern of behaviour is similar to that positioning in segments with lower supply-side risk, our price which took place following the economic downturn in the points and avoiding the deep discounting that has pervaded early 1990s.
large parts of the market, offerings which have wide appeal to most socio-economic groups and a commitment to delivering great hospitality and service to our customers.
10 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements An end to rising unemployment and a renewed confidence Beyond the short-term, the challenging economic backdrop in job prospects within the UK will, we believe, represent a is likely to have a cathartic effect on the supply side of significant point of upturn for consumer-facing businesses.
The reasons for this are two-fold: firstly, some For many of our customers, unemployment and short-time operators will withdraw or significantly downscale their plans working or the fear of these acts as a disincentive to spend.
and secondly, it is likely, for some time, to deter new entrants.
If, however, people feel that their jobs are secure they are Combined, these factors should act as a brake on restaurant more likely to spend, including on eating out, even if interest supply and the positive impact of this is likely to be felt for rates are higher.
So what are the implications for consumer-facing Looking forward, our company is well placed to benefit businesses?
In the short-term much will depend upon the from economic growth, when it resumes.
We have a robust timing and impact of the exit from the monetary and fiscal business model, distinct market positions, a strong balance stimuli and in turn this is likely to be impacted by the outcome sheet and we are well positioned to continue our expansion.
At some point interest rates are likely These factors, combined with the efforts of all of our people to rise and it is noteworthy that recent statistics indicate that enabled the Group to produce good results last year despite inflation remains above target.
More fundamentally perhaps an extremely challenging marketplace and in 2010 we will is how the fiscal malaise is treated.
A budget deficit at the continue to: current levels is not sustainable and the corrective forces which will be brought to bear to rectify this are not very Stick to our areas of expertise: palatable.
A resumption of economic growth will certainly Focus on our customers by providing excellent value play its part in closing the gap and, although current forecasts and service: indicate below trend growth in 2010, this is forecast to return Maintain high standards of operational efficiency towards trend in 2011.
In the short term, this means two and execution: things are likely higher taxes probably both direct and Carefully control our costs: indirect and lower levels of government spend.
Whilst neither Add high quality new restaurants to our portfolio: and of these are attractive for the consumer, if the timing and Continue our focus on cashflow and returns.
nature of these exit actions are such that the private sector takes up some of the spare capacity created, and By so doing, our aim is to continue to strengthen our market unemployment does not materially increase, it is likely that positions and deliver long-term and sustainable profitable the result will be a further period of tough but, for those growth.
We have an outstanding team of people at TRG businesses with sound business models and robust finances, of whom a great deal was asked in 2009.
Yet again, they manageable conditions.
It is against this backdrop that responded magnificently and I am grateful to all of them.
we have framed our plans for the year ahead.
I am confident that they will put in every effort to ensure that we deliver another good performance this year.
Future prospects At the end of 2008 and in early 2009, we were on the verge Andrew Page of a severe economic depression and there was virtually no Chief Executive Officer forward visibility.
Now, however, we have a clearer picture 3 March 2010 of the issues that have to be faced and, to a degree, a quantification of those issues.
The UK economy has moved away from a period of fear of a depression towards one of austerity, and we will have to continue to carefully manage our way through this.
I am confident that we will successfully do so.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009 11
