Overview Chief executives message Well positioned for growth Tom Albanese By contrast, the continuing strong China During 2009 we made story was offset by a stagnant demand some good decisions to picture in OECD countries where consumer spending remains relatively weak.
Australia improve our fi financial was an exception, with its economy bolstered by the strong demand for commodities.
We have emerged In the US, Japan and Europe, pervasive economic concerns mean that we will from this testing year as a continue to be cautious, especially as we stronger and fi tter business.
begin to see the effects of the winding down of stimulus programmes.
Financial recovery The speed and severity of the downturn in late 2008 exposed our levels of debt and made it more diffi cult to achieve the asset disposals we had planned for the repayment of debt.
During 2009 we made some good decisions in diffi cult circumstances to improve our fi financial position and achieve a reduction in controllable cash costs of Over the course of 2009 managements focus During 2009 we took steps to improve our US$2.6 billion.
We have emerged from this has been on strengthening the business after aluminium business which was signifi cantly testing year as a stronger and fi tter business.
affected by the economic downturn.
Rio a period of prolonged corporate activity and a severe downturn.
We are grateful for the Tinto Alcan surpassed targeted integration Regarding divestments, we chose to postpone support we received from shareholders in synergies, adopted Rio Tinto HSE policies a number of sales.
We made good progress and standards, improved safety performance, recapitalising the company and helping with completion of the sale of our potash us regain our momentum.
We were also implemented cost reductions, progressed assets in the fi first half and the Brazilian helped by the capacity of our organisation with the permanent closure and divestment iron ore operation in the second half.
to deliver strong operational performance of high cost facilities and made temporary More importantly, in the second half we in challenging economic circumstances.
Taken together, made signifi cant progress with announced these measures amount to a strong start to divestments on most of the former Alcans The successful injection of US$14.8 billion the transformation of that business.
Packaging businesses, and our US coal from our rights issues, the effi ciencies operations.
By the end of 2009, we had derived from our cash preservation To prepare ourselves for the next stage of announced sales transactions of more than measures, and signifi cant progress with Rio Tintos growth and to develop the next US$10 billion over the past two years.
our divestment programme which realised generation of leaders, I made changes to the sales and binding offers of US$5.7 billion structure of my senior management team.
This Strategic direction and markets in the year, have given Rio Tinto greater included the reinstatement of the Diamonds & We completed a thorough review of our fi financial strength and fl exibility.
Our structure ensures strategy with our board and executive a tight focus on our core objective and allows I am proud of the way in which our committee, leading to the reaffi rmation for a broad range of investment opportunities employees have persevered in delivering of our longstanding core objective.
This to be generated, regardless of our portfolio.
the commitments we made during these is to maximise our long term return to demanding times.
Unfortunately, these shareholders by investing in and operating Market conditions achievements have been overshadowed by large, long life, cost competitive mines and A year ago, I said that we hoped to see some four fatalities during the year at managed assets, driven not by choice of commodity recovery in Chinas gross domestic product operations.
Three of these took place in Africa but rather by the quality of each opportunity.
The effect of and we have renewed our focus on embedding This strategy will of course be recognisable the Chinese Governments monetary stimulus our safety systems in developing countries.
to our long term shareholders.
We will package exceeded most commentators I am pleased to say our key performance ensure that our structure and capabilities indicators for safety continued to improve expectations actual growth surpassed eight are tailored to meet the requirements of per cent and we expect this strong growth during 2009 with a reduction in our all injury our customers and the marketplace.
to continue through 2010. frequency rate of 16 per cent.
Our diverse portfolio, high quality assets, Reaching agreement to form the Western The improvements we have seen in most people and expertise in technology and Australian iron ore production joint venture of our markets were primarily driven by marketing give us the capability to supply with BHP Billiton was an important highlight this stronger Chinese GDP growth and its a wide spectrum of customers and markets.
We expect it will achieve attendant effects on Chinese construction This gives us exposure to worldwide markets substantial benefi ts for stakeholders by and infrastructure development.
Whilst we at various stages of the development cycle.
delivering synergies and unlocking the full remain cautious about the recovery in our We will continue to improve our understanding potential of the valuable Western Australian markets, we believe that these trends are of market dynamics and how we fi t into iron ore assets in an era of increasing likely to continue for some time as China the global picture, and apply this to our demand for this vital commodity.
continues to urbanise and industrialise.
8 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Production Financial Shareholder Overview Performance and reserves Governance statements information To deliver on our objective, the Group will contributed our benchmark AP36 smelting Outlook continue to concentrate on developing Tier 1 technology.
This is a good example of how Our markets and our balance sheet are much assets.
These are assets that will safeguard our Rio Tinto Alcans technology leadership improved from last year, but we recognise future cash fl ow and will operate profi tably can position us as a partner of choice.
that major short term uncertainties remain.
at every stage of the commodity cycle.
Key The portfolio will enable us to leverage Long term however, given continued growth to our way of operating is a commitment to our technology advantage, extensive and urbanisation of the developing world, sustainable development.
It is an essential project management expertise and strong the outlook for our industry is attractive.
part of the way we work and is at the heart operating capabilities.
The exponential growth of Chinas demand of everything we do.
Current projects involve investment in the for iron ore, copper, coal and aluminium is This commitment is key to maintaining our Clermont thermal coal and Kestrel coking expected to continue over the next 15 years, licence to operate.
We have a comprehensive coal projects in Queensland, Australia, as the average wealth of many millions of sustainable development programme which refl ecting strong energy markets.
Their consumption of raw is discussed more fully on pages 24-33. options to expand at both of our uranium materials will rise accordingly.
As China Carbon, water use and biodiversity are operations.
Construction of the Yarwun nears the top of the commodity intensity becoming increasingly topical in this context.
usage curve, India is expected to follow, 2 alumina refi nery continues, albeit at a We have taken a pro-active approach in all supporting a further potential wave of slower rate than originally anticipated in three areas and are progressively building strong commodity demand.
In Diamonds, them into our planning, especially as we see the Diavik and Argyle underground projects For Rio Tinto, 2009 marked a positive these three issues becoming increasingly also continued at a slower rate.
Each of these turning point from which we have emerged inter-linked.
projects was approved before the global with our options for growth enhanced.
fi financial crisis, and we have continued to Priorities for growth Nevertheless, major challenges remain.
We expect to see production The Tier 1 deposits that are the focus of One of our key objectives for 2010 is to put begin at both Clermont and Diavik our strategy are becoming harder to fi nd the Group back on a growth path following underground in 2010. and more technologically diffi cult to the rights issues and strengthening of the develop.
There are pressures in countries balance sheet.
We continued to invest We increased our stake in the Oyu Tolgoi well endowed with minerals for governments in growth throughout 2009.
Capital project through additional investment in to gain a greater proportion of resource rents.
expenditure was US$5.4 billion of which Ivanhoe Mines.
Rio Tinto has responsibility US$3 billion was on major construction for developing and operating the mine.
Together with the executive committee, projects.
In 2010, capital expenditure is Following the signing of the Investment I wish to join our chairman in expressing expected to be US$5 to US$6 billion.
Agreement with the Government of Mongolia appreciation to all who work for Rio Tinto The strong demand for iron ore clearly in October 2009, a project budget was agreed for their contribution to a very busy and provides the most obvious option for that covers the resumption in 2010 of shaft successful year.
All have played a part in sinking, construction of a shaft headframe, strengthening the business for our next stage production growth.
We are continuing work of growth.
With our strong assets, growth on staged growth projects in the Pilbara.
We continuation of underground development options and great people, we can look used the past 12 months to optimise our and installation of infrastructure.
The size of forward to an exciting future for the Group.
planned growth pathway, fi nding ways to ease the resource is consistent with our strategy of input costs, capture savings from reduced lead investing in large, long term, cost competitive times, and refi ning project design.
We have mines and businesses.
commenced initiatives to expand capacity to 280 million tonnes per year by 2013 and 330 China million tonnes per annum by 2015.
An objective for 2010, and one that I am particularly focused on, is to strengthen our In 2009, we completed an unprecedented and technologically sophisticated integration relationship with China.
China is our largest Tom Albanese of our iron ore operations in Western source of short term demand growth.
In 2009, Chief executive TM Australia through our Mine of the Future it became the most important destination for programmes and the opening of our new our products and infl uences global pricing of Operations Centre in Perth.
It is also the home of our largest contribute to the US$10 billion synergy shareholder, Chinalco.
savings we expect to reap from the proposed We were pleased to see Chinalco take up its production joint venture with BHP Billiton.
full entitlement of shares in our rights issues The benefi ts from the production joint and maintain its shareholding at 12 per cent venture would be without equal in the of Rio Tinto plc and 9.3 per cent of the dual mining industry, applied broadly across listed company overall.
production and development activities, including combining adjacent mines into I would like to add a word on our four single operations, more effi cient use and employees who were detained on 5 July 2009 allocation of infrastructure and ore blending in Shanghai.
We wish to see the completion of opportunities to maximise product recovery.
an expeditious and transparent legal process.
In Aluminium we completed the start up Our continued priority is our duty of care to of the Sohar smelter in Oman, to which we our colleagues and support for their families.
