04 Business review Chief Executives review Chief Executives review Our resilience, coupled with the inherent strength of our business model, will enable us to manage short-term uncertainties and deliver future growth.
Sir John Rose, Chief Executive In 2009, Rolls-Royce has delivered solid results despite the severity of the economic downturn, a performance which has again demonstrated the benefits of pursuing a consistent strategy over a long period.
This approach has created a broadly-based business Delivering with deep customer knowledge, outstanding technology and world-class people.
Our financial results demonstrate the resilience of our business.
The today, Groups order book increased to a record 58.3 billion, with underlying revenue growing 11 per cent to 10.1 billion and underlying profit before tax improving four per cent to 915 million.
investing The Group has a strong financial position with average cash balances increasing by 260 million to 635 million.
The triennial valuation of the Groups largest pension scheme has just been completed and confirms for the future that 2010s cash funding will be maintained at a level similar to that in 2009.
This demonstrates the benefits of the early action taken to amend the terms of the scheme and to adopt an investment strategy that reduces volatility.
The economic environment remains challenging and it seems likely that world growth will be slower in the years ahead than it has been in the past decade.
In these circumstances, we will benefit from our ability to access the worlds faster growing markets where there continues to be demand for investment in transport and infrastructure.
Group order book We will maintain our focus on cost reduction and improving our operational efficiency.
At the same time we will continue to invest in technology, in our product and service portfolio, in the capital 55.5bn 58.3bn assets required to deliver growth, in our international footprint and 2008 2009 in our people.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Business review Chief Executives review continued 05 A long-term business We are becoming less dependent on our traditional markets of Europe and It is important to recognise that ours is a long-term business.
These geographies, which accounted for around 70 per cent our product and service lifecycles span 40-50 years and we invest in of our revenues in 1999, represent around 66 per cent of our revenues now technology programmes that look five, ten, 20 years and more into and that trend is set to continue, as more than half our current order book the future.
comes from Asia, South America and the Middle East.
A good example of this is the Avon engine.
In its latest version Around half our revenues come from services today compared to modified to produce significant improvements in power and efficiency 40 per cent a decade ago.
This represents an annual compound it is meeting the demands of customers in the oil and gas sector.
growth in services of ten per cent.
Yet the Avon first entered the industrial gas turbine market 40 years ago.
That engine in turn was derived from the original aero version, which Throughout this period we have maintained our focus on costs and powered a Canberra aeroplane on the first non-stop, non-refuelling, improving operational efficiency.
Every year for the past ten years, jet flight across the Atlantic in 1951. revenue per employee has increased, showing a 16 per cent improvement in the year to 271,000 in 2009.
We are now selling more Examples like this show why it is so important to set our Groups than twice as much as we were ten years ago, with 2,000 fewer people.
This review will chart our progress over the past ten years, during which we more than doubled our revenues Taken together, the pipeline of orders we have already signed, and our underlying profits.
This has provided us with a platform from our increased market share, the growth and scale of our services which we are confident we can grow our revenues by at least as much business and our focus on costs, underpin our confidence that we again in the decade ahead.
will double our annual revenues in the decade ahead by organic growth alone.
A very different company We are now a very different company than we were ten years ago.
This can Our shareholders have benefited from our success to date with be measured in terms of our scale and geography, in terms of the range of payments increasing from 7.25 pence in 1999 to 15.00 pence in 2009. things we do and in terms of operational efficiency.
All this has made us a more resilient business and has established a far broader foundation from A consistent strategy which to build revenues in the future.
A few facts and figures comparing The disciplined application of a consistent strategy over many years has the Rolls-Royce of 1999 with todays Group illustrate the point.
delivered a strong, resilient company, which is well positioned for the long-term growth we expect.
Today, at any one time around 200,000 people are flying in aircraft powered by Rolls-Royce engines.
Our ability to keep those aircraft in the Our strategy has five elements and 2009 saw us make progress against sky is a powerful illustration of the mission critical nature of what we do.
At peak times that figure can double, which means that the equivalent of the population of Bristol is being kept aloft by Rolls-Royce engines.
Addressing four global markets That is considerably more than double the number of people we were Rolls-Royce has become a truly global Group, providing mission flying a decade ago.
critical power and propulsion systems to a wide range of customers in over 120 countries.
The scale of the progress that has been made is We have become much more than a civil aerospace company.
The illustrated by the fact that the size of our order book in Asia and the revenues from our marine, defence aerospace and energy businesses Middle East today is around double the Groups entire order book in 1999. have grown from 2.1 billion in 1999 to 5.6 billion in 2009.
In 2009, revenues from outside our civil aerospace business accounted for more During 2009 we won new customers in Asia, Africa, Europe, the Middle than half of Group revenues.
East and North and South America.
Underlying earnings per ordinary share Our global reach, coupled with the fact that very few companies offer the highly sophisticated range of products and services that we do, positions us well to take advantage of opportunities in early recovering 36.70p 39.67p and emerging economies.
2008 2009 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review 06 Business review Chief Executives review continued 2.
Investing in technology, infrastructure and capability These are unprecedented achievements, with more entirely new aircraft We have managed our balance sheet cautiously and for the long term taking to the skies in a period of three months than in the previous five so that we can continue to invest in manufacturing capability and years.
The capability to meet these requirements is the direct technology.
These investments are targeted specifically to support consequence of a decade of investment and innovation.
anticipated growth and meet our customers future needs.
In the marine market in 2009, we saw the US Navys Littoral Combat Ship Technology is a critical differentiator in our four markets, all of which go on active duty, the first sailing of the Royal Navys Astute class demand increased fuel efficiency, reduced environmental impact and submarine and the commissioning of the Royal Navys first Type 45 higher levels of reliability and durability.
We have invested 7 billion in Destroyer, HMS Daring.
R&D over the past ten years to maintain our technological advantage, with a particular emphasis on collaborative research involving a network All these aircraft and vessels are powered by Rolls-Royce and will enter of universities around the world.
active service in the next two to three years.
The lives of each of these programmes is expected to span 40 years or more, giving us exceptional This focus continued in 2009, as we championed the development clarity of future original equipment and service revenues.
of a network of Advanced Manufacturing Research Centres four in the UK and one each in the US and Singapore bringing business 4.
Growing market share and our installed product base and academia together to undertake research relevant to industry.
We have successfully grown our market share in each of our businesses, generating revenues today and establishing a platform for future growth.
In 2009, the Group announced a 300 million investment in four new factories in the UK: a casting facility for single crystal turbine blades: Our share of the civil aerospace market has expanded from 27 per cent an advanced disc facility: a wide-chord fan blade facility for defence in 1999 to 34 per cent today and our future order book will ensure that engines and: a civil nuclear facility to assemble and test components.
our market share continues to grow, driven by the strong position This represents the latest phase in a programme of capital replacement Rolls-Royce has established on the new generation of wide-bodied which has seen Rolls-Royce invest 1.8 billion in UK infrastructure over aircraft.
On the new Boeing 787 and the Airbus A350 XWB families, the past decade, creating world-class manufacturing facilities in multiple Rolls-Royce has achieved a market share of 64 per cent.
locations and providing skilled jobs in state-of-the-art environments.
In the defence aerospace sector we are the worlds number two and To address our global market opportunities, in 2009 we began work on a Europes number one producer of aero engines, with an extensive manufacturing and assembly facility at Crosspointe in the United States.
engine portfolio for all key sectors of the market.
We also confirmed a large engine assembly plant and announced a new wide-chord fan blade factory in Seletar, Singapore, our first outside the Revenues in our marine business have more than doubled since 2005.
This will bring the total investment in the Seletar campus to around We now design, supply and support power and propulsion systems for 300 million by the time it is completed in 2012. naval and commercial applications, with over 30,000 vessels worldwide using our equipment.
We now manufacture in 20 countries and have service centres in over 50.
In 2009, our energy business recorded its highest ever underlying 3.
Developing a competitive portfolio of products and services revenue and profit.
We serve energy customers in over 120 countries.
We invest continually in developing proprietary technology which Our position in providing power for the oil and gas sector remains strong will meet our customers present and future needs.
We currently and the industrial Trent engine continues to establish its presence in the have 39 live major engineering programmes, compared to 25 a power generation market.
Adding value for customers through product-related services 2009 was a remarkable year in which we celebrated the first flight of six We have unrivalled knowledge of the complex technologies within our of our customers aircraft: the Boeing 787: Gulfstream G650: Airbus products and a deep understanding of our customers needs.
We have A400M: Embraer Legacy 650, the BAE Systems Mantis UAV and the used these to develop services that improve our customers operations.
Early in 2010, the short take-off and vertical landing STOVL version of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter Our aerospace operations centres are a good illustration of this deployed the unique Rolls-Royce LiftSystem for the first time.
In dedicated facilities serving airline, corporate and defence Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Business review Chief Executives review continued 07 customers, these Rolls-Royce centres collect real-time data from our While we have continued to invest, economic conditions have forced us engines as they are operating around the world, 24 hours a day, 365 days to take some difficult decisions as well.
We have had to reduce our staff a year.
By analysing, sharing and acting upon this information we can in parts of the business where demand has been weak, leading to a net optimise the performance of our engines in service.
The centres are a reduction in headcount across the Group of around 500 people in the focal point for service delivery, assessing the condition of the fleet and past year.
directing logistics and field maintenance.
Taking these difficult decisions early, investing where the business case We have transferred service best practice across all our businesses so that is strong and continually looking for ways to improve, have enabled us each now offers a through-life service capability.
We continue to strengthen to respond to the difficult economic environment.
Our employees our global services network and in the past year opened, or expanded, have again demonstrated their capability and commitment and marine services facilities in Niteroi in Brazil, Galveston and Seattle in the US I would like to thank them for playing an integral part in our Groups and Newfoundland in Canada.
We opened an On-Wing Care facility for continuing success.
corporate and regional aircraft in Indianapolis, in the US, and continue to invest in our civil aerospace overhaul bases in Hong Kong and Singapore.
Prospects I have described how Rolls-Royce has transformed itself in the past ten Our people years and how, in doing so, it has established a platform for the doubling To execute this strategy effectively and on a worldwide basis, the skills, of revenues in the decade ahead.
diversity and dedication of our people are key.
The global nature of our customers and our operations means that our people have to be In 1999, Rolls-Royce had an order book of 13.2 billion.
Today our order capable of teamwork across geographies.
They need to be flexible and book stands at 58.3 billion, with a record number of major global open minded, to have world-class capabilities and shared values.
Of the programmes balanced across our four business sectors.
These include the 38,500 people we employ, 45 per cent are now based outside the UK.
Trent XWB, which is not due to enter service until 2013, yet has already achieved more than 1,000 orders a powerful demonstration of the Today we run a civil aerospace business from the UK with emerging confidence our customers have in our ability to deliver.
capabilities in Germany and the US.
The Presidents of both our defence and energy businesses are based in North America.
The US is our biggest The market share we have gained, the investments in new products we defence market and in our energy business, gas turbines are produced have made and the balance of the business we have achieved, affords in Canada and packaged in the US.
We have transferred our marine us access to a global market for products and services we assess to be headquarters to Singapore, reflecting the significance of the Asia region worth more than US$2 trillion over the next 20 years, made up of for shipbuilding.
US$1,400 billion for civil aerospace, US$450 billion for defence aerospace, US$320 billion for marine and US$120 billion for energy.
Effective communication that enables the organisation to work well across time zones and borders is crucial.
We invest time and effort in In the short term, the Group expects the trading environment to remain communication, using a combination of modern technology and difficult, with the implications of delayed airframe programmes and traditional formats to help us to stay connected.
In 2009, we shared our launch costs adding to demand and operational uncertainty.
The strategy storyboard with every employee.
The programme was conducted Group expects underlying revenues and profits in the current year to in groups of around ten with a presenter and a record keeper.
This be broadly similar to those achieved in 2009.
We anticipate a modest amounts to more than 4,000 presentations over 6,000 hours, with a record cash outflow in 2010 with average cash balances remaining above of the conversation kept to make sure that we benefit from local insights.
In 2009, Rolls-Royce recruited more than 250 new apprentices and 334 Our resilience, coupled with the inherent strengths of our business graduates, more than ever before, young men and women of over 30 model will enable us to manage these short-term difficulties and deliver nationalities who have the potential to become leaders of the future.
We are able to attract exceptional people because of the range of world-class skills we require to deliver high value-added manufacturing and services.
These range from expertise in marketing and law, through to Sir John Rose specialist engineering and logistics, all of which need to be practised Chief Executive internationally and at the highest level.
February 10, 2010 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review
