Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Chief Executives review The years results demonstrate the value of our diverse spread of businesses, our strong market positions, the strength of our brand portfolios and our focus on operational excellence.
SABMiller has once again delivered good local beers with strong brand equities results.
Against a challenging background, and our focus on operational discipline we have reaped the benefits of a clear, and excellent sales and marketing.
consistent strategy and operational strengths built up over many years.
Review of operations In Latin America, efforts of recent years In the face of weakening consumer demand, to raise the appeal of beer as a category, we have maintained like-for-like lager to build our brands and brand portfolios and volumes and lifted group revenue by 9% to enhance our sales activities have resulted on an organic, constant currency basis while in beer taking a rising share of the alcohol also winning share in many markets.
In Peru and Ecuador a favourable Graham Mackay, Chief Executive strong pricing and cost management, we trading environment and good market have raised our underlying EBITA by 5% execution boosted lager volumes in both on an organic, constant currency basis, these markets, but the economic slowdown capitalising on our strong local brands and impacted sales in Colombia and Central efficient operating practices.
As a result, organic lager volumes strengthening of the US dollar against our for the region grew by 1% overall.
With major operating currencies led to a reported continued robust pricing and greater EBITA of US$4,129 million, the same level productivity offsetting higher commodity as the prior year.
costs, the regions EBITA margin improved by 100 bps and EBITA grew by 11% on an We measure our progress against a range organic, constant currency basis.
Some of the most important are listed in the table on the In Europe, organic lager volumes were in following page along with our performance line with last year as economic conditions in each case.
The Chief Financial Officer deteriorated sharply in the second half, discusses our progress against these KPIs putting pressure on consumers disposable in more detail on pages 32 to 37. income.
Against this background, the group achieved good market share gains in Poland, A challenging year Romania and the UK with strong momentum I stated in last years report that the coming behind key brands.
Revenue per hectolitre 12 months would be difficult.
Given that was up 6%, but strong pricing and increased our growth over the previous two years had efficiencies did not entirely offset higher input been almost double our normal expectations, costs.
As a result, reported EBITA declined we knew it would be hard to maintain the by 1% and organic, constant currency EBITA trajectory particularly with the growing fell 5%.
In view of the economic downturn, economic pressures on consumers.
We the European operation has restructured knew, too, that rising commodity prices some of its businesses to cut costs.
would lead to sharp increases in the cost of brewing materials.
Profits grew strongly in North America with a good earnings contribution from Despite these challenges, we were able to Miller Brewing Company in the first quarter deliver a creditable set of results.
This can be and a strong financial performance from attributed both to the resilience of the beer the MillerCoors joint venture since it started category and to SABMillers strengths within operations on 1 July 2008.
Beer as a whole continues to take a rising for the full year assisted by robust pricing share of the alcohol market in emerging and the synergies resulting from rapid, early economies.
We ourselves have benefited integration of the businesses.
Domestic sales from our diverse spread of businesses, our to retailers were down slightly for the nine strong market positions, a portfolio of leading months trading as MillerCoors.
However, SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Chief Executives review 7 Chief Executives review continued We focus on four strategic priorities relating, respectively, to our global spread of businesses, our brand portfolios within each market, the performance of our local operations and the possibilities inherent in our global scale.
Key performance indicators monitor our progress in each case.
the trend returned to growth in the final Our strategic priorities Key Performance Indicators quarter, led by improved performances from Coors Light, Miller Lite and Miller High Life and continued strong growth in MGD 64, Creating a balanced and Organic lager volume growth Keystone Light, Blue Moon and Peroni attractive global spread 0% 2009 Nastro Azzurro.
of businesses Our geographical spread of operations In Africa, our strategy of broadening our Group revenue growth enables us to capture growth in total brand portfolio with premium and affordable organic, constant currency volumes in the developing markets, and offerings contributed to a 10% growth in value growth as consumers around the 9% 2009 organic volumes.
Tanzania increased its world trade upwards from economy to lager volumes by 4% with strong growth in mainstream and from mainstream to the Eagle brand.
In Angola, both soft drinks premium brands.
and lager performed well after significant investment in new capacity.
Mozambiques Developing strong, relevant Growth in Peruvian premium lager volumes were marginally ahead of last brand Cusquea volumes brand portfolios in the local years.
In Botswana, the introduction of a 30% levy on alcohol in November 2008 market 59% 2009 resulted in an 8% decline in lager volumes Our aim is to develop an attractive brand for the full year.
A major capital expenditure portfolio that meets consumers needs in Growth in premium volume programme continues in Africa with a each of our markets.
In many markets, in our Latin American business brewery in southern Sudan recently because the growth is fastest at the top completed and three further breweries end, weve been focusing on our local 27% 2009 premium brands, such as Cusquea in Peru.
scheduled to open in the current year.
In Asia, lager volumes increased by 4% Constantly raising the EBITA growth organically in China.
The Snow brand, now organic, constant currency performance of local one of the largest beer brands in the world businesses 5% 2009 by volume, enjoyed strong growth of 19%.
Although margins in China remain slender, Good operational performance has were pleased that the price increases put always been an SABMiller strength.
Group EBITA margin through at the end of the prior year seem While operational standards are already high we are continually striving 16.3% 2009 to be holding.
Volumes in India grew by to push them higher, as evidenced by 5% despite continued regulatory issues, growing EBITA on an organic, constant particularly in the key market of Andhra currency basis.
EBITA for Africa and Asia combined grew by 16% on an organic, EBITA margin was impacted by rising input costs which exceeded group constant currency basis.
revenue growth and cost efficiencies.
In South Africa, lager volumes were 2% down on the prior year as consumer Leveraging our global scale Group revenue CAGR for spending weakened, sales were hit by new the last three years We are leveraging our global scale to provincial legislation in the Western Cape grow the business.
Our business platform 14% 2009 and the high-selling Easter period fell later enables us, for example, to distribute in the calendar year.
Revenue growth of our international premium brands and 11% on a constant currency basis reflected build our regional brands.
In addition International growth of Peroni strong pricing in both lager and soft drinks.
we are using our scale to transfer skills, Nastro Azzurro volumes methods and our operational performance However, this was not enough to offset 17% 2009 and efficiency.
higher input costs and EBITA margin consequently declined.
In a competitive 8 Chief Executives review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information We benefit from a balanced and attractive spread of businesses spanning 75 countries on six continents.
At the same time, were seeking to develop strong, relevant brand portfolios to meet the needs of consumers within each market.
environment, we launched two new While our global weighting towards emerging In so doing, were both capturing the trend premium lager brands and a premium, markets offers strong potential for the from home-brewed beers to more aspirational dry, apple-flavoured lager and intensified medium term, we also benefit from our bias commercial brands and providing economic our sales and marketing.
Constant currency in the developed world towards markets opportunities for local farmers.
In the quest EBITA fell 8% with reported EBITA down where theres opportunity to increase our for affordability, were also introducing smaller 26% the difference due to the weakening share in terms of value.
One example is the bottle sizes, as with the Aguila brand in rand exchange rate against the dollar.
USA which is the worlds biggest profit pool Colombia, and making draught beers more for the beer industry.
available in countries such as Mozambique Strategic priorities and Botswana.
Our performance in a difficult year underlines After building a global portfolio of businesses, the continuing relevance and success of our our second strategic priority is to develop Our investments over many years are proving four strategic priorities.
strong, relevant brand portfolios within their value in the powerful equity that many each market.
With over 200 brands at our of our local brands now enjoy.
In countries The first, the creation of a balanced and disposal, our ability to cover all price points such as Poland, Romania, Peru, the UK and attractive spread of businesses which now and consumer needs from economy to Uganda, weve been able to increase prices extends across 75 countries on six continents, premium beers, allows us to benefit whichever and still gain market share.
has served us well in that not all markets way the market moves.
As consumers in have suffered from the economic crisis at recent years have aspired to move up the the same time or to the same extent.
And price scale, weve met their demand for local 19% not only are we widely spread, were deeply and international premium brands.
But we rooted: in more than 80% of the countries also benefit from our strong presence in where we have a brewing presence, our the mainstream segment where SABMiller growth of the Snow brand in China businesses are number one or number brands are typically number one or two in two in the market.
The mainstream segment is generally where the greatest profits lie and Maintaining full brand portfolios in so many Our business portfolio gives us good weve invested heavily in recent years to different markets is not easy and we believe representation in emerging markets where build and maintain our leadership there.
we have an industry-leading capability in this beer growth rates are projected to outstrip area.
That said, we still have more to learn.
There are sound In Poland, for example, weve built the Through the framework and processes set reasons for these forecasts.
regional Tyskie brand into the countrys out in the SABMiller Marketing Way and leading, national, mainstream beer and now being rolled out across the group, With populations still growing, the the most profitable brand in the country.
were continuing to identify the tastes and demographics in developing countries are In Romania, weve carefully nurtured the preferences of consumer segments and to in our favour.
Disposable incomes are likely strong local heritage of Timisoreana to lead align our portfolios with the growth to keep rising and consumers continue to the mainstream there.
In South Africa, weve opportunities in each market.
shift from informal or home-brewed alcohol, upgraded the image of the entire mainstream which represents some 50% of global category by introducing 430 million restyled Priority number three is to keep raising consumption, to commercially produced returnable bottles to the benefit of brands the operational performance of our local alcohol.
As beer is the most affordable, such as Castle and Hansa Pilsener.
This is an area of focus for and moderate, commercial alternative to these and other investments some of our local management and has helped local, subsistence alcohol, it tends to be which are described on pages 12 to 31, SABMiller to maintain its position as a the first choice over higher priced spirits were rejuvenating our mainstream offerings low-cost operator.
As a consequence, and is therefore gaining share within the around the world.
we have not felt it necessary in the recent total alcohol market.
Indeed, if Africas past to launch large-scale, one-off, costper capita consumption of commercial Nor are we neglecting the economy cutting programmes.
beer were to match that of South Africa, segment.
In Africa, were increasing the the African beer market would be nine use of locally grown crops such as sorghum Nevertheless, given the economic times bigger than it is today.
and cassava to produce affordable brands challenges, were looking hard at all along the lines of the highly successful Eagle.
our costs with a view to making further Compound annual growth rates as forecast by Plato Logic, January 2009.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Chief Executives review 9 Chief Executives review continued Principal risks The principal risks facing the group, which have been considered by the board, are detailed below.
The groups well developed risk management process is detailed in the Corporate Governance section and our financial risks are discussed in the Chief Financial Officers review and in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
Risk description Mitigation The global brewing industry is expected to continue to consolidate.
Our existing portfolio of businesses which spans six continents Participation in industry consolidation provides opportunities to gives the group access to growth markets and already provides enter growth markets, and to create value from scale benefits scale benefits.
including applying the groups best operating practices.
There is a Potential transactions are subject to rigorous analysis to assess risk that failure to participate in attractive value-adding transactions potential to create value.
may inhibit our ability to grow and exploit scale benefits.
There is Application of proven integration processes and procedures also a risk that expected benefits from participating in consolidation are applied to deliver expected returns.
and integrating acquisitions may not be captured or may be Programmes to leverage scale, including in areas such as inadequate, or that we may not fully leverage our scale across procurement, are continuously being enhanced.
Our expertise in marketing, together with our strong and growing Ongoing focus on building our marketing and sales brand portfolios, position us well to benefit from changing consumer capabilities through continued roll-out and enhancement preferences in both developed and developing markets.
However, of the Marketing Way.
markets continue to evolve and competitor activity is increasing.
Continually ensuring that our brand equities are strong Should the group fail to ensure the relevance and attractiveness and fresh through compelling marketing programmes of its brands, and continuously improve its marketing and related and relevant innovation.
sales capability, there is the risk that opportunities for profitable Consistent evaluation of our brand portfolios in every growth may not be realised.
market ensuring that they adequately cover current and future growth opportunities.
The group now operates on six continents and it is essential to Well developed global strategic people resourcing and develop and retain a global management capability.
Our global talent management processes.
growth potential could be jeopardised should we fail to develop A strong culture of accountability, empowerment and and maintain a sufficient cadre of talented management or to personal development.
capture shared learnings and leverage expertise through effective Standardisation of key processes and best practices across management practices.
the group through the roll out of the SABMiller Ways.
In many countries, debates continue over the need for regulatory Rigorous adherence to the principle of self regulation constraints and restrictions on alcohol products, taxes and duties.
backed by appropriate policies and management review.
There is a risk that regulatory authorities when making impositions Engagement with government and thought leaders on on beer do not recognise the positive contribution of our alcohol-related issues.
businesses, and effective ways of addressing health and social Investment to expand positively the economic impact of concerns.
In affected countries, our ability to grow profitably and our businesses in local communities in partnership with contribute to our local communities could be adversely affected.
The supply of, and demand for, certain brewing and packaging raw Contractual agreements with suppliers covering multiple materials have been out of balance during recent years which has time horizons, combined with an active hedging programme.
led to supply shortages and price volatility of key raw material Programmes to support development of local sourcing for inputs.
Supply pressures have now eased and prices have fallen, certain key commodities, such as barley in Africa, India and but should the group fail to ensure an adequate supply of brewing Latin America.
and packaging raw materials at competitive prices, there is the risk that margins could fall.
The global economy is facing a widespread recession with GDP Preparation of contingency plans based on various scenarios.
Consumer demand has softened in many Actions to restructure operations in certain countries to reflect the countries in which we operate, and in some of these countries current and expected deterioration in local economic conditions.
currency weakness has exacerbated the reduction.
The availability Maintaining and extending our local industry leadership positions of funding in the capital markets is less predictable and more through appropriate investments in our brands, a focus on local expensive.
We are responding to the changed conditions, but execution and development of commercial capability.
given the uncertainties in the global economic outlook, there Increased focus on cash flow management.
is a risk that our plans and responses may not be adequate.
10 Chief Executives review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information We continue, consistently and relentlessly, to tighten our efficiency and raise the performance of each local business.
We also seek to gain maximum value from our global scale by transferring skills and proven ways of working across the organisation.
incremental cuts to meet local circumstances.
Here again, the SABMiller Marketing Way Looking ahead Were re-examining all capital expenditure and other global initiatives are improving Despite the immediate challenges our and applying stringent criteria that reflect our performance and helping to spread medium-term prospects remain strong.
the risks and opportunities in each country.
best practice across the group.
Our success While there is little we can do to influence the We have also restructured a number of our in Ecuador see page 15 shows how weve macro-economic environment at the present businesses, particularly in Latin America and raised the game by rethinking our distribution time, there is much that remains within our Europe.
In Poland, for example, one depot strategy and effectively implementing a control not least, to keep building our local and two packaging lines at the recently new model.
brands, to develop the beer category and to acquired Browar Belgia have been closed increase the share of beer within the alcohol and 100 job losses announced.
In the The fourth of our strategic priorities is to market in developing countries.
SABMillers Czech Republic, we are shedding 150 jobs gain maximum value from our global scale long experience and inbuilt resilience provide to improve productivity.
by efficiently transferring skills and proven strong grounds for confidence in the testing ways of working throughout the organisation.
In North America, the integration of Among other projects, were examining best MillerCoors business processes and practice in respect of back office processes, Graham Mackay Chief Executive systems will streamline costs and make for and looking to reduce costs through shared faster decision making.
The project to have services.
The process is already under way at every Coors and Miller brand produced at all the regional level and we intend to implement breweries across the combined network is it globally in due course.
Were also moving also proceeding well with more than 60% of towards a more centralised procurement the planned production relocations completed function to make our sourcing and supply in the financial year.
Through these and other chain more efficient.
projects, the company expects to realise US$128 million in synergies by 30 June 2009, While the application of these four strategic exceeding its original goal of US$50 million priorities has delivered excellent financial for the first 12 months of operations.
The results over the last few years, we continue overall target, well within reach, is a per to refine them as circumstances change.
annum saving of US$500 million by the We have, for example, been working on third year of operation.
a series of initiatives to sharpen our focus and capabilities in the commercial area As well as restructuring and saving costs, and will roll these out in the coming year.
were honing our skills in dealing with the retail trade another discipline where we Addressing risks believe we can differentiate ourselves The current economic crisis makes it even from the competition and gain competitive more important to keep scrutinising the advantage.
As the retail sector evolves and risks facing the business.
We know that risks becomes more complex and demanding, present opportunities as well as threats, and were developing new and better ways to we aim to maximise the former and minimise get the right products to the right outlets the latter in a way that generates the best down the right channels and doing so return for our shareholders.
Working to a from an advantageous position, thanks well developed risk management process to the strength of our brands among see page 55, we continue to identify and our consumers.
monitor the principal risks to the business and deal with them appropriately.
The main operational risks we face are summarised opposite while financial risks are discussed on pages 37 and 105 to 111.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Chief Executives review 11
