The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 Chief Executives review Overview of the year Our UK and North American customers felt the full impact of the economic downturn in mid to late calendar year 2008.
This was followed by Mainland Europe and our other markets early in calendar year 2009.
Our customers acted quickly with their own businesses, managing their costs and working capital, and adapting to an environment where credit became scarce.
Despite these difficult conditions, our customers continued to renew support contracts at normal rates and we continued to attract a large number of first-time customers to Sage.
As market conditions deteriorated, we took swift action to realign our own cost base and eliminated annualised costs of 53.9m, incurring one-off restructuring charges of 26.4m.
This saving represented 5% of our 2008 cost base.
However, we balanced the need to reduce our cost base with that of investing appropriately for the future, spending 174.6m on research and development in the year, and increasing the headcount in customer support by 5%.
# 8% We have made good progress in our North American business with operational Market share in worldwide total ERP improvements underway and an appropriate reduction in the cost base.
software revenues Organic revenues declined by 5% in the year 2008: 3% growth.
Organic subscription revenues grew by 2% with demand for customer support remaining resilient.
In the UK and Mainland Europe, where the customer support model is well established, subscription revenues grew 5% on an organic basis and in the emerging markets of Rest of World, subscription revenues showed strong organic growth of 14%.
In North America, where the premium support model is less well established, organic subscription revenues contracted 2%.
This represents a key area of focus for our North American business in 2010.
Support contract renewals, a key measure of the underlying performance of our business model, remained high at 81% in line with the long-term average renewal rates.
Payment processing, which represents 5% of total revenues and is included in subscription revenues, grew by 2% in the year.
We believe that this area offers significant potential for the Group as SMEs seek the benefits of linking payment processing to their back office accounting systems.
As we anticipated at the start of the financial year, in these market conditions, customer demand for software and software-related services was weak with an organic contraction of 16% in the year.
Nevertheless, 245,000 new customers purchased software solutions in the year demonstrating the value that our solutions offer to SMEs, and bringing our total customer number to 6.1m.
Our business structure 5% We are focused on understanding and meeting the needs of customers in Cost reduction achieved during 2009 their local markets.
To capitalise on our local expertise we operate through a decentralised business structure whereby each country has substantial autonomy in terms of local business strategy and operational activities such as sales, marketing, support and research and development.
This model provides local focus alongside our global scale.
Our local management teams report into the CEO of their region UK & Ireland, Mainland Europe, North America and Rest of World.
The Executive Committee oversees the management of all Sage operations and comprises the regional CEOs and other senior leaders from across the Group.
The Executive Committee is responsible for the development and implementation of strategy, operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets: the monitoring of operating and financial performance: the assessment and control of risk: the prioritisation and allocation of resources and the monitoring of competitive forces in each area of operation.
Worldwide Total ERP Software Revenue Market share by Vendor, 2008.
Foreign currency results for the prior year ended 30 September 2008 have been retranslated based on the average exchange rates for the year ended 30 September 2009 of $1.54 1 and 1.14 1 to facilitate the comparison of results.
Business review The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 11 Long-term opportunities We have identified several longer term aspirational goals for the Group.
From these goals, we derive our products and services strategy, acquisition strategy, people development programmes and operational objectives throughout the Group.
These goals are to: Be a key leader in all markets of the world: D evelop products and services that are the most compelling fit with a customers country and industry: Have the most trusted brands: Have the most satisfied and active customers in our industry: Experience superior organic revenue growth versus our peer group: and Be recognised as one of the most admired employers.
Product and services strategy The needs of SMEs continue to evolve.
Increasingly, they want access to data via the web or mobile devices.
They seek the ability to deploy some software solutions on the web, whilst still making extensive use of their desktop environment.
We need to be flexible in allowing customers to buy or rent software as their needs dictate.
Connectivity to third parties is an increasing requirement and we find SMEs trading outside their domestic market more than ever before.
Our strategy is to address the needs of SMEs by developing solutions through our in-country teams who best understand our customers specific requirements.
We take an open approach to the technology that we use, developing across a number of platforms and leveraging a range of delivery models that best meet the needs of our customers.
Today, a number of services such as online payment processing, invoicing, CRM, payroll and tax filing are delivered over the web by Sage.
We have made significant progress towards achieving our key strategic goals ensuring we are able to deliver value through the cycle.
Business review The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 12 Chief Executives review For core accounting and ERP products, at present the significant majority of demand remains for those products deployed on-premise.
However, as a new generation of entrepreneurs, instinctively web-centric, start businesses, we expect the proportion of accounting software delivered via the web to increase.
We therefore believe that software as a service SaaS for accounting will become more relevant to customers in the small and micro business market segment over time.
To that end, we have launched a number of offers to address this emerging market and continue to develop products to meet customer demand.
In the mid-market, we believe that the demand for pure SaaS ERP solutions is currently limited.
However, we see the opportunity to combine the advantages of on-premise applications such as data ownership, customisation flexibility and upgrade control, with easy access to web services which complement and add value to the core application.
Such web services include payroll processing, data hosting and online backup, remote access, payment services, and project management.
We have, and continue to develop, offerings in this space and are in a strong position to meet this demand.
Whilst we continue to focus on local solutions and services, the trend of SMEs conducting business internationally is increasing demand for the products we sell in multiple countries.
To be successful, these products must meet local requirements in each country as well as having international capabilities.
Sage Accpac ERP, Sage ERP X3 and our CRM products are particularly focused on meeting this demand.
In the year, a number of our businesses have launched Sage ERP X3 which has been well received by customers and industry analysts, 1.7 million and demonstrated growth in the year Group-wide of 13%.
Provide advice to customers through As a Group we are focused on the overall customer experience and have 1.7 million support contracts launched a number of initiatives to enhance this, including the use of web technologies such as automatic updates, information feeds and online diagnostic 35,000 services.
Our premium support offers, including, for example, guaranteed response Manage around 35,000 customer times and dedicated support advisors, enhance the value we deliver to customers.
calls every day Our support continues to be relied upon by our customers to help them negotiate changes in legislation and business regulation, and address market uncertainty.
This has reinforced our role as a trusted business partner to them.
Group responsibility Executive Committee Paul Walker Paul Harrison Michael Robinson Klaus-Michael Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Company Secretary and Vogelberg Group Legal Director Group Chief Paul is responsible for Paul has overall Technology Officer developing Sages responsibility for Sages As Company Secretary overall business strategy finances and financial Michael supports the Klaus-Michael represents and ensuring we deliver controls.
He has direct Board, supervises share the engineering function value to our shareholders.
accountability to our incentive schemes and of Sage, overseeing the He is accountable for shareholders for compliance with stock direction of technology Sages senior leadership performance and exchange rules.
As Legal within our business.
team and for making sure strategy and promoting Director he is involved His role includes ensuring our global and regional Sages investment case.
in acquisitions, oversees best practice, advising our teams work together Paul plays a key role in legal risks and makes R&D function, the Executive to achieve our goals.
acquisitions and chairs sure we are legally Committee and the the Group committee of compliant in the countries Board on technology and Chief Information Officers.
developing interoperability between Sage products.
Business review The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 13 Acquisition strategy Whilst we did not complete any significant acquisitions in the year, acquisitions remain part of our growth strategy both for entering new markets and for strengthening our position in existing markets.
Our strong balance sheet and cash conversion mean that we will be in a position to acquire attractive businesses when such opportunities arise.
We will continue to use financial hurdles when evaluating acquisitions, and in particular the need to earn a return in excess of our weighted average cost of capital using reasonable financial projections for potential targets.
Distribution strength 40,000 | 30,000 Our distribution strength remains one of our key competitive advantages, with over Worldwide network of over 30,000 business partners and 40,000 accountancy practices recommending and 40,000 accountancy practices marketing Sage products worldwide.
The role of our business partners in promoting and 30,000 business partners our products and services and providing local expertise continues to evolve as customers demand increasing levels of tailored products and specialised services.
Our business partners are a key component in building and maintaining ongoing relationships with our customers.
Environment As detailed in the Corporate Responsibility report on pages 32 to 37, we are focused on understanding our environmental impacts, raising awareness of energy consumption and reducing carbon emissions.
We are also helped in this by the trend in our industry towards electronic rather than printed data.
Outlook We have a robust business model with a strong balance sheet underpinned by reliable cash flows.
Our customers continue to rely on us as a trusted partner in running their businesses more efficiently.
Conditions stabilised in the second half of the year with SMEs still investing in value-adding business management products and services.
However, at this stage, we are not yet seeing a general recovery in our markets.
Therefore, we will continue to manage our cost base prudently whilst ensuring the business is well positioned to take advantage of the future economic upturn.
Paul Walker Chief Executive Regional responsibility David Clayton Karen Geary Paul Stobart Guy Berruyer Sue Swenson Ivan Epstein Group Strategy Group Director of CEO, UK & Ireland CEO, Mainland Europe CEO, North America CEO, South Africa and Mergers and Human Resources and Asia and Australia Paul is responsible for Sue oversees our North Acquisitions Director and Corporate the UK & Ireland region, Guy supervises our American businesses Ivan runs the Southern Communications David has overall including strategy activities in Mainland in the United States Hemisphere region, responsibility for Group Responsible for our People development, business Europe and Asia, and Canada.
She is encompassing both strategy and buying or Strategy, Karen works with planning activities, R&D overseeing the responsible for Softline in South Africa selling of businesses.
our operating companies and front line and management teams in managing the business and Sage in Australia.
His remit is to provide an to ensure we have the right support operations the individual countries.
whilst at the same time With nine business units overarching, Group-wide talent in place to achieve ranging from sales and He is responsible for our establishing clear goals, over two continents Ivan strategy, fully leveraging our goals.
She is also marketing through to growth strategy in the identifying and exploiting sets strategic direction, our global capabilities responsible for Corporate human resources, region, identifying areas for growth and identifies opportunities whilst maintaining the Communications and business development, potential new acquisitions broadening our focus for future growth and decentralised ethos Corporate Responsibility.
and opportunities for on our customers.
coordinates activities that has been key to expansion.
