Our performance Layout 1 26 03 2010 09:57 Page 16 16 Chief Executives 2009 was another successful year for Serco, and I am Statement very pleased with our performance.
I am particularly proud of the commitment and extraordinary efforts of our people who are at the heart of the service we deliver to citizens and customers around the world, and who remain fundamental to our achievements.
Strong performance in 2009 Serco delivered a strong performance in 2009, and entered 2010 with a record order book and increasing opportunities both in the UK and internationally.
We continued to strengthen our existing capabilities with new skills for growing markets.
With fiscal pressures increasing across all markets, we see strong demand for our capabilities to ensure the efficient delivery of essential services.
Strengthening our position in existing markets In 2009, we were awarded new contracts and through renewals and extensions we expanded our work across a broad spectrum of our existing markets, including home affairs, IT and BPO, education, transport and integrated services.
Smaller and medium-sized contract wins continued to be an important driver of our growth, and further details of some of these awards are given in the Operating Review, starting on page 20.
In larger contract awards, we were selected for a number of significant new home affairs contracts.
In Australia, building on capabilities developed in the UK, we signed two new contracts with the Australian Government Department of Immigration and Citizenship DIAC to transform its immigration services across the country, and, towards the end of the year, to manage the operation of In 2009, the dedication of our people and immigration residential housing and immigration transit accommodation.
the breadth of our capabilities meant that Together, these contracts are valued at we continued to deliver a strong around AUS$415m over five years.
In the UK, we were appointed as the preferred operational performance in the services bidder to manage and operate two new we provide, and therefore the value we prisons at Belmarsh West, London, and Maghull, Liverpool, with a combined value add for our customers.
to Serco of around 600m over 26 years.
Christopher Hyman Signing of contracts for these prisons is Chief Executive, Serco Group plc expected by summer 2010.
Our performance Layout 1 25 03 2010 16:27 Page 17 Our performance 17 In defence, we provide military satellite communications support to the US Air Force 4th Space Operations Squadron far left.
In health, we are helping Guys and St Thomas NHS Foundation Trust to improve the efficiency and responsiveness of its pathology services left.
In North America, we renewed and Entering new growth markets Delivering operational excellence expanded our work across the armed In 2009, we entered a number of new In 2009, the dedication of our people and forces, and intelligence and civil markets where we see significant the breadth of our capabilities meant that government agencies.
We saw a significant opportunities for growth.
we continued to deliver a strong expansion of our work supporting the Air operational performance in the services we Force Space Command, winning In the UK, we opened a new market, provide, and therefore the value we add, US$131m of task orders, and nearly pathology, to help our customers improve for our customers.
doubled the size of one of our intelligence the efficiency and responsiveness of health We successfully started a number of major agency contracts.
We were awarded task services.
At the beginning of the year, we new contracts, valued at over 1bn.
These orders under our US Army HR Solutions formed a new partnership, GSTS Pathology included our Flexible New Deal contracts contract valued at US$196m, of which LLP, with Guys and St Thomas NHS in the UK: our contract to operate the US$54m were new orders, and renewed Foundation Trust, to pursue opportunities Dubai Metro, where we have achieved very our contract with the US Department of in this substantial market, which is valued high performance levels, supported by an Homeland Securitys US Citizenship and at approximately 2.5bn.
In January, GSTS in-depth programme of over 50,000 Immigration Services to provide records signed a contract, valued at 250m over training days, equipping what will be processing support at its National Benefits ten years to Serco, to improve Guys and 3,000 employees when all lines are open Center, valued at approximately US$190m St Thomas pathology services, and in the with the safety and technical skills needed over a period of up to five years.
second half it further expanded its to deliver a world class railway: and our operations by signing a similar contract In transport, we renewed and expanded immigration services contract in Australia, with the Bedford Hospitals NHS Trust, our contract to provide the Dubai Airports where we completed the successful valued at approximately 31m to Serco Company with air traffic services at Dubai handover of immigration detention centres over ten years.
The renewed contract in under six weeks.
is valued at 245m over a longer period of We have identified significant opportunities We also set a number of new performance ten years and builds on the air traffic in the new welfare to work market in the benchmarks and received awards in our services that Serco has provided to Dubai UK to support jobseekers in returning to existing contracts, including: Merseyrail for more than 40 years.
In 2009, we signed setting a new record for UK rail punctuality three contracts under the UK Our integrated services business built on with 96% of trains running to time: our UK Governments Flexible New Deal initiative, its expertise in the local authority and health marine services delivering outstanding which we are delivering through a unique facilities management markets, with the support to the Royal Navy with network of private, public, community and signing of a number of new contracts.
performance levels consistently running voluntary organisations.
These five-year These included contracts with the London over 99%: exam results from our UK contracts have an aggregate value to Borough of Bexley, valued at 160m over education contracts improving at almost Serco of 400m-500m, and we expect a potential term of up to 15 years, to twice the national average: in the US, our further opportunities to arise in provide a full range of environmental receipt of the highest award from the 2010 and beyond.
services, and with the Plymouth Hospitals Federal Aviation Authority for air traffic NHS Trust to provide services at the control safety and service excellence, and We also continued to extend our Derriford Hospital and the Royal Eye the Best Practice award from the US capabilities in the transport market in 2009, Infirmary, valued at around 140m over Department of Defense for our US Marines adding cycle hire to our existing portfolio a period of up to ten years.
Wounded Warrior Call Center: and the of metro, heavy rail, air traffic control, recognition of our commitment to health From the start of 2010, we have marine and roads operations.
We signed and safety by the UKs Royal Society for repositioned our business to maximise our a new six-year contract with Transport for the Prevention of Accidents through 29 focus on growth and opportunities and to London, valued at approximately 140m, different awards and commendations.
ensure that we maintain a flexible and to design, build and operate the new devolved organisation which is responsive London Cycle Hire Scheme.
Under the to our customers needs.
As a result, we contract we will design and integrate have created five new divisions, focused technology and customer service on our principal markets.
operations, and provide, operate and maintain 6,000 bicycles for hire in Central These are: Civil Government: Defence, London at 400 docking stations.
Science and Nuclear: Local Government and Commercial: Americas and AMEAA Africa, Middle East, Asia and Australasia.
Our segmental reporting will reflect these five divisions, starting at our half year results in August 2010.
Our performance Layout 1 25 03 2010 16:27 Page 18 18 High visibility of planned revenue Chief Executives at 31 December 2009 Statement continued 2010 79% 11% 1% 91% 61% 13% 2% 76% 2011 2012 47% 14% 3% 64% Order book Extensions & rebids Preferred bidder Strong platform for growth in the US People Board Change market created through SI integration Serco has around 70,000 people delivering Kevin Beeston will be retiring from the We have made excellent progress with essential services around the world.
Our Company after its Annual General Meeting the integration of SI in its first year of ongoing success is the result of their hard in May 2010.
Kevin has made a significant ownership, with our enhanced capabilities work and commitment to our values and contribution to the progress of the Company providing a strong platform for growth.
over the last 25 years and I would like to thank him personally, and on behalf of the This platform positions us well for Developing our leaders is vital for Sercos Board, as well as wish him every success opportunities in 2010 and beyond in the future.
During the year, we profiled the in the future.
The process of appointing a largest government services market in the capabilities of our top 100 leaders against new Chairman is under way and is being world, the US Federal Government our model for great leadership.
This sets led by the Senior Independent Director, services market, notably in supporting the out the skills and behaviours required to Baroness Ford of Cunninghame.
government in modernising and improving implement our Governing Principles and the effectiveness and security of services.
to meet our future business challenges.
We were also pleased with SIs financial The process ensured that our leaders fully Outlook performance.
SIs revenue grew by 7.5% understand their alignment to the model Our customers, who are principally to US$618.5m, and SIs Adjusted and we are now in the process of creating governments and large commercial operating profit increased by 28.3% to personal development plans to help them organisations, continue to face rising US$47.1m, representing a margin of 7.6%.
deliver higher levels of performance.
demand from their citizens to improve the delivery of public services, and to address We also undertook a comprehensive talent challenges arising from migration, security, review.
This involved every business unit economic development, climate change, around the world identifying its current ageing populations and congestion.
and future leaders, enabling us to create With the recent substantial increase in comprehensive succession plans and fiscal deficits, governments are increasingly talent pipelines in each part of our seeking new ways to fundamentally business.
This is particularly important in transform the efficiency and productivity of a high-growth company such as Serco, essential services.
We believe that this will where we continually need to develop new With the recent result in both a broadening of opportunities leaders in the organisation.
in existing markets, and the continued substantial increase development of new markets, both in the Our Viewpoint survey measures our in fiscal deficits, UK and overseas.
peoples engagement with and commitment to Serco.
This years survey identified our governments are We have a strong track record of highpeoples world-class levels of commitment quality service delivery and innovation, increasingly seeking new and discretionary effort and showed that and continue to develop our substantial Serco has an open and respectful culture.
ways to fundamentally capabilities in improving productivity The ambition of our people to excel and to and efficiency across a broad range of transform the efficiency develop further within Serco was also clear, essential services.
Given our long-standing and we will increase our focus in these relationships with our customers, our deep and productivity of areas in the future.
experience of all types of contracting essential services.
models, and our peoples public service Ensuring high levels of safety for our people ethos, we are well placed to help our and other stakeholders is fundamental to customers meet their growing challenges.
We were delighted, therefore, to receive 29 awards from the Together the excellent visibility we have over Royal Society for the Prevention of our revenues, the substantial opportunities Accidents.
These included the Sir George we see and our growing capabilities and Earle Trophy, won by Northern Rail, which strong track record support our expectation recognises outstanding health and safety of further progress in 2010 and the management.
We also received a Sword medium-term.
of Honour from the British Safety Council.
In the US, our air traffic control business won the Willie F Card FAA Contract Tower Service Award for the fifth time since 2003.
This award is given for excellence in safety and customer service.
Our performance Layout 1 25 03 2010 16:27 Page 19 Our performance 19 Delivering essential services... together Serco delivers essential services.
Second, our people must work well Organic growth is the bedrock of our The work we take on is vital to our together to deliver what our customers business but we also make acquisitions to customers but needs to be done more need.
Our culture and values create an bring in new skills or to open up a market productively and with an improved environment where people are liberated for us.
This means that together, we are outcome.
Our contracts involve us in to do their best, where we support, listen to better positioned to succeed.
Our 2008 some of the most important areas of and respect each other, and where people acquisition of SI International in the US, public service and government of all backgrounds come together with a for example, has significantly expanded our spending such as health, education, common aim.
Our Dubai Metro contract, capabilities and broadened our customer transport and defence, and what we for example, employs people from base, in particular in the defence market.
do often has a direct bearing on 26 nationalities.
Serco now serves all branches of the US peoples lives.
In recent years, we have increasingly reaped the benefits of bringing the skills We always remember that we must work What do we mean by delivering of our divisions together to create a together with the communities that surround essential services together?
compelling offering for our customers.
Often these communities It means, first and foremost, that we build Often, this means spreading our skills are the end users of our services.
Our long-term and mutually-beneficial around the world.
Our expansion in the people also live in these communities, relationships with our customers.
The home affairs market in Australia and and we want them to be proud of what we closer we are to them, the better we are our success with the Dubai Metro both do and their role in it.
Delivering essential able to help them achieve what they want.
depended on our local market knowledge services together is a fundamental part of We build these relationships by providing and the world-leading capabilities we our business and as we continue to excellent service and innovation during the transferred from our UK divisions.
We are innovate, it will only become more life of the contract, so that they retain us at also increasingly combining the specialist important.
Our values and our experience rebid.
For example, we have delivered air skills of two or more of our businesses to of collaborating with our stakeholders traffic control services to our customers in create a unique blend of skills, for example make us an attractive partner and position the Middle East for more than 60 years.
in our, information and communications us well to succeed.
We also create new ways to work with technology skills supporting our welfare to our customers.
Our joint ventures with work contracts, or our call centre expertise Glasgow City Council and Guys and St for the London Cycle Hire contract.
Thomas NHS Foundation Trust, which are Delivering essential services together also among the first of their kind, are excellent means working with partners, as we have examples of this.
For example, our joint venture with Abellio formerly NedRailways to run Northern Rail and Merseyrail has made us one of the UKs leading train operators, with very high levels of performance.
We also work together with third or non-profit sector organisations, who have experience in tackling some of societys most pressing problems.
Our contracts to deliver the UKs Flexible New Deal programme, for example, involve us co-ordinating more than 60 subcontractors, around a third of which are from the third sector.
In the US, we actively support SMEs and veteranrun businesses.
Delivering essential services together means first and foremost that we build long-term and mutuallybeneficial relationships with our customers.
