Chief Executives review Delivering continuous improvement Tony Wray Chief Executive is still a way to go in the regulatory process, but we have what In 2008 09, we delivered what we set we believe to be a high quality, holistic and balanced plan that has customers at its heart, is supported by all the key stakeholders out to do.
We continued to focus on and should enable a fair and appropriate return for our investors.
water and to improve our performance We talk more about our plan on page 6 of this report.
Delivering continuous improvement in Severn Trent Services Continuous improvement is at the heart of Severn Trent Services, Delivering continuous improvement across our group our international water and waste water solutions business.
Last year I talked about the revitalisation of Severn Trent and It is the engine driving the Severn Trent Services growth plan our plans to continue building on the improvements we had focused on four key strategic initiatives: continuing the geographic been making.
This year we have been delivering continuous expansion of products and services, expanding the scope of improvement throughout our businesses and making it part operating services around the world, enhancing products and of the way we work every day.
operations to improve effectiveness and efficiency, and continuing to develop new technologies that are at the forefront of water and Our approach of always challenging ourselves to do better is waste water solutions.
designed to ensure that we take our businesses forward in a responsible and sustainable way and one that delivers for all our stakeholders.
Looking ahead As Severn Trent Water progresses into the final year of AMP4, we Delivering continuous improvement in Severn Trent Water are driving performance improvements across the business.
These improvements, measured by our 20 KPIs, are designed to deliver We said to our customers that we would make fewer mistakes, deal higher standards and efficiencies: enabling us to meet the with their calls more effectively and reduce the number of causes of challenges and opportunities of the current economic environment complaint in our business.
We said to Ofwat and the Environment and provide the momentum for delivery of our PR09 plan.
Agency that we would meet our leakage targets, deliver improved security of supply and reduce pollution incidents.
We said to our We are very aware of the challenging economic climate and what investors that we would continue to deliver operating opex and that means for our customers, for our supply chain and for our capital capex efficiencies and maintain our progressive dividend.
We said to our stakeholders that we would operate to the highest We are also very conscious of our corporate responsibilities, not standards of governance.
We said to our people that we would least in playing our part to address the increasing challenges of continue to improve what its like to work for Severn Trent.
We said climate change through our water resources, our waste processing, we would do these things and we have done them, in line with our our energy use and our engagement with our communities.
We are ongoing commitment to be the best water and waste water company, committed to achieving carbon reductions through our renewable with the highest standards, the lowest charges and great people.
and energy efficiency programmes which are intended to exceed In 2008 09, we continued to improve our performance across the government targets to 2015. the board.
The 20 Key Performance Indicators KPIs remain In the future, the nature of our industry is bound to change.
We cant the primary basis on which we measure and demonstrate this be sure exactly how, but we can and will play our part in shaping continuous improvement.
They are indicators we identified developments for example around competition in the UK regulated as important to our customers, regulators, employees and industry.
We have clear ideas about how it might best be developed shareholders.
I am pleased to report that we are now achieving in a way that both benefits customers and addresses regional water upper quartile performance in 14 of our KPIs, with 5 at median supply imbalances.
We are actively discussing these ideas with Ofwat and 1 at lower quartile.
Whatever the future holds, we will refuse The professionalism and commitment of our people has enabled to accept the status quo and intend to focus on water, on our core our achievements.
We have given and intend to continue to give our skills, on aligning ourselves around our key processes, and having people the encouragement, training, tools and techniques to ensure excellent relationships with our key stakeholders.
it is a fundamental everyday part of the way we work, finding ever In Severn Trent Services we will continue to build on the safer, better, faster ways of delivering our Key Strategic Intentions.
improvements we have made this year.
Our focus will be on growth As set out in our 25 year Strategic Direction Statement we are opportunities through our four key strategic initiatives and driving becoming ever more customer focused and ambitious for efficiency continuous improvement in the business.
improvements that help produce lower charges and drive process improvements that help raise standards.
In support of these, we Severn Trent is a high quality business whose investment continue to commit to improvements designed to attract, retain, programme drives strong growth prospects.
The management team develop and reward our great people.
has a clear and focused strategy and is engaged in the single minded pursuit of higher standards as the means to achieve both Over the last 12 months we have also been working on our fifth higher levels of customer satisfaction, and also sustained strong Price Review PR09, for the period 2010-15 AMP5 undertaken financial returns to shareholders.
We believe preparations for PR09 have gone well.
There Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 5
