4 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Chief Executive Officers review Angus RussellChief Executive Officer The Shire story Past, present and future.
Like most CEOs, I get my fair share of invitations to speak Phase I: at conferences.
The focus is usually on new trends in our own Developing the model industry but some look more broadly at business strategy, Our business model has always been one of the most important marketing, or change management.
Whatever the banner, theres keys to our success.
The way we exploit that model is evolving one single question I get asked more often than any other: how over time, especially as we grow internationally, but our have we managed to take a small specialty pharmaceutical startbasic approach has remained unchanged for many years: up, and turn it into one of the major world players in that field?
a focus on specialist physicians, niche markets, unmet needs Its true that when you look at where Shire is today, and compare and symptomatic conditions where the impact of a successful it with where we were even five years ago, the scale of the change treatment is immediate and tangible.
This strategy started out is pretty extraordinary, and those of us who have been part of that as a positive response to a very practical business challenge change can sometimes underestimate just how far weve come.
how do you build a successful pharmaceutical company when you have neither the resources to undertake large-scale high-risk 2009 was an important year for usin many ways a watershed research, nor the sales infrastructure to compete in mainstream yearbecause the results weve achieved in the last twelve therapy areas in primary care.
Shire decided that the smart months are the direct result of a clear strategy thats been in answer was to focus on lower-risk research and development, place from the start, but has gained real momentum in the last and make maximum use of the oral drug delivery know-how five years.
So it seems a good time to look again at the Shire we already had in Pharmavene, a business we acquired in 1997 story, because the sort of thinking thats producing strong results and renamed Shire Laboratories.
today is also shaping the way were positioning the business for the next phase of our growth.
Shire Laboratories had the expertise to re-examine existing drugs and formulations like ADDERALL, and explore whether they could be delivered in a more efficient form.
For example, if the required dosage could be reduced to once a day from three or four times, Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 5 US GAAP highlights Revenues $3,008M Operating income $620M Net income $492M Diluted earnings per ADS $2.69 the drug would be more convenient for the patientthis was that had initially worked well enough for Shire in the US was the genesis of ADDERALL XR.
This approach proved to be an going to prove more challenging in building a platform for growth extremely effective way of developing new drugs for a company at in other international markets.
This was a pivotal moment: our stage of development, because the chemical formulations we if Shire could no longer benefit from reasonable exclusivity periods were working on had already been through their safety trials, which for drugs like ADDERALL XR, or sell them at a price that would meant we could get new versions to market quickly, and start recover the investment, we would need a new approach.
generating the revenues we needed to re-invest in the business.
ADDERALL became the worlds leading ADHD treatment in April Phase II: 2000, with over 30% of the then $1 billion US ADHD market.
New technologies, new markets When ADDERALL XR was launched in 2001, it rapidly achieved In 2003, the Board took a long hard look at where we were and a 26% share of a market that was worth around $4 billion by the how we were going to grow the business going forward.
Shire was becoming a significant industry player: sold a range of reformulated drugs in the US, and a number of but by 2002 it was obvious to usif not to the rest of the other small-scale treatments on a market-by-market basis in the marketthat the world was starting to change.
There were no global drugs, which meant no international economies of scale.
So we went back and re-evaluated the With hindsight, it seems obvious that generics were going to feasibility of high-risk early-stage research, and dismissed it again have an enormous and irreversible impact on the industry, but few for the same reasons we had before.
We then re-examined our people could have anticipated how wide that impact would be, basic specialty pharma business model and decided that the or how quickly it would take effect.
The pharmaceutical sector has rationale behind it was still soundbut we needed another way always worked within the constraints of limited-life patents, and it of delivering it.
The challenge now was to sell our products on was no secret that some of the worlds big blockbuster drugs were a global basis, at a price that made them economically viable.
going to come off patent in the late 90s.
What did surprise people We also realized that reformulated products are vulnerable was the way the generic manufacturers used this opportunity to generic challenges, and that new chemical entities have to start challenging existing patents for the first time: the dynamics the benefit of longer periods of US regulatory exclusivity.
True of the entire pharmaceutical market were about to change.
innovation and foresight in new therapies was the way forward.
Around this time our work on developing anagrelide AGRYLIN We soon saw exactly what this was going to mean in practice.
in the US and XAGRID in the EU gave us our first experience We launched ADDERALL XR in 2001, but by 2003 wed already of the orphan drugs sector.
Historically this has been less attracted a generic filing challenging its patents.
By 2004 attractive to very big competitors, because the numbers of approximately 60% of our product revenues came from our patients affected is very small, which is the main reason why ADHD portfolio, and investors questioned how we would survive regulatory exclusivity can be as much as seven years in the the loss of exclusivity.
At the same time Shire was also facing the US, and 10 years in Europe and some other parts of the world.
fact that reformulated drugs only attracted a price premium in the US.
In the EU, reference pricing meant that health authorities would probably not pay more for a reformulated drug than they did for the older version.
So it became evident that the strategy 6 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Chief Executive Officers review Argentina Japan Austria Mexico Australia Netherlands Belgium Norway Brazil Poland Canada Portugal Czech Republic Russia Denmark Singapore Finland Spain France Sweden Germany Switzerland Greece Turkey Ireland United Kingdom Italy United States representative office Our Business Development team started to look for opportunities revenues outside the US by 2015, and to have 25% of that in this area that matched our existing focus on specialist revenue generated outside the top five European markets.
physicians, symptomatic diseases, niche markets and unmet This is an aggressive target and it will take a lot of hard work needs.
What they found was Transkaryotic Therapies, Inc. TKT, to get there, but we believe weve built a product range that the business now known as Shire Human Genetic Therapies.
TKTs focus on rare genetic diseases was a version of our own business model, and was built on expertise in a leading-edge A key component of that portfolio is VYVANSE, for the treatment proprietary technology.
The difference was TKT dealt with large of ADHD.
At the time we were working through the TKT molecules, proteins, whereas Shires business up to that point acquisition, we were also looking at our important ADHD portfolio.
had been based on small molecules.
Also, TKTs ability to ADDERALL XR, our most significant product in terms of sales, produce enzymes from human cell lines was an exciting new was being challenged by generic companies, and clearly wasnt area, but very few drugs had actually been commercialized at the answer.
The solution to this challenge was very similar that stage, making it something of a calculated risk.
But the closer to the one we found in TKT: having investigated the market we we looked at the TKT opportunity, the more attractive it became.
discovered that a company called New River was developing Theyd already started to sell REPLAGAL, and there were two a new way to deliver amphetamine using a proprietary technology or three more drugs in the pipeline that we knew could be sold platform called Carrierwave.
This made the effect of the internationally.
treatment much smoother and longer-lasting for the patient it had a potential duration of effect of at least 13 hours, meaning Biologics are now attracting serious attention from many of the only one dose would cover the whole day from start at school larger pharma companies, but we had the foresight to see the to bedtime.
No ADHD treatment had been able to do this opportunity early, and the courage to translate that insight into before, but it seemed that New Rivers new compound just effective action.
This acquisition initially surprised the investment might.
This ultimately led to our acquisition of New River in 2007 community, but our shareholders quickly realized how much of bringing us global rights to VYVANSE and ownership of the a great opportunity it was for Shire and the results now speak Carrierwave technology.
The success of REPLAGAL and ELAPRASE has allowed Shire to establish operations in 28 countries, compared As things stand now, we can see real signs that international with nine in 2005.
This new international infrastructure has given awareness and understanding of ADHD is growing as is the us a very powerful platform from which to exploit the growth need to treat adults, and theres an increasing need for an thats going to come from the so-called pharmerging markets.
This will give us the potential to take VYVANSE into a number of markets outside the US.
Shires international expansion comes at a time when the US VYVANSE is already covered by US patents out to 2023, and government is putting more and more emphasis on reducing the pending patents in the EU out to 2024. cost of US healthcare.
Most pharmaceutical companies derive at least a third of their revenue from the US: at Shire this percentage was once as high as 80-85%.
Weve been working to reduce this dependence on the US market over the last few years, and by the end of 2009 it was down to 70%.
Our aim is to be making half our Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 7 CARRIERWAVE TECHNOLOGY Carrierwave is a technology acquired as part of the acquisition of New River Pharmaceuticals NRP and is used in VYVANSE.
Since its acquisition, Shire scientists have significantly improved the understanding and breadth of this technology.
It potentially allows Shire to develop New Chemical Entities NCEs, but with less risk, as the products will be based on the understanding of known products which we seek to improve.
Carrierwave NCEs are thus designed to have improved safety tolerability, efficacy and or pharmacokinetic profiles when compared to the original existing productsignificantly enhancing their potential medical utility and value.
The first successful application of Carrierwave technology is VYVANSE for ADHD launched in the US in 2007.
Shire has a number of Carrierwave NCEs presently in development across several key therapeutic areas including ADHD and sees applicability of this technology in supplementing the pipelines of both Shire businesses Specialty and HGT.
Carrierwave Phase III: of transferring manufacturing from our site at Owings Mills to one The pharma company of the future of our contractors.
On the other hand, many of our HGT products The success of Shires last ten years is the result of a combination are made using complex techniques and proprietary technology, of foresight, good planning, and excellent execution.
Shires basic and there are currently almost no contractors in the market who business model remains the same specialty biopharmaceuticals, can do this better, more cheaply, or more reliably than we can.
symptomatic disease, unmet need, niche markets, robust intellectual property protection : but well be adapting and growing Looking more widely, everyone in our industry knows that the that model in response to new opportunities and new market world of healthcare is changing.
Populations are ageing, which trends.
Over the next few years well also need to carefully changes the balance of needs, while at the same time theres manage the internal impact of our international expansion.
a constant stream of new and more sophisticated treatments Traditionally weve been a very Anglo-American company, but that offer the hope of new cures.
The net result is that an everas we expand in markets like Eastern Europe, Latin America larger proportion of GDP is being consumed by healthcare, and the Pacific Rim, well need to adapt to new cultures, new which translates into more pressure on pricing, and an languages and new ways of collaborating internally.
The successful pharmaceutical with a presence in nine countries is very different from one company of the 21st century will need to be more cost-effective, that covers 28: we need to understand how these new markets more productive, and more proficient at demonstrating the value work, and adapt our own operations to fit local needs.
A lot of its treatments to the authorities who pay for them.
Technology of this is about having the right people, but its also about the will become more and more important, as will new ways of right systems, and the right infrastructure, so that we can cope working, not only inside the business, but with partners, academic with a much higher volume of international sales.
We still believe passionately that we have the right model, but were very much aware that it will need Another challenge is to grow the business without losing the to continue to evolve over the next decade, just as it has already special culture thats made Shire what it is today, and we want to done over the last one.
So the new Shire will be more of the keep our agile and entrepreneurial way of working.
Were aiming same in the best possible sense, but better, more efficient, more to do this through a hub-and-spoke model, with regional centers agile with faster return on investments.
across the world and semi-autonomous business units taking responsibility for decision-making on the ground.
Its important for us to have a personalized structure that allows us to develop a clear understanding of the needs of the specialist physicians and patient populations that we serve.
Angus Russell On the manufacturing side well continue to make our own Chief Executive Officer drugs only if there is a strategic reason to do so.
For example, most of the treatments in the Specialty Pharmaceutical portfolio are derived from small molecule chemicals, where out-sourced manufacturers have the experience and the capabilities to produce the product themselves.
This is why were in the process
