Introduction | CEOs Review 05 business processes and support services, such as HR.
To meet evolving customer needs we are adapting our methods of sales and marketing and altering our supply chains.
Our drive to improve efficiency and effectiveness across AstraZeneca has resulted in further reductions in our workforce.
The executive team and I remain committed to ensuring that we manage these changes in the right way.
This means that, in meeting the needs of the business, we deal responsibly and sympathetically with affected individuals and the communities in which they live.
We continue to integrate responsible business considerations into everyday decision-making across all our activities, reinforcing personal accountability for compliance with our Code of Conduct through training and monitoring of business practices.
We were pleased to have our efforts recognised externally with CEOs Review improved scores in the 2009 Dow Jones Index.
Looking ahead, we have identified areas for improvement and will take action 2009 was a year of considerable we made during the year to withdraw the to strengthen further our governance and achievement in which I believe we regulatory submissions we had made for management processes, building on our laid firm foundations for the future our anti-cancer medicine, Zactima, came as progress to date and driving continuous success of the business.
all this is excellent execution of our plans, improved organisational As projects leave the development pipeline, 2009 also saw some changes to the flexibility and a committed workforce.
we replenish it with new projects that will executive team.
Jan Lundberg, Executive yield regulatory submissions in future years.
Vice-President, Discovery Research left Operational highlights of the year include four We now have 11 projects in Phase III AstraZeneca in November.
We thank him for significant regulatory filings for new medicines development.
Twenty-nine projects entered his significant contribution to the business.
We agreed four the pipeline during the year and 53 projects Christer Khler has taken over the role on late-stage project collaborations and have were progressed to their next phase of an interim basis.
Bruno Angelici, Executive 89 projects in clinical development.
We seek to provide each Vice-President, International Sales and sales of Toprol-XL and H1N1 influenza of these projects with a business case Marketing Organisation, will be leaving swine flu vaccine in the US accounted for underpinned by a clear scientific rationale AstraZeneca later in 2010.
He has made an three percentage points of the global revenue and sound financial case.
enormous contribution and we thank him for growth at CER, while growth in Emerging his sound judgement and strong leadership.
Markets was up 12%, accounting for 13% of In strengthening our pipeline we look beyond total revenue.
2009 was also the year in which our own laboratories to access the best Finally, the achievements of the year we reached an agreement in principle with the science and external sources of innovation.
would not have been possible without the US Attorneys Office to settle claims relating As a result, a significant number of our projects dedication and hard work of all our employees, to Seroquel sales and marketing practices come from our programme of collaboration.
For many of our and to make a payment of $524 million These include two of our regulatory filings: employees 2009 was a year of change.
Certriad was submitted with Abbott and pace of change is not going to let up in 2010.
Vimovo was submitted by our partner Pozen Indeed, it is going to accelerate.
I am If we are to bring benefits to patients and Inc.
In addition, Onglyza was the first product confident that our staff will respond with the create value for shareholders, we need of our diabetes collaboration with BMS.
commitment they have shown in the past.
a constant flow of new and innovative medicines.
Of the four regulatory filings Other collaborations agreed in 2009 included The Strategy and Performance section made in 2009, Brilinta is a treatment for the in-licence from Forest of ceftaroline, a next from page 14 outlines our plans and priorities acute coronary syndromes, Certriad is for the generation anti-infective.
We enhanced the for 2010 and beyond, which we need to treatment of lipid abnormalities and Vimovo value of this programme in December with implement to ensure we prosper in the years is for arthritic pain.
The fourth submission an agreement to acquire Novexel, a private ahead.
In doing so, we will improve the health was for a fixed-dose combination of Onglyza infection research company.
We also agreed of patients around the world and thereby and metformin for treating diabetes.
2009 in-licensing deals with Nektar and Targacept.
create value for our shareholders.
saw Onglyza launched in the US and in the EU for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes.
A further focus in 2009 was the continued Iressa, our anti-cancer medicine, was reshaping of the business to give us the launched in the EU.
Of course, in the process organisational flexibility we need to take of developing new medicines, we experience advantage of opportunities.
Initiatives include David R Brennan setbacks as well as successes.
The decision outsourcing some of our R&D activities, other Chief Executive Officer AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
