An interview with Mark Vernon Chief Executive Officer Sharpening our edge What makes Spirax Sarco different?
of product solutions we bring to our customers and good We are a niche industrial engineering group that supplies geographic distribution of sales, well spread between a very broad base of customers around the world in a developing and developed markets.
We concentrate on assisting our We serve a very broad range of industries including: foods, customers achieve process efficiency, increased production brewing & distilling, dairies, oil refining & petrochemicals, output, energy savings and regulatory compliance.
We go to chemicals, pharmaceuticals, textiles, fine chemicals, mining, market through an extensive network of outstanding local printing, water & wastewater treatment and many other sales and service engineers that are highly trained and general process industries.
We also work with hospitals and singularly focused on providing the knowledge and expertise commercial buildings by supplying solutions for sterilisation, to understand the challenges facing steam and pump users.
space heating, hot water generation and laundering.
It is Our application and systems knowledge, breadth of products important to note that no single industry represents more and services, experience and global presence all enable us than 10% of sales and no single customer accounts for more to offer the most extensive range of engineered solutions to than 1% of sales in short, our sales are very well spread.
The position of Spirax Sarco and Watson-Marlow as world leaders is founded on our We have remained focused on our niche businesses and long-held strategy of investing for growth both organically their development through geographic expansion, new and by complementary acquisitions.
product developments, acquisitions and expanding our range of products and service solutions.
This has enabled us The Group is very international.
We have 49 operating to increase market share and to generate steady, profitable companies in 34 countries around the world.
Our growth for a long period of time, evidenced by our excellent headquarters are based in the UK and we have sizeable 42 year dividend record.
Although we are the market manufacturing and selling operations on nearly every leader in both our businesses, there remain considerable continent.
Our manufacturing operations are strategically opportunities available to us in our fragmented markets.
located in all key market regions with major facilities in the UK, France, Italy, USA, Brazil, Argentina, and China.
We How does Spirax Sarco create value?
also manufacture in South Africa, Mexico, Netherlands, The Spirax Sarco and Watson-Marlow businesses are India, Germany, Sweden, Korea and Denmark.
Amongst anchored on the philosophy of understanding the detail our competitors, we have generally been first to build a of the customers processes and the ability to apply the direct selling and trading organisation in new markets and, properly engineered solutions.
To do this we go to market within the past year, we acquired our Turkish distributor, using mostly direct sales people about 70% of our sales giving us a direct presence in this important country that are generated through our direct selling approach.
In doing boasts the worlds 16th largest economy.
so we form strong, long-term customer relationships.
The Group employs nearly 1,200 direct sales and service people The resilience of our business was readily visible in the past working in 56 countries in the world.
year, as our total sales at constant currency declined less than 7%, as compared to falls of typically 15% to 20% or Our sales people are highly skilled in both product more for many other international industrial engineering applications and, perhaps even more importantly, in system businesses.
This resilience stems from a large portion of understanding and troubleshooting for unique customer our revenues being derived from product replacements and applications and industrial processes.
We train our sales spares, the diverse range of industries served, the breadth engineers in our 38 training centres located around the world, 4 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Sharpening our edge through research and development We are increasing our investment in research and development.
Our new R&D Centre being created in Cheltenham, will enhance our capability to offer customers innovative solutions for controlling and conditioning steam.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual report and accounts 2009 5 An interview with Mark Vernon continued Chief Executive Officer Sharpening our edge through being the best in our field Spirax Sarco beat international competition to win the 2009 IChemE Innovation and Excellence Award in Energy, with a Flash Recovery Energy Management Equipment FREME system that enables customers to recover waste heat.
6 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual report and accounts 2009 It is not our products alone that provide the value to our customers: it is the application of our extensive knowledge.
most of which are equipped with live steam that facilitates We continued to invest in key growth programmes for the hands-on training.
These centres are also used to train our future.
In China, we selectively added sales people for the customers technical staff.
We also invested in our Watson-Marlow business to continue developing new markets, adding This product and systems application knowledge, combined sales people in Russia and Mexico.
We believe that our with local availability of products, engineered packages sales teams are well positioned to handle the eventual and on-site services, enables our customers to achieve rebound in our end markets.
Also, we increased the meaningful energy savings, comply with increasingly amount of direct R&D investment, virtually the only area stringent health, safety and environmental regulations, of the business that was allowed increased expenditure.
reduce emissions and achieve more efficient processes.
New product development is a key activity that will drive It is not our products alone that provide the value to our longer-term growth and therefore we have continued to customers: it is the application of our extensive knowledge.
We have also sustained capital expenditure at a high level in the year as we How is Spirax Sarco managing the business through this invest in delivering our manufacturing strategy.
What are the key business drivers and trends?
Like other industrial businesses, we took early action and Our business is well spread geographically, across the made the appropriate decisions to reduce our operating product range and over a diverse range of industries.
Whilst needing to address the abrupt decline in The following key factors have the primary influence economic activity, we largely protected our global network on the underlying demand in our markets: of highly skilled and trained sales engineers.
As a result, we reduced our workforce by 7% through Global economic growth.
the year, most of which came as part of an announced Industrial production and investment.
5% headcount reduction in early 2009, with the balance Capacity utilisation.
coming from natural attrition throughout the year.
headcount reductions were in back-office support functions and manufacturing.
Additionally, our local operating company Increasing customer outsourcing of design management teams were vigilant in controlling other operating and maintenance.
The announced general headcount reduction was the Regulatory legislation eg, emissions, hygienic first ever for Spirax Sarco indicative of the unprecedented standards, plant safety.
global economic downturn but it was managed effectively Looking ahead how do you plan to take the business by our management teams around the world.
We took steps to size our manufacturing operation in Our business strategy remains focused on achieving Cheltenham, not only for the decline in volume resulting long-term, steady and profitable sales growth.
The industrial from the global economic recession but also in anticipation and commercial steam-using market is highly fragmented of the volume transfer to our new manufacturing plant in and although Spirax Sarco is the market leader, we still have China.
Additionally, we recently announced a reduction in significant growth opportunities.
our manufacturing footprint at Chtellerault, France, also in line with our global manufacturing strategy.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual report and accounts 2009 7 An interview with Mark Vernon continued Chief Executive Officer Increasing Watson-Marlows capability in offering high purity... particularly in the biopharm sector.
Sharpening our edge by investing in our manufacturing processes We completed the construction of a completely sterile 6.3 million silicone tubing extrusion plant in Falmouth, enabling Watson-Marlow to offer high purity pumping solutions to its customers in the biopharm sector.
8 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual report and accounts 2009 We believe the underlying industry drivers are favourable for are midway through a four-year 50 million capital long-term growth.
For the steam business, energy prices are investment programme, having recently completed the at historic highs and the emphasis on reducing emissions new tube extrusion facility in Falmouth, England.
The new is becoming increasingly important: these factors provide manufacturing plant in China will begin production late a nice tailwind.
We are reaping the benefits of our solutions Q2 2010.
The consolidation of the three manufacturing approach to problem solving as customers increase the facilities onto one site at our major manufacturing location in outsourcing of design and maintenance: customers are Cheltenham, England will be mostly completed by year-end looking for simple, single-source transactions to solve their 2010.
Some production has already been transferred into local maintenance, operations, product quality and capacity the first refurbished buildings and we should see the cost expansion issues.
Our ability to effectively bundle a wide reduction, efficiency and stock reduction benefits from this range of products and pre-fabricated engineered packages site consolidation starting in 2011. backed up by our installation and commissioning services, Despite the challenging market environment in 2009, we is simply the best and is unmatched by any competitor.
increased our investment in R&D by over 20% and have We increasingly expand on a simple troubleshooting sales begun to generate a stronger flow of new products whilst call, to audit an entire steam system and provide a range shortening the time to market.
There are a number of of engineered solutions in a single transaction that exciting new product development programmes underway customers value.
in both the steam business and Watson-Marlow, and we We are widening our range of products and site services expect new products to make an increasing contribution to to expand our market reach.
Our technically expert direct sales growth.
We were particularly pleased to win the UKs sales force allows us to leverage our brands into new IChemE 2009 Innovation and Excellence Award in Energy products and applications.
This increases the amount with a packaged Flash Recovery Energy Management of plant spend that we can capture in small-scale capital Equipment system.
The Board has approved the creation of projects and maintenance activities that are at the heart of a new R&D development and test centre at our Cheltenham our business.
There remains good growth potential, whether manufacturing site that will increase our testing capability to in the developing economies of Asia and South America or much higher live steam temperatures, pressures and flow in the large and more mature markets of western Europe rates we believe this new test centre will be the worlds and North America, as we apply tailored market largest and most advanced facility of its type.
We are taking advantage of our global purchasing power One of our major tasks at our Watson-Marlow business to consolidate purchasing volumes with fewer key suppliers is to educate customers about the intrinsic advantages of our cast, wrought and forged metals.
This has resulted in of peristaltic pumps so that they will increasingly be used material cost benefits in the past several years, and we expect to solve difficult pumping problems.
The product range further benefit in 2010 to our materials and freight costs.
is being progressively widened and developed, making We have developed online based tools to improve the use of improved electronics and materials to broaden the technical training of our sales engineers around the world addressable market by taking business from other pump and speed up their development process.
All these factors make peristaltics one of the fastest are implementing information collection and sharing software growing sectors of the global positive displacement pump to improve our ability to utilise application knowledge and market.
As we widen the possible applications for our provide a forum to accommodate greater knowledge sharing pumps, we see increasing opportunities, including hygienic amongst work groups across our global sales network.
applications in pharmaceuticals, biotechnology and the food industries.
People lie at the core of every business and we have high expectations of performance from our people.
We have We continue to make complementary bolt-on acquisitions taken steps to upgrade the quality of professional human to build our product portfolio, introduce new technologies resource leadership in guiding our progression to a more and speed access to geographic markets.
During 2009 performance-based culture throughout the organisation.
We we acquired MasoSine, a supplier of unique sinusoidal have articulated a concise set of core values and leadership pumps that extends the application range of our existing competencies that are being implemented worldwide.
line of Watson-Marlow hygienic pumps.
We also acquired the business of our Turkish distributor, Inter Valf Sanaya five Ticaret, to build a direct presence in this important and developing market.
Mark Vernon Chief Executive Officer How is Spirax Sarco sharpening its edge?
The Group is making a significant investment in modernising its manufacturing processes and facilities to improve efficiency and reduce operating costs.
We Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual report and accounts 2009 9
