Chief exeCutives report and Business review EBITDA PBT m m Reported 151.0 10.7 Realised FX Profit 14.2 14.2 IAS 39 FX Fair Value adjustment on forward currency contracts - 12.6 Profit on disposal of listed investments - 1.0 Derecognition of investments held by KSF - 53.1 Dave Forsey Chief Executive Exceptional items - 30.5 Fair value adjustment within associates - 1.7 Underlying 136.8 68.2 overview of finanCial performanCe In the 52 weeks ended 26 April 2009 the Year, Group revenue was up 8.6% at 1,367m compared with revenue of 1,260m for the 52 weeks ended 27 April 2008.
At constant exchange rates the increase was 5.1%.
UK Retail sales were Capital expenditure in the Year amounted to 37.8m 2008: 128.8m.
This up 5.1% and broke through 1bn again to 1,006m 2008: 958m.
Adjusted for included acquisitions of retail property, plant and equipment, including 6.4m acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries, UK Retail sales in 2009 increased by 2008: 90.6m on freehold property.
The Group continues to operate comfortably within it banking covenants.
Our The Group strengthened revenues in other core business segments.
facilities are in place until April 2011 and we will commence discussions with International retail sales were up 32.3% to 102.3m 2008: 77.3m : on a our banks during the 2009-10 financial year.
currency neutral basis the increase was 12.6%.
Brands division revenue rose 19.7% to 230.5m 2008:192.6m : 4.7% on a currency neutral basis.
Within the Mindful that the financial markets remain difficult, we consider it is prudent that division, wholesale revenues were up 18.7% to 203.6m 2008: 171.5m and debt reduction should be priority.
We are therefore targeting to reduce levels to licensing revenues were up 27.5% to 26.9m 2008: 21.1m, both reflecting below 400m by April 2010, which will be achieved by: the full year impact of acquisitions in the prior year including Everlast, and the effect of a stronger US dollar.
Growing EBITDA Group gross margin in the Year fell by 280 basis points from 43.6% to 40.8%.
In Working capital turning positive by the year end, as we reduce inventory the Retail division margin fell by 300 basis points to 41.3% 2008: 44.3%.
The levels through the year main contributor to the fall in margin was UK Retail where margin fell to 42.5% 2008: 45.7% as a result of the adverse movement of the US dollar and the Targeting a reduced level of capital expenditure, in the region of 20m, in challenging trading environment in the UK.
Had the pound dollar exchange rate the current year remained at 2008 levels, gross margin in UK Retail would have been maintained at 45.7%.
Further reductions in financing costs as a result of ongoing low interest rates and the reduction in debt Gross margin fell in the Brands division from 40.2% to 38.3%, due to the pressure on margins in the wholesale business in an increasingly competitive Saving the cost of the final dividend global market.
Net debt at year end decreased to 431.3m 2008: 465.2m, 20.3m of the Administration costs include a realised exchange profit of 14.2m compared reduction resulted from the accounting treatment of the arrangements with to a profit of 3.5m in the preceding year.
The fair value adjustment on forward Kaupthing Singer and Friedlander see page 11. foreign exchange contracts required under IFRS is included in finance income 2008:costs and this unrealised profit amounted to 12.6m as opposed to a 5.2m loss in 2008.
These amounts are excluded from the definition of Underlying profit before tax and Underlying EBITDA used in the business and as reported here.
The Groups holding of forward foreign exchange contracts has greatly reduced during the Year, reducing an element of potential volatility in reported profit, and we expect the holding to continue at or below the current low level in 2009 10.
Group Underlying EBITDA for the Year fell 8.9% to 136.8m 2008: 150.2m and Group Underlying profit before tax fell 20.2% to 68.2m 2008: 85.4m, in both cases due to the decreases in margin.
There is a significant difference between Underlying and the lower reported profits before tax.
Underlying profits before tax and Underlying EBITDA exclude exceptional items, which decreased profit by 30.5m, realised exchange profit loss and IFRS revaluation of foreign currency contracts, which increased 2009 profits by 14.2m and 12.6m respectively, a 1.8m loss on fair value adjustments within associated undertakings and a 52.1m non-cash loss in the recorded value of investments previously provided for through equity and now charged to the Income Statement as a result of the derecognition of the investment for accounting purposes.
Sports Direct International PLC Annual Report 2009 3 Chief exeCutives report and Business review Continued review By Business seGment None of the home nations qualified for the Euro 2008 football championships.
Undoubtedly sales in 2008-09, particularly in the first half, were significantly 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended affected by that lack of home nations participation in a major international 26 April 2009 27 April 2008 Change football competition.
m m % Gross margin in the division during the Year was adversely affected by the weakness of the pound against the US dollar.
Margin in the division fell from retail revenue: 44.3% to 41.3% in the Year, and in the UK from 45.7% to 42.5%, with the UK Retail 1,006.5 957.7 greatest fall in margin coming in the second half of the Year.
Almost all the Group branded goods that we sell in our stores are bought in US dollars, and UK wholesale and other 28 31.9 we calculate the cost price of these goods in sterling by applying the average exchange rate for the year.
Had the pound dollar exchange rate remained at International Retail 102.3 77.3 2008 levels gross margin in UK Retail would have been 45.7%.
We expect the percentage margins in 2009-10 to remain at similar levels to the actual level in 2008-09. total 1,136.8 1,066.9 6.6 UK Retail like-for-like gross contribution increased by 2.5% over the 12 month period.
This is the first time we have reported this KPI.
Cost of sales 667.5 594.7 Underlying costs in UK Retail were closely controlled, rising by only 0.7% in the Year, in spite of significant increases in the cost of energy, the minimum wage, an increase in floor space and a rise in sales of just over 5%.
Gross margin 469.3 472.2 Gross margin percentage 41.3% 44.3% During the Year the Office of Fair Trading OFT investigated our acquisition of stores from JJB Sports, and concluded that in five locations they raised some concerns.
We are currently working with the OFT to agree undertakings regarding divestment of five stores.
Brands revenue: Wholesale 203.6 171.5 International Retail revenue for the 52 weeks was up 32.3% to 102.3m 2008: 77.3m.
On a currency neutral basis the sales increase was 12.6%.
We Licensing 26.9 21.1 opened seven new stores across Europe in the period, in line with our plans for developing our international store portfolio, and trading has been satisfactory in those new stores.
total 230.5 192.6 19.7 International Retail grew gross margin by 170 basis points, largely due to improved stock control and sourcing.
Cost of sales 142.2 115.1 By July 2008 trial branded areas within stores had been opened in 121 of the larger ITAT stores in China, stocked with a bespoke product range designed and manufactured for the Chinese market.
We were extremely pleased with Gross margin 88.3 77.5 the execution of the roll out and merchandising of the branded areas and Gross margin percentage 38.3% 40.2% feedback was that the product range was well received by consumers.
We were in discussions with ITAT management concerning the development of the business, and some issues were proving difficult to resolve, but ITAT has very recently been acquired by one of its largest suppliers, and those discussions are Business review now on hold.
Accordingly, we consider it prudent to make a provision against the Despite tough economic conditions, revenue grew in both the Retail and cost of fixtures, fittings and stock currently held in China.
Brands divisions, but underlying EBITDA fell notwithstanding good cost control across the Group, almost entirely due to the strengthening of the US dollar.
We Our internet retail business continues to grow strongly, albeit from a low base, continue to focus our efforts on UK Retail, where our attention to the basics of and we continue to build systems and fulfilment capability within our Shirebrook retailing leaves us well positioned for growth.
retail division store portfolio The Groups retail businesses performed strongly in a very difficult economic As of 26 April 2009, we operated 359 stores in the UK excluding Northern environment.
Our retail model, offering considerable value to our customers, Ireland, a total retail sales space of circa 3.5m sq ft 2008: circa 3.4m sq ft. proved as resilient as we expected it to be both in the UK and internationally.
Through the Groups 42.5% shareholding in the Heatons chain, it has products in eight stores in Northern Ireland and 22 stores in the Republic of Ireland.
We focused on back to basics, offering the customer the most comprehensive range and the best product availability, and reducing our costs wherever We closed a net 16 stores in the year, with 27 new Sports Direct stores opened possible, By way of example, in our Corporate and Social Responsibility Report in the UK including three relocations.
All new stores are operating under the we describe some of the steps that we took to reduce our energy consumption sportsdirect.
We closed or disposed of 40 stores excluding the three at a time when energy costs were increasing significantly.
We continued to relocations which were typically smaller non-core stores.
review our store portfolio carefully, looking at the performance of each store and ways of maximising it, and examined rigorously every proposal to open We have rigorous criteria that must be satisfied before any new store opening or or acquire a retail outlet.
We continued to develop our store layout, and to acquisition is agreed, and we will continue to apply them.
We are now targeting incentivise our store staff in ways that encourage better performance.
Our circa between 10 and 15 new core stores in the UK excluding Northern Ireland state-of-the-art national distribution centre at Shirebrook continued to deliver this year.
Internationally, as at 26 April 2009 we operated 43 stores in Belgium, 13 in Sales in the division rose by 6.6% 10.3% excluding the impact of prior year Slovenia, four in Holland, two in Cyprus and one in Luxembourg.
The stores in disposals, and in the UK by 5.1% 9.2% excluding prior year disposals.
In the Belgium, Holland, Luxembourg and Slovenia are wholly owned by the Group, second half of the Year sales growth accelerated due to both the impact of and those in Cyprus are within a store under an agreement with a local retailer.
new store openings, the attractiveness of our offer compared with that of our We continue with our strategy to identify partners in new territories whilst competitors, and product availability.
continuing to expand our operations in the countries where we currently trade.
We continued to work well with our major third party brand suppliers.
Nike, Umbro, adidas, Reebok and Puma all have their own offices in our Shirebrook head office, and that enables us to work very closely with them on a day to day basis.
During the Year we strengthened our running category, through our partnership with Sweatshop and the creation of a she runs he runs section within our UK stores.
4 Chief Executives Report & Business Review Brands division Total Brands revenue was up 19.7% to 230.5m 2008: 192.6m up 4.7% on a currency neutral basis.
Within this, wholesale revenue was up 18.7% to 203.6m 2008: 171.5m.
Gross margin decreased to 38.3% from 40.2%, due to the need to remain competitive in a number of markets in order to retain market share in a difficult trading environment.
The consolidation of the Brands division management into Shirebrook continued, and costs were tightly controlled as systems and controls were standardised.
Payroll costs in the division reduced significantly.
Growth in the licensing business remains the preferred avenue for development of the Brands business outside the UK and 41 new licensing agreements were signed during the Year with a minimum guaranteed contract value of 60m US dollars over their terms, including licences in the United States for Donnay rackets and golf, Lonsdale boxing equipment, Dunlop sports apparel and Kangol clothing.
The business continues to sponsor and receive endorsements from leading players and tournaments including Slazengers 107th year as the official ball supplier for the Wimbledon championships, sponsorship of Paul Collingwood, Englands captain at the ICC World Twenty20 cricket competition, and the England mens and womens national hockey teams.
During the Year we greatly expanded our cycle category following the acquisition of Universal Cycles, and launched our online cycle business, cyclesdirect.
We also acquired the 20% minority shareholding in Lonsdale Sports not previously owned by the Group.
During the Year we made a number of small brands acquisitions such as Golddigga.
Operating costs increased in the division due to the full year inclusion of acquisitions such as Everlast, and the impact of the weak pound on non-sterling costs when translated into sterling.
strateGiC investments During the Year we reduced our strategic investments in other related businesses.
We still believe that in the right circumstances taking strategic investments is beneficial for the Group, and the Board will continue to evaluate opportunities.
However strategic investments compete with other priorities, including debt reduction, for cash, and it is unlikely that further significant investments will be made in the short term.
In addition, as explained in the Financial Review on page 11, we have for accounting purposes derecognised the strategic investments held through arrangements with Kaupthing Singer and Friedlander.
ContraCts essential to the Business of the Group The Group has long established relationships with Nike and adidas, the major suppliers of third party branded sporting goods, particularly footwear, and considers that continued supplies from these companies is critical to the business of the Group.
main trends and faCtors likely to affeCt the future development and performanCe of the Groups Businesses The Groups retail businesses will undoubtedly be affected by the economic climate and changes in it.
Changes in interest rates and exchange rates affect the businesses directly, and consumer confidence and spending is affected by a wide range of factors including employment, tax and interest rates, house prices and the general feel good factor, most if not all of which the Group cannot influence.
The above factors also influence and impact on our many retail competitors, who may also be affected by other matters relating to the general economic climate, such as the availability of finance, and also our suppliers may react differently to the changing economic environment.
All of the above apply equally to our Brands businesses, both wholesale and retail.
Reduction in customer demand is reflected in the wholesaling and licensing business, as orders and royalties are affected.
Moreover, in difficult economic times suppliers come under increasing pressure to reduce their prices to their customers, and all suppliers run the risk of their customers ceasing to trade, reducing demands for their products.
Difficult economic times also sometimes make it difficult for suppliers to obtain credit insurance in respect of some customers, leaving the supplier with a difficult question of whether or not to supply and, if they do, with the attendant risk of bad debts.
Sports Direct International PLC Annual Report 2009 5 Chief exeCutives report and Business review Continued We have later in this report commented on risks and uncertainties that relate to the Groups businesses, and while we manage risks to reduce, where possible, the likelihood of their occurring and their impact if they do, they are factors that could influence the Group or part of it.
We anticipate that the football World Cup in 2010 will be a major opportunity for the UK Retail business, but given the likely launch of new football strips in March - a month later than in previous years - its impact subject to qualification of the home nations and in particular England will come later in the calendar year than hitherto, and will be largely reflected in the 201011 financial year.
As previously commented, the Groups holding of forward foreign exchange contracts has greatly reduced during the Year, reducing an element of potential volatility in reported profit, and we expect the holding to continue at or below the current low level in 200910. environmental matters A review of the assessment of the Groups impact on the environment, is included in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on page 29. employees The hard work and loyalty of our employees are key to our success, and we intend to motivate them and enable them to share in the Groups success by seeking shareholder approval at the AGM for a new bonus scheme.
The bonus scheme is intended to drive underlying EBITDA, and to motivate and help improve retention of key employees, to encourage those employees participation in the shares of the Company and to align the interests of those employees and shareholders.
All permanent UK employees in UK Retail, Brands and Head Office with at least one years service at the beginning of 2009 10 will participate.
The scheme will replace, where relevant, existing annual bonus schemes, but not workplace based schemes.
The bonus targets are stretch targets, and are net of scheme costs.
The bonus is in two stages.
The first bonus is 25% of base pay in shares at 1.00 per share.
The first bonus target is Underlying EBITDA of 155m in 2009-10.
The first bonus will vest two years after the EBITDA target of 155m is reached, and is subject to continuous employment until then.
The second bonus is 75% of base pay in shares at 1.25 per share.
The second stage of the bonus is conditional upon the first bonus target being met in 2009-10, and the second bonus targets are Underlying EBITDA of 195m in 2010-2011, and Underlying EBITDA Net Debt ratio of 2 or less at the end of 2010-11.
The shares vest, subject to continuous employment until then, 2 years after the second bonus targets are met.
shireBrook Campus The Group continues to invest in infrastructure, and the process of consolidating the Brands business, including acquired businesses, at Shirebrook continues.
risks and unCertainties relatinG to the Groups Business Risks are an inherent part of the business world.
The Group has identified the following factors as potential risks to, and uncertainties concerning, the successful operation of its business.
supply Chain Any disruption or other adverse event affecting the Groups relationship with any of its major manufacturers or suppliers, or a failure to replace any of its major manufacturers or suppliers on commercially reasonable terms, could have an adverse effect on the Groups business, operating profit or overall financial condition.
foreiGn exChanGe risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the US dollar and Euro.
Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial transactions or recognised assets or liabilities are denominated in a currency that is not the entitys functional currency, as exchange rates move.
As explained above, in the Groups case, the majority of contracts relating to the sourcing of Group branded goods are denominated in US dollars, and a strengthening of the dollar or a weakening of the pound sterling makes those goods more expensive.
6 Chief Executives Report & Business Review sales The Group historically hedged the risk of currency movements using forward The Groups retail businesses are subject to seasonal peaks.
The incidence purchases of foreign currency, but has determined to reduce that hedging and participation in major sporting events will have a particular impact on the significantly.
Prolonged unseasonal weather conditions or temporary severe weather during peak trading seasons could also have a material The Group also holds assets overseas in local currency, and these assets are adverse effect on the Groups businesses.
revalued in accordance with currency movements.
This currency risk is not hedged.
Consumers The Groups success and sales are dependent, in part, on the strength and interest rate risk reputation of the brands it sells, and are subject to consumers perceptions of The Group has net borrowings, which are principally at floating interest rates the Group and of its products, which can fall out of favour.
Adverse publicity linked to bank base rates or LIBOR.
The Group does not use interest rate concerning any of the Group brands or manufacturers or suppliers could lead financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate movements.
to substantial erosion in the reputation of, or value associated with, the Group.
Credit risk researCh and development The Group could have a credit risk if credit evaluations were not performed The Groups success depends on the strength of the Group brands and, to on all customers requiring credit over a certain amount.
The Group does not a lesser extent, the licensed-in brands.
The Groups efforts to continually require collateral in respect of financial assets.
develop or obtain brands in a timely manner or at all may be unsuccessful.
fundinG and liquidity risk Funding and liquidity for the Groups operations are provided through bank manaGement and mitiGation of risk loans, overdrafts and shareholders funds.
The object is to maintain sufficient The identification and management of risk is a continuous process, and funding and liquidity for the Groups requirements, but the availability of the Groups system of internal controls and the Groups business continuity adequate cash resources from bank facilities and achieving continuity of programmes are key elements of that.
The Group maintains a system of funding in the current financial climate could be a risk to the Group in future controls to manage the business and to protect its assets.
invest in people, systems and in IT to manage the Groups operations and its finances effectively and efficiently.
investment risk The Group also holds shares in publicly listed companies and fluctuations in The Group has a credit policy in place and the exposure to risk is monitored their share prices will have a financial impact on the business results.
Credit evaluations are performed on all customers requiring credit over a certain amount, and concentration of credit risk is relianCe on non uk manufaCturers managed.
Investment of cash surplus, borrowings and derivative investments The Group is reliant on manufacturers in developing countries as the are made through banks and companies which have credit ratings and majority of the Groups products are sourced from outside the UK.
The Group investment criteria approved by the Board.
is therefore subject to the risks associated with international trade and transport as well as those relating to exposure to different legal and other The Groups follows policies of forging long term relationships with suppliers standards.
and of utilising two leading supply chain companies to procure much of the Groups own branded goods is described on page 29 in the Corporate pensions and Social Responsibility Report.
Many risks relating to the supply chain, Some subsidiaries in the Group make contributions to certain occupational reliance on non-UK suppliers, and to the reputation of the Groups brands are defined benefits pension schemes.
An increase in the Schemes funding needs managed and mitigated by the implementation of those policies.
or changes to obligations in respect of the schemes could have an adverse impact on the Groups business.
Close monitoring of the market, competitors, the economy, consumer confidence, participation in major sporting events, the weather, companies market forCes in which the Group holds strategic stakes, the behaviour of licensees, and The sports retail industry is highly competitive and the Group currently of possible infringement of intellectual property, and the development of competes at national and local levels with a wide variety of retailers of varying contingency plans and rapid response to changing circumstances manages sizes who may have competitive advantages, and new competitors may enter and does much to mitigate the risks caused by these factors.
Such competition continues to place pressure on the Groups pricing strategy, margins and profitability.
The Group maintains close contact with its bank and will address the renewal of its facilities in 2009 10. operational Any significant disruption to the operations of the Group, divisional head The business continuity programme addresses the risk of disruption to offices and the national distribution centre at Shirebrook, or interruption to the Shirebrook campus.
Accordingly the Board is confident that as far as is the smooth running of the Groups fleet of vehicles, might significantly impact practical the risks and uncertainties that face the Group are being monitored its ability to manage its operations, distribute products to its stores and and managed and that where required appropriate action is being taken.
Any long term interruption of the Groups IT systems would have a significant impact on the Groups operation, particularly in the Retail division.
Business Continuity and aCts of terrorism The majority of the Groups revenue is derived from the UK and accordingly any terrorist attacks, armed conflicts or government actions within the UK could result in a significant reduction in consumer confidence, which would in turn have an adverse affect on sales in stores.
leGal The Groups trade marks, patents, designs and other intellectual property rights are central to the value of the Group brands.
Third parties may try to challenge the ownership or counterfeit the Groups intellectual property.
The Group may need to resort to litigation in the future to enforce its intellectual property rights and any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources.
The Group believes that its licensees, suppliers, agents and distributors are in material compliance with employment, environmental and other laws.
The violation, or allegations of a violation, of such laws or regulations, by any of the Groups licensees, suppliers, agents or distributors, could lead to adverse publicity and a decline in public demand for the Groups products, or require the Group to incur expenditure or make changes to its supply chain and other business arrangements to ensure compliance.
Sports Direct International PLC Annual Report 2009 7 Chief exeCutives report and Business review Continued key performanCe indiCators The Board monitors the performance of the Group by reference to a number of key performance indicators KPIs, which are discussed fully in this Chief Executives Report and Business Review, and also in the Financial Review, and in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on pages 9 to 12 and 28 to 30 respectively.
The most important of these KPIs are: 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 26 April 2009 27 April 2008 financial kpis Group revenue 1,367m 1,260m 1 Underlying EBITDA 136.8m 150.2m UK Retail gross margin 42.5% 45.7% UK Retail like-for-like stores 2 gross contribution 2.5% - 3 Underlying earnings per share 7.93p 8.57p non financial kpis 4 No.
of core stores 292 272 Customer complaints % 5 change -7.49% - 6 Employee turnover 29.0% 38.4% Cardboard recycling 6,007 tonnes 5,558 tonnes 1 The way in which Underlying EBITDA is calculated is set out in the Financial Review on page 9.
2 Like-for-like gross contribution for UK Retail is percentage change in successive 12 month periods.
Like-for-like gross contribution is adjusted to eliminate the impact of foreign currency movements.
A likefor-like store is one that has been trading for the full 12 months in both periods, and has not been affected by a significant change such as a refit.
Store gross contribution is the excess of sales revenue net of VAT over the cost of goods sold.
The gross contribution would only be adjusted if a significant promotion affected the comparison.
This is the first year that this KPI has been reported.
3 The way in which Underlying earnings per share is calculated is set out in the Financial Review on page 10.
4 A core store is a store acquired and fitted out by the Group or otherwise so designated.
5 The monitoring of customer complaints is described in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on page 28.
Records containing complaints received prior to the beginning of 2007-08 were not retained, and accordingly annual percentage change in customer complaints in 2008 is not available.
6 Employee turnover was affected in both the Year and in 2007-08 by the relocation of head office, retail and brand support functions, and warehousing and distribution activities to Shirebrook throughout these periods.
our strateGy for Growth We will focus on growing the core UK Retail business by continuing to drive efficiencies and deliver outstanding value to our customers.
We have established an excellent platform for growth, which we will build on with our proposed EBITDA related share bonus scheme.
In order to develop our store portfolio, both in the UK and internationally, we will continue to evaluate opportunities and will take them when we believe there is quantifiable and significant benefit in doing so.
We have learned valuable lessons in China that we will be able to apply both there and in other parts of the world.
Outside the UK our brands business will focus on licensing opportunities and continue to restructuring of the wholesale businesses.
We will continue to invest in our Brands through advertising and promise to spend and develop grass roots initiatives.
We believe that making acquisitions and taking strategic investments in other related businesses is beneficial for the Group, and we will continue to evaluate opportunities while, for the time being, being mindful of the priority to reduce debt.
outlook for the Current year The Board is confident that our initiatives and hard work across all areas of the Group leaves us well positioned for the next phase of growth.
Accordingly, at current exchange rates, we are expecting Underlying EBITDA to be at least 140m this financial year.
dave forsey Chief Executive 16 July 2009 8 Chief Executives Report & Business Review
