Scottish and Southern Energy 08 Annual Report 2009 Chief Executives Statement Purpose and Strategy SSEs core purpose is to provide the energy people need in a reliable and Dividend sustainable way.
In line with this, its strategy has been and will continue to be the delivery of sustained real growth in the dividend payable to shareholders through the efficient operation of, and 9.
1% higher investment in, a balanced range of regulated and non-regulated energyrelated businesses.
than las t year Within this strategic framework, SSE will continue to focus on enhancing and creating value for shareholders from its energy-related activities in the UK and Ireland and, over time, from the development of a European renewable SSEs first responsibility to energy business.
shareholders is to deliver sustained Financial Principles real growth in the dividend.
At 66.0p, Implementation of the strategy will continue to be founded on SSEs wellthe recommended full-year dividend is established financial principles.
These 9.1% higher than in the previous year.
principles are the: k effective management of core businesses: k maintenance of a strong balance sheet: k rigorous analysis to ensure investments are well-founded and, where appropriate, innovative: k deployment of a selective and disciplined approach to acquisitions: k use of purchase in the market of the companys own shares as the benchmark against which financial decisions are taken: and, most fundamentally of all, k delivery of sustained real dividend growth.
Delivery Against Purpose, Strategy and Principles SSE has six core values The Board is recommending a final the SSE SET against which dividend of 46.2p per share, making it has key performance indicators.
a full-year dividend of 66.0p, an increase of 9.1% on the previous year.
The fullyear dividend payment for 2008 09 is Safety Service Efficiency Sustainability Excellence Teamwork covered 1.57 times by SSEs adjusted profit after tax and is more than double the dividend per share paid seven years We believe all accidents are preventable, so we aim ago, in 2001 02. to do everything safely and responsibly, or not at all.
This means we believe all of our work can and should Through investment and acquisition, be carried out without any harm to employees, the Regulated Asset Value RAV of SSEs contractors, customers or any other people.
energy networks businesses has doubled in six years, to 4.7bn including SGN, and Lost-time and Reportable Injury Rate the capacity of SSEs power stations has per 100,000 Hours Worked doubled in seven years, to 10.7 gigawatts GW.
As a result of effective management 2009 0.07 0.07 of core businesses, the number of 2008 0.04 customer accounts to which SSE supplies energy has also doubled in seven years, 2007 0.05 to over nine million.
This, allied to SSEs Scottish and Southern Energy 09 Annual Report 2009 expansion in contracting, connections, Outlook for 2009 10 and Beyond metering, gas storage and other The economic outlook for 2009 10 remains businesses makes SSE the biggest and uncertain and the timing, speed and extent broadest-based energy company in the UK.
of any recovery are all open to question.
Against this background, SSE offers three Future Environment key advantages.
In October 2008, the UK Industry Task Force on Peak Oil, of which SSE is a First, its core purpose is to provide energy member, published a report, The Oil something which people need, rather than Crunch, which stated that a peak in want.
Second, its strategy of maintaining cheap, easily available oil production a balanced range of regulated and nonis likely to be reached as early as 2013. regulated energy-related businesses It said that the key to all three threats reduces the risk associated with any facing the UK, Ireland and other countries particular business activity and provides energy security, climate change and a broad platform from which to maintain peak oil is immediate and rapid sustained real dividend growth.
Third, acceleration in our use of non-fossil that over-riding financial goal sustained sources of energy, and reduction in the real dividend growth is reasonable overall demand for energy.
The requirement for such an immediate Against this background, SSEs priorities and rapid acceleration in the use of nonduring 2009 10 are to: fossil sources of energy has been put on a statutory footing in the European Union, k work in a safe and responsible manner: with the adoption of the Renewable k achieve excellence in all aspects of Energy Directive, and in the UK, with customer service, including energy the passing of the Climate Change Act.
networks: This means it is no longer sustainable k increase the number of customers in any sense for energy companies to in energy supply and home services: develop their business on the basis of k ensure power stations maintain a high ever-increasing consumption: indeed, level of availability to generate electricity: the reverse is the case.
k deliver efficient investment throughout its activities, especially in the major Implications for SSE projects in generation, electricity Thoughts on SSE believes that the energy price networks and gas storage: and In the following pages Chief Executive volatility which the world experienced k sustain through the economic Ian Marchant gives his perspective on during 2008 was a foretaste of what is downturn its other businesses key issues which SSE is dealing with likely to happen as the supply of finite such as contracting, connections as it works to fulfil its core purpose resources like oil and gas begins to and telecoms.
of providing the energy people need struggle to keep pace with the demand.
in a reliable and sustainable way.
Ian Marchant Chief Executive While the economic slowdown is likely to postpone for a time the full impact of this being felt in the UK and elsewhere, it will not prevent it.
Dividend pence per share For SSE, this means: k producing electricity in a more 66.0 sustainable way with new developments in generation that 60.5 make better use of the worlds natural resources: 55.0 k helping make electricity and gas more affordable by offering ways to enable and encourage customers to take 46.5 control of, and be more efficient in, 42.5 their use of energy: k ensuring the distribution of energy 37.7 remains reliable, as sources and use 35.0 of electricity and gas change, through 32.4 investment in networks: and 30.0 k providing more gas storage capacity 27.5 for the UK to maintain dependable 25.7 supplies of energy as the peak of easily available oil and gas production 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 approaches.
