operating profit growth 31.4% Before one-off charges in 2007 08 SSL has achieved its financial targets In addition, we have invested in our condom factory for the past three years you must be pleased.
in Thailand, to increase global productivity and flexibility.
I am delighted with the progress we have made.
Our target New, state-of-the-art facilities at our Peterlee factory was to achieve double digit operating profit growth in each in the United Kingdom will support growth of our of the three years until 2008 09, and we have achieved pharmaceutical products.
that comfortably in difficult trading conditions.
A testament SSL recently gave notice to exercise its to the strength of our brands, our continued investment option to increase its stake in the company that in innovation to bring new products to market, our ongoing owns Contex, which is sold in Russia and the CIS.
ability to control costs, and astute investment in future What role does this and other acquisitions have growth opportunities.
How We have said for some time now that organic growth confident are you of meeting them in the current of the business will be supplemented by key acquisitions economic downturn?
either of products to develop our brand portfolios, or We believe we are well positioned to build on our strong of businesses to gain exposure to new consumers and operating and financial platforms.
Our core brands, Durex markets.
In April this year, we gave notice to exercise our and Scholl, continue to meet consumer needs regularly option to increase our stake, from 15.5 per cent to 50 per bringing new products to the market.
The restructuring cent plus one share, in BLBV, the company that distributes of our supply chain over the past few years has improved the Contex condom brand in Russia, as well as exercising efficiency and is increasing capacity: and our increased the option to acquire the company that distributes Contex presence in emerging consumer markets provides real in Ukraine.
We have a final option to buy the remaining opportunities for long-term growth.
Of course, we shares of BLBV to take us to 100 per cent ownership, acknowledge and understand that we are operating in which is likely to be exercised in February 2010. one of the toughest recessions in living memory but We have been delighted with our initial investment we remain optimistic.
Many sectors within the personal in BLBV, and the underlying performance of the business care market are comparatively resilient to the current has been in line with our expectations.
We believe that the economic climate, we have limited exposure to the Contex brand, backed by excellent distribution across the American consumer market, and our ongoing investment region to a growing number of consumers, has the potential in training and staff development is producing some to take SSL to a new level of success.
outstanding individual and team performances.
This year has also seen us acquire the Swiss condom brand Crest, the number two brand in that Your new condom factory in China opens in country with a market share of 32 per cent.
How will this and other developments to your operating platform contribute to sales growth?
It has been another good year for Scholl Our new factory in Qingdao, China will enable us to scale Footcare.
What is driving the brands strong up condom production for supply to the Chinese domestic performance?
consumer market and our planned expansion into Russia There are a number of factors.
The innovation team, and the Commonwealth of Independent States CIS.
working in partnership with foot experts, healthcare sales operating growth margin 20% 14% 08 09 Overview Annual Report and Accounts 2009 professionals and research institutes, have an in-depth understanding of consumer needs and how to meet them.
Its this combination New product development is quick to the market, and of strong brands, innovation, backed by marketing and advertising campaigns that not only position products effectively but also educate users expanding distribution on their key benefits.
This year, Scholl Deo-Activ Fresh, a capability and a motivated deodorising footspray that kills 99 per cent of the bacteria known to cause foot odour, has been launched successfully, team that makes SSL such an while Scholl Perfect Nail Treatment Nail Brightening System exciting place to be.
Our new continues to sell well across key markets.
Our acquisition of Orthaheel in late 2007 has now been integrated into the target, to grow EPS by 50 per footcare portfolio, and is performing well for us.
cent over the next three years, What are your plans for Durex?
is aggressive particularly in To continue delivering consistent sales growth across the brands product categories and commercial regions, the present climate but we and look for opportunities to bring new products to our are optimistic that we can consumers.
This year has seen the successful launch of Durex Play O, a gel that helps women orgasm more easily, the achieve it.
extension of our Durex Play 2in1 Massage range, and steady growth in condom sales.
The market for Durex products remains buoyant despite the credit crunch, and we expect this year to be another year of success for the brand.
You appear to be a business on the move how do you ensure that staff are aligned with the groups wider strategic objectives?
This is a subject we take very seriously.
SSL continues to invest in its employees training and development, and strives to create a positive and supportive working environment that fosters strong performance and entrepreneurial flair.
Sales We also want our staff to understand what the business as a whole is trying to achieve and, crucially, their part in helping 08 09 642.4m it to meet its objectives.
Our internal communications, 07 08 603.6m employee development initiatives and working culture 06 07 562.7m are all structured with this in mind.
At constant exchange rates Operating profit 08 09 89.5m 07 08 81.1m 06 07 75.3m At constant exchange rates EPS growth 35.9% Before one-off charges in 2007 08.
10 11 Overview Annual Report and Accounts 2009 THANK GOODNESS FOR THIS MOISTURE MOUSSE, JOSH HAS HAD ME RUNNING AROUND AFTER HIM ALL DAY.
I JUST NEED TO SORT MY TOES OUT WITH MY NAIL BRIGHTENING SYSTEM AND THEN ILL BE READY TO GO!
KATE WAS LOOKING FORWARD TO CATCHING UP WITH HER FRIENDS
