Chief Executives review We have had another strong year, reflecting the high quality of We have delivered strongly on our franchise commitments to our bus and rail operations, and our focus on delivering excellent Government, helping to significantly reduce the cost to taxpayers service and value for money to our customers.
These qualities of running the railways.
Our passengers at South Western Trains are more important than ever in the current economic and East Midlands Trains are benefiting from the investment we slowdown.
have made in our stations and our services.
We put forward a deliverable bid for the new South Central rail franchise, which One of our strengths is the ability to respond quickly to the reflected our view of the economic outlook.
We were changing operating environment.
Since the turn of the year, the disappointed not to win the franchise but will continue to transport sector as a whole has faced challenging trading evaluate opportunities to bid for new rail franchises.
However, we identified the implications for our business early and moved fast to manage the issues effectively.
As previously reported, we are in dispute with the Department for Transport DfT regarding revenue support matters under I also believe that the current economic slowdown presents the South Western rail franchise contract.
We have taken legal opportunities for dynamic companies like Stagecoach that are action to ensure the contractual commitments made by the DfT driven by innovation.
Issues around congestion and climate regarding the timing and scope of revenue support are met.
We change are becoming more immediate and public transport is have legal advice in support of our case and we remain confident central to a low carbon economy.
we are in a strong position.
We will continue to deliver on our Stagecoach is continuing to invest for long-term growth and we commitments to passengers and the Government.
have achieved further increases in like-for-like revenue across the Virgin Rail Group is now operating the full significant step-up in business.
Pricing is central to consumer decisions in the current rail services following the West Coast mainline upgrade project.
environment and we have further expanded our budget products Improvement works are continuing and Virgin Rail Group is over the past year, with more megabus.
com destinations in working closely with Network Rail to minimise the immediate North America and a new budget coach-rail service in the UK.
inconvenience on our customers and ensure they benefit from We have increased our focus on online marketing and sales long-term reliability on one of the UKs crucial rail arteries.
channels to reflect the changing purchasing habits of our I have no doubt that 2009 10 will present some challenges.
Our new Stagecoach web portal, However, I also believe we are better placed than most to come www.
com, will allow us to market our greener, through the recession.
We have a strong set of brands, the right smarter bus and rail services more effectively.
good value products for the current environment, and a track In our UK Bus Division, we have a successful formula of simple, record of innovation to exploit the opportunities ahead.
comprehensive bus networks offering good value, greener, Stagecoach has a robust and flexible business model and we will smarter travel.
Passenger volumes have grown further, even in continue to focus on high operational and trading performance.
the current weak economy, and we believe our bus operations We have a strong business for the long-term and I am confident will continue to perform well.
we will continue to deliver for our customers and our In North America, we have maintained our operating margin shareholders.
com, despite the weak economy.
Our scheduled and inter-city services are performing well, while our budget coach service megabus.
com is growing ahead of our expectations and leading this expanding market.
While the downturn has affected some of our leisure services, we have taken action to deliver efficiencies and match supply with demand, including the introduction of a new sightseeing joint venture in New York.
Much of the focus in the UK transport sector since the turn of the year has been on the impact of the weak economy on demand Brian Souter for rail travel.
There is no doubt that falling employment, Chief Executive particularly in and around London, has affected a number of rail 24 June 2009 operators, including Stagecoach.
However, we have quickly implemented a responsible cost reduction and restructuring plan that will deliver around 50m in annualised savings at our UK Rail Division.
Despite the uncertain environment, we have achieved rising levels of operational performance and I would like to thank our people for their commitment at what has been a difficult time for many personally.
