0920 T&L Front 01-59. qxd 12 6 09 16:24 Page 08 Overview of the year Chief Executives review Tate & Lyle delivered a sound set of results underpinned by continuing growth from core value added food ingredients.
Iain Ferguson CBE Overview Following a breakthrough in by 188 million.
The impact of Overall, Tate & Lyle delivered a sucralose manufacturing yields, exchange movements during the year, sound set of results.
Sales for the we have taken the decision to which increased debt by 378 million, year ended 31 March 2009 were mothball our McIntosh, Alabama was due principally to the weakness 3,553 million, 24% higher 8% in facility and produce all of our of sterling against the US dollar.
constant currency than the prior year.
sucralose from the newer and Adjusted profit before tax was 247 more efficient fourth-generation A well-financed business million, 2% lower 18% in constant facility in Singapore.
We have Tate & Lyle is a well-financed business currency than the prior year.
Profit recognised an exceptional charge with an inherent ability to generate before tax, after exceptional items and of 97 million in the 2009 financial strong cash flows.
In the year ended amortisation of acquired intangible year reflecting the impairment of 31 March 2009, the final year of our assets, decreased by 38% 47% in the carrying value of our McIntosh four-year major capital investment constant currency to 113 million.
Anticipated cash costs of programme, our total operations Adjusted diluted earnings per share of 60 million associated with this generated 245 million 2008 38.0p were 10% higher 8% decrease decision will be paid over three absorbed 160 million of cash after in constant currency, benefiting from years and recognised as an the payment of dividends.
Net debt at a lower effective tax rate of 27.3% exceptional charge in the year 31 March 2009 of 1,231 million was 2008 33.2%.
These cash 188 million lower than net debt at costs are expected to have a three 31 March 2008 before the effects of Exchange translation increased year payback resulting from the exchange.
A number of projects have adjusted profit before tax by reduced operating costs of having been established to reduce debt 49 million compared to the prior a single plant.
The McIntosh facility further and we are pleased with their year.
The strengthening of the US will retain a core group of employees progress to date.
dollar contributed 83% of this and, if needed, can be restarted increase, although it also reduced and begin manufacturing sucralose The key performance indicators KPIs the competitiveness of products within a few months.
of our financial strength, the ratio of from our US ingredients business net debt to earnings before interest, in overseas markets, particularly Net debt increased by 190 million tax, depreciation and amortisation Mexico and South America.
Before the effects EBITDA and interest cover, remain of exchange, net debt decreased within our internal targets.
08 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 0920 T&L Front 01-59. qxd 15 6 09 13:57 Page 09 At 31 March 2009 the net debt to At the same time, the opportunity ranging review of discretionary EBITDA ratio was 2.4 times 2008 2.5 was taken to re-engineer the plants expenditure and headcount reductions 1 times, compared to our internal target manufacturing footprint to provide across the business.
Management of of 2.5 times or less and comfortably additional flexibility to swing capacity capital expenditure is a key area of within our bank covenants.
Interest between key product lines.
Also in focus, and we will restrict expenditure cover on total operations at 31 March March 2009, the new biomass boiler to below the depreciation charge in 2009 was 6.1 times 2008 7.8 times, at our London sugar cane refinery the year ending 31 March 2010. again ahead of our internal target of was mechanically completed above 5.0 times and well ahead of our and commissioning work is Benefiting from a breakthrough bank covenants.
in sucralose manufacturing yields In the last year, our sucralose Return on net operating assets reduced In April 2009, in light of the continuing manufacturing facilities have achieved to 12.7% from 15.5% in the prior year.
short-term severe pressure on ethanol significant and sustainable yield This reduction was principally due to margins, we announced our decision improvements of over 25% which the lower returns from our EU sugar to postpone final completion of the have had the effect of significantly business, reduced profits from industrial construction and start-up of the new increasing production capacity.
starches and the investment in our corn wet mill at Fort Dodge, Iowa Consequently, we have taken the new corn wet mill in Fort Dodge, Iowa, until market conditions improve.
decision to mothball our McIntosh, which was not commissioned during Construction activities at the plant had Alabama facility, and produce all our the financial year.
been progressing satisfactorily and sucralose from our newer and more the facility is about 95% complete.
We efficient fourth generation facility in We continue to have a conservative are keeping the situation under review.
The McIntosh facility will debt maturity profile.
The Groups We continue to believe that the US retain a core group of employees and, undrawn committed bank facilities governments commitment to bio-fuels if needed, can be re-started and begin at 31 March 2009 were US$752 million through the Renewable Fuel Standard manufacturing sucralose within 524 million and, additionally, cash RFS underpins the future viability a few months.
Average of the US ethanol industry.
gross debt maturity at 31 March The McIntosh facility has played 2009 was 4.8 years.
Our next major Our investment programme has a key role in establishing the prominent refinancing is due in June 2011 when established a solid platform for future position of sucralose in the global the US$300 million 144A bond matures.
While the current economic high-intensity sweetener market.
environment has led utilisation rates The expansions of the facility from A solid platform for growth to be somewhat below our original 2004 were critical for the development Our four-year major capital investment expectations, our enhanced asset of sucralose as we had to move programme to support long-term base leaves us well positioned to swiftly to meet the surge in customer growth in our business was essentially benefit as market conditions improve.
demand that created the platform completed during the year.
Within this, the flexibility we have built for its subsequent success.
into our US plant network to switch The expansion of our corn wet mill between finished products gives us Our decision to mothball the in Sagamore, Indiana, to increase added protection against the impact McIntosh facility, made possible by capacity for a variety of value added of lower utilisation rates.
the breakthrough in manufacturing starches used by customers in dairy, yield achieved over the last 12 months, beverages, snacks and dressings, was Taking decisive actions will ensure that we remain the most commissioned in the 2008 financial to maximise cash flow efficient and lowest cost producer of year and is performing in line with To sustain the health of our business sucralose in the market.
Value added food in the face of challenging and will have no impact on our customers production has been a key area of unpredictable market conditions, as, due to the yield increases and our strategic focus and investment for we have taken a number of decisive ability to maintain high levels of safety Tate & Lyle over the past four years, actions to maximise cash flow and stocks, the Singapore facility has so it is pleasing to report that adjusted defend our profitability.
We have more than enough capacity to meet operating profit from core value added accelerated existing cost reduction current market needs.
Our SPLENDA food ingredients across the business projects, launched new cost reduction Sucralose business continues to in the year to 31 March 2009 increased projects and taken a number of tough perform well and we remain confident by 20% 3% in constant currency to decisions to ensure our cost base of its long-term future.
is appropriate in light of the new impacts arising from our decision to In March 2009 the second tranche economic realities.
Actions taken mothball the McIntosh plant are set of equipment required to meet design to date include initiatives to reduce out in the Overview section above capacity at our corn wet mill in Loudon, working capital, a pay freeze at all and the Exceptional items Tennessee was installed.
levels, plant shutdowns, a widesection on page 12.
1 In prior years, net debt for covenant calculation was translated at year-end exchange rates while EBITDA from continuing operations was translated at average exchange rates.
So that the ratio reflects the underlying economic conditions, an amendment was unanimously agreed with the participants in the US$1 billion Revolving Credit Facility that net debt and EBITDA be both calculated on average exchange rates.
Under the previous calculation, net debt EBITDA would have been 2.9 times 2008 2.6 times.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 09 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR 0920 T&L Front 01-59. qxd 15 6 09 14:42 Page 10 Overview of the year Chief Executives review continued Vision Strategy To create the worlds leading To build a stronger value added business renewable ingredients business.
Key performance indicators 1 1 Tate & Lyles Board and executive Net debt to EBITDA multiple Interest cover management see pages 60 to 62 Target max 2.5 times Target min 5.0 times monitor a range of financial and 2009 6.1 times 2009 2.4 times non-financial performance indicators, 2008 2.5 times 2008 7.8 times reported on a periodic basis, to 2007 8.4 times 2007 1.9 times measure the Groups performance 1 Measured by financial year on total operations 1 Measured by financial year on continuing operations over time.
Annual targets are set for and translating net debt at the same average base key performance indicators exchange rates as EBITDA Description.
This is the Groups total operating KPIs in line with the Companys profit before exceptional items and amortisation Description.
This is the number of times the strategic objectives.
divided by net finance expense, as defined in Groups net borrowing exceeds its trading cash our bank covenants.
Or, the number of times flow.
EBITDA is earnings before exceptional the profit of the Group exceeds interest items, interest, tax, depreciation and total payments made to service its debt.
Our interest cover remains above Comment.
We are within our target and our target.
comfortably within that of our bank covenants.
1 1 1 Return on net operating assets Energy use Safety index Target longer-term 20.0% Target 3.0% reduction Target zero 2009 12.7% 2008 zero 2008 1.16 2008 15.5% 2007 1.3% reduction 2007 2.08 2007 18.9% 2006 1.2% reduction 2006 2.41 1 Measured by financial year on total operations 1 Measured by calendar year 1 Measured by calendar year Description.
This is the Groups total profit Description.
Energy use is our most significant Description.
Our safety index compares safety before interest, tax and exceptional items environmental impact.
Our businesses have performance across the Group and is a divided by the average net operating assets.
a target to reduce energy consumption on weighted average of injuries sustained in the a per unit basis by 3% each year.
workplace, with severe accidents having Comment.
We are below both our initial target greater impact.
The lower the index, the better of a Group return on net operating assets Comment.
Our 3% target is becoming the performance.
RONOA of 15%, and our longer-term target increasingly challenging as value added of a RONOA of 20%.
products typically use more energy than our Comment.
Employee safety showed good traditional products.
Further information on progress in 2008 with a 44.2% improvement the Groups energy use can be found on on 2007.
Further information can be found pages 73 to 75. on pages 70 to 72.
Information on the RONOA, energy use and safety performance of each business division can be found on pages 36 to 51.
10 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 0920 T&L Front 01-59. qxd 12 6 09 16:24 Page 11 Overview of divisional Sugars operating profits were business performance significantly lower than the comparative The Groups adjusted profit before period, reducing by 64% 66% in tax was 2% lower 18% in constant constant currency to 12 million.
currency than the prior year.
Adjusted operating profit from Although improved balance between core value added food ingredients supply and demand within the EU increased by 20% 3% in constant sugar market began to return during currency, but this was more than the second half, the year as a whole Business drivers offset by lower profits from our EU was characterised by oversupply sugar business, industrial starches of refined sugar in the EU and an We focus on five areas and US ethanol.
Energy costs at extremely competitive UK market.
208 million were 34% higher Margins are expected to improve 17% in constant currency.
following the final institutional price change on 1 October 2009.
The Operate efficiently and safely To be the lowest-cost, most efficient Operating profits at Food & Industrial competitive advantages of our London producer in all our markets, with safe Ingredients, Americas was and Lisbon refineries will become conditions at our sites for everyone.
181 million, a reduction of 3% increasingly apparent as the market We continually work to improve our from the prior year 19% in constant returns to balance.
The molasses operational efficiency through our currency.
Sales and profits from business had an outstanding year as expertise in high-volume process value added food ingredients were both volumes and margins benefited management, our focus on technical and resilient.
Performance in primary food from high world cereal prices.
manufacturing excellence, and efficiently ingredients was above the prior year using services like logistics and utilities.
due to improved margins and a good Sales of SPLENDA Sucralose of Serve our customers performance by citric acid.
However, 169 million were 14% above the To deliver excellent customer service, operating profits from both primary prior year 4% reduction in constant be the partner of choice in our customers and value added industrial starches, currency.
Operating profits increased innovation processes and help them primarily used by the paper and board by 9% to 72 million reduced by 4% develop successful consumer products.
industries, were significantly lower in constant currency compared to Our cross-functional teams work with than the prior year due to reduced the prior year.
We achieved solid customers to provide consumer and sales volumes during the second half volume growth in international customer insights and to support new of the year as both domestic and markets, particularly Europe where product innovation opportunities.
there were significant gains in Grow the contribution from Export markets were adversely retailer own-label ranges.
In the value added products affected by the strengthening US USA, McNeil Nutritionals launched This is a key driver of our strategy.
The contribution from ethanol SPLENDA with Fiber formulated Value added ingredients utilise technology was also significantly below the prior with SPLENDA Sucralose and our or intellectual property enabling our TM year due to lower unit margins as PROMITOR Soluble Corn Fiber.
customers to produce distinctive products we operated in a difficult industry and Tate & Lyle to obtain a price premium environment.
We have taken a A reshaped business and or sustainable higher margins.
number of actions to manage our Over the past few years, we have Invest in technology and people capacity in the face of these impacts.
taken a number of steps to reshape To invest in developing innovative our business in line with our strategy solutions that meet our customers At Food & Industrial Ingredients, to build a stronger value added product challenges, and in developing Europe, operating profits increased business on a low-cost commodity our people so we have the right skills by 24% to 51 million 7% in constant base.
A key part of this reshaping at all levels to grow our business.
Within Single Ingredients, process has been to remove We complement our R&D skills through margins for both value added and substantial risks by exiting markets start-up investments and collaborations primary products benefited from lower where we could not manage to an with the external research community.
corn costs during the second half of acceptable level our exposure to Invest in acquisitions and partnerships the year.
Demand for food ingredients raw material and commodity pricing To grow our business by acquisition or by proved more resilient in Central and volatility and regulation.
In the 2008 forming joint ventures and partnerships.
Eastern Europe, where the majority financial year we exited European We continually evaluate acquisition of our Single Ingredients capacity wheat and Canadian and Mexican opportunities that enable us to enter new is located.
sugar, and in the 2009 financial markets or add products, technologies year we sold our International Sugar and knowledge more efficiently than we Operating profits from Food Systems Trading business to Bunge.
Alliances and joint were higher than the prior year, and was announced on 2 July 2008 ventures can also be an efficient way to do this and to lower our cost of benefited from a full year contribution and completed as scheduled on investing in new areas and markets.
from G. C. HAHN & Co Hahn, which 31 March 2009.
The financial impacts was acquired in June 2007. arising from this sale are set out in the Discontinued operations section on page 53.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 11 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR 0920 T&L Front 01-59. qxd 15 6 09 13:57 Page 12 Overview of the year Chief Executives review continued The Food Systems businesses which impairment of the carrying value of Central costs we acquired over the past four years our McIntosh, Alabama plant following Central costs decreased from to strengthen our value added offering the decision to mothball this facility 31 million in the 2008 financial year Cesalpinia Foods in 2005, Custom and produce all our sucralose at our to 18 million in the 2009 financial Ingredients in 2006, and Hahn in 2007 Singapore facility.
This was due to several factors: continue to perform well, and ahead possible by the significant increase underlying costs reduced by 4 million of our expectations.
in manufacturing yields over the last compared to the prior year: one-off 12 months, will ensure that we remain credits of 6 million in the 2009 The simplified organisational the most efficient and lowest cost financial year arose principally from structure we implemented last year, producer of sucralose.
Anticipated the termination of a property lease: consisting of four distinct business cash costs of 60 million associated and redundancy and other one-off divisions each reporting into the with this decision will be paid over costs totalling 4 million, following Chief Executive, is working well.
three years and recognised as an the simplification of the Groups We are confident that our fide-layered exceptional charge in the year ending organisational structure, were organisational structure, led by a 31 March 2010.
These cash costs recognised in the prior year.
Central strong management team, is well are expected to have a three year costs in the 2010 financial year are placed to meet successfully the payback resulting from the reduced expected to be broadly in line with current challenging market conditions.
operating costs of having a single underlying costs in the 2009 plant.
Should future demand require it, financial year.
Our people we can bring the McIntosh plant back The difficult economic climate into production within a few months.
A good safety performance places people and organisations Tate & Lyle maintains no priority higher under notable pressure.
We remain As reported in our pre-close than safety.
We measure and report committed to taking the tough trading update of 2 April 2009, we our safety performance in calendar decisions needed to manage our are in dispute with a supplier over years.
In 2008, our Group employee cost base through this difficult time.
performance and suitability of ethanol safety index improved by 44.2% and However, we remain conscious of dehydration equipment at our Loudon, our Group contractor safety index by the need to continue to develop and Tennessee and Fort Dodge, Iowa 28.6%.
While the performance of our invest in our people to ensure that plants.
We have provided an employees and contractors in 2008 is the foundations of our business exceptional charge of 24 million very encouraging, our target remains are protected, and we are well associated with this issue.
a safety index of zero for all our positioned to benefit when operations and we will continue to work market conditions improve.
We have reviewed the carrying towards that goal in the year ahead.
value of many of the Groups assets Individual responsibility and given the changes to the economic Conclusion accountability are critical in times environments in which we operate.
Market conditions over the past like these and we have made sure The review of our sugar refining few months have proved challenging, all our staff are aware of the need operation in Israel indicated an but our focus on the food and to meet our key priorities of defending impairment charge of 9 million beverage sector, which comprises our short-term profitability, optimising which has also been recognised over 70% of our total sales, gives us cash flow, reducing costs and in the year.
a measure of resilience, although not continuing to serve our customers.
immunity, to the economic downturn.
The professionalism and commitment During March 2009, we received In times like these, the actions we shown by our people to embrace the first tranche of a settlement from must take to sustain the health of our these priorities and to take necessary the Mexican government following business are clear.
We are optimising tough decisions is impressive.
a dispute over a tax on soft drinks cash flow and actively managing our containing high fructose corn syrup cost base, while maintaining a keen Exceptional items between 2002 and 2006.
We have focus on serving our customers.
Exceptional items totalling a net since received the second tranche.
We are making good progress in charge of 119 million have been Our share of the total settlement is the delivery of these priorities.
recognised in continuing operations 11 million, and this amount has in the 2009 financial year.
We have been recognised as an exceptional Iain Ferguson CBE recognised a charge of 97 million in gain in the 2009 financial year.
Chief Executive the 2009 financial year reflecting the 27 May 2009 12 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 0920 T&L Front 01-59. qxd 12 6 09 16:25 Page 13 This section shows how we use raw materials to make our ingredients, what markets we operate in and how we serve our customers.
What we do 14 Overview 16 Sustainable sourcing 18 Creating volume 19 Preserving value 20 Adding value 22 Going to market 26 People 27 External environment and risk management Unloading corn from a barge Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 13 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
