qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 08:38 Page 6 6 Directors Report: Business Review Group Chief Executives Review Following the exceptionally difficult market conditions of 2008, we have made good progress on implementing our strategy for recovery and strengthening the Groups financial position during 2009.
Implementing our strategy for recovery As outlined in last years Annual Report and Accounts, we took a number of difficult decisions during 2008 to ensure that our businesses were well placed to face the unprecedented challenges of the prevailing market conditions.
During 2009, the housing markets in both the UK and North America have delivered greater stability and we are starting to see the benets of this improvement and our early action coming through into our financial performance in the second Pete Redfern half of 2009.
Group Chief Executive We are starting to Having made significant changes to our UK organisational structure and overhead see the benefit of the cost base in 2008, this has been very operational decisions stable in 2009.
This has allowed us to focus strongly on build cost reduction that we took in 2008 and other improvements in operational performance.
We enter 2010 with an coming through into organisational structure that is efficient the performance at current volume levels, but also gives us the scope to increase our output of the business.
to around 14,000 homes per annum as market, land availability and planning conditions allow.
We also adjusted our pricing and incentives in the UK during 2008 in order to continue to deliver competitive offers in each local market.
As market conditions have stabilised and started to improve through 2009, we have been able to reduce the Highlights for the year level of incentives on offer and therefore improve net prices on reservations on a like Returned to operating profit in the for like basis over the course of the year.
second half of 2009 in both the UK Maintaining tight control over the level and the US of work in progress on each site has UK build cost per square foot assisted not just cash management but reduced by 4.4% in second half also helped to secure price improvement, of 2009 from first half level due to shortage of supply.
Restarted land buying in both the In North America, where the UK and North America in mid 2009 downturn began in late 2005 in some of our markets, our relentless Increased Group order book volume focus on cash management and cost by 21% reduction has continued through 2009. significant reduction in net debt The operational strategy in North America through generating cash from remains consistent with that in the UK, as operations and the Placing and we remain cautious with regard to work Open Offer in progress investment and new land acquisition, maintain our focus on build cost reductions and work to deliver price improvement as the market continues profit on ordinary activities before finance costs, to stabilise.
exceptional items, brand amortisation and tax, after share of results of joint ventures.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
