cHieF execUtives Q&a 5 and we are still opening new space in the UK as well.
in addition to that, of course, people have to eat were blessed in that sense, so we dont face the worst of the slowdown.
Weve also adjusted our business both in the UK and around the world to make sure that we offer better value and better ranges which keeps customers in the stores, and helps volume in the business.
Q: Youre very much in the front line when it comes to knowing what customers are thinking, how they are behaving.
Are there any signs that we have perhaps reached the bottom of the recession?
What lies in store for the economy do you think?
A: it is very fluid at the moment changes are happening over weeks, so i dont think you can see any clear direction yet.
What i would say is that it looks as if things are stabilising on the consumer front.
in the UK UK Poland South Korea the lower interest rates help, as do the lower fuel prices and energy prices, and coupled with the work that we have done in reducing food Slovakia prices for customers this helps rebuild confidence.
in central europe Japan the economies had a big decline early in the summer and the autumn China of 2008 that feels as if it has levelled out, which is encouraging.
in asia Republic it is too early to say.
their decline came later with the destocking of the of Ireland supply chain and so for them it really hit around December.
these are India strong economies and the destocking will end and well start to get restocking in the pipeline which will help.
Hungary US Q: Priorities change during a recession for business and Malaysia customers alike.
Is there a risk that the focus on green and corporate responsibility slips somewhat?
A: it is important that it doesnt and its one of the reasons we lay such emphasis within tesco on our steering Wheel our balanced scorecard so that whatever is going on in the outside world, we Czech Republic keep focused on the things that matter long term.
of course price Thailand and trading is important at the moment, but there are big long-term objectives around community and the environment that we have got to stay committed to.
tesco has to help customers change from mass Turkey consumption to green consumption.
on climate change, weve got to learn how to run this business on 80% less carbon.
We have got great plans and we are making great progress.
of course it helps the business too not wasting things is a very good habit at a time like this and one Sir Terry Leahy, Chief Executive of the reasons our energy bills are down 100 million this year is because of all of the green initiatives weve been working on over several years.
Q: Bearing in mind what you have seen in the US so far, are you pleased with the progress?
At a time when customers everywhere are A: i am, yes, because theres lots to be pleased about.
clearly nobody feeling the economic strain, we are responding would have chosen to open into the scale of recession that weve seen to their changing needs in all our markets by there, which is particularly stiff in the Western United states, but the customers love the stores and they appeal right across the income range lowering prices, introducing more affordable and the age range, and that bodes very well for their long-term appeal.
products and offering even sharper promotions.
Fresh & easy is more than just a niche retailer its a new and different form of retailing.
customers obviously like the fresh foods and they These actions, combined with our core strengths in selling like the own-brand products, but also are increasingly recognising the food and everyday essentials, owning our own property and tremendous prices that are on offer and of course that is very important having a broad business base are helping us to cope well with at the moment.
the operation is very good and its strong.
We really the effects of the downturn.
We are also pleased with the early have created the business that we set out to create in terms of the performance of Tesco Personal Finance under our ownership and highest, freshest quality in the market at the best prices in the local with the converted Homever stores in South Korea.
We are expanding the business at a good rate and we have delivered a solid sales and profit performance, both in morale is high.
the UK and internationally, whilst continuing to invest in our longterm strategy for growth.
We have made a good start to the new Q: What excites you most about the year ahead?
financial year and I am confident Tesco will continue to make good A: First of all were growing and were serving more customers.
they progress even in the current global economic environment.
have needs: they are just different needs at a time like this.
its what tesco is for to stay close to customers and change as their needs Q: It has been a very tough time for the economy but the good change.
thats got to take a different form in different categories or in news is it has been very sturdy growth for Tesco.
How have you different parts of the world.
its important you have strong, confident managed that?
local leadership teams who take the responsibility to make those A: it has been a very good year and mainly of course that is the dividend of changes.
if you look at our businesses having a long-term, consistent strategy.
Weve invested into this slowdown whether its non-food, financial services or in our international markets and that has given us good momentum through the recession.
We are we are growing strongly and we are growing market share.
theres growing fast in our overseas countries, laying out networks of stores more that we have to do from place to place, but confidence is high.
people know what they have to do and have the authority to do it.
To see a full video interview go to www.
com annualreport09 presentations Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial statements 2009
