Chief Executives Review Once again in 2009 Autonomy stood amongst the proud few as having excelled in an otherwise tumultuous year for the global economy and the software industry.
We begin 2010 with the strongest Meaning Based Computing portfolio in the industry and an ever-expanding understanding in the market of the challenges associated with unstructured information.
With our unmatched product portfolio, scale and vision, we look forward to the challenges to be presented in 2010 regardless of the environment.
Dear Autonomy Investor, different, and possibly out-of-phase, cycles: the need to protect, promote and power the enterprise.
Over time we would expect these to collapse Once again in 2009 Autonomy stood amongst the proud few as having into a single driver, but at present they should be thought of as separate.
excelled in an otherwise tumultuous year for the global economy and the software industry.
Whilst always keeping a close eye on the market Protect - Following the 2006 amendments to the U. S. Federal Rules of situation, we continued to move boldly to consolidate our acknowledged Civil Procedure FRCP organisations are required to make all relevant industry leadership, enhance our customer offerings and invest in key Electronically Stored Information ESI accessible to the courts as part of technologies for the future.
As in years past, I take great pleasure in legal proceedings within a period of 99 days.
The sanctions for failure to presenting to you these results from a remarkable year during which your comply include crippling fines and incarceration for executives.
This has company has reached new heights.
incredibly far reaching consequences for organisations that formerly relied on manual discovery processes, which took years to complete.
Following Over the last five years, Autonomy has been one of the best performing the FRCP, around fifty new regulations have been proposed in an attempt software companies in the world, despite the turbulent economy.
During to tighten up credit markets and promote sound corporate governance.
that time we have seen a five year adjusted EPS CAGR of 73% and Autonomy has grown to become one of Europes largest software Promote - Promote is focused around our Meaning Based Marketing companies.
Much of the retail value chain that has disappeared from the high street is likely to come back online, as organisations look to extend their cost savings and switch to more efficient business models 2009 and Into the Future following the economic downturn.
Consequently, this area will benefit from Looking back on 2009, despite an economic environment that can be the increase in spend as organisations leverage their on-line business described at best as difficult, Autonomy produced outstanding results with model.
adjusted profit from operations growing by 59% at a time when most of our software peers have seen small or negative growth.
We delivered this Power - Power is what has traditionally been our core business and is the strong growth on top of an exceptionally strong performance in Q4 2008. critical infrastructure that enables any type of organisation to manage and process all of its data, independently of where it is stored or created During 2009 Autonomy did a lot of work to prepare for a possible upturn in structured, unstructured and semi-structured.
This shift is on a 15 year 2010, including significant new IDOL product developments, launches and cycle, and we would expect the other two pillars of growth eventually to be expansion of our IDOL hosted capabilities.
The driver for our business is subsumed into this category, as CIOs realise that there is a fundamental the need for computers to understand and process human friendly challenge behind all their information infrastructure: the need to process information automatically.
But although Autonomy has benefited from information automatically.
increased regulation in the market, this is only one of our pillars of growth.
These are the strengths that have driven our business throughout 2009, Our business model and growth opportunity is based on three very and will carry the company into the future.
We believe the fundamental Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 3 Chief Executives Review drivers will continue to accelerate, and as customers find discretionary 2009 brought continued enterprise-wide adoption and broader budgets again we expect to see good growth in the Meaning Based understanding of the Meaning Based Computing approach, with sustained Marketing Promote applications of our technology alongside our resilient demand from customers despite the wider economic turmoil.
The Information Governance Protect applications.
fundamental shift to unstructured information continues apace, and there is growing recognition that automation and processing are the only viable Our growth and expansion has always been driven by the goal of business strategy.
During the year, the three distinct and compelling establishing Autonomy as the key infrastructure for the automated handling drivers for our business discussed above became evident as customers of all forms of unstructured information such as text, audio and video.
deployed Autonomys technology across applications to protect, promote Following this unwavering goal we have achieved sales success and and power the enterprise.
proven our profitable business model, and have created a special software company which is leading the market.
While many enterprise software vendors suffered from the deteriorating macroeconomic environment, Autonomys strong financial performance demonstrated the benefits of our unique software-driven business model.
Financial Highlights This was also a year of investment as we laid the ground for major new In 2009 we again produced record results in every area, which enabled us IDOL-based products and began to equip the company for the eventual to grow, invest and acquire for the future.
In 2009, all key financial metrics upturn to the global economy.
again rose from our previous records in 2008.
2009 financial achievements included: We saw growth across the globe during the year, in virtually every geographic and vertical market we Record revenues of $740 million, up 47% from 2008 including strong serve.
We continue to win marquee customers in organic growth of 16% see page 13 and the successful integration of emerging economies across Asia, Eastern Europe Interwoven and Latin America.
at $652 million, up 42% from 2008: gross margins adj.
at 88% Throughout 2009 Autonomy was recognized by industry analysts as the Record full year operating margins adj.
Accolades included: Record fully diluted EPS adj.
of $0.97, up 42% from 2008 IFRS: $0.80, up 31% Forrester ranked Autonomy No.
1 for ECM strategy and product One of the highest revenue to cash conversion ratios in the industry direction, and leader in records management Record profit from operations adj.
at $329 million, up 59% Gartner ranked Autonomy as leader in its 2009 Information Access Record profit before tax adj.
at $323 million, up 55% from 2008 Magic Quadrant R&D investment up 26% year-on-year IDC identified Autonomy as the fastest growing of the top three Search Positive cash flow generated by operations of $287 million, up 60% and Discovery software vendors with the largest market share by far Cash balances at $243 million and net cash of $45 million Awarded highest possible rating in the December 2009 Gartner MarketScope for eDiscovery Once again, 2009 saw an unprecedented number of multi-million dollar Ovum hailed IDOL SPE as exactly the sort of disruptive technology contracts and continued year-on-year growth, and some of the largest organisations need to overcome the recession deals in the companys history.
Autonomy was ranked Top Player in the Radicati hosted email archiving Market Quadrant, 2009 Operational Highlights Our strong R&D investment, including an increase in R&D spend in 2009 of Other industry awards during 2009 included: 26%, continues to bear fruit.
Presented with Her Majesty the Queens Award for Enterprise 2009 We have extended our technologies from the unstructured world to the Voted Britains Most Admired Software Company Award 2009 structured.
2009 saw the launch of Autonomys revolutionary IDOL SPE, Acknowledged as having the worlds largest private cloud infrastructure bringing the power of IDOL to structured data and ushering the $18 billion Described by Information Week as: the worlds hottest enterprise database market into the era of Meaning Based Computing.
At the end of software company the year we saw validation of this endeavour with the first IDOL SPE Received 2009 Editors Choice Award from Intelligent Enterprise customers signed and first showcase events.
Named Technology Provider of the Year at the British Legal Awards Lauded as the Biggest Contribution to Business Technology at the Other developments of Autonomys industry-leading IDOL technology UK IT Industry Awards 2009 during 2009 included: The business value of Autonomys infrastructure technology and its Successful launch of ICE, IDOL Social Media and Interwoven product demonstrable ROI are ultimately borne out by our average selling price for range built on IDOL meaning-based technologies, which remained stable throughout 2009 at The industrys first Collection to the Cloud service for eDiscovery and approximately $403,000.
compliance New archiving appliance Autonomys Arcpliance, for organizations seeking a simplified yet scalable solution to regulatory challenges New capabilities in Autonomy iManage to cater for updated Federal Data Privacy requirements under the HIPAA Autonomy Records Management solutions achieving renewed US DoD 5015.2 certification 4 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Chief Executives Review and the continued understanding of the need to manage based on Acquisitions meaning.
We executed successfully on the acquisition of Interwoven, with a rapid and successful integration, resulting in a step-change in the industry with the In terms of broader industry trends, we continue to see our strongest advent of both Meaning Based Marketing and Information Governance growth in the new models of the software industry such as OEM and cloud driven by meaning.
Autonomy Interwoven has been recognized with computing.
Whilst it may still take a little time for people to understand how multiple awards for its new technological accomplishments including: these models differ from traditional software businesses, we believe the momentum in these areas is accelerating.
Receiving the Best Innovation Award for Autonomys ground-breaking Meaning Based Marketing solutions portfolio We began 2010 with the strongest Meaning Based Computing portfolio in Gartner rated Autonomy Interwoven fastest growing out of top four the industry and an ever-expanding understanding in the market of the electronic content management vendors challenges associated with unstructured information.
With our unmatched Forrester ranked Autonomy Interwoven number one for electronic product portfolio, scale and vision, we look forward to the challenges to be content management strategy and product direction presented in 2010 regardless of the environment.
At the very end of Q4 2009 we began to see some indicators of an initial improvement in the Shareholder Return macro environment, which gives us confidence in the outlook for 2010, and 2009s record results were reflected in Autonomys share price, up 58% accordingly we are adjusting our business plan.
during 2009, and up nearly 900% during the past five years.
Our performance during this period, whilst retaining one of the most dedicated I take this opportunity to thank once again our customers, shareholders, and modestly compensated management teams, has delivered significant employees and partners for their continued support.
Trends 2009 was a year of tremendous upheaval and change, coupled with optimism building at year end.
As in 2008, global events laid bare the fundamental change of the IT world to the usage of unstructured Dr. Michael R. Lynch information, the very essence of what drives Autonomy.
The net result is Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder the continuing convergence of legal and operational information systems 22 February 2010 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 5
