CHIEF OPERATING OFFICERS REVIEW OF THE YEAR FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009 INTRODUCTION We entered 2009 with sharply declining markets in both the merchanting and retail sides of our business.
We cut overheads early and swiftly in the latter part of 2008 which helped mitigate the effect of a difficult start to 2009.
The themes of tight overhead control, capital expenditure and working capital control present in 2008 were repeated in 2009.
We have the strongest and most experienced operational management team in our sector and we implemented a significant number of self-help initiatives across our business to enable us to weather the recession better than most: we now look to build on this position when better times return.
OUR PEOPLE Our vision to create a people first environment that facilitates high performance and provides the opportunity for career progression, while celebrating and rewarding success.
Through this vision we encourage everyone to play their part in making the Travis Perkins Group both a great place to work, and a safe place to work.
Writing these words is easy we try hard to ensure we take concrete steps to put our vision into action, allocating personal responsibility to individuals to make this happen.
Putting our Vision into Action In delivering this Vision engaging our people, in the progress and development of the business and their part in it, is paramount.
More than ever before, our achievements in 2009 relied on our people and their John Carter, Chief Operating Officer close working relationships with customers, suppliers and each other, at all levels in the business.
We always actively encourage colleague engagement with the business as we believe it directly contributes to high morale, to their well-being and to healthy operating margins and returns.
However, in response to the difficult market conditions We have the strongest we have faced, in 2009 we re-doubled our efforts to maintain this engagement.
In support of this, we enhanced incentive schemes to and most experienced enable every colleague in the Group to have the opportunity to share in our ongoing success.
operational management Throughout the year, and against a recessionary backdrop, our people demonstrated yet again their never-ending ability to find team in our sector new ways to improve our business through working in collaboration with colleagues across the organisation.
This resulted in a year of and we implemented outstanding achievements, some of which are detailed below, which we were delighted to celebrate internally.
Many of these were, to our a significant number further delight, recognised externally.
Our teams have delivered over 80 new sales and customer service of self-help initiatives initiatives: Despite the tough markets our group productivity levels were close across our business to to their highest in recent years: In our retail division, Wickes developed a new kitchen and bathroom enable us to weather the sales training programme, the roll out of which resulted in a significant growth in sales.
This tremendous achievement was recognised by a recession Now is the Time external national training award: C H I E F O P E R A T I N G O F F I C E R S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 25 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 A: Michael Hunt, FLT Driver B A D B: Michael Derrig, Advisor C C: Asim Akram, Customer Assistant D: Matthew Hayes, Trade Specialist E: Andrew Beckett, Merchandise Supervisor F: Mulisha Nshinka, Cashier C E F A joint training initiative between our Toolhire division and Stocken Sharing delivery vehicles between merchant branches and Wickes Prison which helped to re-habilitate prisoners, and was recognised stores.
by an external Partnership training award: In the extremely challenging environment in which we operated, our Recognition in late 2009 by external observers of the quality of our central functions continued to give excellent support to our branches work on this topic by the Groups inclusion in Britains Top Employers and stores.
They also looked for innovative ways of giving that 2010 run by the Corporate Research Foundation in conjunction with support: The Daily Telegraph and independently audited by Grant Thornton.
Price guidance systems were created, increasing the information All of these achievements are a tribute to the dedicated people in our available to support and speed-up local decision-making: Group who design, promote, and execute each programme.
In Wickes, we developed a system to enable the introduction of My The start of 2009 saw a very different trading landscape for all of Card, our loyalty card, which is an important step in developing our people.
For many of them it was the first time they had expecustomer relationships: rienced a steep decline in trading, rather than growth.
Furthermore, We installed GPS trackers to our vehicles allowing us to increase our about 2,000 of their colleagues across the Group had left the business customer service offering through more effective routing: as we re-aligned staffing levels to meet reduced construction activity New tailored sales and pricing system training programmes were in the market.
Nevertheless, throughout the whole of 2009, the depth written to help support new ways of working.
and strength of our peoples engagement and their pride in the Group Our central functions are highly regarded throughout the organisation ensured that it retained and enhanced its strong position within the and work hand-in-hand with each of our businesses to provide excepBritish merchanting and retail sectors.
tional service to our customers.
Pride is a cornerstone of our Building People, Building As we move further into 2010, the challenges of improving the Britainemployment brand, and that pride is evident in all our branches Groups performance in an extremely testing trading period remain.
and stores and in our central functions pride in working for the To help us meet these challenges, we will look to build on the innovaorganisation, in their collective contribution to the organisation and in tion and collaboration that has been developed during this recession.
their individual efforts to ensure continued success.
Our focus will be on ensuring that we offer a compelling service to Managing costs was important for all our businesses, and as a our customers from every part of the business, through whatever result of involving our people and communicating with them about the channel.
This will ensure our continued differentiation of the Travis changing nature of the business and their role within it, they bought Perkins Group from its competitors.
Most importantly, equipping our people with new skills and knowledge to succeed personally and into the changes that needed to be made.
More importantly, they collectively, will form a key focus for all of our leadership teams.
continued to look for, and achieve, new ways to serve our customers and to provide them with the products and services that they needed.
Training and Developing for Success Some examples of new employee-driven initiatives were: Broadening our product range and raising the level of availability of This year has seen a wide range of significant initiatives in training and product throughout our network: development across the Group.
We have demonstrated an ability to Improved direct marketing campaigns, tailoring products and provide quality training that delivers tangible business benefits.
Having services to customer segments: reviewed our costs and priorities, investment in training and developA more efficient delivery solution for our major contractor business: ment has been aligned with key business priorities.
Our focus has been The proud internal engagement communication Wickes its on training for sales and basic job-skills, including product knowledge got our name on it which supported the Wickes advertising and customer service.
This approach is designed to reinforce our campaign: very high standards of customer relationship management and sales Instant feedback via customer text messages SMS on the service delivery.
Reflecting the trading environment being faced, we developed provided by our branches.
and delivered Train the Trainer workshops to equip a greater number Great collaboration also resulted in: of our people to be able to provide training across the Group in a very The successful transfer of 683 colleagues from our out-sourced cost effective way.
We plan to extend this in 2010. delivery partner, Lloyd Fraser, all of whom we are delighted to We are delighted that the Travis Perkins Group gained the two preswelcome to the Travis Perkins Group: tigious National Training Awards described earlier.
Numerous global product sourcing initiatives: With our focus on training for basic job-skills and product knowledge, Local teams volunteering to work more flexible hours to meet varied and with a view to developing our own pipeline of quality people for the demand volumes, which in turn ensured continued employment for future, we were pleased to be awarded a government funding contract their colleagues and reduced our costs: for an apprenticeship programme within Wickes.
This programme, The trial of local delivery hubs to improve service to Wickes launched in January 2010, provides all new employees within Wickes customers: the opportunity to gain a Level 2 Retail Apprenticeship.
We are looking 26 C H I E F O P E R A T I N G O F F I C E R S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 C H I E F O P E R A T I N G O F F I C E R S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 27 17334 proof 1 4 10 to extend the opportunities for apprenticeships to other parts of our Pension plans: business during 2010.
Life assurance cover: Our training and development team play a pivotal role in the Private health care: progress of the Group.
This team gives support to our businesses by Salary exchange scheme childcare vouchers, Cycle2Work, Give As aligning our work to three key priorities: the development of leadership You Earn, Small Change Big Difference: and management potential: sales improvement: and improving core Enhanced annual leave: skills for the benefit of customers.
These will remain our priorities Loyalty awards: for 2010.
Employee assistance programme: Our Management Trainee scheme has continued to deliver quality Flexible working options: people, with 79 of our 80 trainees securing positions within the busiShare Save scheme: ness on completion of their training.
Our current trainees are in the Recognition awards Getting It Right, branch store manager of the second year of their programme in preparation for appointment in the year in each business unit, management trainee of the year, special summer of 2010.
A decision was taken not to recruit for the scheme achievement awards and the CEO award for manager of the year.
in 2009 and to take the opportunity to thoroughly review the content in line with our changing business needs.
The revised programme will be Engagement and Communication Building on Our Success agreed early in 2010 with the aim of recruiting trainees in 2011.
A direct relationship exists between the level of engagement of our people and their retention in the business.
Our own data is confirmed Rewarding and Recognising Success by external research, which shows that highly engaged employees are Annual bonus and long term incentive plans are now in place to ensure more than twice as likely to be top performers and will have 40% fewer that all colleagues have the potential to share in the Groups success.
days off work due to illness.
We aligned all bonus plans to reflect our priority of driving current Our belief in the link between colleague involvement and business results.
Despite the challenging trading environment in 2009, as a performance continues to drive our approach to people policies and result of the achievements of our people in our general and specialist practises in the business.
We recognise that the high standards of service we provide are dependent on the contribution, application and divisions, almost 40% of branches will receive a bonus payment under loyalty of our people.
The Great Place to Work people strategy now the All Colleague Bonus Plan.
implemented in Wickes is based on what our colleagues have told us All Wickes employees will receive a special bonus payment in March about working in the business.
Over the past 3 years we have developed 2010 to reflect their outstanding performance during 2009, in addition a suite of programmes, initiatives and policies to build and maintain to a reward payment made to each of them in April 2009.
These are now an integral part of our culture and year, and following the successful example in the merchanting division, way of working: for example, the introduction of our Bright Sparks initiawe designed a new bonus scheme for Wickes based on a balanced tive in Wickes: and the Skip Spotters initiative across the Group.
The scheme will reward colleagues in stores who 2010, we plan to introduce an innovation recognition scheme IDEAS, achieve high performance against financial and non-financial targets.
aimed at encouraging and rewarding new ideas across the Group.
This In Wickes, a new commission plan was introduced for kitchen and bathroom design consultants.
The scheme rewards exceptional perforwill be supported by an investment of up to 1 million in cash prizes.
mance and we are delighted that a number of our high performers The Building Britain Award programme is now well established and shared in the success of the kitchen and bathroom business in 2009. provides annual recognition of those colleagues who consistently deliver Our Reward Gateway scheme goes from strength to strength.
It excellence in their roles.
Our loyalty award programme continues to enables employees to take advantage of a number of voluntary provide the opportunity for the Group to demonstrate that the contribubenefits together with discounts on everyday items bought from high tion of long serving colleagues will always be valued.
Over 20 of our street stores, and provide assistance with their household finances.
people were recognised in 2009 for achieving 40 years of service with An increasing number of employees are taking advantage of the the Group.
One, Brian Ward reached an outstanding 50 years of dedidiscounts available.
cated service and this was recognised by us organising a celebratory In the interests of the welfare of our people, in 2009, we introduced trip he had always wanted to complete on the Orient Express.
life assurance cover to all employees who do not participate in a Our special achievement awards, part of our Building Britain pension plan where life assurance is already provided giving peace Awards initiative, continues to showcase those colleagues, as nomiof mind to all colleagues and their families.
nated by their peers, who have gone that extra mile by excelling in Our approach to reward remains to enhance our position as an customer service or by championing our values.
The additional workemployer of choice by continuing to offer a range of attractive pay and load generated by the recession brought out the best in our people and benefits packages to our people including: this made judging these awards exceedingly difficult.
Nevertheless we Staff discount Reward Gateway and purchases from group brands: are proud to again showcase: 28 C H I E F O P E R A T I N G O F F I C E R S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 Jan Atkins from Travis Perkins who proved a real winner despite worked and a 29% reduction in the lost time injury severity rate days the downturn in trade, turning enquiries into healthy sales and lost per thousand hours worked.
These significant achievements have championing our Trade Cash Card with new customers: been made possible by each of our business leaders embracing our Chris Thompson, who focused his attention on delivering the best health & safety vision, collaborating to share ideas and involving and customer service by ensuring their experience and standards at his engaging colleagues at all levels.
branch were the best they could possibly be: I, and my senior operating team, remain absolutely committed to Dan Brookes from City Plumbing also focussed his attention on our Stay Safe programme, designed to ensure that all colleagues, customers, consistently delivering first class service to trade account customers and contractors who deal with the Travis Perkins group holders and cash customers, often in his own time: return home safely at the end of every working day.
Non-customer facing colleagues were recognised too.
In Wickes, caretaker Ian Miller is often referred to as an unsung hero, always OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE on hand to keep the offices in perfect working order, and Debbie Merchanting Division Sweeney continues to organise highly profitable fundraising activities The Travis Perkins brand remains the cornerstone of the Groups activifor the Groups nominated and other charities.
ties and comprises 4 discreet business units, namely South East, South Our commitment to ensuring regular, two-way communications with our West, Midlands, and Northern, each with its own managing director and people continued in 2009 through regular head office, site and store management team.
It is a generalist mixed merchant, trading across briefings by our business leaders.
We launched a quarterly Colleague the main product groups offering a best in class service to small and Liaison Forum in our head office campus enabling employees to have mid-sized builders and contractors, as well as larger contractors and an opportunity to discuss business issues.
The liaison forum concept housebuilders across many segments of the building sector.
is already well established in Wickes and we will seek opportunities to Throughout the year we continued to focus on product availability, extend it further through our estate in 2010. customer service and pricing systems.
Our focus on engagement extends to the way we go about charity Availability was improved to over 96% while overstocks were signififundraising, when we continue to find ways of capturing our peoples cantly reduced, releasing working capital.
We realigned our external imagination through different initiatives.
In 2009, these included the sales-force to deal with the changed market conditions, and promoted landmark expedition of Group and Wickes colleagues, led by Jeremy our trade cash card offer.
This meant we actually ended the year with Bird, Managing Director of Wickes, to the summit of Mount Kilimanjaro: 7% more trading customers than the previous year-end.
and also the launch of a monthly colleague lottery with more than 70% Across all four businesses, gross margin was maintained at the of colleagues taking part and 50% of monies raised being pledged to previous years level, due in part to mix benefits from lower direct to our nominated charities.
site sales, but also to the efforts of the business unit management Through our colleague attitude survey work in recent years, we teams to protect margin in a tight market, including extended use of have established a strong correlation between colleague engagement new pricing tools.
We are extremely encouraged by the significant Overheads were tightly controlled throughout the year.
Our workforce was reduced by a further 5% on top of a 13% reduction in 2008, increase in group labour retention, from 82% in 2008 to 89% in 2009. and with the aid of our vehicle tracking system and utilisation data we Despite the recession, we see this as evidence and confirmation that the people policies outlined above are having a really positive impact succeeded in reducing distribution expenses by a further 15% well on our people and on business performance.
We will be conducting in excess of the decline in delivered sales without compromising our another colleague survey in 2010. delivery service.
Capital expenditure was tightly controlled, except for We are pleased that during such a tough trading period, our focus on health & safety issues where we continued to invest for the wellbeing continuing to be a great place to work has been recognised through our of our colleagues and customers.
Overall annualised overhead savings selection as one of Britains top ten employers for 2010. of over 21m were achieved against the previous year.
Although not a separate business unit in its own right, tool hire is Keeping Our People Safe embedded within the branch network and has its own management Such is the profile and importance of health & safety throughout the structure, led by Richard Dey.
Throughout the year a number of initiaGroup, we have created its own section within these accounts on tives were undertaken to enhance customer service.
Tool utilisation pages 51 to 52. levels increased versus 2008 and a further repair facility was introHowever, on a personal note, I am pleased to report a strong duced in collaboration with the prison service: this particular initiative performance from all parts of the business in supporting our vision of has received positive feedback from the relevant authorities and the making injuries rare.
team has won a national training award as a result.
Across the Group in 2009, we have achieved a 12% reduction in During the year our management teams within the four specialist busithe lost time injury frequency rate lost time injuries per million hours nesses continued to devote their activities towards cost containment, C H I E F O P E R A T I N G O F F I C E R S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 29 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 cash generation and customer capture.
This proved to be an effective GEOGRAPHICAL SALES strategy.
Capital expenditure, both for replacement and development, % of total 2009 annual sales was cancelled unless health & safety related.
Further refinement of product ranges enabled us to improve stock availability and release MERCHANTING cash, some of which was re-invested to take advantage of pre-priceincrease buying, which supported gross margins.
Credit management teams performed well in testing circumstances and maintained good 17% 31% cash collection standards throughout the year.
Management focused on keeping morale high among our people despite the need to implement further headcount reductions, carefully made to avoid cutting into the muscle of our businesses.
We rolled out the benefits of vehicle tracking into CCF and Keyline, enabling us to reduce fleet size and the average 27% age of the remaining fleet.
We strengthened our selling capability 25% through the appointment of David Stewart as the Divisions Commercial North Sales Director.
In order to accelerate customer capture, sales teams were re-trained and linked to in-house sales tracking systems, all to Midlands RETAIL good effect.
Marketing resource was focused on re-activating dormant South East and low-spending accounts and on attracting new accounts using the strength of group brands.
South West 19% National Sales Effort, and Managed Services 26% The Groups dedicated national sales team manages relationships with major house builder and construction customers, as well as a number of other customers with significant geographic coverage.
We restructured our team in late 2008 and have successfully in- 39% 16% creased our share of business with a number of contractors working in buoyant markets such as infrastructure, health, social housing, education and facilities management.
Having secured new long-term framework agreements we have continued to enhance the team and widen our customer base, ultimately delivering more sales for our merchant brands.
The team is structured to allow flexibility and alignment with key publicly funded projects as they are released as well as reacting NUMBER OF BRANCHES to trends in the private sector.
In 2010 we are also focussing more resource on customers operating in the retail and leisure sectors.
Towards the end of 2009 we started to see early signs of increased activity from national house builders.
Albeit at lower levels than before the recession, factors such as the change in mix away from apartments to traditional housing provide us with additional opportunities.
Our Managed Services team has continued to target opportunities within the affordable housing repair, maintenance and improvement RMI sector, delivering and managing bespoke supply chain solutions to organisations and their partners operating within the social housing market throughout the UK.
During 2009 we experienced further significant sales growth, with stores exclusively supplying local authorities, housing associations, and contractors increasing from 20 in 2008 to 27 during 2009.
Additionally, the Group is now servicing in excess of another 50 similar clients through its existing branch network.
Whilst we anticipate public expenditure will come under pressure during the course of 2010 and beyond, we believe that the drive for greater 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 30 C H I E F O P E R A T I N G O F F I C E R S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 783 1,022 1,125 1,223 1,238 A: Stephen Day, Assistant Branch Manager A A C H I E F O P E R A T I N G O F F I C E R S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 31 17334 proof 1 4 10 efficiencies within this sector should result in more outsourcing opporlabel products, which is a key source of differentiation and featured the tunities for the Group.
line Its got our name on it.
Research has shown that this campaign In 2009 we maintained our merchanting marketing focus on retaining has resulted in strong positive shifts in brand equity and econometric customers and growing our share of their spend, driving footfall into modelling has shown a very strong sales impact and resultant high our branches and increasing our number of trading accounts.
Direct rates of return on investment.
marketing played a major and increasing part of our activity during the The television campaign was one element of a radical overhaul of year and we continued to give priority to improving the quality of our our customer communication strategy.
At the same time we launched customer data.
As business became tougher for our customers they a new multi-channel catalogue to run alongside our fast growing online focussed increasingly on value for money.
In response we accelerated business and introduced increased delivery options for customers.
the development of our own brand offering to give our customers a The year also saw the launch of a new customer relationship great deal on quality products.
We continued to develop our Iflo and management CRM strategy including the introduction of MyCard.
4Trade own label product range, offering professional quality alternaWith small Tradesmen being a key target for Wickes, our ability to tives to branded products at lower prices.
develop strong relationships with our customers is important.
MyCard Our sponsorships of the Travis Perkins plc Senior Masters at rewards loyalty and provides valuable data relating to individual Woburn Golf Club and the Northampton Saints Rugby Club continue.
Initial results suggest a positive impact This helps build customer relationships through hospitality, increase on shopping behaviour and CRM will be a key element of the Wickes awareness of our corporate and business brands and promote our marketing strategy going forward.
product and service offering to current and potential customers.
As a Market downturns usually favour those with strong value credentials major Northamptonshire employer, we also work with The Saints in the and we gained market share for the third consecutive year in 2009 local community to provide rugby coaching to primary, secondary and as more customers discovered the great quality and value proposition special schools promoting issues including motivation, healthy living offered by the Wickes own brand products.
As Wickes has continued to strengthen its marketing capability, significant share gains have been achieved in a number of product Retail Division categories.
This is most notable in K&B where we have achieved more All indicators led us to expect that the economy would remain weak than our fair share of the opportunity presented by the failure of MFI throughout 2009 and that the only growth prospects for Wickes would due to investment in bathroom displays, strong ranging and competibe from self-help activity and a gain in market share.
Whilst the market tive pricing.
was stronger than we anticipated, the work done before the end of We believe that we have one of the strongest brands, the best 2008 to remodel our cost structure for a recession paid off from the management and the greatest long-term scope for growth anywhere in start of the year.
These things leave us best placed to outperform the industry Favourable weather and slightly better than expected DIY consumer in difficult economic conditions as well as in any recovery.
activity, probably driven by the significant drop in housing transactions Tile Giant had another year of growth although the rate of growth and subsequent home improvement projects, led to stronger than was reduced from 2008.
Whilst business has been tough, we peranticipated sales, particularly in the first half.
formed ahead of the market throughout the year and the teams in our The loss of a principal competitor at the beginning of the year led to stores deserve credit for the way they have applied themselves during considerable gains in kitchens and bathrooms K&B.
this event we made substantial investment in new products and in Investing in our people is important at Tile Giant and we have taken refurbished showrooms, putting us in a unique position to be able to significant steps forward in terms of new joiner inductions, manager capitalise on the available market.
We adopted an entirely new marketing strategy in 2009 designed to increase awareness, differentiate the brand from competitors and drive ToolStation footfall into stores.
At the heart of the new strategy was a shift in investToolStation continued to expand its branch network across the country, ment from the Wickes Booklet, which had served the business well for increasing it by a third.
Expanding the branch network has helped to many years, but had reduced in effectiveness, to TV advertising.
Scale grow overall sales by 69% with the established branches and mail economies from our own growth in recent years and the reduced costs order operations seeing LFL growth of 27%.
of broadcast media meant that television advertising became viable.
Exceptional value for money combined with very high levels of availWe launched a highly successful campaign designed by Wickes new ability and customer service have enabled ToolStation to increase its Marketing Director, Rob Murray, that ran throughout the year in support market share in difficult trading conditions.
of a number of product categories and of the brand as a whole.
In The ToolStation catalogue contains approximately 10,000 products this first year the TV campaign focused on the quality of Wickes own which are stocked and available in all of the branches.
During the 32 C H I E F O P E R A T I N G O F F I C E R S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 year it introduced to its range a selection of Wickes doors.
These are physical infrastructure and solutions that now put us at the forefront shipped through the Wickes delivery network on a next day service of supply chain thinking in our sector.
The foundations are now well directly to ToolStation customers.
rooted within our business and supply chain will continue to be an area of increased investment and focus to ensure that we remain first Supply Chain choice for our customers with the most reliable, service led offer within Supply chain management is now a well established new function in our respective markets.
our group, and yet has significant development potential.
Our investment, over the last three years, in skills and physical resources is Quality Assurance QA and Corporate Social generating significant returns through customer focused, sales based Responsibility CSR projects such as product availability improvements and cost based The prime responsibility of the Group Quality Assurance Department innovation like delivery vehicle utilisation tracking.
The most tangible continues to be to protect all of the Groups brands with two key objecexample of how timely an investment this has been was our ability, tives to ensure that Travis Perkins companies only: in the challenging 2009 market, to not only maintain availability of Use Suppliers who have acceptable control of their manufacturing, product for customers, but improve it while reducing our stock holding environmental, ethical and health & safety processes: by 34m before inflation.
Stock product that conforms to national and international regulations, We supported over 30 initiatives across the Group last year is safe, fit-for-purpose and conforms to required specifications.
including: During 2009 we have continued to invest in the QA department with The launch of a new door warehouse operation that has transformed additional resource to meet the demands of our growth in direct sourcing our availability for this product group by giving customers access to particularly relating to product quality and our packaging reduction over 700 products within a 48 hour order to delivery time.
In addition, a major IT project was initiated to introduce an have responded and our sales have improved significantly as a on-line QA management system, due for launch early 2010. result: By the end of 2009 we used just over 400 primary suppliers The implementation of an improved fleet management process supplying in excess of 130,000 product lines.
Within the supplier base for our 2,000 strong fleet, which supported a reduction of over there are 1,470 known manufacturing sites of own brand or own label 100 vehicles and ensured that where vehicles were removed, our products, of which 622 are based in Asia an increase of 10% and service levels were maintained.
This creates a platform for customer 14% respectively against 2008.
This was slightly lower than the growth service initiatives that will further improve our on time in full OTIF we saw in 2008.
The increase in the number of factories in Asia was performance for years to come: almost entirely due to our increased global sourcing activities.
The improved efficiency through direct engagement of 683 We rank all our manufacturing sites through site audits and our colleagues by removing a 3rd party distribution operation from policy is to terminate relationships if they do not meet our exacting our four Wickes warehouses.
This removed management fees criteria.
We consider all Asia operations to be High Risk and will not and creates an environment where we can develop our own, more commit to supply until our team have audited a site.
We continue to efficient distribution culture and identity with colleagues: maintain a Group QA Asia office based in Shenzhen, southern China, Stronger relationships with suppliers through supplier engagement to fully support the Asia supplier base, in addition to the Group QA UK programme.
A programme of shared resources sees supplier offices in the merchanting and retail divisions.
2009 saw an extencolleagues work as an integral part of our supply chain team to sion of our activities directly relating to our growth in direct sourcing improve availability and cost management within their respective increasing factory assessments in Asia and product compliance audits product sets: in both the UK and Asia.
Reduced lost sales and improved availability for customers through We also increased our activity in customer product returns and initiatives to centralise more of our product set in the merchant product quality improvement.
As a result of this work carried out during business 1,800 products in 2009 and reduce our minimum order 2009 we now have greater visibility of product quality levels and the constraints from our internal timber milling operations and external framework for continuous product improvement.
Objectives for 2010 include continuing focus on product failure and Over the last three years we have focused our efforts on integrating customer returns and continuing development of the QA strategy for supply chain measures with our day to day business operations.
supply chain initiative uses a language of profit rather than supply chain terminology to engage our teams and drive improved perforGlobal Sourcing mance.
We measure our availability of products through lost sales Direct sourced products doubled in 2009 from $15m to $31m and are and our vehicle performance through lost profit rather than SKU forecast to grow to $55m in 2010.
The number of direct sourced prodPercentages and average cube per load.
We have also invested in ucts increased from 250 in 2008 to 1,100 in 2009 and will increase C H I E F O P E R A T I N G O F F I C E R S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 33 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 A: Antony Beldham, Driver and Sales Assistant A C B: Narinder Singh, Assistant Manager B C: Dave Gurling, Branch Manager D: Paul Hinchey, Warehouse Supervisor D E: Andrew Parsons, Designer E to 3,000 by the end of 2010.
The main focus on product is within We will further develop our purchasing strategy in 2010 by sourcing plumbing and heating, with great success in brassware and sanitarymore product directly from manufacturers and expanding our supplier ware, but direct sourcing has also expanded considerably in hardware relationships.
This will result in a significant increase, year on year, in and decorative accessories.
the number of products we buy direct.
We will continue to focus on our drive for full availability in store and Merchanting Suppliers at the same time develop innovative ways to drive out costs within the During the year we have continued to focus on building relationsupply chain, utilising different methods of distribution to get the product ships with our key branded suppliers.
Whilst we have a large number to our customers.
One such development of this is the use of our hub of suppliers to support the local needs of our business, these are and spoke network of stores.
In this instance we are able to optimise managed into 3 supplier categories.
100 suppliers represent 70% of the cost of distributing product to customers using our store network our merchanting spend.
We have worked closely with them and our more effectively and ultimately continue to maximise availability.
internal supply chain to improve availability within our branch network: 2 key initiatives were undertaken in 2009: Total merchanting business 2009 2008 Lowering the minimum order quantity that our branches needed to Number of product suppliers 7,372 7,050 reorder: Total purchases represented by the top 50 59% 59% Centralising more of our stock into central distribution.
This has the dual benefit of improving availability to our customers and reducing Wickes non-trading traffic in our branch network.
Number of product suppliers 181 179 In these difficult times for the industry we challenged ourselves and Total purchases represented by the top 50 86% 86% suppliers on 3 specific areas of risk: Includes Tile Giant Product availability we have reviewed the production capacity of our suppliers to meet our needs and considered alternative sources in the event of a supplier ceasing to trade for any reason: AND FINALLY... Financial stability twice per year each strategic supplier is reviewed 2009 has been a tough year, but our smaller operating teams have with a 3rd party credit provider to confirm their ability to trade: risen to the challenge and improved service standards as perceived CSR requirement with our quality assurance team, the suppliers by our customers.
This is a tremendous achievement and I express my ability to conform to our stringent requirements were reaffirmed, continued thanks to all our colleagues for their excellent performance resulting in 2 suppliers being temporarily fide-listed.
in such an unprecedented year.
Retail Suppliers Despite lower volume in the sector as a whole, we experienced fewer supplier business failures than we feared might happen, and expect 2010 to be similarly stable.
We have continued to develop strategic John Carter relationships with key suppliers.
The successful development of our Chief Operating Officer K&B business in 2009 partly depended on this approach.
