CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OF THE YEAR FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009 INTRODUCTION In 2009 the Groups priorities were almost exclusively focussed on dealing with the unprecedented downturn in construction activity.
Our principal focus was on cutting costs and trading profitably to deal with a predicted 25% fall in activity levels, and on taking a range of actions aimed at reducing net debt.
Whilst our overall forecast of activity levels for 2009 proved broadly correct, the retail market held up much better than expected following actions taken by monetary authorities to boost consumer sentiment.
In contrast, the trade market fared a little worse than expected.
The Group, in comparison with competitors with a more narrow focus, has benefited from its breadth of business activities across these two segments of the building materials market.
This benefit was further boosted in 2009 by the success of Wickes refreshed commercial strategy, which led to market share gains, profit growth, and operating margin expansion.
PERFORMANCE Summary The Groups results reflect the impact of the early action taken to prepare for the recession, the divergent fortunes of our two divisions, and the successful rights issue completed in the first half of 2009.
Throughout this annual report, consistent with our approach last year, the term adjusted has been used to signify that the effects of exceptional items have been excluded from the disclosures being made.
Before adjusting for the effect of exceptional items in both years, the Geoff Cooper, Chief Executive Group recorded an increase of 45% in PBT to 212.7m and an increase of 29% in earnings per share to 88.4 pence.
Including the effect of our 300.3m rights issue, shareholders funds increased by 442.2m.
The Group incurred an exceptional charge of 56.2m in the prior year as a result of actions taken in response to the downturn Our businesses in construction markets.
In 2009 the exceptional item related to a 32.7m pension scheme curtailment gain which arose in December have strong brands, when future increases in pension scheme members pensionable salaries were capped.
experienced For 2009, the Group reported revenue down 247.7m at 2,930.9m 2008: 3,178.6m.
This revenue decline drove adjusted operating management teams profit down 17% to 224.6m 2008: 271.5m, adjusted profit before tax down 11% to 180.0m 2008: 202.5m, and adjusted earnings and market leading per share down by 22.4% to 75.2 pence 2008: 96.9 pence.
The revenue decrease of 7.8% comprised a decline of 8.6% in like-for-like financial performance LFL sales, with network expansion accounting for growth of 1.0% and a reduction in trading days accounting for 0.2%.
Adjusted group operating margin fell by 0.88% to 7.66% 2008: 8.54% note 5c.
Whilst adjusted operating margin in the retail division improved by 0.7% to 5.81%, merchanting division adjusted operating margin fell by 1.29% to 8.76%, reflecting the challenge of in reducing fixed costs in line with the significant fall in volume experienced by the market.
The actions we implemented in late 2008 ahead of the expected 10 C H I E F E X E C U T I V E S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 sharp downturn in construction activity in 2009 served us well.
We lower operating margins, appear to have increased their market share exceeded our original target for cost savings, with the 2009 cost at the expense of national merchants, with our trend of LFL sales now base of the Company being over 60m lower than in 2008, against very similar to other national merchants.
We judge our trading stance in an original target of 50m, having made additional headcount and the recession to have been successful, particularly when compared to distribution savings.
These savings would have been higher were it the operating profit and margin trends of most competitors.
not for our initiatives to invest in opportunities to grow revenue in the retail market.
Our cost reduction programme combined with initiatives Retail Division to improve stock ratios and constrain capital expenditure, have helped The retail division enjoyed relatively stronger market conditions as boost cash flow.
The Group generated free cash flow of 294.4m in consumers found their discretionary spending power increasing mate- 2009, a 58.9% increase on last year.
Overall, including net proceeds rially following cuts in mortgage costs, utility bills and other elements from the rights issue of 300.3m, net debt was reduced to 467.2m.
This meant that despite the general For covenant purposes net debt was 413.1m, giving a net debt economic uncertainty, the value of the DIY retail market increased by EBITDA ratio of 1.47 times and interest cover of 10.7 times.
an estimated 3%, over 2009, considerably better than expected.
Retail As expected, with less construction work available, competition in division total sales were up by 4.3% to 980.7m, with sales from new merchanting intensified during the course of 2009, with a related detebranch openings contributing 1.2%, LFL sales increasing by 3.2% rioration in pricing conditions.
Product cost and price inflation continued 3.8% price inflation and a 0.6% volume decrease and a reduction in to be relatively strong by historical standards.
In these circumstances, trading days accounting for a decline of 0.1%.
we sought to trade flexibly, preferring to protect our gross margin rather LFL sales for the full year of Wickes core products were down only than fill our capacity with low margin work, and re-doubled our efforts slightly, by 0.8%, and on the same basis K&B sales were ahead by to obtain favourable input prices through a range of procurement initia- 27.7%.
Wickes strong K&B sales performance reflects Wickes initiatives.
We estimate these actions helped to offset over half of the fall tive to capture market share following the withdrawal from the market in gross margins in the merchanting market.
In contrast, the pricing in late 2008 of a significant K&B competitor.
Wickes enjoyed great environment in retail remained relatively benign as competitors sought success with this initiative, exceeding its targets for share gain and to restore their low operating margin and achieve an economic return.
taking more share than its overall market presence.
Overall, the gross margin percentage for the Group decreased slightly, mainly reflecting a decline in the merchanting division margin.
MARKETS For the 7 weeks to 20 February the Group LFL sales performance Overall was down 2.7%, with our merchanting division down by 2.8% and our Evidence of stabilisation in our markets emerged in the second half retail division down by 2.4% with our core and kitchen and bathrooms, of the year.
Shortly after the outset of the downturn we estimated that K&B down 8% and up 23.3% respectively.
in response to the underlying difficult economic circumstances in the UK, volumes in our markets would fall from their peak in late 2008 by Merchanting Division about 25% and reach a low point in mid 2009.
Our view of 2009 now Our merchanting division continued its work to ensure we offer superior points to an overall trough of 25%, but the trough in merchanting, of a services and products to customers.
Our research continues to indicate little over 30%, occurred a few months later than we forecast whilst the the success of this strategy, and overall merchant customer satisfacretail trough, of around 15%, occurred in first quarter of 2009.
Our merchanting branch network is rated as here we have seen the benefit of our spread of businesses across the a preferred source of building materials amongst national merchants retail and merchanting segments of the market.
in 8 out of the top 13 criteria used by customers when selecting a Although the recession has broadly followed our forecasts, there provider of materials.
Whilst this is lower than in 2008, the differences have been a few noteworthy differences from our predictions.
The retail mainly relate to our pricing stance, where we chose not to seek low market performed more strongly boosted by good weather and surviving margin work.
operators benefited from the exit of a competitor from the showroom Merchanting division sales fell by 12.9%, with sales from new market.
By contrast the merchanting market performed less well due branch openings contributing 1.0% and LFL sales falling by 13.5% to exposure to the heavier end of the market serving large construction and a reduction in trading days accounting for a further decline of projects, where the reduction in activity has been more severe.
The LFL decline comprised 3.6% of price inflation offset by a 17.1% decline in volume.
Given our trading stance on low margin work, Retail Market we estimate that both our general and specialist merchanting operaAs noted above, consumers found themselves better off as a result of tions recorded a LFL performance behind the market, with LFL sales falling housing and related costs.
Although savings rates climbed and in general merchanting falling by 14.1% and specialist merchanting mortgage equity withdrawal turned negative, consumers were prepared falling by 12.6%.
Independent merchants, who traditionally accept to spend more in a few selected markets such as improving their C H I E F E X E C U T I V E S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 11 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 A: Ian Biddle, Driver A B B: Bob Webb, P&H Manager C: Mathew Plumridge, Yard Superviser D: Jose Diaz, Assistant Branch Manager A C E: Adam Bennett, P&H Product Leader D E RETAIL PRODUCTIVITY homes.
In addition, the moribund nature of the housing market meant many householders were spurred to improve their existing home in prefPER EMPLOYEE k erence to extending their borrowings to acquire a new home.
In addition, worry about jobs and a search for value seems to have boosted the proportion of householders doing it themselves, with less use of small building firms.
This category of trade customer is important to both Wickes and Travis Perkins.
Also, Wickes has little presence in seasonal categories, such as outdoor living, for which sales were increased by the generally benign weather in 2009.
Compared to other DIY retailers, Wickes were therefore faced with additional challenges without the relief to revenue trends available from seasonally sensitive products.
Although the decline in retail markets followed our expectations at the beginning of the year, the boost to consumers spending power meant we saw a steady improvement in rates of decline over the year, with the market returning to growth in the fourth quarter.
Overall we estimate the DIY shed market over the year as a whole was down in volume by 3.5%, and up in value by 3% Merchanting Market 2006 2007 2008 2009 Markets for our merchanting businesses, including Travis Perkins, fared less well.
We estimate that nearly 60% of the merchant-supplied part of the construction materials market comprises repair, maintenance and improvement RMI activity, with new housing and new commercial public sector construction each taking up roughly half of the remainder.
With little exposure to consumers purchasing directly from merchants, and a greater reliance on the small building firms referred to above, the merchant supplied part of the RMI market suffered the full force of the MERCHANTING recession.
Whilst this segment of the market is normally quite resilient PRODUCTIVITY since many building jobs are non-discretionary, we estimate that activity PER EMPLOYEE k levels fell by 11% an unprecedented level of volatility.
This fall would have been much worse had it not been for the expansion of public sector refurbishment work, such as programmes to upgrade social housing.
New construction fared even worse than RMI activity.
Much attention has been given to the very sharp we estimate some 50 to 60% peak to trough dip in new housing activity.
However, new construction of retail, commercial and industrial buildings suffered an even sharper and deeper decline.
Again, an expansion of public sector work softened the blow, with a continuation of the hospitals programme, expansion of the schools and colleges programme, and extra investment in infrastructure.
This latter category sources most of its material requirements directly from manufacturers, and only specialist civils merchants, like our own Keyline business, derive any significant benefit from this additional spend.
After taking into account the differential level of penetration of merchant-sourced supplies into the various segments of the market, and the annualisation of the month-on-month peak to trough trend, we estimate that the merchant market declined by 12% in value and 15% 2006 2007 2008 2009 in volume for the year as a whole compared to 2008.
2006 2007 2008 2009 Again, the impact of this decline was softened by the closure of some competitor businesses and branches.
We now estimate that since the 12 C H I E F E X E C U T I V E S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 206 189 220 197 216 186 215 200 C H I E F E X E C U T I V E S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 13 17334 proof 1 4 10 start of the recession, around 500 merchant branches have closed, MANAGING THROUGH THE DOWNTURN taking 5% of capacity out of the market, allowing for the transfer of In last years report to shareholders we described the actions we had business to surviving branches where competitors have consolidated taken in 2008, and our priorities for 2009, to deal with the downturn branches.
In our own case we have only closed 3 merchant branches in our markets as shown below, the analysis indicates the extent to over the year, with our greater profitability sustaining branch contribuwhich we have been successful in these plans: tion levels despite falling volumes.
MANAGING THROUGH THE DOWNTURN Actions and priorities Achievements and performance Management Focus: Scale back development activities: All but key projects terminated: Prioritise short pay back projects: Cash projects ahead of plan: Boost service levels: Higher customer ratings recorded: Increase branch supervision: Field management prioritised: Reduce central function headcount.
Peak to trough central function headcount down by 9%.
Market Share Gains: Generate sector leading performance: Share lost in merchanting due to margin, stance, retail share up by 0.3%: Increase penetration of growing customer segments.
Further gains in social housing, cash based builders, major contractors and interiors.
Gross Margin Protection: Increase common and direct sourcing: Increased our direct purchases by 50% and added c. 30bps to our margin: Extend use of new pricing tools: Over 15 bps margin gained in the merchanting division: Sustain higher price inflation: Full year 1.7% ahead of plan: Overall, seek to compensate for anticipated market price pressure.
Group gross margin percentage down slightly.
Cost Reduction: Sustain the late 2008 cuts in headcount: Peak to trough headcount down by 13%: Reduce transport costs: Delivery cost to sales ratio lower than 2008: Achieve 50m net reduction in overhead cost Cost reduced by over 60m compared to 2008, after absorbing inflation.
i. e. after absorbing inflation on the cost base.
Working Capital Efficiency: Manage any supplier pressures from the difficult credit All suppliers maintained trading on normal terms, with average creditor insurance market: days improving by 5 days: Use new supply chain capabilities to reduce stock by 20m.
Stock like-for-like adjusting for inflation reduced by 34m from initiatives: Limit the deterioration of debtor and bad debt ratios: Debtor days improved by 3 days and bad debt ratio improved by 0.11% 0.92% to 0.81%.
Property Realisations: Generate in excess of 16m of cash: 19m of cash generated from 17 property projects: Contribute in excess of 10m to EBIT as a steady stream: 2009 profits before taxation of 11m: Maintain the quality of the freehold estate.
long leaseholds maintained at 30% of the estate.
Reduce Capital Expenditure: Constrain 2009 capex to 37m, limiting new works: Capex kept to 28m, with all essential works completed: Target 60m capex for 2010.
Further Cost and Cash Actions: Reduced energy, transport and waste costs.
These costs reduced by 4m within total noted above.
14 C H I E F E X E C U T I V E S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 Overall we succeeded in achieving the majority of the challenges we cards and active trading accounts.
By the end of 2009 we had achieved set ourselves when plotting a course through the difficult market condia 7% uplift.
This demonstrated yet again the strength of our operaWe have successfully trialled a new tool that better enables the tional management when executing difficult change programmes.
external sales force to target new and dormant customers, which will be rolled out across the business during the first few months of DEVELOPMENT 2010.
This tool, together with the team of territory managers we are The onset of the recession altered dramatically our stance on expancurrently building, will further increase the sales opportunities availsion, with the cancellation of many projects and withdrawal from able to the business.
We continued brownfield expansion at Tile Stock availability and control remain at the core of our efforts.
We Giant in 2009, where new stores enjoy a good cash payback profile, have trialled Branch Select to our larger or more specialist branches, and ToolStation, under the terms of our development agreement.
Most which for them is an extension of our already successful companydevelopment work in other brands in 2009 therefore involved a range wide mandated stock requirement, where all branches have to mainof projects to evolve our offer to customers.
tain certain stocks in project quantities.
In addition we have introduced auto-replenishment of planed square edged timber and mouldings Wickes from our timber supply centres.
This improves colleague productivity There was limited network expansion in 2009 with total retail selling and helps optimise branch stock quantities and availability.
Only stores under contract opened in the year and as a result we launched a net 2 new stores having reloKeyline cated our Oldham, Reading and Slough stores and rebuilt our store at Our 83 branch heavy building materials and civils and drainage Chadwell Heath, destroyed by fire in 2008.
At 31 December, we traded specialist, is the most exposed of our brands to new construction from 195 stores.
activity, since it specialises in serving ground workers and civil engiWe continued to invest in new products and new formats during the neering contractors.
year, we opened our smallest ever full range store with an extended After a difficult start to the year, Keyline found its markets stabilising multi-channel offer reflecting our continued view that the lower fixed in Q3.
Whilst we have therefore chosen to constrain its expansion, its costs of smaller stores, backed by the efficiency of smarter supply longer-term prospects are positive, linked to a recovery in housing and chains, are right for the future.
Several stores were refitted or relocated continued good prospects for investment in infrastructure.
In 2009 giving a net improvement in the quality of the estate during the year.
we appointed a new Managing Director, Andrew Harrison, to Keyline.
We completed a successful refresh of our showrooms, eliminating Andrew is a very experienced Managing Director, having previously led the poorly performing conservatory and bedroom categories, and CCF and Benchmarx.
Upon arrival at Keyline, Andrew and the team expanding our bathroom offer.
Showrooms are now dedicated to launched a new initiative to concentrate on refining its specialist offer kitchens and bathrooms.
Use of this new space was supported by the under the best in town banner, which is aimed at demonstrating to employment of new design consultants and a strong television advercustomers that Keyline should be their first choice in civils products.
tising campaign, which significantly improved both brand awareness Alongside this, it strengthened its sales team to enable it to make and recognition of the high quality of product we offer.
further inroads into the infrastructure sector.
Travis Perkins City Plumbing Supplies Expansion for Travis Perkins was limited predominately to the opening City Plumbing Supplies CPS, via its 194 branches, made good of 6 new sites to support local authority stores contracts won during progress during the year by adding sales from market share growth the year and 1 other branch.
We had 25 managed stores, in partnerto compliment its well-managed overhead base.
It focused on local ship with local authorities or their contractors by the end of 2009, out customers by offering an enlarged range of products supported by an of a total of 618 sites, of which 174 incorporated a tool-hire outlet.
enhanced service from our distribution centre.
An extension of the concept of stand alone stores that service With a newly refined and better balanced business model serving individual local authorities is in-branch local authority contract point.
plumbing contractors and the installed bathroom sector, CPS offers These meet the demands of individual authorities that do not require a good potential for expansion.
Having held back any branch developstand alone branch, but still want the benefit of centralising purchases ments in 2009 CPS continues to trade from 194 locations.
CPS is made by their employees and sub-contractors.
In 2009 we established the smallest of 4 national businesses serving the plumbing heating 8 of these dedicated service points within existing branches and and ventilation market, and we have significant scope for growth once currently have secured agreement to open a further 3 in 2010. market conditions become more favourable.
Development work in We continue introducing initiatives to secure new business.
During CPS in 2009 focussed on trading smartly to maximise the opportunithe year we focussed on increasing the number of active trade cash ties available from this highly competitive market, with a number of C H I E F E X E C U T I V E S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 15 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 refinements to ranges, promotional schemes and supplier incentives.
of Tile Giant, a 29-store chain operating mainly in the Midlands.
This As an important addition to our customer offer, CPS has invested in business has subsequently been expanded rapidly through 2 acquisia management team to establish a heating spare parts business which tions, Tile Magic and Tile It All, and a number of brown-field openwill be led by Ian Tillotson, our Group Spares Director.
ings, including 10 stores opened in 2009.
It traded from 86 stores at the year-end and we have a good pipeline of further opportunities CCF to expand.
Our dry-lining, screeding, ceilings and insulation specialist is more In 2009 we completed the rebranding of the businesses acquired exposed to late cycle trends.
This means it enjoyed better volumes in during 2008 so all stores now trade under the Tile Giant banner.
Our 2009 than the rest of the merchanting businesses.
However, we are new stores are performing well and we plan to increase the rate of now seeing a similar sharp downturn in this specialist market, which openings in 2010. could well be longer and deeper than in the general trade market.
We On 1 August 2009, we added a further channel to Tile Giant when are therefore holding back on any physical developments until we can we acquired Tile HQ, an internet-based seller of tiles and developed see better market prospects.
This means the CCF business continued its range into natural stone products, a faster growing segment of the to operate from 33 branches at the end of the year.
market, via the part acquisition of one of our key suppliers The Mosaic CCFs market is now very largely held in the hands of major national Tile Company.
This will enable us to improve the supply of natural stone or international distributors who have recently invested in the sector, products and so remain ahead of the market in this area.
and with only a few suppliers of the key products, competitive condiUsing the acquired expertise we are completely redeveloping the Tile tions remained very tight.
Despite this, CCFs one-stop shop offer Giant website and aim to relaunch it as a fully transactional offering in to contractors means it enjoys a good reputation and indeed it was the first quarter of 2010. accredited as best distributor by the influential Federation of Plastering and Dry Lining Contractors, by coming first in seven out of eight service ToolStation categories.
In April 2008, the Group acquired a 30% equity interest in ToolStation, Re-invigorated commercial activities resulted in CCF gaining a rapidly growing direct retailer of lightside products.
Since then, under significant market share.
It established a new flooring division and a development agreement, the Group has funded a rapid roll-out of 47 in addition, invested resources in partitions, and acoustics to good new stores.
effect, whilst improving its overall overhead management.
ToolStation added an additional 25 stores in the year, bringing the total trading at the end of the year up to 59.
In July 2009 it opened a Benchmarx new distribution centre at Redditch to support its plans to rapidly grow 2009 was another year of improved trading performance.
A new its footprint across the UK.
This enabled the Bridgwater distribution managing director, Chris Larkin, a former Travis Perkins regional centre to return to its originally designed function of servicing the mail director, was appointed in mid 2009 to Benchmarx, our specialist order and internet businesses.
kitchen and joinery business for the trade which was launched in ToolStations development in 2009 has created 175 new jobs 2006.
Prior to Chris arrival, we had spent time refining the Benchmarx in the UK which means that since Travis Perkins became a sharebusiness model to improve new branch breakeven volumes and holder Toolstation has created 381 new jobs, and with its rate of LFL cash payback profile.
Chris and his team have built on this platform sales growth significantly outstripping its peers, we are confident of by improving the sales and marketing focus, and have succeeded in further growth.
increasing Benchmarx customer base and revenues.
The Group has an option to acquire the outstanding portion of We took further market share, improved our doors range through ToolStations equity, under certain conditions, in 2012. centralisation of distribution and established a contract sales presence ORGANISATIONAL CAPABILITIES to service the social housing sector.
We also developed a successful Under a strategy of cost reduction in response to the recession, our implant branch model for use within the wider merchant network organisational capabilities were shrunk in 2009, leaving us with not affording us a low cost route to expansion.
much more than the essential requirements to continue running the Benchmarx 29 kitchen & joinery branches serve a market with business.
However, we have been careful to maintain the core capabiliattractive returns and growth characteristics and our offer has scored ties of the Group, for example by retaining key staff but re-deploying very highly with our new customers in this market.
We plan further them as a substitute for bought in services, allowing us to cut back on branch openings and we remain committed to creating a business with the costs of using these external providers.
This leaves us well posia significant market share in this sector.
tioned to take advantage of opportunities that may arise when volume growth returns.
Tile Giant As well as the re-deployment of staff, we have streamlined manageWe entered the retail tile market at the end of 2007 via the acquisition 16 C H I E F E X E C U T I V E S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 A: Hubert Pawlowski, Warehouse Assistant B B: Nigel Lemon, Warehouse Supervisor A C: Jeffrey Whitbread, Warehouse Assistant C B D: Steven Greenen, Business Development Manager C B D C H I E F E X E C U T I V E S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 17 17334 proof 1 4 10 ment structures, eliminated some departments, cut discretionary confirmed our intention to go beyond demonstrable compliance, and expenditures and reduced headcount required in activities related to in some cases best practice.
Our plans take into account commercial the volume of business we handle.
We expect to make a number of opportunities available and regard the environment as a stakeholder in these changes permanent, having proved we can operate satisfactorily the long-term survival of the business.
Our objectives remain broadly with fewer resources in a number of aspects of the Group.
However, the same and cover: in 2010 we will also selectively invest in new resources to support Responsible procurement: improvement of our customer offer in our businesses.
This will involve Carbon management: some new activities in market research, marketing, sales, multi-channel Resource efficiency: operations, IT and supply chain.
In 2009 we took specific actions aimed at maintaining morale and We have invested in capital projects and in systems in pursuit of these employee engagement in difficult trading conditions.
This included priorities in 2009 with the aim of seeking a quantified commercial removing less engaged colleagues as we reduced costs, improving remureturn and environmental benefit.
neration for the remaining employees, increasing internal communication activities and removing unnecessary and burdensome procedures.
Continuous Improvement As we reported last year, our senior management group experiWe monitor, review and improve our environmental performance via an enced an increased and unusual level of turnover at the end of 2008 environmental management system certified to the ISO 14001 stanas we cut costs.
In 2009 stability returned, with only 11 departures dard.
All our timber purchasing, tracking and resale activity, across all 10 planned and 1 unplanned and undesirable.
After promotions and divisions, is governed by our Chain of Custody procedures, certified restructuring to support our streamlining of management structures, the to external standards.
This allows us to bring FSC and PEFC certified management group now comprises 187 executives.
In addition to the product to market.
appointment of new Managing Directors to Keyline Andrew Harrison, In this environmental review we present our latest quantitative an experienced MD of a number of our businesses and Benchmarx and qualitative measures of performance.
Lloyds Register of Quality Chris Larkin, a successful TP South East regional director described Assurance have examined how we have calculated and estimated our above, we made 3 further changes to responsibilities.
Norman Bell, our performance and have commented on the completeness and materiManaging Director of Travis Perkins in the South West was promoted ality of this review.
Their assurance statement can be found on our web to the Executive Committee to spearhead further development of our site www.
Normans role was taken up by Mark Nottingham, our Performance trends can be seen by examining the graphs in this Managing Director for Travis Perkins in the North, and Andrew Popple, report.
The final indicators are a combination of measured, averaged a Regional Director in the North was promoted to replace Mark.
Wherever possible we have used stanThe action we have taken to deal with the contraction in our markets dardised data collection and reporting techniques and we continue to and to pursue our stretched targets has increased the demands on work to improve the accuracy of the measures reported.
The effect of seeking to reduce variable costs in line with We have adjusted historical data, as noted below, in order to increase sales trends, seize opportunities from failing competitors and continue reporting accuracy.
In 2010 we expect to improve further our accuracy to serve customers well has manifested itself in an increased and by installing automatic meter reading equipment in many sites.
The more diverse workload for many of our people.
They have responded equipment will improve our reporting of carbon emissions and will superbly.
In 2009 I continued my programme of regular visits to our allow us to improve our targeting of consumption at site level.
branches, stores, distribution centres and offices and by the end of the Historic carbon dioxide emissions, from utility consumption, have year had seen 470 sites since joining the Company.
I also continued to been amended to take into account increased data accuracy from meet with all colleagues in our support functions over a rolling series of the annual apportionment of kWh consumption.
This has resulted in communication and feedback sessions during the year.
I am continually a minor change under 1%, to previously reported carbon dioxide impressed by the dedication and commitment of my colleagues and tonnage data: would like, on behalf of the Board, to express my thanks to all of them The natural gas carbon dioxide emissions factor has changed from for all their hard work.
net calorific value to gross calorific value basis, in accordance with the 2009 Guidelines to Defra DECCs GHG Conversion Factors for ENVIRONMENT Company Reporting.
Version 2, 30 09 2009 : With the help of our Non Executive Environmental Advisory Panel The waste tonnage charts reported in the 2008 environment NEEAP, we took a more active stance in 2009 to the development, report incorrectly showed total waste produced and the amount scope and pace of our environmental activity.
The charts should have shown waste sent to landfill littered with government and ministerial announcements and consultaand the amount recycled.
The chart has been corrected for the 2009 tions about initiatives designed to reduce environmental harm, we have report: 18 C H I E F E X E C U T I V E S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 Estimated 2008 packaging tonnage of 64,041 is adjusted to 63,332 As well as listening to the views of our stakeholders, we also due to increased data accuracy: contribute to debate and seek to influence opinion about business The 2008 water consumption baseline has been revised from role in environmental issues.
In particular we are active in environ- 3 3 403,779 m to 349,390 m due to increased data accuracy.
mental forums in the Construction Product Association, British Retail Consortium and the WWF Forest and Trade Network.
Engagement Information about our environmental performance is accessible by a Dialogue with stakeholders is an important part of our approach to wide range of stakeholders via our web site.
We also provide detailed environmental improvement.
In 2009, in addition to consulting with reports to rating agencies such as the Carbon Disclosure Project and our NEEAP see the box below, we consulted with over 60 groups or Forest Footprint Disclosure Project, disclose much detail on our timber individuals about aspects of our performance to help us to set prioribuying to the WWF through the Forest and Trade Network and are ties on environmental issues.
Customers and regulators were the most involved in sector performance agreements and reporting such as the well represented stakeholder groups in our consultations.
Our financial BRCs A better Retailing Climate.
stakeholders were least well represented.
In 2009, via Wickes, we signed the Waste Reduction Action Programme WRAP voluntary home improvement sector commitStatement of the Activities of the Travis Perkins Non Executive ment to optimise packaging.
Through this we expect to make progress Environmental Advisory Panel.
The Travis Perkins Group values the contribution made by its Non We expect our NEEAP to become more influential in framing our Executive Environmental Advisory Panel.
This panel, representative internal decision making about our environmental objectives.
We have of the main stakeholders of the Group, meets twice a year and is rejoined the Timber Trade Federation, partly for the opportunity to influchaired by the CEO, Geoff Cooper.
The Panels role is to inform and ence the responsible sourcing debate.
guide the Groups environmental objectives and to help Travis Perkins We will continue to engage in dialogue with a wide selection of identify a clear response to environmental issues which can generate groups and individuals but in particular will concentrate on our heat but with inadequate light.
The panel is particularly encouraged employees, an under-represented group.
Both our employees enthuto examine emerging issues and areas where clear government envisiasm to adopt new and better environmental practice, and their ronmental policy or best practice doesnt yet exist.
ability to generate improvements and to come up with ideas is largely The Panel currently has 5 independent members drawn from the untapped.
financial, construction product manufacture, house building, repair and maintenance and environmental regulatory sectors.
Each panel Responsible Timber Trading member offers a different perspective on the issues, the solutions We estimate that in 2009 we purchased 84% by value of timber and the driving forces behind the solutions.
products from material that came from certified well managed and The Panel has so far reviewed the approach taken by Travis controlled forests.
This continues our record of consistent improvement Perkins and offered comment on the objectives of the Group in light in recent years and suggests that we will achieve our 90% interim of emerging practice and the response in the finance market and the target by 2011.
We do best in those categories with the shortest supply construction and retail industry.
The Panel has significantly helped chains between us and the forest, and those where we are the importer Travis Perkins to understand its role in the supply chain and the contriand distributor for a large amount of the category volume.
bution to improved environmental sustainability that it might make in Last year we successfully introduced important and significant fulfilling this role.
The Panel has particularly encouraged the Group to changes to our timber product Chain of Custody procedures in the adopt a clearer environmental vision that encompasses this.
These have ensured that certified The Panels role is exclusively forward looking and it does not product remains on offer in all branches and stores that sell timber provide any kind of assurance or verification to Travis Perkins over 800 sites.
The changes support our efforts to enhance the current environmental performance.
Travis Perkins will continue to robustness of chain of custody as responsible sourcing comes under use a credible 3rd party to verify the accuracy of its environmental increased scrutiny.
Revisions to public procurement standards and reporting.
Travis Perkins will also continue to draw on all its experibuilding codes now require an increase in the demand for demonence of the market and on other sources of information on policy strably certified product.
and good and emerging sustainable practice when considering In 2010 we will focus on increasing certified product purchases its environmental position.
The Panel complements the Groups from the harder to influence product categories such as flooring and understanding of environmental policy and best practice.
In these product categories, the supply chain between ourselves enhances the Groups dialogue with the broadest range of stakeand the forest tends to be longer and be filled with small intermediholders ensuring that their views are considered by Travis Perkins in aries.
This raises the need to adopt a stewardship role over the whole determining its environmental objectives.
C H I E F E X E C U T I V E S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 19 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 Carbon Management TIMBER CERTIFICATION In 2009 we emitted 154,818 tonnes of carbon 8% less than in 2008.
2005 data excludes Wickes timber figures.
The biggest contributor to this reduction was lower emissions from Timber purchased.
Our carbon dioxide emissions from burning gas were down 7% over 2008 despite the 2009 winter being colder.
We attribute this reduction in emissions to the work we have done in installing heating controls in Wickes our highest consumer of gas.
The work started in 2008 and all stores had been fitted with these controls by Autumn 2009.
In the supply chain we have had some success in improving efficiencies from customer deliveries and these also contributed to our absolute carbon reduction.
On average, on a like-for-like basis, carbon dioxide emissions from branch to customer deliveries were 4% lower for 2009 than for the 2005 baseline year.
The monitoring capability of our fleet management process, has helped to achieve these efficiencies over 2009 and indicates that there are more savings to be made.
Unfortunately, the negative operating leverage effect of falling market volumes has meant that our measured carbon footprint of 59.1 tonnes per million pounds of inflation adjusted turnover does not reflect these 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2011 efficiency gains.
However, our average emissions per occupied building Target FSC: Forest Stewardship Council, OCS: Other Certified Schemes have been falling year on year over the last 5 years and our 2009 rate of 125 tonnes of carbon dioxide per site is 24% less than it was in the baseline year of 2005.
We do not believe that our emissions per site will rise significantly as turnover starts to grow and, while we may miss our interim 15% reduction target in 2010, we still expect to achieve our 20% reduction in emissions per million pounds of adjusted sales by 2013.
In 2010 we will concentrate much of our effort in establishing the ability to monitor electricity consumption at a site level more accuCO EMISSIONS 2 rately.
In turn, this will allow us to engage the site management and target reduced consumption.
Both of these activities will increase Corrected data and OECD sales deflated figures.
our efficiency and also allow us to enter into the Carbon Reduction Tonnes CO per m Group Sales 2 Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme with an early adoption credit and a reducing emission trend.
We also intend to continue to deliver carbon efficiencies in the supply chain and to examine how we can quantify this more accurately by including the parts of the distribution chain that are currently outside of our direct control.
Waste Management In 2009, we sent 29,148 tonnes of waste to landfill, some 35% less than in 2008 and 41% less than our baseline year of 2005.
We believe that this rate of improvement in performance will be sustained and will allow us to deliver, by 2013, the target we have set ourselves of a 50% reduction in landfill.
Much of the success we have had in reducing waste to landfill last year has stemmed from the gradual removal of large open skips because these do not encourage reduction, re-use or recycling.
In 2010 we intend to pursue this with greater vigour with many sites 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Target being reduced to 1,100 litre wheelie bins.
We have also provided 20 C H I E F E X E C U T I V E S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 ENERGY TRANSPORT FSC OCS 32.6 27.1 36% 34% ENERGY TRANSPORT FSC OCS 31.9 26.5 49% 24% ENERGY TRANSPORT FSC OCS 27.8 25.6 48% 28% ENERGY TRANSPORT FSC OCS 32.6 27.6 54% 26% ENERGY TRANSPORT FSC OCS 32.3 26.9 58% 26% ENERGY AND TRANSPORT FSC AND OCS 50.8 90% branches with simple, lower cost alternative waste recycling options, WASTE TONNAGE both via backhaul through our internal supply chain for packaging and Corrected data and OECD sales deflated figures.
cardboard and through specialist partners for other materials.
Since Tonnes waste per m yard and core sales excludes sales from direct deliveries July 2009 all of our 7 distribution centres have collected bagged up waste plastic and cardboard from our stores and branches.
We have bailers installed at each distribution centre to enable us to compact and then sell the waste.
Over the half year we have picked up, bailed and sold on to the reprocessing market, 2,139 tonnes of material and estimate that we have reduced the demand for general waste capacity in branch and store skips by up to 30%.
Our recycling rate in 2009 was almost 30%.
In 2010, we will increase the segregation of our waste at source and expect to take advantage of our distribution network to accumulate sorted waste.
We have made a promising start in 2010 already and all pallets, including damaged ones, can now be returned via our distribution network for re-use or recycling.
Packaging In 2009, we estimate that we sold 59,484 tonnes of packaging.
This is 6% down on our revised 2008 estimate of 63,332 tonnes.
On a like-for-like basis, this equates to 20.7 tonnes per million pounds of sales in 2009 compared to 19.9 in 2008.
We have spent some time 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2013 in 2009 consulting with WRAP, particularly about retail packaging.
Target Wickes was the first business to sign up to WRAPs home improvement sector commitment.
We have also been vocal in the Construction Product Association CPA about packaging reduction.
Both the WRAP agreement and CPA packaging reduction forum will be important in delivering our packaging reduction ambitions which are split between improving packaging specification for our own branded products and influencing propriety branded suppliers to reduce packaging for the ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS branded product we sell.
AND COMPLAINTS Work on packaging specification changes will start in 2010 to deliver a 3-year programme aimed at achieving a 20% reduction in tonnes of packaging per million pounds of adjusted sales by the end of 2013.
On a In 2009, we estimate that we used 330,086 m consumption to real turnover basis our 2009 consumption is slightly up on 2008.
We have done some work on improving the accuracy of billing but have not yet addressed water efficiency.
This is not a priority area for us in 2010 although the target of reducing water consumption by 5% per million pounds of adjusted sales by 2013 remains.
Pollution Prevention We reported 3 incidents of high level hazardous waste fly tipping at our sites to environmental regulators in 2009.
In addition, we recorded 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 3 minor spills of fuel, but these were not notified to regulators as the spills were prevented from entering any water courses.
We had no prosecutions for any environmental offence in 2009.
However, we did receive one enforcement notice from a regulator to C H I E F E X E C U T I V E S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 21 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 WASTE RECYCLING INCIDENTS COMPLAINTS 21.9 1.0 5 5 WASTE RECYCLING INCIDENTS COMPLAINTS 19.6 1.7 5 10 WASTE RECYCLING INCIDENTS COMPLAINTS 18.0 2.8 6 10 WASTE RECYCLING INCIDENTS COMPLAINTS 18.4 3.1 4 17 WASTE RECYCLING INCIDENTS COMPLAINTS 13.3 3.6 3 6 WASTE TO LANDFILL 10.9 clean up one of our sites.
We also entered into a dialogue with three 11 charities Breast Cancer Campaign, Childrens Hospices UK, The regulators who were seeking confirmation about possible statutory Prostate Cancer Charity, Childline, Happy Days, CLIC Sargent, Donna nuisances and a failure to meet essential packaging requirements.
We Louise Hospice, Keech Hospice Care for Children, Warwickshire and do not believe that there is any planned action by any regulator relating Northamptonshire Air Ambulance and Whiz-Kidz.
Wickes will continue to these incidents, which we have recorded as complaints.
to support Leukaemia and Lymphoma Research as they celebrate 50 In addition, we received 2 complaints from neighbours about noise years as a charity.
and in each case have worked to resolve the complaint by either In 2009, we continued our role as main sponsor of Northampton changing working hours or installing white noise beepers on vehicles.
Saints rugby club and continued to involve our Northamptonshire Even though the level of complaint and incidents in 2009 was at colleagues in joint community activities including Sportsmatch the a 5 year low, we remain committed to improving our performance.
Government-funded scheme that gives local primary schools rugby We have a target of zero incidents and complaints and will remain coaching sessions, assembly visits and class-based Tag Rugby compediligent in our site operations.
In 2010 we will continue to communicate titions.
Our 1,000 Projects initiative continues to forge and develop with our branches and stores to ensure that the site noise level control relationships with local communities in the towns and cities in which adequately reflects the environmental impact and environmental risk.
More than 700 local projects, schools, charities and amenities across the UK have benefited from the time and talent, and often COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES materials, donated by our employees.
Our relationships with local communities and the public at large are Each project involves our teams giving their own time and working deeply embedded in our heritage and culture, and are strongly highwith suppliers, local customers and community organisations to deliver lighted through our work with charities.
The partnerships with our a building project of real value to the communities in the towns and chosen charities continue to thrive through a variety of activities across cities where we trade.
Some recent examples include: all of our 1,238 stores and branches in the UK.
As a Group, we have Wood Green School in Walsall, where the local Travis Perkins raised over 1.8m over the last three years for our chosen charities.
branches joined forces with sixth form students for a 5-day project to This year, Wickes became the first of our businesses to succeed in create a leisure area within the school.
Their remit was to construct raising more than 1 million for its nominated charity, Leukaemia and the leisure area from sustainable or recycled materials to provide a Lymphoma Research.
Since the partnership with Leukaemia Research safe and interesting environment for them to meet and socialise: began 3 years ago, the enthusiasm and support of colleagues has been Our Travis Perkins Vauxhall branch are supporting a local care home overwhelming, and reaching the 1 million mark is a testament to the by repainting a relaxation area to brighten it up for residents: dedication of all employees in our retail stores and teams.
In October Employees from our Keyline Morley branch are donating materials 2009, a group of Wickes colleagues successfully climbed Mount and building a sensory garden for disabled children at Northowram Kilimanjaro, raising over 75,000.
Primary School, West Yorkshire: Wickes colleagues play a vital role in organising many local fundThe team at Travis Perkins in Colchester, led by their Branch raising events such as football tournaments and golf competitions, Manager, Steve Bareham, completed no less than 6 projects as part as well as in-store events such as fancy dress days and car washes.
of our 1,000 Projects initiative, and raised thousands of pounds They also participate in larger public events including marathons, for our nominated charities.
In recognition, the team were rewarded triathlons and bikeathons.
Our top fund raising store last year raised at the prestigious Colchester and District Business Awards earlier over 9,000. in 2009 for successfully incorporating community and fundraising Despite more difficult trading conditions, the rest of the Group raised projects into their everyday working lives.
over 850,000 for Action for Children formally NCH and Mencap with Year on year, the 1,000 Projects initiative proves to be instruits sister charity ENABLE in Scotland over a three-year period.
mental in helping our branch teams cultivate and develop relationships with the local community, to develop team morale and togetherness, In 2009, the merchanting businesses and our Northampton Head and gain excellent local publicity.
Office raised over 230,000 through a variety of fundraising activities.
63 employees from our Travis Perkins business and Head Office took INVESTORS on a Beat the Moon challenge, which saw them cycle, walk, ride and The rights issue in May removed the market uncertainty about the canoe over 31 miles in one day, raising 43,000 through this achieverobustness of the Groups balance sheet and spurred a lot of activity in ment.
Two of our Travis Perkins businesses both held a charity ball trading of the Groups shares.
Responsibility for communications with shareholders and debt From 2010, each of our businesses will adopt its own nominated providers rests directly with me and Paul Hampden Smith, our Finance charity or charities.
This will enable further worthwhile causes to benefit Director, with support and advice from the Companys brokers.
We do from the fundraising efforts and generosity of our employees.
This not employ an investor relations manager.
The Company Chairman and means that starting in 2010, the Group as a whole will be supporting 22 C H I E F E X E C U T I V E S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 A: Neale Mist, Telephone Sales Representative A B B: Ray Cox, Yard Supervisor C: Derrick Steele, Telephone Sales Representative C C H I E F E X E C U T I V E S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 23 17334 proof 1 4 10 Senior Independent Director attend a selection of investor meetings sub-economic levels.
However, there is always a risk of sporadic price throughout the year, and the Company Chairman attends the meetings aggression from less disciplined operators.
at which we present the Groups interim and preliminary results to buyWe also expect a contraction in the merchanting market, although side and sell-side analysts.
In addition to these meetings, at least one it will be slight, and will simply reflect the annualisation of the trough.
day per month is set aside to meet investors and analysts.
Although there will be significant variations in the fortunes of the This regular programme is supplemented with one trip per year to various segments of the market, increased activity in housing construcmeet with investors in Eire, Canada and the USA, and we host a visit for tion, albeit from a low base, and expanded public sector investment in analysts to a selection of our businesses once per year.
the built environment will provide a floor to activity levels.
In 2009 we conducted nearly 155 meetings with investors.
Activity In an anticipated period of low growth our focus is shifting to driving levels, again boosted by the rights issue, increased in 2009.
As part of organic performance.
each exercise to present interim and preliminary results, we typically Against the fragile market background, we remain vigilant, keeping meet shareholders representing around 60% of the shares outstanding.
a tight control on our core operating costs and looking to maintain This includes a family lunch where we meet with representatives of gross margins wherever possible.
The structural improvements in our the Travis and Perkins families.
overhead base will be sustained, with no re-instatement of management posts removed in late 2008, and cash generation will continue STRATEGY as a priority through pursuit of supply chain initiatives.
We will adopt a We have developed our strategy to respond to three distinct phases flexible stance to: expansion of our successful retail marketing investof the recession: managing the downturn: stabilisation: and exploiting ments: credit extended to trade customers: and sales prospecting opportunities.
Our priorities in managing the downturn are described activity in trade markets, seeking to match the costs of these against above, and we have now turned our attention to the prospects for our the strength of activity levels.
markets in this next phase, of stabilisation.
Whilst remaining vigilant, we have made provision in our cost plans in Although forecasts are particularly problematic in this recession, we 2010 to selectively invest in a number of new activities that have direct estimate our markets are now stabilising, having fallen sharply from benefits to customers in the form of a steadily more attractive offer.
We are now in a phase of stabilisation, which Until we can see signs of a recovery in our markets, we do not presents its own difficulties, with no growth, some exaggerated short think it worthwhile to comment on, or further develop, our strategy for term volatility in market trends, continued intense competition and exploiting opportunities.
The outline of these strategies can be defined, business failures, and the potential for material shortages following the but it is difficult to determine, in present conditions, when they are large cuts in manufacturing capacity implemented by manufacturers.
At this stage there is no clear indication of when our markets might Our businesses have strong brands, experienced management return to growth again.
Although we believe this might be evident by teams and market leading financial performance.
These strengths the end of 2010, we are also wary of the probable false starts that mean we remain confident of our ability to position the Group to take we expect to see.
advantage of further opportunities we believe will arise when our sector Whilst our markets are no longer exhibiting the abrupt declines in returns to growth.
volume that characterised the start of the recession, activity levels remain fragile.
We are concerned in particular about weak consumer spending trends in 2010 as inflation rises and the cushion of falling mortgage costs annualises out.
We expect the home improvement market to contract further in 2010, but with only limited benefit from competitors going out of business in contrast to the large capacity Geoff Cooper reductions seen in 2009.
Against this background, we expect pricing Chief Executive discipline to be maintained since returns for most operators remain at 23 February 2010 24 C H I E F E X E C U T I V E S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 17334 proof 3 1 4 10
