Trinity Mirror plc 16 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Chairman and Chief Executive statement We continued to actively manage our portfolio of media brands, As expected, 2009 proved to be another to ensure we are publishing the best mix of media across print and challenging year for the media industry as digital to serve the needs of readers and advertisers in each of our markets.
Effective portfolio management ensured we maintained it dealt with the ongoing adverse effects of strong market positions while supporting profitability.
Against these objectives, we announced a number of publishing changes to the the material slowdown in the UK economy.
format and frequency of our regional newspaper titles, also closing or selling 30 regional newspaper titles during the year.
Against a difficult economic and trading background management have taken decisive action, focusing on leading the business through We also continued with our programme of investment to modernise the recession, while continuing to develop the business for longer our publishing operations.
The implementation of our new operating term growth.
model across the business has resulted in a step change in the way we publish across print and digital.
New state-of-the-art IT systems In common with other consumer-facing media businesses we have enabled us to re-engineer how we publish across editorial, saw all categories of advertising revenues suffer significant declines.
Importantly we have not tried to do the Circulation revenues were also impacted as consumers sought to same things with fewer people, instead, using new technology, we reduce discretionary spend, but pleasingly, demonstrated have made fundamental changes to the entire publishing process, substantially more resilience than advertising.
achieving efficiencies and a significantly lower cost base across all In response to declining revenues and inflationary cost pressures, functions but without detriment to quality.
As a result the business particularly steep newsprint price increases, we put in place a is leaner, fitter and well positioned to take full advantage of any comprehensive package of self-help measures with the objective upturn in market conditions.
of reducing our cost base.
Initiatives included a reduction in Despite the difficult market conditions, we continued to invest in headcount of some 1,700, around 20% of the total, a Group-wide developing the portfolio with the launch of a number of new online pay freeze, the closure of 15 offices and one print plant and tight brands such as mirrorfootball.
management of all discretionary spend.
These measures enabled Each of these new sites has been well received by the market and the Groups cost base to fall significantly during the year.
they are growing steadily, gaining a loyal and engaged user base.
Our continued investment in our digital businesses ensured that we increased our audience reach with average monthly unique users across the Groups portfolio of digital brands increasing by 41% year on year and by 15% from the first half of 2009 to reach 17 million in the second half.
Trinity Mirror plc Annual Report & Accounts 200917 Whilst Group revenues fell by 108.4 million to 763.3 million, Regionals division operating profit only fell by 39.8 million to 105.4 million reflecting 2009 has proven to be another challenging year for the regional management action which has resulted in the cost base, after newspaper industry.
The continued downturn in the economy has inflationary cost increases and the additional weeks trading, falling driven significant falls in advertising revenues with particular pressure by 67.9 million.
Excluding the impact of the additional weeks on recruitment, property and motors reflecting rising unemployment, trading in 2009, the cost base fell by 73.6 million year on year.
a fragile housing market and falling car sales.
The slowing economy The reduction in costs is ahead of our 65 million target and includes has also impacted circulation and other revenues, although to a 40 million of structural cost savings, 5 million ahead of our target.
Group digital revenues declined during the year by 18.3% to Regional businesses are hit particularly hard by the recession due, 35.6 million, with digital recruitment and property across the firstly, to the reliance on a higher proportion of advertising revenues market being hit by the severity of the downturn.
However, excluding than circulation revenues and, secondly, to the fact that the majority recruitment and property, we continued to see significant growth of its advertising is classified.
of 22.7% in other digital revenues, including display.
The challenging market conditions contributed to revenues falling Our strategy of diversifying our revenue streams coupled with the by 23.5% from 396.0 million to 302.9 million and operating profit impact of the downturn on our advertising revenues results in a more falling by 47.4% from 68.2 million to 35.9 million.
Non-advertising revenues now account for 57% of total revenues, up from 51% in 2008.
In addition, our Our focus in 2009 has been on managing the business through the advertising revenues are becoming more resilient with non-classified downturn and a comprehensive package of measures was put in advertising revenues now accounting for 58% of total advertising place to support profitability.
We have achieved increased efficiencies revenue, up from 50% in 2008.
As well as improving the quality of by reducing headcount, closing premises and reducing infrastructure our own titles, investment in our printing presses over the past five costs.
We made changes to the format and frequency of a number years has enabled us to win print contracts from other publishers of titles, closing or selling 30 newspaper titles which had become and we are now the largest contract printer of newspapers in the UK.
Along with a restructured portfolio we introduced a Contract print revenues are more stable and resilient to the business simpler, flatter management structure which further reduced costs.
cycle, with contracts typically running over several years and We also made good progress in implementing our new operating continuing to grow revenues in this area is a key management model across editorial, advertising and pre-press.
At this stage we do not envisage any further material has allowed us to modernise how we publish across print and digital, investment in our presses.
delivering a step change in efficiencies and a reduction in headcount resulting in significant structural cost savings.
Regulatory framework for newspapers We have continued to invest in the growth of our digital businesses, During the first half of the year, the Office of Fair Trading OFT extending our reach into our local markets through the launch of a conducted a review of the merger regime facing local and regional number of new digital products and improving and expanding our media.
We joined with a number of other groups in our sector existing portfolio with the addition of new business directories, and formed the Local Media Alliance, through which we pressed mobile sites and social media tools.
the case for an updating of the merger regime to reflect todays Despite this, due to our major revenue categories of recruitment and multi-platform media world.
In its final report published in June, property being hit by the cyclical downturn and the impacts of rising the OFT acknowledged the challenges faced by local and regional unemployment and a fragile property market, digital revenue fell by media businesses and proposed that the regulator, Ofcom, 18.9% year on year.
Excluding recruitment and property, digital becomes involved in future merger cases to provide expert revenue has grown by 38.3% year on year.
media advice, a development which we welcomed.
Our audience continued to grow with average monthly unique users growing by 11% year on year to 7 million per month.
In 2009, digital GMG Regional Media revenue represented 10.2% of revenues and 18.4% of operating The Group announced on 9 February 2010 that it had exchanged profit, a strong position from which to see future revenue and profit contracts to acquire GMG Regional Media for a cash consideration growth once trading conditions improve.
of 7.4 million, from Guardian Media Group plc, with the transaction due to complete on 28 March 2010.
GMG Regional Media is a perfect strategic fit for our Group.
This acquisition, which includes the Manchester Evening News with its proud and rich journalistic heritage, together with the weekly titles and associated websites extends our reach across print and online and is a further step towards our strategic goal of creating a local multi-media business of scale.
Financials Governance Business review Who we are Trinity Mirror plc 18 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Chairman and Chief Executive statement Total digital revenues across our Nationals portfolio of online Nationals division brands fell by 14.3% year on year with bingo revenues declining Our national titles performed strongly throughout 2009, showing the due to increased competition and the impact of the recession.
business to be highly resilient through the downturn with revenues down by 3.2% from 475.7 million to 460.4 million and operating Average monthly unique users grew year on year by 78% to 9 million profit down by only 6.0% from 88.9 million to 83.6 million, reflecting per month.
With over 50% of website users from the UK, the highest the greater proportion of circulation revenue.
proportion within the peer group, this is a characteristic highly prized by advertisers.
The Daily Mirror and the Daily Record achieved a joint circulation in excess of 1.6 million copies per day on average during 2009 with Capital expenditure readership per issue of nearly 4.5 million.
Our national Sunday titles We continued to tightly manage our capital expenditure spending the Sunday Mirror, The People and the Sunday Mail achieved 14.8 million during the year.
The capital expenditure included a joint circulation in excess of 2.2 million copies per week on 6.3 million spent on presses and 7.6 million on IT systems.
average in 2009 with readership per issue in excess of nearly The gross capital expenditure of 14.8 million was offset by the 5.9 million.
During the year, we introduced a completely new look receipt of 8.9 million from property and other asset disposals.
for The People modern, vibrant and energetic which better We envisage gross capital expenditure will be some 15 million reflects the new personality of the paper and has improved the in 2010. circulation volume trend.
The Sunday Mail continues to be the biggest selling newspaper Net debt in Scotland, with a circulation which is nearly 100,000 copies larger The Group continued to generate strong cash flows during the year than the next best-selling title.
Both Scottish newspapers are clear even though revenues and operating profit were adversely impacted market leaders in readership terms with the Daily Record reaching by the economic downturn.
The strong cash generation enabled net 6% more readers than the number two title in the market and the debt on a contracted basis to fall by 60.2 million to 324.0 million Sunday Mail having 68% more readers than the next best-read during the year.
On a statutory basis, net debt fell by 48.9 million Sunday title.
Across the national popular newspaper market, circulations Our strong cash flows and prudent management of our financing continued to decline year on year.
The circulation performance of facilities ensured that the Group maintained significant financing our five national titles reflects our policy of not chasing short-term flexibility with no drawings on the Groups 178.5 million bank circulation volume through cover price discounting and levels of facility which is committed until June 2013. marketing spend which do not provide a return on investment.
Our titles have a higher proportion of full rate sales within their The next repayment of our private placement debt facility is 145 million audited ABC circulations than any of their national competitors.
We expect this to be repaid through a combination of surplus cash balances, cash flows generated by the business and Whilst circulation volumes have been under pressure, our drawings on the Groups 178.5 million bank facility which is currently circulation revenue performance was supported by price increases undrawn and fully committed to June 2013. during the year.
In January 2009, we increased the Monday to Friday cover price of the Daily Mirror from 40p to 45p, with the Pension schemes Saturday price unchanged, and the Daily Record cover price from 35p to 40p on Monday to Friday and from 60p to 65p on Saturday.
During 2009, our IAS 19 pension scheme deficit increased by Also in January 2009 the Sunday Mirror cover price was increased 89.7 million to 296.6 million.
Whilst asset values improved by from 95p to 1.00, the Sunday Mail rose from 1.20 to 1.30 and in 164.5 million, liabilities increased by 304.3 million reflecting August 2009 the price of The People increased from 90p to 95p.
the impact of a fall in the real discount rate from 3.75% to 2.20%.
The increase in the IAS 19 pension scheme deficit was partially The advertising market for national newspapers remained difficult offset by a fall in the asset ceiling adjustment of 50.1 million.
Pleasingly, despite the impact of the challenging market conditions, all five of our national titles increased their Following an extensive consultation process, the Group announced advertising volume market share which is testament to their the closure of all defined benefit pension schemes to future accrual strength and appeal to both readers and advertisers.
All active members of the defined benefit pension schemes will now have the option to join the Trinity Mirror Pension Plan, a defined contribution pension scheme, from 1 April 2010.
Trinity Mirror plc Annual Report & Accounts 200919 Our strategy of protecting profits during the downturn whilst Employees developing the Group for growth post recession has reaped rewards Throughout 2009, our staff across all areas of the business, have during 2009.
Whilst revenues fell by 108.4 million, the fall in profits faced the extraordinary challenges in our markets with determination, was limited to 39.8 million due to the benefit of costs falling by enthusiasm and tenacity.
On behalf of the Board, we thank them for 67.9 million, including structural cost savings of 40 million, 5 million their commitment and hard work.
We are targeting a further reduction in the cost base of at least 20 million in 2010, after absorbing inflationary cost Dividend increases and excluding the benefit of newsprint price reductions, When the trading environment improves the Board will look to reinstate which will assist in protecting profits.
We expect restructuring costs dividends.
The key factors that the Board will consider in assessing in 2010 to be around 15 million.
the trading environment are: Our improved financial position due to the strong cash flows year on year stability and improved visibility in revenues, in particular generated by the Group, secure longer term financing, improving advertising revenues: trends in advertising revenues, the ongoing focus on tight management of the cost base and falling newsprint prices gives clear evidence that the economy has firmly come out of recession: the Board confidence that the Group is well positioned to maximise and value when market conditions improve.
Whilst the Board remains continued improvement in the cash flows generated by the business.
cautious about the economic outlook, it anticipates a satisfactory performance for 2010.
Key operating trends and outlook The Groups revenue performance continued to improve as we progressed through the year with the Group revenues falling in the second half excluding the impact of the additional weeks trading by 10% year on year compared to a decline of 17% year on year in Sly Bailey Sir Ian Gibson CBE the first half.
The most significant improvement has been advertising Chief Executive Chairman revenues with declines of 17% in the second half compared to declines of 28% in the first half.
In January and February 2010 Group revenues fell by a much reduced 3% and 6% respectively.
Advertising revenues fell by 1% in January and 5% in February.
The January advertising revenue performance is distorted by the additional weeks trading in 2009 which covers the period around New Years Day which is the weakest trading period for the Regionals.
Advertising revenues for the Regionals fell 3% in January, 8% in February and for the Nationals grew by 2% in January and were almost flat year on year in February.
Circulation revenues for both January and February fell by around 6%.
At this stage, for 2010, we expect the rate of decline in advertising revenues to improve as we progress through the year although month on month volatility and limited visibility prevail.
Circulation revenues are expected to decline by mid single digits.
Financials Governance Business review Who we are
