Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 11 | Strategic overview Chief Executives statement A clear strategic goal Welcome to TUI Travel PLCs 2009 annual report.
This year we have taken the step of putting our Annual Report & Accounts fully online reflecting our ongoing commitment to sustainable development and the fact that over 70% of our shareholders will be receiving it electronically this year.
We hope you enjoy reading and hearing about TUI Travels achievements.
Peter Long Chief Executive We are very proud that TUI Travel is the worlds TUI Travels clear strategic goal is to create superior leading leisure travel company taking over 30 million shareholder value by being the worlds leading customers on holiday each year.
We have produced leisure travel group providing customers with the another good set of financial results this year, with widest choice of differentiated and flexible travel a 45m increase in underlying operating profit experiences to meet their changing needs.
This to 443m and an improvement in underlying year we have focused on delivering growth and operating margin of 30 basis points to 3.2%.
shareholder value by growing our Mainstream businesses margins and building our portfolio of Our performance is particularly impressive as it has specialist businesses.
We have made substantial been achieved in spite of the higher levels of cost progress in delivering both these targets and we inflation and the challenging economic backdrop, are confident there is more growth to come.
which has resulted in both higher unemployment and declines in consumer confidence in all source Finally, all of our achievements this year could not markets.
The Groups flexible business model and have happened without the hard work and dedication careful capacity management has meant we have of our 50,000 colleagues and I would like to thank been able to successfully manage the businesses them personally for their contribution.
Our strong brands, together with ongoing product innovation and Peter Long development, have also meant that we have Chief Executive continued to maintain market-leading positions and to deliver new holiday experiences for customers.
Climate change has been one of the most talkedabout topics this year and in the leisure travel industry it is without doubt one of the largest challenges we face.
TUI Travel is the first major tour operator to commit to carbon reduction targets and I have met with business leaders to discuss the business communitys response to climate change.
We will continue with our commitment to sustainability and strive to ensure that it aligns with our strategic priorities.
View the CEOs interview online Watch the CEOs interview online at http: ara2009.
