12 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 | Strategic overview Chief Executives interview An interview with Chief Executive, Peter Long There is evidence that consumer confidence in the UK What are the highlights of this year for you?
is improving as were seeing strong demand for late bookings this winter.
Furthermore, I am encouraged In what has been a very economically challenging by our booking pattern for Summer 2010. year in the global market place, where we have In Germany and, to a lesser or greater extent, our experienced the deepest and longest post-war other European source markets, we think it could recession, rising unemployment, loss of consumer be slightly different.
The fiscal measures put in confidence and increased cost pressures, I am place in these countries means that they have not delighted that TUI Travel has achieved strong results.
experienced the unemployment levels that we have For me, if there is one thing that really stands out seen in either the US or the UK.
Once these it is the dedication and commitment of all our measures cease we may see unemployment rise.
We are, therefore, planning cautiously for next year in these source markets although there are positive I believe that we have the best management team signs in a number of these countries.
in the industry and this is borne out by the way businesses perform in times of adversity.
It is one thing to perform well when the trading environment What steps have you taken to further is positive or benign but it is quite another thing to improve the Groups business performance?
produce good performance when times are tough.
We also have a good mix of tour operator and We have experienced both lower demand and functional experts across the Group which creates significant cost inflation across the Group which the right balance to successfully manage what is we managed through our flexible business model.
Carefully aligning capacity with demand allowed us to achieve our required load factors and also It is not only about the team at the top though.
ensured that there was no excessive discounting We have identified our talent pool and considerable in the lates market despite the later booking trend.
time and commitment is going into developing our leaders of tomorrow.
I have had the opportunity We have identified a number of businesses across of spending time with them this year and what the Group that were or are underperforming and a fantastic group of colleagues they are.
It is both a we have taken or are taking appropriate steps to privilege and reassuring to know that as the business address these.
grows we will have the right team to grow with it.
In Germany, we have concluded a transaction with Air Berlin who will take over our City Pairs business.
How are the different markets responding to This allows us to exit an operation which made the current economic climate?
This deal makes strategic sense for both us and Air Berlin.
We are also improving our product mix in Germany which will Its been very interesting to see the reactions of deliver higher margins and have plans in place to our customers within our different source markets increase our controlled distribution.
during this period of economic uncertainty.
In France, within Nouvelles Frontires, we are The first market where we saw a marked reaction rationalising the product range to ensure that we was in the United States.
The sub-prime mortgage operate programmes of significant scale to key issue was a significant factor and unemployment destinations.
Corsair, our long haul scheduled rose much more quickly than in our other source airline, was hit by a series of socio-political events markets and consumer confidence was lower much in a number of its key destinations and we are earlier.
We experienced a marked drop in bookings continuing to review its business model and across a number of our businesses.
Our retail operation in both Nouvelles the pain earlier, however, the US market is now Frontires, where we were sub-scale, and Marmara, coming back strongly and the businesses are where we relied heavily on third party agents, performing accordingly.
We are now selling In the UK, we have experienced a later booking Marmara product through our Nouvelles Frontires pattern if someone is concerned about whether and Havas retail operations and the transaction they will have a job or not, its not surprising that with Carlson Wagonlit Travel after the year end they delay booking their annual summer holiday.
gives us the scale we require.
They did, however, eventually book and, because In Canada, which is an extremely competitive we had ensured that we aligned capacity with market with significant over-capacity, we have a demand, although they were booking later, we weak market position and made a loss of 24m in werent having to discount the price.
Having reviewed the strategic alternatives for www.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 13 View the CEOs interview online Watch the CEOs interview online at http: ara2009.
com Canada, we recently announced a strategic venture The new generation of aircraft, like the Boeing 787, with Sunwing, a leading tour operator in Canada.
will allow our customers to fly even further afield to The transaction, once completed, will strengthen new destinations in aircraft that are more fuel our position in the Canadian market and bring efficient, offer greater comfort and are less a number of strategic and financial benefits to damaging to the environment than todays aircraft.
We are in a constantly changing industry and if we stand still we will be left behind.
We put our customers at the heart of everything we do and not only deliver How will your strategy and business model what they want today but continue to innovate in develop over the next couple of years?
order to deliver what they will want tomorrow.
For us its all about delivering sustainable longer term growth and our flexible and efficient business What are the challenges TUI Travel is facing?
model remains key to what we do.
We will be focusing on continuing to improve those Every year we face different challenges and we deal areas of the business that are underperforming, with them, be they geo-political, natural disasters or increasing our differentiated and exclusive product economic.
But for me there are two key challenges and getting the right mix of controlled distribution that we are addressing, one is carbon reduction and across the whole of our Mainstream Sector.
We will also look closely at how we shape our long We operate in a high carbon industry.
Being the European launch customer we are a tour operator, first and foremost, we also for the Boeing 787, we will ensure that we take full have a fleet of 150 aircraft to take our customers advantage of the competitive advantage this brings us.
on holiday and, unfortunately, today there is no alternative to jet fuel.
Mass production of second Within our Specialist Sectors, we have a unique generation bio-fuels, which seem more viable, portfolio that is impossible to replicate and our are still a considerable number of years off.
We, focus will be on driving organic growth in our therefore, have to do all we can to reduce our existing businesses and maximising further the carbon dioxide emissions ourselves and are making merger integration opportunities we have.
We will a significant investment in new technology like the expand into new source markets with specialist Boeing 787.
We have committed to reducing our products, just as we did with Le Boat in Germany.
carbon emissions from our fleet by 6% by 2014.
We continue to identify new market niches that We are supportive of the inclusion of aviation in offer high-growth potential and where we can easily the European Emissions Trading Scheme ETS but establish a significant position.
In Russia and Ukraine, believe there should be a global emissions trading we will leverage and grow our existing platforms as framework for aviation which channels monies well as investigating further the potential of other raised from auctioning emissions allocations into emerging markets.
environmental solutions rather than national coffers.
We also dont want to see the aviation industry being hit twice, both by national governments in How do you see the leisure travel market tax raising schemes and also by ETS.
As a tour operator we are heavily regulated and we Travel and tourism is the worlds largest industry do not have an issue with that.
What we do have an and has grown and changed rapidly over the last issue with, however, is that competitors in the same 30 years.
In 1979 there were 270 million international market competing for the same customers and the tourist arrivals, this has risen to nearly a billion same business, should be regulated in the same way today and the prediction for 2020 is 1.6 billion.
We welcome the fact that the European Commission is looking at revising the The mainstream tour operators opened customers Package Travel Directive which has been in place for eyes to safe travel beyond ones own country and nearly 20 years and does not take into consideration people are more adventurous today.
It started with the way the leisure travel market has changed, Spain, but now customers are more confident and particularly in the last six or seven years with the will happily go to destinations like Egypt, Turkey, the low cost carriers and online travel agents.
Financial Dominican Republic and Mexico.
Its not only about protection also needs to be addressed especially in a sun and beach holiday, many of our Groups the light of the number of airline failures that we customers want to go on experiential holidays like have seen and may well continue to see.
sailing, trekking in the Himalayas, safaris or Polar expedition cruising and these will continue to become even more popular.
