Directors Report: Business review Chief Executives review Becoming Africas leading independent oil company Tullow has a long history in Africa.
We know Tullow continues to develop a and understand the continent well which is rich in under-explored petroleum basins that offer material business that creates value through upside potential.
We acquired our first licences combining high-impact exploration in Senegal in 1985 and over the last decade the continent has been the major focus of our activity.
with lower-risk appraisal and growing We have put our energy and capital into exploring, production: underpinned by a well appraising and developing significant resources in Africa and are well advanced towards first funded capital structure.
commercial production from major new basins in Ghana and Uganda.
We are well organised in Africa and have 50 licences in 16 countries, spanning 130,000 sq km.
We have key production and development assets in seven countries, 338 employees, five business units, a main office in Cape Town and regional offices for our major developments in Accra and Kampala.
Big projects bring with them big responsibilities and we are determined to make a major contribution to building in-country capacity and developing indigenous enterprise.
This role fits well with our entrepreneurial spirit and our values.
Aidan Heavey Chief Executive Officer 22 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Doing business  way Managing our operating environment Our longevity and experience means we know how to To function as a business we must have a very do business in Africa in a transparent and ethical way.
We take account of We also understand the management of associated what our owners, partners, governments, employees, risks.
We have major project teams in Ghana and communities and related social groups are saying Uganda who, together with our partners, complete to us.
A large part of my role is to ensure that the ongoing risk analysis and reporting.
Our African environment in which Tullow needs to operate and exploration team champion and develop exploration prosper is working.
Together with Tullows Executive opportunities within a competitive global capital Directors we dedicate a lot of time interacting with our allocation process.
We are always challenging key stakeholders and have developed strong internal where the greatest opportunities are and as a resources in areas such as Investor Relations, result we continue to fide-risk our African portfolio Human Resources, Internal Communications with material discoveries.
and, more recently, External Affairs.
There is potential during operations to damage the  ecosystems and biodiversity that often underpins A key responsibility of our new External Affairs the sources of food and the livelihoods of local function is to develop an aligned long-term approach communities.
The open, detailed and transparent to corporate responsibility activities to underpin and approach we took in Ghana to the EIA, together with define all we do in this very important aspect of our st our investment in the development of 21 Century business.
This approach will work in partnership operations, exemplify how seriously we take this with all our stakeholders to ensure that the oil and challenge in developing our operations in Africa.
gas resources we manage act as a positive catalyst for new opportunities and economic development, Embracingbigprojects  creating shared prosperity.
Our reputation is built on trust, respect, transparency and strong business ethics.
To us it is a key business Building a winning team enabler.
It creates the opportunity for us, for example, African cultures are very people centric and this we to work closely with the Ugandan Government to gain feel gives us a natural affinity with Africa.
At the heart their approval for the pre-emption of the Heritage of Tullow are our people.
We are continuously building interests in the Lake Albert Rift Basin, in parallel best in class resources and skill sets across the with a farmdown of up to two-thirds of the combined Group.
We have an exceptional exploration team assets to leading industry partners.
This process is and a great portfolio of assets for them to work on.
now well advanced and we fully expect to agree an Our development team has created the benchmark aligned and accelerated basin-wide development for deepwater development in Ghana and are now plan this year.
looking to accelerate plans to develop another world-class basin in Uganda.
We have an experienced Tullows role in the development of two major new oil production team with a strong track record of adeptly provinces gives us a significant position in laying the maximising production output who are looking forward foundations for the long-term development of social to contributing to the management of our growing and economic capacity and avoiding the curse of oil.
We not only build very strong Through human resource initiatives and training, we internal teams, but it is our ability to bring groups are developing in-country skills and have specific of companies to work together which means localisation recruitment policies.
In our wider supply we can consistently deliver on each challenge chain we work with local businesses and suppliers to and milestone.
help them to develop in-country services that Tullow and the industry will require.
Given the scale of our Having clear business plans investment in Africa, over 2 billion in three years We are clear on our business plans for the next three including 2010, we can, and do, exert influence over years.
These are developed from our strategy and are our supplier base and how large multinational closely aligned with continuing to build a business suppliers set-up their operations in-country.
that delivers top quintile growth.
Our strategy and business model are outlined on page 24.
Being entrepreneurial is a core value for Tullow and it is important that other businesses and enterprises Our 2010-2012 business plans are: develop alongside our operations.
Deliver Jubilee Phase 1 first oil, production ramp up there is always more work to do and in particular in and assess all subsequent phases of development our contribution and role in social enterprise and in Ghana: community development.
In Uganda, agree an aligned accelerated basin-wide development plan over the next 12 months, followed by delivery of first commercial oil and first commercial power in 2011: www.
com 23 Directors Report: Business review
