Chief Executive Officers review Paul Polman Chief Executive Officer We targeted four key areas of activity: Bigger and better innovations, rolled out faster and to more markets Our innovations are getting bigger and better.
The One Unilever structure allows for faster roll-out across multiple geographies.
Dove Minimising Deodorant, for example, was rolled out across 37 markets: Signal White Now to 21 markets and Knorr Stockpots to 12 markets: Clear shampoo is now in 35 markets: and following its launch at the end of 2009, Dove for Men will be rolled out across 50 markets.
Our innovation pipeline is equally getting stronger.
The number of innovations in the pipeline with an expected incremental turnover in excess of 50 million has doubled.
The opening of a new research centre in Shanghai, our second in the emerging markets, reflects a long-term commitment to R&D.
Innovation will continue to be the key growth driver for your company.
The business publication Fast Company recently recognised us as the fourth most innovative company in advertising and marketing.
More discipline throughout the organisation Despite a challenging economic environment it Serving the consumer and customer with increasing passion every day is critical to our success.
To help develop categories and has been a good year for Unilever.
We exceeded accelerate our growth with our customers we have created a new objectives while at the same time taking action global customer supply structure and are rolling out state of the to ensure the future success of your company.
art customer innovation centres to all regions.
Our progress was recognised: we gained supplier of the year awards from a number Delivering growth in a tough year of top customers.
In a performance culture, we are increasingly At the beginning of 2009 we took a long-term view, dropping focused on disciplined execution.
guidance and setting the objective of restoring volume growth A more competitive cost structure while protecting cash flow and underlying operating margin.
As Our emphasis on protecting short-term business fundamentals well as managing the short-term challenges, we increased support meant driving out costs that do not add value for consumers and behind our brands and invested in R&D and people the surest customers.
This included accelerating much needed restructuring route to long-term shareholder value creation.
projects, leveraging scale by moving to global procurement, establishing regional sourcing organisations across each of Volume growth was 2.3%, with acceleration throughout the year.
our geographies and simplifying and further streamlining our This was driven by sharper execution and strong innovations, organisational structure.
In total we achieved savings of over supported by incremental investment behind our brands in 1.4 billion, well ahead of target and which helped fuel investment advertising and, to a lesser extent, promotions.
Underlying sales behind our brands.
By adopting best practices we also made growth was 3.5%.
significant improvements in working capital 1.9 billion.
Growth was broad based across markets and categories.
By the Driving a performance culture end of the year we were growing volume share in two thirds We start from a strong base of values and principles, which have of our business, compared with only one third a year earlier.
Our served us well over the years: integrity, trust, investing in people, competitive position strengthened during the year.
Our biggest doing the right thing for the long term.
In very competitive brands are getting stronger ten of the top 13 brands are gaining markets, we need to further increase consumer and customer volume share.
focus, speed of action, and responsibility and accountability.
To achieve this we have made the organisation flatter, simplified Good cost discipline meant that underlying operating margin was target setting and sharpened individual performance management.
up 0.2% to 14.8% and tight working capital control meant cash flow from operating activities increased by 1.4 billion.
The organisation rose to the challenge, showing its competitive strength in managing change.
I am proud to work with a strong How we delivered leadership team and a dedicated group of colleagues throughout Recognising the severity of the economic crisis early and responding the world.
The results in 2009 are a testament to their passion, quickly was key to our strong performance, even if it meant some commitment, skill and hard work.
The focus on volume growth, combined with protecting margins and cash flow, proved to be the right drivers in the current environment.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 5 Report of the Directors Overview Chief Executive Officers review continued We equally made good progress in other areas to position The organisation is working hard in all these areas and I am confident that we will see continuous improvements.
This is us for future growth: important because 2010 promises to be every bit as challenging.
We expect two of the major drivers of our business consumer We sharpened the portfolio spending and consumer confidence to remain low.
We The announced acquisition of Sara Lees personal care brands, also expect competitors to accelerate their plans to regain lost including Sanex, Radox and Duschdas, will significantly strengthen ground.
This requires the best of us and we are ready for it.
We made smaller, bolt-on acquisitions, such as the TIGI professional hair care brands, mainly in the A new business model US and the Baltimor ketchup business in Russia.
We assumed With confidence in our ability to grow we launched a renewed, total control of our business in Vietnam and continued to divest bold vision for the company to double our size while improving non-strategic assets, such as our remaining equity stake in our environmental footprint.
With our portfolio of brands, JohnsonDiversey and plantations in Congo.
presence in emerging markets and long-standing commitment to shared value creation in which the long-term interests of We strengthened our supply chain capability the company, its communities and stakeholders are all directly The appointment from outside of our first Chief Global Supply linked we believe your company is well placed to deliver on Chain Officer reflects the importance we attach to strengthening this ambition.
our operations and to leveraging our scale right across the supply chain.
When it comes to environmental impact, for example, we lead the industry in the move to sustainable sourcing of commodities We began the move to global business services such as palm oil and tea.
In fact we have given a firm commitment We created Unilever Enterprise Services UES to bring together that by 2015 all of our supplies of palm oil and tea will come from HR and Finance transactions, as well as IT and Information certified sustainable sources.
UES will enable us to leverage scale in order to deliver improved services at better value.
At the same Consumers will also have to change their habits.
Through the time it will free up capacity for our businesses to concentrate Cleaner Planet Plan our laundry brands are helping to educate on supporting our brands in the market place.
people about the benefits of washing at lower temperatures and using shorter cycles.
With our products used in 125 billion washes During the year we also found solutions to concerns raised by a year, small actions like this can make a big difference.
Likewise, stakeholders, including the settlement of long running labour poor sanitation and lack of hygiene standards are still the root disputes in Pakistan and India.
We continued to take the lead in causes of millions of preventable deaths, especially amongst driving sustainability, especially in moving to sustainable palm oil, children.
With our health and handwashing campaigns we have converting to  HC refrigerants in our reached millions of people over the years.
The Lifebuoy brands ice cream freezers and in supporting smallholder farming.
ambitious new target is to change the hygiene behaviour of 1 billion people by 2015.
Where we could do better Despite significant progress, we did not fully achieve all our goals.
Leadership like this explains why, for the 11th year running, Unilever was sector leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes In two key markets, India and Spain, we took longer to respond to a feat unmatched by any other company.
changing market dynamics and to the intense level of competition, especially from low-cost local competitors.
And in two of our Looking ahead biggest categories hair and spreads we still need to build share 2009 was a good year for Unilever despite the tough conditions.
2010 wont be any easier, but by embedding the changes we are already making and by fostering a sharper performance culture, Our brands have plenty of room for improvement.
Product there is no reason why we cant go on growing in line with our quality is getting better, but we need more of our products ambitions.
And we will do it in a way that continues to make to show superiority, and there is ample scope to sharpen our our consumers, customers, partners and employees proud to communications and to set the innovation bar even higher.
We are getting better at serving our customers but again we Thank you for your support over 2009. still fall short of best in class, for example in customer service levels and the on-shelf availability of our products.
Faced with growing competitive pressures, especially from lower-cost producers, we must continue to drive out all non value-added costs, building on the progress we have made in the last year.
Paul Polman Chief Executive Officer 6 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
