Chief exeCutives review overview we are able to ensure that we are aligned to AVEVA is a global leader in the provision capitalise on all development opportunities of engineering IT software and services.
2008 09 proved to be another record year with strong growth in sales, profit and cash Global performance generation.
Headquartered in Cambridge and Each year the AVEVA customer base with 35 offices around the world, we continue becomes more geographically diverse to offer localised sales and customer service and our continued investment in direct sales enabling us to ensure that our products and means we are progressively better positioned services match the evolving demands of to understand and serve the complex global our customers.
SummARy oF chIeF executIveS RevIeW AVEVA delivers world class technologies Increasingly, customers demand the ability In the Asia Pacific region our successes which support the design and through life to work on projects with multiple international have positioned the Company very well operation of complex engineering projects partners and the unique global capability against our competition.
mainly in the Oil & Gas, Power, Marine, Paper within the AVEVA database has enabled and Pulp, Chemical and Mining industries.
customers to work very efficiently in a Latin America revenue grew These demanding global industries depend virtual global network.
significantly following the opening on mission critical products such as AVEVAs of our offices in Mexico and Brazil.
to provide an integrated engineering software Asia Pacific Revenue 67.1 million platform embracing conceptual design 2008 50.8 million continued growth in the CES and specification, detailed engineering, Following a very successful 2007 08, the Asia region, in particularly with procurement, materials management Pacific business had a very strong business power related projects.
AVEVAs software in Marine to complement the growing Power and unrivalled industrial expertise and Oil & Gas business in the region.
merger of WemeA and ceS to form a provide complete data integrity.
more efficient organisation to serve Marine business was strong in the first half Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA.
AVEVAs strategy is to remain a world class and although orders for new standard ships provider of technologies and services in its have declined significantly in the second half core markets, attract new customers and year, most customers have long order books maintain and grow its existing customer and AVEVA continued to receive business for base through new enhanced technologies.
Very Large Crude Carriers VLCCs and deep Its policy of providing continual progression water offshore platforms.
These projects tend to its customers through ongoing development to be very complex, thus driving wider use of of established products has resulted in some AVEVA products.
Our successes in Marine and major upgrades to products during the year, Plant industries and AVEVA NET in this region further enhancing customers ability to integrate have positioned the Company very well a variety of complex applications and data against our competition in this more sources through platform technology.
Close, long standing, strategic customer The partnership with Hyundai Heavy Industries partnerships are at the heart of AVEVAs has been very successful and has led to the success.
This gives us an unrivalled insight new generation of Marine design tools being into the evolving demands of our customers delivered during the year.
These are already across all of our market verticals.
As a result, in use in many of the worlds largest shipyards.
buildiNg oN our 10 AVEVA Group plc Directors report Annual report 2009 overview business review corporate governance financial statements We expect to see further take up of the new proposition with very long build cycles and win business from our competitors as well as system in yards during 2009 10 financial significant capital expenditure commitments.
year, as AVEVA Marine continues to deliver AVEVA has very little Marine business in clear productivity benefits to customers.
Towards the end of the year The Southern region, headquartered in some confidence returned to our smaller Paris, operates across a wide area but has Korea has become a significant region not just markets of Mining, Metals and Paper and Pulp.
a predominance of customers in the Power as a revenue generator, but also as a development business.
The growing enthusiasm for nuclear centre for new products.
The AVEVA Marine Projects in Canada have been hit by the oil power is a key expansion driver in the region.
Technology Centre based in Busan has price as exploitation of the tar sands oil fields Many countries are now planning or considering increased its capacity to develop both is becoming marginal with prices between nuclear power as a key part of their energy products and customer specific $40 and $50 per barrel.
AVEVA customers such as AREVA and enhancements, as well as helping of our competitors in the Calgary market EDF, along with the very long relationships with localisation.
We are very grateful in the traditional CAD products, we have we have enjoyed with fossil fuelled Power to the Busan Metropolitan Government successfully focused on selling the AVEVA NET providers such as Alstom, will help drive for their ongoing support in the region.
solution in Canada and will continue with this growth in this region.
The contacts and reputation the Asia Pacific For some years now AVEVA has enjoyed a solid team have built across the region over recent Latin America revenue grew significantly relationship with a number of outsourced years also enabled the Company to complete following the successful opening of our office development organisations in the region.
the acquisition of a small, but very highly in Mexico.
At the start of the year we replaced These relationships have been enhanced regarded, organisation with a product for our agent in Brazil with a direct sales and service during the year to provide assistance for creating and maintaining instrumentation office based in Rio fide Janeiro.
The business in localised application development, as well data.
This product has already been Latin America has been building steadily and as core product development managed by integrated into the AVEVA suite and is is expected to deliver significant growth in the central Products Group.
These outsource being sold across all industries globally.
Brazil is the dominant economy centres provide a very flexible cost effective in the Latin American region and is seen as extension to our skills pool.
Americas Revenue 24.4 million strategically important, even more so with 2008 17.8 million the deep water oil field activity driven by WEMEA Revenue 26.8 million Performance across the Americas region Petrobras, which is an AVEVA foundation 2008 26.3million was mixed with difficult trading conditions customer.
We will continue to invest in Western Europe, Middle East and Africa is in North America and Canada but strong growing the Brazilian organisation during the most mature of AVEVAs markets and has growth in Latin America.
the coming year and have already been traditionally been heavily biased towards the successfully hiring new engineers and oil & gas industry, with a dominant position in The region has a growing Power sales people.
the North Sea offshore market.
related business, and our relationships with customers in other geographies are CES Revenue 45.8 million With falling commodity prices and the difficulty helping us to exploit opportunities locally.
2008 32.7 million in raising investment funding for new projects, Oil related customers are the mainstay of the The Central, Eastern and Southern European some projects have been slowing down or US business, in particular deep water oil field region is a complex geographic mix of markets postponed, primarily in the second half of the production where we have successfully increased with differing sales and service offerings.
We have concentrated more the penetration of AVEVA NET with the oil majors.
effort during the year on the opportunities The expertise developed by many of AVEVAs We have seen continued growth in the CES which exist in providing technology solutions large multinational engineering companies region, in particular with oil related projects.
managing data in brownfield, or existing plants.
has meant that the business is less susceptible The largest constituent of the CES region In the mature North Sea offshore sector we have to a sharp drop in commodity prices, as is Deutschland Germany, Austria and made strategically important sales into the oil the deep water fields remain a long-term Switzerland DACH, which has continued to majors with our AVEVA NET solution and have relationships Close, long standing, strategic customer partnershipsgive us unrivalled insight into the evolving demands of our customers.
As a result, we are buildiNg oN our aligned to capitalise on all opportunities in more turbulent times.
Annual report 2009 Directors report AVEVA Group plc 11 Chief exeCutives review coNtiNued Global performance continued of the year.
We expect the ILF business to be WEMEA Revenue 26.8 million impacted by a lack of significant new orders 2008 26.3million continued in the Marine business, although customers structured the organisation to better exploit order books and backlog are considerable.
the opportunities during the coming year.
The oil & gas market was running at an all AVEVA enjoys particularly strong relationships time high at the start of the year, but has with its customers in the WEMEA region.
reverted to the more usual levels of business This supports our technical strategy in most areas as the oil price declined and and development programmes for both some projects were delayed or postponed.
enhancement of existing applications Unlike previous downturns, this time the oil and Research and Development activity majors and national oil companies are cash in bringing new ideas to market.
rich and the return of some stability in the oil price shows signs of a better market as In order to capitalise on global project we enter 2009 10. execution, AVEVA has invested to broaden further its own network of offices able to sell The structural global shortage of power still to and support customers locally.
At the same exists, even with a lower level of economic time, towards the end of the financial year activity.
AVEVA has the most experience of we merged two major regional organisations, any engineering software supplier in both being WEMEA and CES, to make cost efficiencies the fossil fuel and nuclear sectors.
We have and a more effective organisation to serve seen a constant level of business in fossil the Europe, Middle East and African region fuelled power facilities and a slow but steady EMEA.
For the year to the end of March 2009 build up of order flow in the nuclear market.
we had four reporting regions and this has been The relationship with AREVA and the order rationalised to three for the coming year.
build up during the last year augurs well for AVEVA this year and beyond.
end user industries performance AVEVA sells approximately 30% of its products to technology and products each of the Oil & Gas, Power and Marine markets.
The year ended 31 March 2009 saw the All products are licensed to customers on completion of the merging of AVEVA database the basis of an initial licence fee ILF and technology with the Marine products acquired annual fees or a rental model.
This has been an incremental between ILF and rental varies between progression of the technology to provide end user markets and geographies.
Marine customers with a secure path to migrate to the latest technology.
Other In the Marine sector AVEVA has a majority benefits have included using some of the of new business booked as ILF revenue.
methods used in Marine in the AVEVA Plant Over the year this sector started very strongly, suite of products.
Once again, during the year with a particular emphasis on ILF business our technology teams have worked extremely in China.
During the second half the market hard to deliver class leading solutions in both conditions toughened considerably.
However, the Plant and Marine product suites, as well we did have some very good sales of both the as a new version of AVEVA NET and many new AVEVA Marine product and AVEVA NET into customer specific requests during the year.
Marine customers in China during the course buildiNg oN our 12 AVEVA Group plc Directors report Annual report 2009 overview business review corporate governance financial statements Since we have been investing ahead of the resources within the Group and through years, in particular initial licence fees from industry average we now have the best in greater use of outsourced development.
new sales to the shipbuilding industries.
class products which, as well as introducing We expect the product sales mix to alter many innovative features, allow customers organisation and people over the coming year and we have reorganised to transition smoothly to new technology at a The Company closed the year with 843 the Company to put a greater emphasis on time which fits with their long project cycles.
employees, an increase of 113 over last year.
providing products and services for the Against a backdrop of shortage of supply for enhancement of brownfield plant and The AVEVA product roadmap, as set out three skilled staff in the engineering industries, providing more AVEVA NET based tools years ago, has evolved into new products and AVEVA continued hiring to plan until early in the area of operations and maintenance.
a platform technology base, upon which we in the second half of the year, at which point AVEVA has a good presence within the owner can progressively build new technology as most recruitment was suspended due to the operator community, which has committed well as integrate acquired applications and potential slowdown in our end user markets.
levels of spend similar to recent years.
AVEVA has always recognised the advantages of openness in its products and Following a review of the business and the The reshaping of the business will position is a leading member of the industry bodies likely effects of the global economic slowdown the Company to capitalise on the global driving the use and adoption of standards we took steps in April 2009 to reduce the cost infrastructure which it has built over recent as an integration enabler for customers.
base to ensure that AVEVA is better equipped years.
The Companys strength in all these and has an appropriate structure for the more areas, coupled with sound finances, AVEVA NET is gaining traction in the market difficult market conditions.
The restructuring experienced management and a healthy and proving to be a truly beneficial tool programme, due to be completed in the cash balance, will continue to present for customers wanting to integrate data first quarter of the current financial year, many opportunities.
from multiple sources on both new and will result in annualised cost savings of brownfield projects.
The AVEVA NET solution approximately 5.0 million.
These initiatives is targeted at the growing PLM Product include increasing the flexibility of the Lifecycle Management market in Process, organisation through restructuring across Power and Marine.
As these industries seek the business and reducing the use of high to address the issues of data inconsistency, cost subcontractors.
Further reductions in the availability of data in the design process, cost base will come through pay freezes, some Richard Longdon supply chain integration and data handover part-time working, career breaks, voluntary Chief Executive from EPC Engineering, Procurement and redundancy and some compulsory redundancy.
26 May 2009 Construction contractors to owner operators, AVEVA NET offers an incremental solution We have continued to strengthen the human to these issues.
AVEVA NET uses mash up resources teams in the regions, as well as technology and industry standards such adding capability in the area of personnel as ISO 15926 to integrate data from many development in order to ensure maximum differing sources.
Such is the broad appeal value from the highly successful induction, of AVEVA NET many of the successful management development and other training implementations are on projects where schemes initiated last year.
no other AVEVA products are being used.
Summary During the second half of the year In the trading statement at the end of under review, the Products Group senior the finanicial year AVEVA indicated that management has been investigating routes during the coming year it expects business to introduce greater flexibility into the product opportunities for some end user industries development cycle, through restructuring the to be significantly lower than during recent growth We have been investing ahead of the industry average delivering best in class products.
The AVEVA product roadmap has evolved into new products buildiNg oN our and a platform technology base upon which we can progressively build new technology.
Annual report 2009 Directors report AVEVA Group plc 13
