Chairman and Chief Executives report Revenues increased by 24% to 31.2m 2007 08:25.2m Gross profit increased by 31% to 27.3m 2007 08: 20.8m Overview Chairmans and Chief Executives Review In the current economic conditions, it is vital to maintain a strong financial position, as Vectura has, ending the financial year with 74m of cash and cash equivalents.
Revenues increased by 24% to 31.2m 2007 08: 25.2m, gross profit increased 31% to 27.3m 2007 08: 20.8m and, with a research and development investment of 32.3m 2007 08: 29.7m we recorded a net cash outflow of 4.8m.
Vecturas strength lies in its specialism: the knowledge, experience and technical capabilities to develop inhaled pharmaceutical products.
We have refined our focus to concentrate our efforts on developing our own range of inhaled products to treat lung diseases.
Our late-stage pipeline is focused on the respiratory market, particularly the asthma and COPD segments, with an increasing emphasis on combination products.
These markets are large, and growing, allowing several major products to generate very significant revenues.
Jack Cashman Chairman Our late-stage projects have continued to progress over the course of the year with NVA237 due to enter a Phase III trial in COPD patients in the second quarter of 2009.
We believe that NVA237 will be the second once-daily long-acting muscarinic antagonist LAMA on the market, and that QVA149 will be the first once-daily LAMA LABA long-acting beta-agonist combination available to patients.
Simplicity and ease-of-use improves compliance, which enhances the benefits patients get from their medicines.
Novartis plans to present data from QVA149 during 2009 and expects to start the Phase III trial in the fourth quarter of 2009.
NDA submissions for both NVA237 and QVA149 are expected to be filed by Novartis in 2011.
Chris Blackwell Chief Executive Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 03 Chairman and Chief Executives report continued Our facilities Our generic combination asthma COPD products VR315 and VR632 Vecturas headquarters and development are also progressing well.
In April 2009, we received a 2.5m 2.2m operations are in Chippenham, Wiltshire, European milestone payment from Sandoz, the generics division of with further laboratories in Nottingham and a device development facility in Cambridge.
Increasing pressure on the regulatory At a time when other companies are closing authorities, particularly in the US, to approve cheaper generic drugs down facilities, we were honoured in means that both programmes have significant revenue potential for April to have the Economic and Business Vectura.
This is particularly true of VR315, for which Vectura has a Minister responsible for bioscience and pharmaceuticals, Ian Pearson MP, and profit-share agreement in the US market.
Sandoz has made a Dr Clive Dix, Chairman of the BioIndustry significant investment in these programmes and has invested over Association, officially open our new 13,000 $50m in manufacturing facilities for VR315 and VR632.
sq ft, state-of-the-art facility in Chippenham.
It is one of only a handful of facilities The 7.5m 6.2m milestone receipt from Boehringer Ingelheim in globally that has been specifically designed to manufacture inhaled products, enabling November 2008 endorses the strength of our technological us to accelerate development projects.
The capabilities, as Boehringer Ingelheim moves closer to development facility will provide Vectura with additional of its own proprietary products in the Vectura dry powder inhaler space and the ability to produce later-stage clinical trial supplies, which will result in a DPI device we have developed with them.
Boehringer Ingelheim is more efficient business.
one of the worlds leading companies developing therapies to treat asthma and COPD, for which the majority of treatments are delivered Our people Our employees remain crucial to the success by inhalation, with Spiriva being the most prescribed COPD of Vectura and it is their skill and expertise medicine worldwide.
Milestones and equity payments received from that have enabled us to achieve our Boehringer Ingelheim since April 2006 now total 37.5m 31.2m progress to date.
We are committed to the development of a motivated and and additional milestones will be payable to Vectura for each professional workforce in order to build product developed in the inhaler, as well as royalties on global sales.
a business that is constantly looking to innovate and evolve.
On behalf of the Board, we thank all our staff for their hard work and continued support and commitment.
Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 04 Outlook In addition to the asthma COPD market, there are a significant Vectura has a broad and innovative number of other areas where we expect local delivery of drug to the development portfolio which combines lung to be of benefit.
Vectura has an active development group mid and late-stage pharmaceutical products with earlier-stage opportunities looking at new opportunities.
We initiated a Phase II proof-of-concept addressing fast-growing market sectors.
study with VR496 in CF during the year and expect to be able to report the results of this trial in early 2010.
We aim to advance this Vectura benefits from a steady stream of revenues from products marketed by programme through clinical development towards commercialisation, Baxter and a flexible development model.
allowing us the opportunity to retain a greater proportion of the We are focused on our financial goal of value: something we increasingly seek to achieve in all of our becoming a sustainably cash-generative business following the receipt of the licensing agreements and collaborations.
It is our belief that the substantial milestone and royalty revenues mucolytic and anti-inflammatory properties we expect to see with from our partnered late-stage respiratory VR496 will also provide benefit to patients with airway diseases such programmes.
In the short-term we will as asthma and COPD.
If the current study demonstrates these continue with careful cash management and increase investment in our own properties, we will look to partner VR496 for these significant markets proprietary development activities using while developing the CF indication ourselves.
both current revenue streams and our cash resources.
Licensing activities for Vecturas non-respiratory assets continue.
It is an important time in Vecturas While still planning to out-license our Parkinsons disease development, with Novartis advancing programme, VR040, we have initiated a Phase IIb at-home study, both NVA237 and QVA149 into Phase III which we expect to report early in 2010. development in the coming months, and further good progress expected with our generic asthma COPD programmes partnered with Sandoz.
In March 2009 we joined the FTSE 250 index of the London Stock Exchange, which we believe has helped to raise our profile Jack Cashman Chris Blackwell within the investment community as well Chairman Chief Executive as increase our share trading volumes.
We have a healthy pipeline of products in 18 May 2009 development and a number of innovative opportunities for future development and plan to continue to drive these forward diligently in order to grow shareholder value as we move towards becoming a specialty pharmaceutical company.
1 2 3 1 Ian Pearson MP opening Vecturas new state-of-the-art facility 2 Vecturas new facility enables us to accelerate development projects 3 Vecturas skilled staff have enabled us to achieve our progress to date Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 05
