4 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 Chief Executives report Over the past five years, turnover from continuing operations has increased by more than 140% and we have consistently achieved doubledigit growth in underlying profits throughout that period.
Paul Lester VT Group manages assets and provides For FSTA, VT is overseeing the construction services that our customers consider critical of new facilities at RAF Brize Norton where we to their own activities.
Our 12,000 people will be providing long-term support, including deliver these services world-wide, primarily IT.
Under UKMFTS, we have started work on for governments and their agencies, with the building new facilities at RAF Valley, as well as majority of the business being located in the delivering IT services to the programme.
United Kingdom and the United States.
VT Education & Skills is now the largest Over the past five years, turnover from education and training business in the UK.
continuing operations has increased by more It has established itself as a leading provider than 140 per cent and we have consistently of automotive training and has completed achieved double-digit growth in underlying its first school in the London Borough of profits throughout that period.
Lewisham under the Building Schools for the Future programme.
VT operates in a wide range of markets including defence, education, secure VTs reputation with its customers is a communications, waste and nuclear services.
fundamental strength of our business and it was highly satisfying to have achieved Our capabilities include: the Lead Supplier position in the MoD DSR assessment for the second successive year, Facilities management and base operations recording an even better performance than Equipment support the previous year.
Education and training Design, procure and build We have substantially agreed commercial The common thread running through our terms with Wakefield Metropolitan District business is our ability to work in partnership Council for the design, build and operation of with our customers and our supply chain waste facilities in Wakefield.
We anticipate the in order to ensure we meet our customers contract will start in the first half of our next needs and exceed their expectations.
financial year subject to financing.
Performance in BVT for the year has been Current year disappointing, with under performance on export contracts.
These export contracts are The progress in our services businesses was expected to give rise to losses estimated at highlighted during the year by the start of work 54m of which our share is 24m.
on two of our biggest long-term contracts, the multi-billion pound Future Strategic Tanker Aircraft FSTA and UK Military Flying Training System UKMFTS programmes.
VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 5 By the end of the summer, we expect to We plan to grow our business through a mixture The transition to submit our best and final offer for the Search of organic growth, acquisition and progress in a pure services and Rescue Helicopter programme SAR-H new markets.
This growth will be supported by business in which we are teamed with Lockheed Martin our reorganisation as detailed below.
UK and British International Helicopters BIH.
represents a New Group structure A preferred bidder announcement is expected major change in to be made late in the calendar year.
Our proposed exit from the shipbuilding and VTs long history naval support joint venture, BVT Surface Fleet, We have also started bidding for the Joint and provides us will enable us to become a business focused Military Air Traffic System JMATS, a major entirely on services.
As provided in the terms of with an exciting project to replace military air traffic infrastructure the put option within the joint-venture agreement opportunity to take and provide long-term support.
The contract, signed in June 2008, we intend to initiate an exit worth around 1bn over 25 years, is due to the Group forward.
from the joint venture this summer.
The transition to a pure services business Although the MoD has withdrawn plans for its represents a major change in VTs long history Whole Fleet Management WFM programme to and provides us with an exciting opportunity to outsource support for up to 100,000 vehicles, take the Group forward.
However we retain our we believe that there is still interest in using engineering focus, born from our shipbuilding the private sector for this work.
This is likely to heritage and now an integral part of the involve dividing the fleet into smaller groups and services we deliver across all our markets.
we are discussing with the MoD how we can bring extra value to parts of the requirement.
Our engineering-based capabilities, combined with our approach to partnering provide us Strategy with a value proposition that sets us apart from most companies in the services sector.
This proposition also defines the type of Strategic priorities services we provide: the management of Our strategic priorities are to: assets and infrastructure that our customers consider to be critical to their own activities.
Develop our position in the UK defence market through winning new contracts To reflect the evolution of the company and to support our value proposition, we have Strengthen our position in the US defence reviewed and updated our vision: market by further developing our capabilities and revenues to consolidate our position as We will set the standards for the delivery of a key supplier customer critical services Build on existing customer relationships Our strategic direction has been reinforced to generate new business by our reorganisation into three business segments Defence: Government and Critical Develop our relationships and Services: and our US defence business, product offerings in local and central VT Group Inc closely aligning our offering government markets with the customers we serve.
Grow in the strategically significant nuclear The new structure enables a more efficient and waste-to-energy markets use of overheads.
We have therefore initiated We will work toward these priorities by a programme of reducing employee levels by maintaining our core values: a further 290 people including 40 in the US in addition to the 100 people who have recently Passionate about people: demonstrating left the business as part of prior integration commitment to people, enabling individuals programmes.
Total savings will be 15m per to meet their full potential to share in annum with 8m being used to offset the VTs success overhead recovery lost by the exit from BVT Performance driven: striving for excellence Surface Fleet.
The net saving will be seen in and outstanding results through a can do the financial year 2011 and beyond.
We are approach with innovation and integrity positioning the Group to be more competitive for future bids and to be more resilient if the Partnering with customers and suppliers: current recession deepens.
developing and maintaining positive relationships and working together to achieve common goals Statutory information How we run the Group Explaining the Group Overview of the year 6 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 Chief Executives report continued The new operating model will allow for greater VT Group Inc is well placed to address the At 31 March 2009 sharing of talent, expertise and knowledge increasing pressures on the US defence we had already across the Group.
It will also bring operational budget, as our focus is on the upgrade of secured significant efficiency benefits from a One VT approach as existing platforms, particularly in the army and we implement shared services for our finance naval areas, in a cost-effective and efficient order book and human resources back office functions.
In future there is likely to be more coverage for pressure to re-use and upgrade existing Defence will be responsible for managing and 2010 and 2011. equipment rather than replace with new.
strengthening our relationship with the UK MoD.
We continue to seek opportunities to develop It is important that we retain defence contracts our capabilities in more technical markets which are due to be re-bid over the next few offering potential for greater rewards.
There is also good potential to secure new defence contracts in line with our value We anticipate that the pressures of the current proposition both in the UK and in other defence economic situation will have an impact on markets, where we can export our business customer budgets.
Our response will be to model and achieve benefits for the customer.
develop more integrated service offerings that generate greater value for money through Government and Critical Services will manage innovation and efficiency in service delivery.
and develop our non-defence government We will continue to concentrate on supplying relationships, in which we have established services that are critical to the success of our customers, a strong track record and existing customers operations.
contracts that we can develop further.
We see this as a major potential area for growth.
The future growth of VT Group will be based Principal areas of development will be on providing a wider range of services education, environmental services, police to our existing customers with selective and fire services, where we will build on growth in other closely related domestic our experience.
In the US, VT Group Inc will concentrate on The Groups principal contracts and growing our work with the US Department of operations and how they fit into the new Defense DoD.
There are a number of new Group structure is set out below: bid and re-bid opportunities approaching in the US and we will be employing considerable resource to ensure the successful award of these contracts.
Government and Defence VT Group Inc Critical Services ALC MoD C Vehicles Training US Army Aviation and Missile Command AMCOM Light Aircraft Metropolitan Police Fort Sill Flying Task RAF Waste management NASA Tucano Total Support Fire fighting training Programme RAF Camp Lejeune Government agency Sea King Integrated Fort Huachuca New Dimensions Operational Support Kings Bay Emergency services vehicles Whitefleet MoD Space and Naval Nuclear services non-fighting vehicles Warfare Centre SPAWAR Flagship Bordon & Arborfield Alaska US Coastguard Engineering training Army training British Airways Flagship Naval training Building Schools Defence High for the Future BSF Frequency Communications Service MoD Education UKMFTS BBC FSTA VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 7 Organic growth Progress in new markets The restructuring of VT Group Growing our business by renewing, or Both the nuclear and waste-to-energy expanding, our work with existing customers markets offer considerable potential for us provides a solid and within existing markets is essential to to apply our value proposition, providing platform for growing shareholder value.
The combination of critical engineering-based support services continued growth our long-term contracts and recurring orders to government agencies.
in shareholder provides a high degree of visibility of our future VT has addressed the increasing opportunities revenue.
At 31 March 2009, we had already value.
in these markets by forming nuclear services secured significant order book coverage for the and waste-to-energy businesses.
There is considerable scope to grow in our markets The UK Governments commitment to nuclear and also in the markets that we have entered power generation, with eleven new nuclear recently, particularly waste and nuclear.
power stations to be built by 2020, presents VT with an opportunity to expand its capability Restrictions on defence budgets, particularly in nuclear decommissioning and to develop in the UK, are set to continue.
However, with further services for the nuclear industry.
VTs focus on increasing efficiency, we are Plans for each new power station will include confident that the Group will fare relatively well.
provision for decommissioning at the end of We have also identified opportunities where we its life, giving VT the opportunity to become can add value by using our existing customer involved in the programme at an early stage.
relationships and performance to expand our activities into adjacent sectors.
Whilst we still expect the nuclear market to remain flat in the short term, we continue Our other business sectors, including to position the business to benefit from the education, waste and nuclear, offer further anticipated market growth in the medium to growth opportunities, with both central and long term as the need for decommissioning local government in particular offering large increases and the nuclear new build potential.
In the US, we also expect budgets programme is implemented.
to flatten but we believe that our skills will become increasingly valuable for the DoD, The increasing costs of landfill have already faced as it is with pressure to maintain existing prompted many local authorities to look at platforms and reduce support costs.
alternative ways of dealing with their waste.
EU regulations require local authorities, by 2013, Acquisitions to divest 50 per cent of the volume of waste sent to landfill in 1995 to other, non-landfill solutions.
The current economic environment may well present opportunities for acquisition-led growth.
Having been named preferred bidder to Our ability to exploit these opportunities will build, operate and maintain a waste plant be enhanced by the expected proceeds from in Wakefield, Yorkshire, the Group has the exit from BVT Surface Fleet.
VT expects progressed bids with other local authorities.
to have net cash at a time when the corporate Steam autoclave technology also offers the debt levels of other companies are likely to opportunity to produce renewable energy generate disposals.
We will maintain a prudent from waste, further enhancing the business acquisition approach, concentrating on adding case for these plants.
support services businesses in our primary UK and US markets that represent a good strategic Going forward fit, complement our core competencies, are attractively priced in relation to our financial The restructuring of VT Group and its criteria and can be integrated effectively into potential for further growth, both organic and VTs services businesses.
acquisitive, provides a solid platform for the Group to continue to build shareholder value.
Paul Lester Statutory information How we run the Group Explaining the Group Overview of the year
