04 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report Driving growth The Weir Way Overview by Chief Executive Keith Cochrane As I take on the role of chief executive, I am excited at the range of growth opportunities open to the Group.
Each of our divisions has a clearly defined strategy to build our market presence and deliver outstanding customer service, while sustaining the fundamentals that have delivered success thus far.
05 Group Executive pictured From left to right: Scot Smith Minerals Divisional Managing Director, Steve Noon Oil & Gas Divisional Managing Director, Keith Cochrane Chief Executive, Phil Clifton Power & Industrial Divisional Managing Director, Alan Mitchelson Legal & Commercial Director.
During 2009 we continued to make good The Groups 2009 performance demonstrates the resilience of progress against our key priorities: our business model and the benefits of a strong opening order Strong management focus on health and book, diversified portfolio and strong cash generating capability.
safety resulted in a 52% reduction in lost We benefit from exposure to positive end markets, geographic time accidents.
strength in emerging markets and a presence at the heart of the Overall operating efficiency the Weir Production System Lean score improved processing cycle.
All these characteristics give us confidence for by over 9%.
The success of any business is down to its people and On time delivery improved by 10%.
as I visit our operations, I continue to be most impressed at the Working capital reduced by 66.2m, very evident commitment, pride and passion of our employees.
The Customer Key Account programme and Our installed base of original equipment delivers an aftermarket the Weir Commercial System were rolled out across the Group, along with a pilot project to channel that enables us to stay close to customers and this obtain direct customer feedback using business model provides access to both capital and operating Net Promoter Score methodology.
Our service, spares and support activities ensure Continued investment in product research and development.
that we build ongoing relationships with customers and can be In Minerals, design work was completed responsive to their needs.
Weir SPM launched the Safety Iron Manifold Trailer.
2009 performance Completed customer acceptance testing Overall order input, in constant currency, was down 18% while of a nuclear grade butterfly valve.
aftermarket input was down 2%, reflecting production activity Over 40m was spent on capital to improve levels in our main markets offset by our growing installed base operating efficiency and extend the Groups global presence.
and the greater importance of maintenance and refurbishment A new foundry and rubber facility was of existing equipment.
New service centres were opened in North and South America and Africa.
The proportion of revenues from aftermarket sales increased to 54%, which, together with the early actions taken to reduce the cost base during the year, largely mitigated the impact of lower Continuing operations volumes of original equipment on operating profits.
Revenue Revenue also benefited from a positive foreign currency effect 1,390m with over 90% of the Groups revenues generated internationally.
Up 3% Our South American Minerals operations delivered a record operating performance and we won a number of notable contracts 1 Operating profit in the Chinese nuclear new build and Middle East downstream oil 204.7m and gas refining markets.
We also retained the Canadian Naval Up 11% Engineering contract for a further 15 years.
Positive emerging trends at Weir SPM were also evident towards the end of the year.
1 Adjusted to exclude intangibles amortisation 06 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report Early and effective action was taken across the Group to manage the downturn.
Detailed planning resulted in a global headcount reduction of around 600 in response to local input reductions.
Such decisions in relation to employees are not taken lightly and have been restricted to those companies most affected by the downturn.
We delivered an excellent cash performance and substantially increased free cashflow to 141.1m.
Our balance sheet has been strengthened by the issue of US$250m of long term debt and we 3-fold strategy took further positive steps to reduce our pension liabilities through an enhanced transfer offer to certain members of the main UK INNOvATIvE defined benefit plan.
The Group has substantial financial headroom 1 ACTION to support organic development and expand its presence across target markets.
COLLABORATIvE Group strategy 2 MINDSET The Weir Group, with its strong positions in very attractive end markets, extensive global presence and dedication to operational disciplines, has an excellent platform for growth.
We will continue GLOBAL to extend the Groups position in the Minerals, Oil & Gas and Power CAPABILITy 3 sectors, all of which are high growth, long cycle markets with positive fundamentals.
Our strategy will be delivered through sustainable self-made growth supplemented by skilfully integrated, targeted acquisitions.
We will invest in the technology, infrastructure and people to grow market share and our installed base of original equipment.
This will include 1 Earnings per share broadening our competitive portfolio of products and added-value 80 services, with the emphasis on those products that will provide a 64.1p 70 59.3p strong stream of aftermarket opportunities.
60 50 39.7p 40 Driving growth 30 The immediate priority for 2010 is to extend operational 20 excellence beyond the factory floor into functional areas that 10 have a direct impact on our ability to grow and that support our 2007 2008 2009 continued drive for greater customer focus.
1 From continuing operations before intangibles amortisation The Weir Commercial System will be extended during 2010 and complements the Weir Production System that has delivered such good results in manufacturing.
Both these tools contribute by sharpening customer focus and ensuring operational efficiency.
With operational excellence prioritised throughout the business, we will generate growth through three key drivers.
First, we will drive product sales through innovation and creativity.
We will continue to take an innovative approach to the research, testing and development of new materials and products.
Besides taking new products to existing markets and customers, we will proactively take our existing and developing portfolio to new markets and customers as we seek to build market presence.
07 Second, we will support collaboration in the form of co-operative alliances and cross-divisional initiatives to promote our total capability for customers in all markets and to leverage off best practice across the Group.
We will continue to build customer partnerships and add value by delivering innovative engineering solutions with an integrated service offering and enhanced organisational capability.
Third, we will exploit and strengthen our emerging markets Around the world footprint.
Over 40% of Group revenue already comes from Top Chief executive Keith Cochrane centre with Minerals regional managing director Rob developing markets in Asia, South America, Middle East and Brown right and Stone Lu left managing Africa.
There are significant opportunities for us to internationalise director at Power & Industrials Suzhou facility.
more products through both our existing and expanding Bottom Keith Cochrane opens the new geographical network.
foundry facility in Brasil with Alan Mitchelson, Legal & Commercial Director right and Minerals Brasil managing director Lino Figurelli left.
Outlook The Weir Group today has a superb manufacturing platform, resilient business model and enviable market position.
This is based on our reputation for excellent engineering capability and the quality of our people, whose performance under pressure has been outstanding in the past year.
Despite the impact of the current downturn, we continue to be positive as to the medium term growth prospects of each of our principal end markets and anticipate growing demand from: Global demographic trends causing increased demand for resources and energy.
Continuing infrastructure investment in developing economies with fast-growing populations, such as India, China and Brasil.
Necessary replacement or life extension of ageing power generation and hydrocarbon processing plant in the developed world.
Increasing trend towards the unconventional supply of minerals and hydrocarbons which requires greater engineering input in both their extraction and processing.
As we enter 2010, the Group is in robust financial health and well placed to capitalise on market opportunities.
Although the pace and timing of global economic recovery remains uncertain and forward visibility limited, we are now targeting a broadly similar level of profitability to that achieved in 2009.
Keith Cochrane Chief Executive 9 March 2010
