Group Company Performance review Strategic review Governance financial statements financial statements Investor information www.
co. uk annualreport09 5 Chief Executives business review Marc Bolland Our performance over the year confirms our broadening customer appeal, successfully delivered in a wide range of stores from 11,000 to 40,000 square feet.
We have identified significant potential to attract new customers and will focus on space growth in order to take us from a national to a nationwide company.
Strategy update Our three year strategy, as laid out in our 2007 Annual report, is to position the business as the UKs food specialist for everyone.
This builds on our historic strengths of value and fresh food quality, now applied to a national, bigger business following the Safeway acquisition in 2004.
As a food specialist, we are clearly differentiated from our larger competitors, all of whom are seeking to expand their non-food credentials.
We also emphasise our deep understanding of food: through being closer to source than other retailers, through our unique manufacturing and packing facilities, through the amount of food preparation undertaken in our stores and through the employment of more specialist butchers, fishmongers and bakers than our competitors.
We stress that our offer is for everyone, because our great Our focus on fresh food and food is also always great value.
value appeals to shoppers Our strategy builds on our strengths, and is in tune with our customers need for everywhere and provides excellent value and their increasing focus on the health, provenance, quality and a strong platform to take freshness of the food they buy.
In order to deliver our strategy, we have previously Morrisons from national outlined the building blocks that need to be put in place, and our plans to do this to nationwide.
These include freshening up our stores and improving and developing the infrastructure of the business in the key areas of manufacturing, distribution and operating systems.
The operating review of the year, set out on pages 6 to 8, highlights our progress towards these goals.
Store estate development From our position as the fourth largest grocery retailer in the UK, we see significant opportunities to expand our store estate.
As the food specialist for everyone, it is our conviction that we offer a real difference in grocery retailing that is highly attractive to a broad range of customers.
However, there are many parts of the country where we remain under-represented.
We estimate there to be over eight million households in the UK which are not located within a 15 minute drive of a current Morrisons store.
This represents a higher target customer base than any of our three larger competitors.
Our offer works well in a wide range of store sizes, from 11,000 to over 40,000 square feet, giving us flexibility in site selection.
A key part of our strategy, therefore, has been to grow the number of Morrisons stores, and in 2007 we published a target of adding 1.0m square feet of new space by January 2010.
Our acquisition of Co-operative Somerfield stores, completing in the coming year, will see that target exceeded by 0.5m square feet, and we are confident that we will open a further 0.5m square feet of retail space in the year to January 2011.
We believe that delivery of our strategy of expansion and further optimisation of the operation of the business has resulted in strongly improved profit margins for our shareholders, whilst also positioning the Group for long term growth.
6 Morrisons Annual report and financial statements 2009 Chief Executives business review continued Solid shareholder investment and returns Key Performance Indicators The Group is securely financed and has a strong balance sheet.
We are confident that our planned investment requirements can be met from existing facilities.
We Like-for-like sales will continue to pursue a prudent approach to financial management which is based ex-fuel on a number of principles: % we wish to maintain a strong investment grade balance sheet: 7.9 operational control of our retail stores is fundamental to us: we are a prudent organisation and we structure our finances accordingly: and % 7.9 our defined benefit pension schemes assets and liabilities are effectively part of our balance sheet, and should be managed as such.
5.2 The Board concluded in March 2008 that surplus capital of 1bn should be returned 4.6 to shareholders during 2008 and 2009, with 500m of that to be delivered in the first 12 months of the programme.
Whilst 146m was returned in 2008 through share buybacks, the Board also identified new investment opportunities for the Group, over and above our original plans.
These were the acquisition of stores from the Co-operative Group, the purchase of the freehold interest in our planned distribution centre at Sittingbourne and the acquisition of the freehold interest of four existing stores which, combined, account for unplanned investments of 2007 2008 2009 460m.
The Board believes these growth opportunities represent a more attractive Like-for-like sales is the measure deployment of capital than the planned share buyback.
The Board also believes that of growth in existing stores.
further investment opportunities may arise in the medium term and has therefore decided that the capital originally earmarked for share buybacks in the 2009 10 Source: internal financial year should be retained within the business to give Morrisons maximum financial flexibility.
We have targeted progressive dividend growth in 2008 and 2009, over and above earnings growth, in order to bring dividend cover to a level in line with the average for our sector, which is around 2.5 times, by January 2010.
Funding for this enhanced return to shareholders will come from operating cash flow and committed facilities available to the Group.
Operating review of the year 2008 09 was another good year for Morrisons we made sure that we offered our customers great value every day, in a rapidly deteriorating economy, whilst still investing for the long term future of the business.
New retail space We opened nine new stores in the year, at Giffnock, Gorleston, Whitefield, K idderminster, Granton, Northallerton, Blandford Forum, Clifton Nottingham and Holyhead.
Two of these Giffnock and Kidderminster were replacements of existing stores and two Blandford and Northallerton were former Safeways, which had been closed since the acquisition due to their small size.
Our decision to reopen them reflects our growing confidence in the operation of, and return from, smaller stores, and we have been pleased with their performance.
A further two of the stores Gorleston and Clifton were previous Co-op Somerfield stores that we acquired and converted to Morrisons.
In both cases we saw very significant uplifts in sales compared to those achieved under their former ownerships, and as a result we were pleased, later in the year, to agree the acquisition of a further tranche of stores from the Co-op Somerfield that we will open in 2009 10.
co. uk annualreport09 7 We continued our programme of store extensions, with 90,000 square feet added Key Performance Indicators in the year, and ended the year with 382 stores and a total of 11.1m square feet of retail space, growth of 2.7% on the start of the year.
UK Grocery market share Turnover growth Turnover grew by 1.5bn to 14.5bn, a 12% increase.
Part of this increase c. 3% % w as due to the very high prices of fuel seen in our forecourts business in the year caused by a worldwide spike in oil prices, and this will unwind again in the coming 12.3 year as pump prices have come back down.
We were pleased with our stores sales growth, which was industry leading and broad based.
Like-for-like sales, the measure % 12.3 12.1 11.9 of growth in existing stores, increased by 7.9% with customer numbers up 4.2% and average basket spend up 3.6%.
Market share growth Based on TNS market research data, we believe our grocery market share grew from 12.1% to 12.3% in the year.
2008 09 2007 08 Like-for-like stores Other Total Total Sales of goods m 11,877 317 12,194 11,238 Fuel m 3,523 74 3,597 2,871 Total sales inc VAT m 15,400 391 15,791 14,109 Turnover exc VAT m 14,171 357 14,528 12,969 2007 2008 2009 Sales per square foot 21.65 13.46 21.41 20.18 Customer numbers m 500 11 511 482 We have increased our 52 week UK grocery market share with good Customer spend 23.92 21.14 23.86 23.10 performance across the whole country and particularly strong growth in Geographically, we grew in all regions, with the South particularly strong as the the South.
Morrisons brand continued to become better known.
Across our store estate, we grew in all sizes of stores, with smaller stores below 25,000 square feet leading the Source: TNS way.
Our market research shows that we won customers from all major competitors in the year.
In-store, our Market Street ranges did well, responding to our strong emphasis on fresh food preparation.
Our own-label ranges all showed growth, albeit the strong trends of the previous two years towards premium products slowed, with Eat Smart up 13%, the Best up 5% and Organics up 10%.
By contrast, the Value range relaunched in the year saw 50% growth.
Industry leading offers The growth of the Value range reflected the very difficult economic environment experienced by consumers throughout the year.
Commodity price inflation, which began in 2007 but fed through strongly into products during 2008, meant that customers were paying more for their weekly shopping basket for the first time in some years.
At the same time, disposable incomes were decreasing due to the impact of high energy prices, reduced availability of mortgage credit, a rising tax burden and increasing unemployment.
We were quick to respond to the challenges being faced by our customers.
Whilst we maintained our focus on the quality, healthiness and provenance of our food, we also delivered a year of innovative value offers to our customers.
We launched over 21,000 price cuts throughout the year, and designed our promotions to help customers save money while eating well.
Our 4 meal deals proved very popular, and we switched more of our promotions into half price rather than buy one, get one free in response to customers need to spend less each week.
We helped customers to treat themselves too, with great value deals such as 2 for 1 offers on party foods, the Mamma Mia DVD for 7 and a range of games for Nintendo Wii at 10.
In the run-up to Christmas, we rewarded our most loyal customers with a 20 shopping voucher through the Collector Card scheme.
8 Morrisons Annual report and financial statements 2009 Chief Executives business review continued In addition to value messages, we continued to profile our unique food production Key Performance Indicators capabilities, in our factories and in Market Street, and our understanding of food provenance.
Our broad appeal and community involvement was well illustrated by Underlying earnings per share our new schools initiative, Lets Grow, which is designed to help schools teach children how to grow food.
Over 18,000 schools registered for the scheme, well beyond our expectations, and in February 2009 we began to dispatch free planting and gardening equipment including over 30,000 tools, 29,000 pairs of gardening 16.7p gloves, 13,000 bags of compost and over 10,000 growing kits.
pence Operating results 16.7 Our forecourts business grew strongly in the year.
As fuel prices moved above 1 per 14.4 litre, consumers became highly price conscious and shopped around for value.
We made sure that our pricing was always highly competitive, and indeed led the market back down below the key 1 price point when oil prices again began to fall.
Average 8.3 unleaded pump prices were 103.5p in the year, compared with 94.9p the previous year.
Litreage grew by 11%, in a declining market.
2009 2008 Change Summary income statement m m % Turnover 14,528 12,969 12 Gross profit 913 818 12 Other operating income 37 30 23 2007 2008 2009 Administrative expenses 281 268 5 Basic underlying earnings per share has Property transactions 2 32 94 increased 16%.
Operating profit 671 612 10 Finance income and cost 16 100 Taxation 195 58 236 Profit for the period 460 554 17 Gross profit grew in line with the level of turnover growth.
The gross profit margin of 6.3% was level with the previous year, although lower than it would have been due to the dilutive effect of high fuel sales, which have a very low margin.
The impact of this, we estimate, was a 20bps reduction in margin.
Offsetting this was the release of a provision first taken in 2005 06 relating to the rationalisation of our distribution infrastructure.
The original provision was 75m, and after taking all final costs associated with this restructuring we were left with a balance to release of 8m, which is included in gross profit.
The details of this can be found on page 71 of the accounts.
Adjusting for these two effects, our gross profit increased by 0.1% despite the headwind effect of high energy costs in our stores and supply chain.
We successfully mitigated these costs through continued delivery of our Optimisation Plan.
The Groups two biggest costs, after cost of goods sold, are store wages and distribution costs.
After a number of years of strong improvement in store labour productivity, the year under review saw us investing in customer service to support our sales growth.
Despite this, labour costs as a proportion of sales improved by 0.5%.
The cost to deliver each case through our distribution network continued to fall, despite higher fuel costs, with a further reduction of 2.5% year-on-year.
We gained good benefits from new systems that improved the efficiency of our delivery schedules.
Our administrative expenses were up by 5%, below the rate of the turnover increase, reflecting tight control of our overheads.
Marketing costs, which account for over one-third of administrative expenses, increased in line with turnover, as we continued to seek, with success, to articulate the Morrisons story to a wider audience.
co. uk annualreport09 9 Optimisation Plan progress Key Performance Indicators Our aim is to become the Food Specialist for Everyone, and that means: Dividend cover Food specialist We really understand food: we know where it comes from we pack it and make it in our factories we make it in our stores 2.9times we employ craft skills in every store times For everyone Great food which is also: 3.0 2.9 great value for every day, not just special days.
2.1 Our Optimisation Plan, originally communicated in 2007, set out a number of programmes designed to deliver by our financial year ending January 2010, and we remain well on track.
Key elements of the Plan included: refreshed and rebranded stores: 0.5 range extension and product innovation: investment in further manufacturing capacity: 2006 2007 2008 2009 an increase in distribution capacity in the South: We have targeted progressive dividend in-store efficiency initiatives: growth in 2008 and 2009, over and above earnings growth, in order to replacement of our systems: and bring dividend cover in line with the average for our sector, which is around Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives.
Progress in each of these areas is outlined below.
Refreshed and rebranded stores Customers visiting Morrisons today experience a modern and unique food specialist, following the successful completion of the programme to freshen-up our stores and brand.
The programme covered the exterior and interior signage of the stores, our Market Street counters, our trucks and our filling stations.
All work was completed, on time, at an average cost per store of 0.5m a very cost effective new design scheme when compared to similar programmes elsewhere.
Alongside the physical work, all staff were fitted with uniforms carrying the new brand and over 3,000 ownbrand Morrison products received new packaging.
Range extension and product innovation Our product ranges, too, have been extensively reinvigorated.
Range development has been particularly strong in Value lines but value and freshness are not incompatible, as seen in the launch of our innovative Fresh Ideas ready-to-cook fresh meals, which offer a great value alternative to dining out.
Our control of the fresh food supply chain, through our bakeries, fruit and vegetable packing facilities, meat and cheese processing plant and abattoirs gives us great flexibility to respond to changing customer needs and priorities.
The value conscious behaviour that came to the fore in 2008 provided us with the opportunity to use this flexibility to great effect.
We led the industry with great value deals on fresh foods, such as our 4 family meal deals which comprised eight fresh food items for 50 pence each.
Such deals, when advertised, create great demand, and it was only our close control of the supply chain that allowed us to cope with the volumes generated 10 Morrisons Annual report and financial statements 2009 Chief Executives business review continued without disappointing customers looking for a bargain.
Similarly, our abattoir and We were proud to win all butchery operations are designed to use the whole animal, with minimal food waste.
three major industry titles We have long sold lower priced cuts of meat such as brisket and neck fillet, which in the same year.
make delicious meals at bargain prices.
These cuts are once again popular, and Morrisons is best placed to provide such variety and value.
Equally, by being close to Retailer of the Year the source of supply, by being in the livestock markets every day and by only offering 2008 & 2009 fresh fish on our counters, our fresh meat and fish quality cannot be matched even by much more expensive competitors.
Retail Week We are the only retailer to have Our advertising campaigns built on the previous years success, with a continuation won this prestigious award for two of the Fresh Choice for You message placing emphasis on freshness, in-store consecutive years, being commended production, in-season food and our food provenance knowledge.
We continued for the use of imaginative and to use down-to-earth, approachable personalities including Helen Baxendale and extensive marketing to highlight our 1 Richard Hammond the campaign produced the highest consumer recall in 2008. traditional strengths in fresh produce and our competitive stance on price.
Our research has confirmed that the campaign has significantly increased consumer awareness of Morrisons and what we stand for.
To balance the Fresh message, we launched a high impact Price Crunch campaign in April, which ran through the rest of the year and was used to highlight our great value offers and everyday prices.
This too, struck a chord with our customers.
Distribution network investment Supermarket We continued to invest in our infrastructure as part of our Optimisation Plan.
The of the Year 2008 new distribution centre at Sittingbourne, in Kent, is well under way.
It will manage the growing volumes of our business in London and the South East and will open by Retail Industry Awards the end of 2009.
We took the opportunity to acquire the freehold of the site during The judges commented that we won the year, at a cost of 80m, in order to ensure maximum flexibility for the future.
the award because we came back stronger following a challenging We were pleased to open our new abattoir at Spalding during the summer of 2008, period: they also noted the efforts and it is already producing at high volumes and very good levels of efficiency.
This we had made in refreshing our extra capacity has been key to ensuring that we can offer fresh pork, beef and lamb product ranges.
that is all UK sourced and all processed by us something unique in British supermarket retailing.
In-store efficiency initiatives We continue to invest in ways to improve customer service whilst also becoming mor e efficient in our stores.
Following a successful trial, self-scan checkouts are now Grocer of the Year rolling-out to over half our stores.
Queue management software, which predicts very accurately the number of tills required to be open to serve the customers in store, 2008 is also at an advanced stage of roll-out.
The Grocer Gold Awards Replacement of our systems The Grocer judges praised Morrisons The Groups major programme of systems renewal continued to make good progress for the success of its stores refresh programme and our focus on the fresh during the year, with detailed planning completed and Wipro, one of the worlds food offering of Market Street.
premier computer services companies, selected as our implementation partner.
As previously announced, the implementation programme began in late 2008 with the pilot phase of our new human resources and payroll system, which will go fully live during 2009.
The coming year will see the implementation of financial systems, depot systems and the start of the roll-out of the new point of sale systems into stores.
In 2010 we will begin to replace systems in our manufacturing facilities, throughout the supply chain and the product masterfile.
1 source: Marketing Magazine Adwatch Group Company Performance review Strategic review Governance financial statements financial statements Investor information www.
co. uk annualreport09 11 Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives Key Performance Indicators Much of our investment, whilst improving the business, has also improved our carbon emissions.
In the past two years we have invested 66m in new, efficient Carbon footprint refrigeration capacity in our stores and 18m in new trucks and trailers.
These % cumulative reduction measures have improved our chill chain, and also significantly reduced our 36 36 emissions.
A similar programme to replace all our petrol pumps with new, low emission technology, is well advanced, with 220 out of 287 filling stations having been re-pumped at the year end.
As a result of these and other initiatives, our target 25 to reduce our carbon footprint by 36% from 2005 levels has been achieved one year early.
We are delighted to be the only grocery retailer to have been awarded the new 17 Carbon Trust Standard for carbon reduction.
Long term growth The overall investment requirements for the Optimisation Plan, outlined last year, are 450m over and above the normal run-rate of capital investment, and the programme will run to January 2010.
In 2008, 182m of this was invested, bringing 2007 2008 2009 2010 target the cumulative total to 250m.
We have met our target of 36% reduction of CO emissions one Alongside the Optimisation Plan, our new space programme laid out a target of 2 year early from a base set in 2005. opening an additional 1.0m square feet of retail space in the three years to January 2010.
We are well on course to achieve that through our normal pipeline of new Source: externally validated using Defras Environmental Reporting Guidelines.
stores and store extensions, but over and above this target, the acquisition, announced in November, of smaller Co-op and Somerfield stores, which will complete in 2009, will add around a further 500,000 square feet to our estate to bring the total at 31 January 2010 to approximately 12m square feet.
