Group Chief Executives review To be successful we must focus on enduring customer franchises, with top tier competitive positions where we choose to compete we must also focus on where we can achieve the best financial returns.
Equally, we need to have a clear understanding of the best way to develop our most attractive businesses to be even more successful in the future.
Ian K Meakins Group Chief Executive 8 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information for the upturn.
We will do this prudently In the current market conditions we The road to pro table growth and according to the markets we serve.
have to be far more rigorous in where As this is my first review for Wolseley At the same time we will sustain our we choose to compete and win as well shareholders, I should open by saying businesses that continue to operate as make sure that the businesses are how aware I am of the responsibility for through unprecedented pressures, capable of the best performance and leading this Company into better times.
What the last get the resources needed.
To be Wolseley has a great importance to 12 months has shown is that actual successful we must focus on enduring thousands of customers, to many conditions have proven to be far worse customer franchises, with top tier corporations worldwide, to our than anyone expected, so we cannot be competitive positions where we choose shareholders and to all those in the complacent about what the coming to compete we must also focus on communities we serve.
In common months might bring.
where we can achieve the best financial with many businesses, we are facing returns.
Equally, we need to have a Alongside pro tability, the delivery of tough times and the downturn in our clear understanding of the best way to strong cash ow is also extremely markets and the wider economies of develop our most attractive businesses important.
Our aim will be to deliver this the world shows little sign of abating.
to be even more successful in the through revenue growth and operating A key short-term priority will be to steer future.
Consequently, to identify and ef ciency, supported by disciplined use the business through this, to support prioritise where and how we want to of capital expenditure and working our customers while working steadfastly win, I have recently initiated a review capital.
The delivery of strong cash to restore Wolseley to pro table growth to assess Wolseleys portfolio in each ow provides us with the opportunity in the future.
geography and we will share the to reinvest that cash to grow the outcomes with shareholders later Over the past few weeks since joining business and to reward shareholders.
Wolseley and visiting many of our It is encouraging that during 2009 operations, I have seen at first hand the challenging targets for working capital In management style we want to be inherent strengths of our businesses.
have been exceeded and across both purposeful, to make it happen for We have leading market positions in continents actions have been taken our customers and then for our many of the segments in which we to reduce capital expenditure and shareholders.
We will anchor our efforts operate, the quality and dedication to dispose of non-core assets and in securing a strategic understanding of our customers of our front line people is businesses.
We will continue to keep the businesses, focusing on long-term, impressive, and the business model is the organisation focused on driving high quality pro tability and delivering fundamentally sound.
Wolseley operates sustained working capital improvements customer satisfaction.
In doing this we in an attractive industry sector where and keeping up the momentum.
will ensure that when the markets turn the long-term drivers for construction and we get back to growth, we will Finally, we will continue to place a materials distribution are positive in all do so by developing and building on huge degree of emphasis on improving the geographic regions where we Wolseleys strengths and the most customer service at the local level so operate.
Ageing housing stock and attractive businesses to get the best we beat the competition where it counts demand for new housing and returns for our shareholders.
Very often Wolseleys remodelling should remain strong over businesses compete close to where Despite the challenging outlook, our the long term and the vast majority of our customers operate their businesses.
businesses all around the world are the businesses have excellent customer This makes it particularly important that inherently sound and fully engaged in franchises and operate in highly we are better than the competition, sustaining as robust a performance fragmented markets.
There is lots of especially in terms of product availability, as the environment permits.
And the growth and market share to go for.
competitive pricing, advice, correct restructuring we have embarked on will However, the recession and its recent billing and collections, as well as on-time continue to see high levels of activity impact on Wolseleys financial results in full delivery.
To achieve this we need designed to reposition Wolseley highlight the cyclicality of the business.
motivated and skilled people at the front successfully.
My special thanks go to While a downturn was anticipated, line, supported by accountable local all my colleagues around the world no one could have foretold the management.
I passionately believe that serving our customers every day, unprecedented market disruption and excellent customer service is the heart and I look forward to working with global economic downturn of the last of every successful business and an them in redoubling our efforts to move 12 months.
With roots in economic area where we can always improve.
Wolseley forward again and delivering imbalances across many countries, pro table growth.
the downturn has weakened many and Prioritising future investment the path to recovery is far from certain.
While managing short-term performance In a number of ways the recent remains critical, we must also prepare economic turmoil has redrawn the the Company for when our markets map in terms of future trajectories recover.
The geographic markets of our markets and consequently will which Wolseley operates in, whilst Ian K Meakins Group Chief Executive require Wolseley to adapt to these harsh vast in terms of overall size, are also new conditions.
What is more, each business has different characteristics Continuing to drive in terms of mix of new residential performance construction and repairs, maintenance and improvement business, the degree With this call to action as a backdrop, of supplier or customer consolidation, in the current environment we will the customer mix and product mix all remain focused on driving operational therefore have different gross margins performance.
We will continue to lower and returns on capital.
the cost base, but without losing sight of the need to position Wolseley strongly Wolseley plc 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2009
