08 Introduction Chief Executives Statement Our strategy Plan, design, enable is what we do.
Our vision is to be the worlds best infrastructure consultancy.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Introduction 09 Objective and business position continue to be needed.
We do, however, striving for excellence.
We will not Our primary objective is to create view the near term cautiously.
The global necessarily be the biggest or broadest long-term shareholder value measured economic position has impacted demand although this may be a consequence by growth in normalised diluted earnings levels in many markets.
We are confident that our governments are determined to push core activity, that of professional design through stimulus packages and are Our skills lie in the expansive area of consultant serving the built environment, aligning many of these with climate infrastructure the wiring of society will enable us to continue to perform change minimisation goals.
This plays well covering buildings, transport and utilities as a successful company in spite of to the strengths of the Group provided including power and water, as well as unprecedented economic turmoil.
the related projects can be brought to work for national and local governments market in a timely manner.
It is also and other industrial clients.
The social We believe our objective can be best possible that short-term demand for some and environmental framework, combined achieved by continuing to develop the of our services will rise as governments with our social policy planning skills, current business model of predominantly come to terms with the need for additional is also important it is essential that we professional consulting Plan Design strategic planning of capital projects.
view all of our projects in the context Enable with the enable part generally of the communities in which they will limited to activities such as management Our decentralised professional consulting be undertaken.
of road maintenance and signalling organisation with its very wide range of where our technical expertise gives us deep technical skills provides an excellent Consultancy means that we will a competitive advantage.
The majority of base to respond across the Group to operate a business based on selling advice our business relates to our clients capital market fluctuations.
Our ability to and expertise.
We are not a developer, expenditure programmes as opposed to continue to grow, enhance and add to construction company or generalist their day-to-day operating expenditure.
these skills gives us confidence of both outsourcer.
We do, however, have the successfully negotiating the global financial status and commercial skills As capital programmes become more economic issues and continuing to meet to successfully engage in a wide complex and our clients, in both the the prime objective of EPS growth.
variety of contract forms as clients public and private sector, face increasing are increasingly demanding.
pressure on expenditure, the Groups Vision capabilities will remain in demand.
Our vision is to be the worlds best Group strategy Effective use of current assets and infrastructure consultancy.
We will achieve our vision through a efficient procurement with low-carbon strategy of multi-local, multi-skill excellence.
drivers provide a platform that plays Worlds means that we will develop to the Groups strengths.
Where capital deep local expertise in certain targeted The key to much of our activity is the programmes are demanded we are in geographies.
We aim to be recognised national and local nature of the a position to plan and design cost and as the best infrastructure consultancy in relationships we build with our clients.
Where more effective use our chosen geographies because of the The vast majority of our clients continue of current assets is needed we can design projects and service we deliver.
We will to come to Atkins at a local level because and enable efficient life extension and not be global, with offices everywhere, we have demonstrated deep technical imaginative alternatives for example in although our multi-national reach will performance.
Our decentralised ramp metering and hard shoulder running be extensive.
organisation, empowering local on the road networks and extending the management, also leverages resources life of existing nuclear reactors.
Best means that we will be close to from across the Group.
Our strategy our clients, anticipating their needs, involves focusing our efforts where we We remain optimistic regarding the developing long-term relationships and are able to develop these deep local medium-term demands for our services.
We aim to help relationships with our clients.
We call Growing urban populations and all the answer questions our clients dont know this part of our strategy multi-local.
issues connected with a low-carbon they need to ask.
We will help them to economy will require appropriate define their questions.
Quality, local understanding espouse the way we carry out our work and breadth of skills will therefore with integrity and respect, always WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 10 Introduction Chief Executives Statement Our strategy Continued The implications of a multi-local None of this strategy works unless we Low-carbon economy strategy are: constantly strive for excellence.
Economies The transition to a low-carbon economy rely upon the capital projects on which poses extraordinary challenges and we will have several home markets, we work, and customer trust in our opportunities.
Our Carbon Critical Design where the business is a market leader delivery is paramount.
This trust depends programme is producing new ideas and and is material to us on us maintaining world-class skills, and ways of working.
We are endeavouring we will only offer services where we constantly pushing the boundaries of to embed low-carbon design in all of our have a high degree of technical what is technically achievable.
work in a marketplace that is still immature.
competence in each of these markets we will be seen as deeply local Our scope is clear.
We will continue This encompasses all of our areas of by customers to evolve world-class skills in operation as people around the world home businesses will be autonomous,  disciplines.
wrestle with how to approach the issue but we will leverage capability from one We will focus these skills in selected of climate change.
region to another collaborating and home geographies where our full sharing knowledge across the Group capability can be brought to bear.
We are making good progress on our we will not be global, offering identical journey to have some 5,000 Atkins people commoditised services.
Our breadth and engaging with clients on carbon issues depth of skills give us the ability to deliver within the next year.
We are investing In addition to developing local skills, simple solutions to complex questions.
in carbon tools and running training our local management teams are able The reputation we build will attract courses to raise awareness of the issues to draw upon the Groups wide range employees and customers worldwide.
We regularly contribute of skills and resources.
One of Atkins key to external conferences and debates on differentiators is the extensive range of Skills the subject.
skills that we have in the organisation.
Our Atkins has a huge range of technical skills ability to mobilise multidisciplinary teams evidenced by the vast array of services We continue to work with governments and deep expertise from around the that the Group can offer.
The devolved to offer advice about the delivery of Group for local projects is a demonstrated strategy is to have deep understanding of a low-carbon economy.
In this financial capability that we have continued to the skills demanded and offered Identity year we have also invested to build successfully develop.
Our clients recognise and to deliver these to a degree of a range of carbon calculators across most that, by harnessing this breadth of skills, quality to remain competitive Excellence.
areas of our business to support us in the we can answer their questions better.
At business unit level this strategy is delivery of low-carbon design and planning.
This part of our strategy we call multi-skill.
This remains an iterative journey but one The implications of a multi-skill Our drive for improvement and growth that is of fundamental importance.
We strategy are: has been organic supplemented by will not lose sight of this even in difficult targeted bolt-on acquisitions.
We will continue to our competitive advantage will come acquisition criteria are applied to ascertain invest in raising awareness, developing from our breadth and depth of skills the appropriateness of the skill-set and tools and actively engaging with our our breadth will allow us to address the cultural fit and to assess whether clients to help them meet their carbon worlds most complex projects, small companies will usefully accelerate the agendas over the next decade.
or large, and give us flexibility to react multi-skill, multi-local strategy.
Given the to new market opportunities sound financial position of the Group, we will continue to invest in ensuring acquisitions can be readily financed and collaboration between skill groups and we can direct significant investment into business units areas in which we see value.
We have we will not be satisfied with skills that continued to make good progress on are less than world-class just for the acquiring new skills and extending sake of breadth.
our capabilities in recent years.
The acquisitions of, for example, Nedtech and M. G. Bennett reflect our desire for skill acquisitions enhancing our capability in specific areas and embedding new expertise alongside the existing Atkins offering.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Introduction 11 Health and safety Last year we noted that we were mindful We have strong technical skills in It is with deepest regret that we report of the indirect consequences of a a number of robust markets where quality on a fatality that occurred on the Diego prolonged downturn in the commercial is a significant determinant for selection.
Garcia Joint Venture DG21 during a tree property market.
Atkins has an equity conditions worsened during late 2008 In the UK we have niche positions in stake of 24.5% in the Joint Venture and and started to affect our UK and Middle numerous markets.
We propose to we have provided support, including East building design businesses.
We continue to invest in management, advice on how to further improve the recognised the position and took swift deepen the skill base and organise the health and safety arrangements.
action to reduce headcount and match business in a suitable way.
We will, as costs to the available market.
The Group demonstrated, undertake controlled We set our own challenging targets for will continue to monitor market reduction or exit of businesses and health and safety and our performance developments and take appropriate structure appropriately for downturns remains better than the industry average action.
We have a diverse skill base and in activity.
performance as compiled by the HSE geographic footprint which provides In the Middle East we will continue Labour Force Survey.
We are keen to resilience in uncertain times.
Many to add niche skills and prepare for the continue to improve, by expanding our markets remain resource-constrained.
safety leadership programme, and to The Group is agile and flexible enough In Asia Pacific we will focus on and reduce the number of manual handling to continue to hire as necessary and push hard in our available markets accidents which account for 23% shrink where required to maintain levels principally the transit market in Hong of serious accidents in construction.
Kong and building design and urban We also actively encourage the reporting planning in China.
We will continue of incidents and near-misses as a positive The 2008 strategy review focused on the to invest to take advantage of step towards accident prevention.
evolution of the Group strategy, building opportunities as the market opens up, on the work of previous years.
recognising that it could be at least All of our operations are now covered by two years before significant growth OHSAS 18001 and three of our businesses The review confirmed: is achieved.
have also received RoSPA awards: Gold In Europe we will continue to develop for Highways and Transportation, and the consultancy business model our local businesses.
Design and Engineering Solutions: and is appropriate In the USA, Faithful Gould and our Distinction for Asset Management which the business units remain the core oil and gas businesses provide the was awarded for the 22nd year running.
of the strategy organic growth focus.
Skill additions economic uncertainty could lead remain possible.
Strategy process to a wider range of credible scenarios Other geographic areas will continue Our strategy is developed by establishing but the Group is well placed to deal to be reviewed.
the Groups priorities and evaluating the with this strengths of the businesses within the communication of the strategy The Board met in the final quarter of Group.
Business unit bottom-up five-year is important 2008 09 to consider strategic themes plans are set in the context of the implementation of the strategy is now in light of global market developments.
at the forefront of activity determining The main tenets of the strategy were The Group top-down strategic aims how to optimise delivery, what services re-affirmed and the top-down multi-skill, encompass market sectors and and skills to offer and in which multi-local strategy remains unchanged.
geographies in which to operate and geographical markets to operate.
establish ways in which the business units The decentralised and empowered may be assisted in delivering superior The majority of our business is in the UK business model is fundamental to the performance.
Increasingly multiple which remains the core market for our success of the Group.
In current conditions, business units can be brought together activities.
Our existing businesses outside tactical responses have priority in certain to deliver complex projects in various parts of the UK present attractive opportunities markets but the need to maintain of the world.
The huge potential a medium-term view in many of the outside the UK includes areas where we businesses was also noted by the Board are well established such as the Middle so that the Group may adequately position East, which despite recent liquidity issues, itself to take advantage of opportunities has significant medium-term promise.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 12 Introduction Chief Executives Statement Our strategy Continued During 2009 10 the Group will continue Looking forward The Middle East comprises several to evaluate the services and countries that Our UK activity is underpinned by the markets and although the Dubai property will provide the best long-term returns for provision of specialist, not commodity, market was effectively frozen from late the Group and, where appropriate, will services to several long-standing calendar 2008, many other geographic follow specific sector opportunities into clients in the private and public sectors.
markets and sectors continue to be active.
Acquisitions With approximately 50% of our UK The challenges arose from a liquidity and organic investment will be considered revenue coming directly from UK issue in the region which led to a number which deepen the Groups skill base and government central or local, the Group of confidence issues.
Confidence will strengthen our market position in line with is highly dependent on continued return, and the region as a whole will our strategy.
Acquisitions can accelerate government expenditure.
continue to be an attractive area that growth in our home geographies and can support a significant Atkins business, elsewhere.
Attractive geographies The current economic turmoil and increased increasingly in essential infrastructure continue to be those with good cultural government debt will undoubtedly put as well as buildings, built on experience fit and market scope i. e. a material market pressure on the governments finances, and relationships established in the with good growth prospects and potential particularly from 2010 11 onwards.
decades that we have been present in for Atkins to grow market share.
The Group is, however, well positioned The Board remains alive to the challenges despite potential spending cuts because The US workload, driven by a variety of and opportunities that arise from of a number of factors: clients, is steady and we anticipate that unprecedented world economic conditions.
fiscal stimulus will help to increase activity The Group is well placed to weather the There will always be a demand for levels in  areas.
downturn and take advantage of high-value technical skills where opportunities that may present themselves.
quality is the major determinant and Europe and China are longer term It has the resources to emerge strongly these will be in greater demand as the prospects for the Group but as markets recover.
complexity of the questions and infrastructure needs will drive medium challenges facing our clients increase.
Business unit strategy The drive to satisfy the UKs Carbon The decentralised consultancy model Reduction Commitment will further Our deep local presence and drive for demands that elements of the strategy increase the need for technical solutions the type of value-for-money engineering be established at business unit level.
Each to achieve the governments targets.
that cannot be achieved at the commodity business actively considers its competitive Decarbonising the economy, together end of the spectrum place us well to and resource-based advantage together with an increasing need for capacity, deliver in all of these markets in the with ways in which we may apply our reliability and predictability should short term and beyond.
business models better and improve particularly enhance demand for our services.
skills in, for example, our nuclear, We are confident that with our culture, transmission and distribution, skills and business model we are, as Each business determines a medium utilities and rail markets.
evidenced by this years continued to long-term view of its prospects and The government can increase efficiency improvement in financial performance, positioning within its markets in the by spending more time on the planning well positioned to weather the context of Group objectives.
This year, and designing of projects.
Putting more turbulent global economic climate while actions have been focused on the thought into less construction is an area and emerge stronger.
near term to ensure navigation through where the Group is particularly strong.
rapidly changing markets, strategic action plans have continued to be developed to Keith Clarke ensure medium-term objectives remain in Chief Executive sight.
Our management depth and ability 16 June 2009 are key to ensuring that we maintain a forward looking view within the business.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Reviews Reviews 14 Human Resources Review 18 Business Review 18 Overview of the business and performance in the year 20 Segmental performance 20 Design and Engineering Solutions 22 Highways and Transportation 24 Rail 26 Middle East, China and Europe 30 Management and Project Services 32 Asset Management 34 Financial performance 37 Principal risks and uncertainties 38 Corporate Responsibility Review
