Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Business review chief Executive Officers statement Against the backdrop of one of the most severe global recessions, Xchanging has grown its revenues by 35% and underlying operating profits by 36%.
David Andrews, chief Executive Officer 35% Revenue growth up to 750 million from 558 million in 2008 36% XEBIT growth Up to 52 million from 39 million in 2008 2009 marked our tenth year as a Our confidence comes from the resilience company.
in our first decade, Xchanging of our business in 2009: our successful has grown rapidly from winning BaE integration of the cambridge acquisition: Systems as our first customer, to our international footprint: our relentless delivering services to more than 500 focus on customer requirements: and customers around the world.
Over the our clear strategy for growth.
in short, 10 years, we have built a track record we are determined to become the global of fast growth.
More recently, since our business processor of choice.
ipO in 2007, we have increased revenues by 91% compound annual growth rate 1 cagR of 24%.
We have grown XEBiT by 141% during the same period with XEBiT margins increasing from 5.5% to 7.0%.
From a shareholder perspective, we have delivered a 40% increase in underlying earnings per share cagR of 12%.
We are confident that we are well positioned for strong growth in the years ahead.
Footnote 1 cagR based on 2006 full-year number.
X c h a n g i ng plc 7 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Business review chief Executive Officers statement continued Resilient in the face of difficult Successful integration of our major The addition of cambridge has given markets acquisition us considerable scale in india.
We now against the backdrop of one of the most as planned, we successfully completed have processing centres in gurgaon, severe global recessions, Xchanging the cambridge integration by the end of Bangalore, Shimoga and chennai.
This has grown its revenues by 35% and the year and in line with the integration puts Xchanging in a highly competitive underlying operating profits by 36%.
budget disclosed in our half year results.
We now have a rich pool in 2009, Xchanging delivered 5% organic We have increased underlying basic of highly-skilled iT and multilingual revenue growth 8.4% including gains earnings per share EpS by 7% after processing expertise in india to support from currency movements.
Significantly, accounting for the additional shares our growth.
One of our key aims for we have delivered this growth despite issued and debt drawn down to fund 2010 will be to leverage the arbitrage the reduction of volumes in our german the cambridge acquisition.
With the opportunities available through attractive business and the weakness in the addition of cambridge, we have built incentives in the tier 3 and 4 locations US market.
a solid platform for profitable growth in india.
and achieved critical mass in india, our in 2009, we took a number of steps to principal offshore location.
cambridge International coverage and capability review our cost base, accelerating our accounted for 26% of revenue growth in To exploit our international coverage, in lean processing strategy and enhancing the group in 2009 and has expanded our 2009 we moved from a sector-based to the resilience of our business going international reach.
Most importantly, it a regional management structure.
in the first half of the year, has given us a broader base of customers, appointed experienced leaders in all of we rationalised our US business and particularly in the USa and asia pacific.
our regions and strengthened the local combined the UK operations under sales forces and operational management a single management team.
We also in 2009, we re-organised the US teams.
Xchanging now has a powerful initiated steps to reduce our onshore operations into 16 primary processing combination of global processing capacity in both the UK and germany centres and secondary sites, down from capabilities and local, national and and will be further increasing offshoring 45 locations.
We also established our regional presence.
We will make best new americas region headquarters and use of our increased scale in india to flagship processing centre in chicago.
Our experience, supported by industry enhance our competitive cost position.
numerous customers from across the commentators, is that there is a growing This increased offshoring and associated USa joined us at our inauguration event desire among customers to reduce the capacity rationalisation has resulted in in October.
We are delighted with the total number of BpO providers they an exceptional one-off cost in 2009 of positive response we received from them use across locations.
This will lead to a reduction and the wider US market.
With 41% respond to this trend with our global in annual costs of c. 14 million in 2010 of our top 280 customers contracting business processing capability.
With with an anticipated full year run-rate with our US operations, we now have customers in 42 countries, Xchanging benefit of c. 17 million per annum from an established and growing presence in has built an enviable track record for 2011 onwards.
the largest Business process Outsourcing delivering services efficiently across BpO market in the world.
multiple geographies, with the right mix These cost savings will underpin our of onshore and offshore processing.
This margin improvements in 2010 and track record positions us well to add beyond.
We are also re-investing an new customers seeking global services element of these savings into our sales for multinational operations as well as operations within each region.
This will to expand internationally the services we enhance our ability to win and implement provide to our existing customers.
large contracts and to take advantage of the expected uplift in the market.
8 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Customer-focused approach Clear strategy for growth We believe that our strategy is the right Over the last 10 years we have built a We have the same vision as when we one for delivering the same strong superb portfolio of blue-chip customers.
launched Xchanging 10 years ago trajectory of growth in the next decade Our customer base is diverse, both to become the global business processor as we have achieved in our first 10 geographically and across the industries of choice.
Our strong growth to date years.
We are particularly well placed we serve.
during 2009, we have devoted, combined with our multinational to capitalise on the rapid growth that is through tailored programmes, substantial customer base indicate that this is indeed forecast for the global BpO market, as efforts to extending the scope of services what the market wants.
We will continue the various economies recover.
we provide to our top 280 customers.
to keep a close eye on emerging public industry commentators re-inforce the and industry opportunities as these in the following pages, you will find benefits of this approach by noting that sectors seek alternative methods to drive more details on the BpO market, our the companies most likely to lead the efficiency in existing cost structures.
2009 business achievements and how outsourcing trend are those that have we continue to deliver on our strategy.
We are excited To realise our vision we continue that this focus on existing customers will to follow our simple three-pronged i would like to thank our customers, our generate new opportunities for 2010 strategy: growing existing platforms, employees and our investors for their and beyond.
adding new platforms, and becoming continued trust in us.
We are determined the lean processor.
in our first 10 years, to deliver the superior value that you seek We continue to target the top 500 we have built a distinctive position in from Xchanging.
multinational companies in the world the BpO market.
We have consistently through a globally co-ordinated reached out to seize the opportunities programme.
These companies represent for growth, and this has been coupled an enormous medium-term opportunity with the clear imperative to deliver value for boosting growth.
Our distinctive for our customers and shareholders.
David Andrews capabilities for meeting their needs chief Executive Officer internationally put us in a strong having established Xchanging in the UK 1 March 2010 competitive position.
in 1999, we quickly moved into germany with our partnership with deutsche Bank in 2004.
Since then we have built our presence further in continental Europe as well as the USa and asia pacific, through a combination of organic growth and acquisition.
We have progressively developed our global processing centre network, and rolled out our standard production methodologies in our centres in the UK, germany, the USa, india, Singapore and australia.
