qxd:Layout 1 18 3 10 00:25 Page 10 | 10 STRATEGY: BUSINESS REVIEW Chief Executives report Xstratas businesses delivered a robust operating and financial performance despite challenging economic conditions.
The dramatic and rapid slowdown in industrial production and destocking which began in late 2008 continued to exert a significant inuence over Xstratas markets in 2009.
From the nadir of the global economic slowdown in March, stimulus initiatives in most major economies, especially China, prompted a resurgence in global markets during the remainder of the year.
Improving demand for commodities during 2009 was underpinned by investment in Asian infrastructure, which lessened the impact of a more anaemic response in OECD economies.
Nonetheless, despite the improving trend, average commodity prices in 2009 were signicantly lower than in 2008.
The full benefit of rising prices in the second half was also partially offset by the negative impact of a progressively weaker US dollar in the last three quarters of the year against many producer currencies.
Against this challenging background, Xstratas businesses delivered Mick Davis a robust operating and financial performance, with a strong second Chief Executive half production and sales performance as market conditions improved.
Overall the Group achieved earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA of over $7 billion, net earnings of $2.8 billion, and strong operating cash ows of $5.3 billion.
This solid result was Key points achieved despite substantially lower commodity prices, and reects the rapid and far-reaching actions taken by our commodity business management teams in response to the downturn.
Real unit operating Decisive actions by our commodity businesses costs were reduced by some $501 million in 2009, representing over saw Xstrata emerge from the recession in a 5% of Xstratas operating cost base.
stronger competitive position The Boards increased confidence in the medium-term outlook for The fundamental restructuring of our nickel and commodities and Xstratas encouraging prospects and financial position have enabled the resumption of dividend payments, with a proposed zinc businesses successfully reduced operating costs final dividend of 8 cents per share to be paid to shareholders on the and established a robust base for further growth record at 23 April 2010.
Our next stage of growth and transformation will Rapid response to downturn be delivered predominantly from the development I outlined in my report last year a range of short-term initiatives which our of our organic growth projects businesses implemented to conserve cash and ensure Xstratas operations remained profitable and robust, even in a prolonged downturn.
Higher cost operations and production capacity that could not be supported by market demand were suspended or closed, capital expenditure was slowed down at certain longer-term greeneld growth projects and capital and operating cost savings initiatives were accelerated across the Group.
Despite the extent of the measures taken over the past 18 months, our operational management teams ensured that our actions did not impair the valuable growth options we have accumulated within our portfolio.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements XS014 p10-15 AW2.
qxd:Layout 1 18 3 10 00:25 Page 11 11 The devolved nature of our business model emphasises accountability base.
The most recent restructuring is the latest example of an ongoing and responsibility at the local level and encourages an entrepreneurial process to optimise the Australian operations and Mount Isa now approach to running our operations.
Nowhere is this approach more represents a large-scale, long life and low cost zinc complex that apparent than in the timely and decisive actions taken by every continues to deliver value to the Group.
commodity business at every level, to ensure that the Group emerged Further capital and operating cost savings across the European, from recession in a strengthened position.
I commend all of our Canadian and Australian operations contributed to a 25% reduction operational management for their timely and innovative responses to in C1 cash costs at the mines from 58.3 cents per pound in 2008 to conserving cash and cutting cost without impairing safety performance, 43.5 cents per pound in 2009, or to 39.1 cents per pound on an operational integrity, or growth optionality.
integrated basis including the benefit of the smelters, and real unit cost savings of some $192 million.
At a Group level, we announced a pre-emptive major rights issue in January to further bolster Xstratas financial position, following the Xstrata Nickel accelerated the transformation of its portfolio amidst a renancing of near-term debt obligations in late 2008.
Over 99% of severe deterioration in market conditions, including the suspension of the Xstratas shareholders took up their rights in one of the first major rights Fraser Mine complex in Sudbury and Falcondo operation in the Dominican issues on the UK market in 2009, well in advance of a number of other Republic, the early closure of the end of life Craig and Thayer-Lindsley substantial equity issuances.
This strong shareholder support enabled the mines and a 30% reduction in corporate and operational headcount.
prompt pay-down of debt by a net $3.7 billion, and provided the Group Performance at the downstream facilities was optimised by replacing with a rm financial footing for the year ahead.
Gearing at December lower quality Sudbury and third party feed with additional volumes of 2009 is a comfortable 26% compared to 40% at the end of 2008.
The nickel in concentrate from the Australian operations, the higher-grade Prodeco operations in Colombia were acquired as part of the rights issue Raglan mine and initial feed from Nickel Rim South.
Consequently, transaction for a net sum of $2 billion, including a call option under consolidated nickel C1 cash costs fell by 33% to an average of $3.80 per which Glencore International AG may repurchase the Prodeco business pound in 2009 from $5.63 per pound in 2008 and at the end of 2009, for $2.25 billion, plus Xstratas earnings from Prodeco from 1 January Xstrata Nickel was operating with a run rate of less than $3 per pound.
2009 to the exercise or expiry of the option and any cash paid into the The next stage of Xstrata Nickels transformation is currently under way business by Xstrata.
The option expiry date is 4 March 2010. with the development of the Nickel Rim South mine and the Koniambo project in New Caledonia.
Both mines will benefit from low cash costs Longer-term strategic restructuring and their development will position Xstrata Nickel amongst the lowestIn addition to the range of immediate actions implemented by each cost producers in the industry.
of our commodity business teams to reduce costs, conserve cash and improve productivity, Xstratas nickel and zinc commodity businesses Xstratas strategy evolves accelerated a fundamental restructuring of their operations during the From inception, Xstrata has pursued a strategy of value creation through downturn.
The successful completion of these initiatives has radically growth and asset improvement for its owners.
This strategy has focused on: reduced operating costs and improved the competitive position of these Growth through acquisition: businesses for the longer term.
Operational transformation and enhancements to net present value: and Operating and capital cost savings were realised across the zinc portfolio, while zinc in concentrate production increased by 20% and zinc metal Organic growth from the portfolio.
by 4% compared to 2008, maintaining Xstratas position as the premier In its early days as a London-listed mining company, Xstratas strategy integrated global zinc producer.
Xstrata Zinc undertook a series of was focused, by necessity, on acquisition-led growth to build a portfolio initiatives to optimise its Australian operations, including a 40% reduction diversied by commodity and geographic region, with the scale to in unit costs at the Mount Isa complex and a cost reduction of 18% compete for access to resources, financial and human capital and the at McArthur River Mine compared to 2008.
Production was ramped capacity and capabilities to build large-scale, new operations.
An equally up from the higher grade George Fisher mine and the large scale important imperative of this acquisition-led phase was to bring a range Black Star operation with a reduced workforce and lower capital of organic growth projects and prospective exploration sites into our spending, substantially improving productivity.
The higher cost Handlebar portfolio, providing each commodity business with an additional stream Hill operation was suspended and is currently operating as a swing of options to increase production and lower operating costs.
Three major producer, sharing resources with Black Star.
Recoveries and throughput transformational acquisitions were completed over a period of four years at the zinc-lead concentrator were maximised at an expanded rate of to provide scale and diversity and were supplemented by opportunistic over 7.4 million tonnes per annum.
and targeted bolt-on acquisitions to further optimise our existing Prior to their acquisition by Xstrata in 2003, the Mount Isa zinc operations businesses and facilitate our entry into new commodities.
During 2009, and McArthur River Mine were under review and likely to be closed.
we approached Anglo American to propose a transformational merger Since that time, Xstrata Zincs management have identied numerous of the two companies.
Anglo Americans rejection of our proposal is, opportunities to progressively expand the mines and the zinc-lead in my view, a lost opportunity to create value for both companies concentrator at a low capital cost, develop new open cut mines and carry shareholders.
In October, Xstrata confirmed that it did not intend out near-mine exploration to extract maximum value from the resource to make an unsolicited offer for Anglo American.
qxd:Layout 1 18 3 10 23:06 Page 12 | 12 STRATEGY: BUSINESS REVIEW Chief Executives report continued The second phase of Xstratas strategy focused on the transformation of The successful delivery of this strategy to date has created a diversied acquired operations to develop integrated, global commodity businesses major mining group with five integrated global business units, positioned with a devolved management structure and an owner-operator culture.
towards the bottom half of their respective industry cost curves with long Operational management within Xstrata has an enduring mandate mine lives and extensive growth options.
Dramatic increases have been to enhance the net present value of our operations year-on-year, achieved in the measured and indicated resource base, with a 445% notwithstanding the wasting nature of mining assets, and to strive for increase in copper resources and a 61% increase in coal resources since continuous improvements at operations.
Our businesses have consistently 2005 despite increasing production, a 90% increase in nickel resources risen to this challenge to relentlessly pursue operational excellence, since 2007 and a 162% increase in zinc reserves from 2004. realising year-on-year real cost savings, productivity improvements, adding We have in place a world-class sustainable development framework reserves and resources and extending mine lives, improving health, safety which governs every managed operation and project towards achieving and environmental performance and proactively engaging with the broad our aim of industry-leading performance in environmental management, range of stakeholders in our business.
health and safety performance and stakeholder engagement.
Total During the first two phases of Xstratas development into a major mining recordable and lost time injury frequency rates have been reduced by group, our businesses have also developed a strong track record for the 67% and 73% respectively since 2003 or an average reduction of around successful development of major mines and metallurgical operations.
20% each year, including dramatic improvements at acquired operations.
Around $9 billion has been spent to deliver 13 organic growth projects This is very pleasing and an indication of our businesses success in in the last six years in coal, chrome, platinum and zinc, all of which have prioritising safety resources at the site level and in encouraging a strong been delivered on or within original budget estimates.
In addition to these safety culture.
Nonetheless, I am in no way complacent about the scale completed projects, a further three mines will be commissioned in 2010, of the challenge that still faces us if we are to achieve our objective of Goedgevonden thermal coal, Nickel Rim South and the Blakeeld South operating without injuries or fatalities.
Nine people lost their lives working longwall coal operation, as Xstratas organic growth pipeline gathers pace.
at Xstratas managed operations in 2009.
This tragic loss of life is wholly unacceptable to Xstratas Board and management and improving safety performance remains a core priority.
Delivering future growth Opportunistic acquisitions and an ongoing focus on NPV enhancement Operational excellence and operational excellence will continue to play a significant role in Xstratas strategy.
Indeed, during the year, we gained an entry into the Ongoing transformation of portfolio early stage Zanaga iron ore project in the Republic of Congo.
Under the agreement, Xstrata will fund at least $50 million towards ongoing All five business units are positioned towards the bottom half of their exploration and a pre-feasibility study in return for an option to acquire respective industry cost curves with long mine lives and extensive a majority 50% plus one share interest in the owner of the project, growth options.
including a pathway to acquire 100% of the project following completion of the feasibility study.
Zinc 2006 However, this next stage of our growth and transformation is secured and will be delivered from the development of the projects within our Generic Coal portfolio.
Many of the browneld and greeneld growth projects that 2004 cost curve have been guided through conceptual and feasibility studies by Xstratas Nickel Nickel 2006 2009 operational management in recent years are now reaching the approval Zinc and construction stage.
Each of these projects will deliver robust returns 2009 Copper with average returns in the mid 20% range at conservative long-run 2006 Coal prices.
In the past six months, five projects have been approved with a 2009 Chrome total capital spend of $2 billion and construction decisions are expected Copper 2004 2009 on a further ten projects in 2010 with a total capital spend of over Chrome $10 billion, the majority of which are low cost, low risk browneld 2009 expansions.
Capital expenditure will rise accordingly with expected expansionary capital spending of approximately $14 billion over the next Percentile cost position three years, including $4.9 billion in 2010.
This expenditure will realise the 10th 50th 90th Continuous transformation Cash cost Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements XS014 p10-15 AW2.
qxd:Layout 1 18 3 10 00:26 Page 13 13 next phase of transformation of Xstrata, both in terms of volume growth, Continuous improvement delivering a 50% increase in volumes, but importantly also delivering Group safety performance substantial reductions in the operating cost prole of our businesses.
The proposed substantial investments in organic growth and expansion Total recordable and lost time injury frequency rates have been reduced of mineral resources by Xstrata and our industry peers can only be made by 67% and 73% respectively since 2003 or an average reduction of in stable regulatory and scal environments.
Mining investments involve around 20% each year.
significant capital expenditure over a number of years to construct TRIFR Total recordable injury frequency rate operations that generate economic benets for shareholders, 35 LTIFR Lost time injury frequency rate governments, employees and communities for two or more decades.
In this regard, we remain supportive of an eventual global regulatory 30 framework for carbon emissions that is equitable, effective and that incentivises government and industry investment in new technologies 25 to address climate change, without irreparably damaging national export industries.
Similarly, it is imperative that royalty and taxation regimes 20 imposed on the minerals industry are transparent and stable, to enable our industry to develop the basic resources required to satisfy the worlds % 15 67 growing demands for social and economic development.
improvement 10 Alloys % Xstrata Alloys benets from low capital cost, browneld expansion 73 5 options in its chrome and platinum operations.
The Lion project, which improvement uses proprietary Premus technology to reduce energy consumption and 0 operating costs compared to conventional smelting technology, was 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 designed to support two further phases of expansion to a total capacity of one million tonnes per annum.
Phase two would increase capacity Xstrata Coal has an impressive track record in successful project delivery by 360,000 tonnes but is dependent on appropriate market conditions including the construction of seven major mines since 2005.
Three for ferrochrome and greater certainty on electricity supply and pricing major projects are currently in construction Mangoola, Blakeeld South, in South Africa, where lack of generation capacity remains a concern ATCOM East and will deliver over 15 million tonnes of annual production.
for industry and households alike.
A further six projects are planned to deliver double digit growth in output Platinum production from Eland is expected to double to 300,000 ounces over the next five years.
Looking further ahead, a feasibility study is of platinum in 2014 through its expansion into a major underground examining the potential to build a 30 million tonne per annum thermal mine with the sinking of the Western Decline commencing this year.
coal mine at Wandoan in the Surat Basin, Queensland with significant In addition, Xstrata Alloys continues to assess its mediumto long-term additional upside potential from the projects substantial resource base PGM growth options through the development of its exploration portfolio and drilling programmes under way in the region.
The development of with emerging junior BEE companies.
our pipeline of organic growth in coal will deliver a significant reduction in operating costs, cementing Xstrata Coals position as the worlds Coal premier producer of export thermal coal.
Xstrata Coals management team has transformed its portfolio consolidating a range of diverse, smaller operations into tier one largeCopper scale complexes with world-class operating costs, regional scale and the Xstrata Coppers portfolio comprises one of the premier suites of copper ability to leverage shared infrastructure in New South Wales, Queensland growth projects in the industry.
Three expansion projects have been and South Africa.
In New South Wales, 20 separate operations have approved in the past four months, namely the second phase of expansion developed into four main complexes providing asset-level synergies, at Lomas Bayas, the conversion of Ernest Henry into an underground economies of scale and a range of high-return browneld expansion operation and the expansion of Antamina, approved by the joint venture possibilities.
In South Africa, the commissioning of Goedgevonden partners at the beginning of 2010.
A further three advanced projects open cut operation a joint venture with ARM Coal and the ongoing are due to come to the Xstrata plc Board for approval during 2010, development of ATCOM East are continuing the transformation of the Antapaccay and Las Bambas in southern Peru and an expansion to the South African division into three major complexes comprising mainly world-class Collahuasi operation in north Chile.
Together, these six open cut operations to deliver further productivity and cost savings.
advanced projects will deliver a 60% increase in copper output by 2015. per million hours worked XS014 p10-15 AW2.
qxd:Layout 1 18 3 10 00:26 Page 14 | 14 STRATEGY: BUSINESS REVIEW Chief Executives report continued Nickel Growth pipeline The nickel business has retained a highly attractive suite of longer-term Koniambo project growth options despite the substantial restructuring of its operations in 2009 and has the potential to double 2008 production by 2013.
The The world-class Koniambo project remains on budget and is targeting commissioning of Nickel Rim South is progressing well with nameplate first production in early 2012 with full production of 60,000 tonnes capacity already proven and projected production of over 13,000 tonnes by 2014. of contained nickel and 29,000 tonnes of copper in 2010, reaching full production in 2011.
This accelerated project has been constructed in five years and remains on time and on budget with an exceptional safety and environmental performance, including achieving a continuous period of over five million hours without a lost time injury during 2009.
The world-class Koniambo project remains on budget and is targeting first production in early 2012 with full production of 60,000 tonnes by 2014.
I recently visited the impressive engineering yard in Qingdao, China where the immense modules that will join together to form Koniambos metallurgical plant are being constructed.
The modules are on track to be delivered to New Caledonia in mid-2010 and it is particularly pleasing to note that safety performance has been exemplary, following the full adoption by Chinese contractors of Xstratas Sustainable Development policy and standards and ongoing performance monitoring.
The Kabanga project in Tanzania is one of the worlds few undeveloped, large-scale, nickel sulphide projects and a retention licence is currently in place to allow the project to be developed when market conditions allow.
Additional growth opportunities include the prospective Araguaia exploration project in Brazil and a suite of browneld expansion options at Raglan, Sinclair in Western Australia, Falcondo in the Dominican A significant proportion of this growth will come from the development Republic and the Fraser Morgan project in Sudbury.
of a new major copper-producing region in Southern Peru, which will Zinc deliver over 600,000 tonnes of copper annually, from the development Xstrata Zinc continues to identify and execute low capital cost expansions of Antapaccay, which will use Tintayas existing infrastructure, the to existing operations.
Several feasibility studies are under way including greeneld Las Bambas project which will also benefit from interacting a well advanced study into the construction of an Albion Process with Tintaya infrastructure and, in time, the development of resources atmospheric pressure leaching plant, which is expected to be completed from the Coroccohuayco deposit.
In addition to the advanced projects by the end of 2010.
The plant would enable bulk lead-zinc concentrate now reaching the construction stage, three further greeneld projects from the McArthur River mine, currently processed predominantly by have the possibility of delivering another 700,000 annual tonnes of imperial ISF smelters, to be processed more efficiently, supporting the attributable copper.
This is in addition to the future stages of copper further expansion of McArthur River which benets from a very extensive production growth that will emerge from the major browneld resource base.
expansion studies under way at Collahuasi, providing an exciting subsequent phase of growth in this highly attractive commodity.
Further projects are under way to examine the potential to expand the George Fisher and Black Star mines in Queensland, following an Xstrata Coppers approach to delivering its significant pipeline of growth 80% increase in reserves at George Fisher over the last four years.
includes the formation of alliances with Bechtel, FLSmidth and Siemens The Bracemac-McLeod project in Canada which would use existing to ensure availability of the appropriate skills and capabilities.
A standard concentrator design concept being applied across the various projects is infrastructure at Perseverance has also been advanced to the feasibility study stage with a decision expected in 2010, and a $10 million achieving engineering and capital cost savings, while minimising long lead delivery times.
The optimisation and prioritisation of our extensive copper exploration and delineation programme at the greeneld Pallas Green pipeline saw the divestment of Xstratas 70% interest in the El Morro project project in Ireland has recently been approved by Xstrata Zinc and joint for $463 million in 2009 and the transaction completed in February 2010. venture partner Minco Plc.
qxd:Layout 1 18 3 10 10:00 Page 15 15 In my opinion, the medium-term outlook for commodity demand Impacts of the recession remains very promising.
The secular trend in demand for commodities Although the full implications of the financial crisis and global recession will continue to be driven by the ongoing urbanisation and industrialisation have not yet fully played out, it is clear that the experiences of the past of high-growth, populous economies, with China and other industrialising 18 months will have profound and long-lasting effects on the world in nations taking active steps to rebalance their economies towards domestic which we operate.
consumption-led growth over the next decade.
In time, the return to a In the commodities sector, one of the most significant impacts has been more normalised level of growth of the OECD economies will add further the extent to which the downturn has exacerbated the supply constraints impetus to the growth of the global economy and commodity demand.
Prior to the crisis, our industry was already struggling to maintain or increase production in the face of declining grades, Against this background, the shift of emphasis in Xstratas strategy to unplanned outages at aging operations and more stringent permitting a phase more dominated by organic growth is timely and coincides with requirements.
The mining industrys swingeing cuts to expenditure on our view that the supply of many commodities will struggle to keep pace exploration, projects and infrastructure have delayed the onset of new with demand growth.
Our businesses rapid and comprehensive response capacity by at least 18 to 24 months and means the supply-side will to the downturn in the early part of the year enabled a creditable result fall further behind in its ability to supply even modest increases in in extremely challenging markets in 2009.
It has been matched by a swift future demand.
resumption of investment in key growth projects that will drive substantial volume growth and reductions in operating costs, marking the next stage The recession also emphasised the pre-eminence of China, Brazil and of Xstratas transformation.
These projects will progressively reach India as consumers of commodities and in 2009, China represented production during a timeframe in which demand for commodities from over 100% of the growth in global consumption in a number of metals industrialising nations seems set to remain robust, augmented by a return including copper and zinc.
Despite the severity of the downturn, most to demand growth from the OECD in due course and ongoing structural commodity prices did not test historical lows in real terms and rebounded constraints to the supply of many commodities.
strongly during 2009, demonstrating both the support provided by demand from industrialising nations in Asia and the inability of supply Xstrata has been well positioned over the last few years to benefit in from the mining sector to satisfy even a modest increase in demand.
The investments over recent years have delivered a diversied portfolio with the scale and capabilities to develop major Outlook new mines.
As we enter into this next phase of Xstratas transformation, Robust economic growth and demand for commodities from I am confident that the Groups prospects remain very encouraging.
industrialising nations is likely to continue, with many forecasters anticipating Chinese GDP growth of around 9% in 2010.
While ination poses a risk, the recent measures taken by the Chinese authorities to tighten monetary policy and curb ination are positive and reect the need to bring planned lending rates to the previously announced target of RMB7.5 trillion, following a stronger than expected first month of 2010.
By contrast, the OECD seems set to experience low growth for Mick Davis a while as consumers continue to deleverage, giving rise to a so-called Chief Executive two-speed world and reinforcing the position of the East as the main driver of global commodity demand growth.
The US consumer remains pivotal to a full recovery in global trade, including Chinas export industry.
While consumer spending will inevitably rise again, it is not yet certain when this will begin, or indeed what level of consumption Western consumers will adopt in the aftermath of such a severe recession.
Unemployment levels, regulatory reforms to the banking industry, rising national debts and the imperative to withdraw stimulus packages without dampening economic recovery indicate that there are a number of risks that must be carefully managed on the path to a sustainable OECD recovery.
However, many of the shortand medium-term leading indicators we monitor are showing signs of recovery, including improving manufacturing output and confidence, notwithstanding the fact that credit expansion in OECD economies remains sluggish.
