DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW BAE Systems has evolved to become one of the worlds leading defence companies and is well positioned to weather the pressures in its global markets.
Continued good demand for high-technology capabilities Further significant multi-year support contracts awarded Delivering growth from combat aircraft programmes Transitioning from peak activity in land systems Ian King Chief Executive 4 www.
com RESPONSIBLE TRADING PRINCIPLES The good operating performance of 1.
We understand and support our customers national security and BAE Systems in 2009 reflects the good other requirements: progress the Group has made in recent years, 2.
We assess carefully our products and services with the objective that developing the business within a well-defined neither BAE Systems nor our customers are exposed to significant and consistently implemented strategic reputational risk: 1 framework.
We work to BAE Systems values in all that we do: and Groups aim to deliver sustainable growth 4.
We are as open as practicable about the nature of our business.
in shareholder value through a commitment to Total Performance for all its customers.
BAE Systems is a resilient business, well positioned to weather the In June, BAE Systems completed the acquisition of Advanced Ceramics pressures that result from the recent turbulence in global economies.
The acquisition supports BAE Systems The Group operates primarily in its seven home markets, and has a wide global Unmanned Aircraft Systems UAS strategy, adding small UAS portfolio of products and capabilities serving defence customers across platforms and ground segment capability to complement the Groups the air, land and sea domains.
Many of the Groups programmes are existing UAS capabilities.
subject to long-term contracts, and some include agreements designed A setback for the Group was the notification by the US Department of to address and safeguard national capabilities.
Defense in August 2009 and, following a re-evaluation of the bids, in Alongside its established defence-related activities, BAE Systems has February 2010 that a follow-on production contract for vehicles under a growing position in national security with a focus on information-based the Family of Medium Tactical Vehicles FMTV programme had been lost.
The acquisition of Detica in September 2008 UK and rest of world business was a further step in the implementation of the Groups security strategy.
The outlook for UK defence spending remains difficult, but the Group has BAE Systems is well placed to address opportunities in security a large order book reflecting the firmly contracted long-term programmes markets, such as increasing focus on cyber threats.
that are a feature of BAE Systems UK-based business.
The Groups geographic spread of business extends the diversity of its The largest of those programmes, the Typhoon combat aircraft, is set customer base.
The strategy, to identify long-term sustainable markets for further growth with increasing deliveries to both the four European around the globe and address those markets by building local industrial partner nations and to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
positions, is working to good effect.
India has been identified as the Groups seventh home market and, in November, an agreement was signed with BAE Systems is a leader in the provision of multi-year, capability-based, Mahindra & Mahindra to establish a joint venture in land systems.
Approximately 40% of BAE Systems sales in 2009 are Readiness & Sustainment related activity.
In addition to established Rapid changes in the nature and evolution of threats around the world relationships in the UK, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Australia, have resulted in corresponding changes in priorities for many of the BAE Systems seeks to migrate its Readiness & Sustainment capabilities Groups customers.
BAE Systems recognises that agility in addressing to other markets.
customers requirements is becoming a key competitive discriminator.
New multi-year UK support contracts were awarded in the year totalling Defence budgets in both the UK and the US are expected to come under over 2bn.
Such contracts included support and maintenance of Harrier further pressure, and with expectations of a more challenging business and Typhoon aircraft in service with the Royal Air Force, the Type 45 antienvironment ahead, the focus on driving performance and efficiency in air warfare destroyer the Groups first major UK ship support contract, the business will be key.
Cost reduction measures are being aggressively and Spearfish and Sting Ray torpedoes in service with the Royal Air Force implemented across the Group.
US business The governments of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the United In the US, overall defence spending remains robust but the investment Kingdom also agreed detailed arrangements to provide support for accounts, from which the Group derives significant business, are expected Typhoon operations for a three-year period.
These arrangements will be to be stressed by the continued cost of high tempo operations and rising operated through a full availability service contract with BAE Systems.
Eight Typhoon aircraft were delivered in the year to the Saudi customer under the 2007 Salam production contract.
In April 2009, the US Secretary of Defense announced a reprioritisation of programmes that is expected to continue to shape US defence In July, contracts were agreed by the four European partner nations procurement.
Many of BAE Systems activities are well aligned to those for 88 Tranche 3A Typhoon aircraft with a contract value to the Group announced priority changes.
In February 2010, the US Quadrennial of approximately 2bn.
The contracts extend visibility of Typhoon Defense Review was published along with the US defence budget for the production for the next five years.
The FY11 base budget identifies an increase BAE Systems is also a significant participant on the US F-35 Joint Strike of 3.4% and within this base budget the investment account allocations Fighter programme with the combination of both airframe assembly were at the upper end of the Groups planning assumptions.
manufacture in the UK and electronic systems supplied from the The Groups high technology capabilities in the US are expected Groups US operations.
The F-35 is expected to progress to high to continue to be in demand.
The business has a strong record of volume production over the coming years.
innovation, rapidly generating advanced, but cost effective, solutions to address complex problems.
1 FOR THE GROUP p10 STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 5
