10 Annual report and accounts 2009 Strategic review from the Chief Executive Realising our p otentiAl our goal is to become a world-leading provider of services to infrastructure owners.
Around half our revenue now comes from outside the UK, and we are well diversified across geographies and market sectors.
We have four strong and mutually-reinforcing businesses.
each is a match for any competitor in its field.
together they can offer infrastructure owners a uniquely integrated service.
the question now is: how do we grow this model to achieve our strategic goal?
ian tyler Chief executive our business Annual report and accounts 2009 11 A clear strategy to drive long-term growth Balfour Beatty has maintained revenue and profit growth throughout the financial crisis.
We have demonstrated our resilience and can face the future with even greater capability, a strong balance sheet based on robust cash generation, and excellent long-term prospects.
But the post-recession world will be a tough one.
to succeed in it, we will have to: 1.
Grow our four businesses individually p12 2.
Capitalise on our unique integrated capability p13 3.
Share knowledge and integrate our capabilities even better p14 4.
Leverage our scale and maximise efficiency p15 5.
Show leadership in our values and behaviour p16 6.
Focus our strategic development where the money is going to be spent p17 in 2009, we took important steps forward in all these areas.
in particular, we transformed our capabilities in professional services p18, redefined our business in four new segments p19 and reinforced our shared culture and values p20.
12 Annual report and accounts 2009 Strategic review from the Chief executive 1.
Grow our four businesses individually in uncertain times, diversity is a strength.
in professional services, we are one of the worlds leading companies.
in Construction services, we have a market-leading business in the UK, a substantial business in the US and strong positions in Hong Kong and the Middle east, in addition to our international rail business.
in Support services, we have leading positions in the utilities, facilities management, highways management and rail renewal markets.
in infrastructure investments, we are the leader in UK ppp and its equivalent, p3, in the United States.
A complete range of support services are provided for Royal Mail including specialist project management, printing, manufacturing and installation and maintenance of fire and security systems.
to address such a broad range of markets effectively, we have grouped Infrastructure investments in the UK, where we are a leader in ppp, our operating companies into four business segments with growth we are pursuing opportunities that take advantage of our capabilities strategies tailored to their specific markets.
across the Group, applying our financing skills and strong balance sheet to competitive advantage.
in the US we aim to leverage our experience in military housing, the most developed ppp market, to What are we doing?
secure opportunities in social infrastructure.
We also continue to Professional services We are integrating parsons Brinckerhoff pB seek investment opportunities where we can improve asset quality into the Balfour Beatty Group and bringing our existing professional in markets we understand well.
services capabilities under the overall management of pB.
We will focus on expanding our activities in the UK and US, and the other Whats next?
international markets where pB has an established presence.
In the year ahead we aim to: Construction services We work for customers who want the highest levels of quality, safety and technical expertise, which gives us a Complete the integration of pB and capitalise on its strong particular edge in competing for high-profile or innovative projects.
market positions We are aiming in particular for high-value road, rail, education and Focus construction services on growing sectors in the power opportunities and strengthening our position in the aviation, infrastructure market ppp and US Government markets.
Support services We work in partnership with customers to devise Broaden the range of services provided in support services and pursue innovative solutions that will expand the scope of contracts and growth opportunities in the outsourcing market enhance contract renewal prospects.
in particular we are targeting the pursue investment opportunities in UK and US ppp, extending our growing demand for more complex, multi-service contracts especially proven expertise into new sectors.
those including total facilities management and business services outsourcing, where our experience and resources gives us advantage.
our business Annual report and accounts 2009 13 on the 6.2bn M25 contract we have integrated our financing, construction and long-term operations and maintenance capabilities.
See page 26 for more details.
Estimated value by sector the pB acquisition means we have four strong market-leading businesses.
30% 30% 42% 35% Construction infrastructure Construction services investments services infrastructure investments 25% 15% 18% 5% professional Support Support services services services professional services pre-acquisition post-acquisition 2.
Capitalise on our unique integrated capability We are differentiated by the breadth of our capability.
Around one-third of our business by value is in construction: the rest spans a range of related activities from finance to long-term facilities management.
together, our four businesses form a unique full-service infrastructure business which we are marketing and managing in an increasingly integrated way.
increasingly, infrastructure owners want to work with a trusted this enables us to increase our focus on seeking out and winning partner and reduce the number of suppliers they have to manage, projects that are particularly large, complex or novel, where we can in order to reduce both risk and cost.
our proven ability to integrate deploy a range of capabilities.
We do not expect to involve all four professional and support services, engineering, construction and businesses on every project, but we believe there will be increasing investment skills is generating a range of large-scale opportunities.
opportunities to deliver integrated solutions where two or more it is particularly relevant and attractive to the more sophisticated businesses intersect.
infrastructure owners with the largest, most complex and highest our ability to deliver truly integrated solutions depends on having a value projects.
our track record and expertise in this market are hard common culture, values and knowledge sharing across the organisation.
for competitors to match: they help us to attract the best people, the We have made progress, but are not there yet: this is a top strategic best customers, and the best relationships through the supply chain.
the acquisition of pB was a major step in achieving an integrated In the year ahead we aim to: business model, as the diagram above right shows, it means we have four strong, market-leading businesses across the range of Seek more opportunities for delivering integrated solutions  services.
Continue developing a common culture and values across all businesses.
14 Annual report and accounts 2009 Balfour Beatty now employs over 50,000 people in over 100 countries.
the growth of the Group in recent years has been dramatic.
As the scale and scope of our operations increases, we need to get better at knowledge sharing to meet our customers requirements.
Share knowledge and integrate our capabilities even better if collaboration is our future, we need to be world-class in sharing knowledge and integrating capabilities across the Group.
We have been rising to that challenge over the past few years, but our continued expansion means that the work must go on continuously.
over the past 10 years we have grown rapidly in generally favourable As we break down traditional silos, we are learning to become a plug and conditions.
We have reached a size where we have to be more unified play organisation that can put together elements from different parts in the way we work: not only because our customers want us to deliver of the Group to build bid and project teams combining relevant sector more integrated services but also because this is the key to working knowledge, local insight and technical expertise.
more efficiently in the market conditions we now face.
Greater collaboration between operating companies is also the key to more efficiency see opposite page through smarter procurement What are we doing?
individual businesses will remain accountable for their own financial performance, but we are introducing new processes and ways of Whats next?
thinking, to ensure that they also share meaningful accountability In the year ahead we aim to: for the performance of the organisation as a whole.
Continue enhancing knowledge sharing and personnel exchange We are stepping-up contact between operating companies, across all businesses transferring knowledge, people and capabilities, and building networks so that experience transfers across the organisation.
Use more advanced internal it solutions.
We are also pulling together specialists from different businesses to form sector-focused teams such as Balfour Beatty education.
our business Annual report and accounts 2009 15 4.
Leverage our scale and maximise efficiency Given economic conditions, the mantra of every infrastructure owner, whether government, regulated business or private sector, is going to be more for less.
pricing will be even more competitive.
productivity and efficiency will be the key issues in these conditions.
We must compete as effectively as possible by leveraging the scale of the business.
the integrated team at Heathrow's terminal 2 development is drawn from six operating companies, providing BAA with full Group capability and experience, including procurement opportunities from Gammon.
organisations that can deliver the lowest cost of ownership to their So we have begun standardising the terms on which we deal with our infrastructure customers will be the winners.
We are bringing operating companies together to share be a key element of that and we need our supply chain to keep costs best practice and consolidate suppliers to establish fewer, stronger down while delivering consistently high-quality service, safely and relationships.
the aim is to reduce total costs through a strategic, on schedule.
sustainable supply management culture in which we involve our supply chain in a process of continuous improvement.
the potential rewards are substantial and will help margin performance.
As well as tactical action to reduce costs, we are considering strategic Whats next?
programmes to introduce smarter back-office processes and see where we can potentially share services.
But the biggest and most In the year ahead we aim to: quickly addressable benefits will come from a more strategic Analyse spending in key areas approach to procurement.
introduce consistent purchasing processes across the Group We now have huge scale that we do not yet fully leverage.
our structure to date has given individual operating companies responsibility for their Consolidate suppliers own procurement, and the diversity of processes has made it difficult look for opportunities to share services across operating companies.
to analyse our overall spending.
We know we have too many suppliers, and that too few have relationships with more than one operating company.
16 Annual report and account 2009 Strategic review from the Chief executive 5.
Show leadership in our values and behaviour to be the leading provider of infrastructure services, we will need to act like a leader setting the industry standard for ethics, safety, sustainability, and in relationships with customers, the supply chain and our people.
leadership is not just about having the biggest market share.
infrastructure is about long-term investment and we need to demonstrate that we have a long-term perspective.
Having a common set of values that represents the Group offers clear business benefits and will support the challenges of future growth.
Integrity enables customers to choose us because they trust us in our business, success is built up over decades but can be undone very quickly by inappropriate business behaviour.
As our business Teamwork enables us to work effectively with our supply chain becomes larger, more diverse and ever more complex, we need to and respond with agility to customers needs reinforce a clear culture and values that enable everyone to manage Excellence is the most effective way to differentiate ourselves complexity and make decisions that consistently protect both our from competitors finances and our reputation.
Knowing what we all stand for will sustain us through the challenges of future growth as we enter new market Respect ensures that our colleagues, our stakeholders and sectors and integrate further companies.
it will also help customers to the world feel we treat them fairly.
see that the Balfour Beatty brand delivers consistent behaviour when we build teams from different parts of the Group.
At a time of rising global concern over corruption, we also recognise In the year ahead we aim to: that companies which are seen to have the highest ethical standards have a clear competitive advantage.
Continually educate individuals and businesses joining the organisation provide a long-term programme of support and guidance What are we doing?
Distribute and communicate our new Code of Conduct to everyone in We are working to ensure that all parts of the organisation recognise the Group to ensure we challenge ourselves and one another to bring and uphold a common culture based on shared values.
Following our values to life extensive consultation with customers, suppliers, joint venture partners and employees and building on existing best practice within the Group, Recognise our responsibilities, as a market-leading business, we identified these values as crucial: towards communities and the environment, and make progress on our ambitious targets.
our business Annual report and accounts 2009 17 Balfour Beatty is currently working at the Sellafield nuclear reprocessing facility and recently completed work at Whitelee, europes largest onshore wind farm.
Focus our strategic development where the money is going to be spent the pattern of opportunity for us is changing.
over half our work is for governments around the world and while they all recognise that cutting infrastructure investment will harm future productivity, most may have little choice once current economic stimulus programmes have played out.
But if government spending is scaled back, particularly in the UK, the breadth and diversity of our businesses gives us ample opportunity to replace it with work elsewhere.
our strategy will always focus on infrastructure.
But there are many We are confident that there will be ample investment that we can bid infrastructure markets, all over the world.
if investment is falling in for.
But in times of economic uncertainty, we cannot be entirely sure some of our markets, we need to be focusing on those where more where it will arise.
our priorities for the years ahead are listed below, money is going to be spent.
but we must be ready to adapt quickly to market conditions.
in the long term, demand for more and better infrastructure will continue to grow worldwide.
in mature economies this will be driven by Whats next?
the continuing need to drive productivity.
old infrastructure like power In the years ahead we aim to: transmission in the US and power generation in the UK needs to be renewed before it constrains development of the wider economy.
Continue to develop our US business in emerging economies, infrastructure is a key driver to economic leverage our presence in new markets, particularly Australia, Asia, growth as well as an important tool in managing demographic change.
the Middle east and South Africa in both emerging and mature economies, the drive for sustainability Develop our capabilities in utility markets such as water and power, will mean more investment in infrastructure, not less.
including nuclear, where investment is likely to be increased take advantage of expected recovery in industrial and commercial building markets.
18 Annual report and accounts 2009 Strategic review from the Chief executive Parsons Brinckerhoff gives us real weight in professional services and an enhanced presence in the US Scope and scale pB is one of the worlds leading professional services firms, with some 12,500 employees in a network of over 100 offices.
its services span the entire project lifecycle from management consultancy and planning to design and engineering, programme, project and construction management services, and operational, maintenance and support services once construction is complete.
it has managed some of the worlds largest and most complex infrastructure projects.
in october 2009 we acquired parsons Brinckerhoff pB for US$626m.
Enhancing access to key markets our ability to address the needs of key infrastructure customers in the UK pB gives us scale in professional services, helping us to worldwide has been enhanced, especially in light of the trend for attract the brightest and best people to work on the most exciting major infrastructure owners to seek an integrated approach from projects.
pB has one of the UKs leading power services businesses their partners and suppliers.
and substantially enhances our position in both generation and transmission, an increasingly critical issue for the UK.
A leader in its field the acquisition marks a further step change in the scale and depth pB is one of the worlds leading professional services firms.
over 125 of our US capabilities, particularly in civil infrastructure.
We have years it has become a global market leader in transportation, primarily made considerable progress in social infrastructure through earlier in the US, UK, Australia, Asia, the Middle east and South Africa.
acquisitions of Balfour Beatty Construction and Balfour Beatty Communities and we are strong in education, health, defence, military it is involved in some of the worlds largest and most important housing and prisons.
We want to achieve the same position in civil infrastructure projects.
in Roads and Bridges magazines 2009 Go-to infrastructure, where professional services provides a key channel to list survey, US Government officials ranked it top for roads and markets such as roads, rail, aviation, ports, power and energy and we highways, bridges, airports and mass transit.
it is rated fourth in can benefit from combining our international rail expertise, particularly global transportation by Engineering News Record and fourth among in electrification, with pBs strength in the US transportation market.
global power consultants by New Civil Engineer.
our professional services expertise should also introduce us to new opportunities for our infrastructure investments business.
elsewhere, pB helps us to diversify our customer base.
in Australia the fit with our capabilities is excellent.
Many of our key customers are we benefit from its strong presence in transportation, power, water looking for suppliers who can get involved earlier in the project lifecycle: and building.
pB has a substantial network of offices across Asia integrated services can take pressure off their own engineering and and the Middle east, providing the benefit of local relationships procurement organisations, cut the risks of supply chain conflicts and and broadening the Groups capabilities in both social and civil avoid the inefficiencies of managing too many supplier interfaces.
this complements the Groups strong downstream pB will also enhance our ability to respond to evolving procurement positions in Hong Kong, Singapore and the Middle east through methods such as design and build, alliances and ppp concessions.
pB also gives us access to key emerging now well established in the UK, these are increasingly prevalent in markets such as india, South Korea, thailand and South Africa, other countries, with local adaptations.
We expect them to grow rapidly where the professional services market provides an ideal in the US, where the role of the professional services provider is critical route into important future growth opportunities.
in the international ppp market, few companies can match the combination of our investment expertise, professional services skills and downstream delivery capabilities.
We have strengthened our position in the global infrastructure Balfour Beatty and Parsons market, particularly in transportation and power.
these are important Brinckerhoff share a commitment segments, as the infrastructure market is driven in mature economies to professionalism, integrity and by the need to replace ageing infrastructure and also by sustainability issues, particularly in renewable energy and rail networks.
George pierson, Chief executive officer, parsons Brinckerhoff our business Annual report and accounts 2009 19 Our new reporting structure reflects the way we think about our business.
We have four business segments We now have four market-leading businesses and a presence across the entire lifecycle of major infrastructure assets.
We are reporting the Groups business in four segments that correspond to the principal components of that lifecycle and reflect the way we think about and manage the Group: professional services, Construction services, Support services and infrastructure investments.
We are building a common framework of culture, values and processes so that our businesses can work together even more efficiently to provide integrated solutions for customers and deliver our vision of building world-class teams.
Professional services We are one of the worlds major companies in professional services for infrastructure.
We believe being able to offer professional services as part of a comprehensive service to customers will continue to improve our competitive position.
the cultural fit with our existing professional services businesses is excellent and the process of integration is going well.
Construction services We are differentiated by the breadth and depth of our expertise, together with local knowledge of the markets in which we operate and our close relationships with supply chains.
We are established as a leader in the delivery of UK civil and social infrastructure.
in recent years we have substantially enhanced our regional coverage in the UK through acquisitions.
pB is providing a range of services for each of the four major transit projects in new York City that will make internationally, we have substantially developed the scale and getting around the city faster and easier than ever.
capability of our US business through a series of acquisitions since 2007. over time, we aim to have a US business of similar scale and depth to our UK business.
in the attractive growth markets of South-east Asia and, in the longer term, in the Middle east we have a presence through strategic alliances with local partners a 50% interest in Gammon, Hong Kongs leading engineering and construction group, and 49% interests in Dutco Balfour Beatty and BK Gulf, both in the UAe.
20 Annual report and accounts 2009 our Code of Conduct reinforces our values, sets out the behaviour we expect from employees and explains how to consider: Whats the right thing to do?.
A common culture unites our businesses and our strategy Support services Shared culture and values our Support services business provides ongoing operation and the common thread running through most aspects of our strategy is maintenance of assets, after they have been constructed, together the need for shared culture and values.
this impacts particularly on with business services outsourcing.
it comprises our utilities, facilities our ability to integrate capabilities for customers, to share knowledge management, rail renewals and highways management activities.
and capabilities, to leverage our scale and maximise efficiencies and to show leadership in our values and behaviour.
this is a long-term business, where contracts range from five to 30 years, and is a significant potential area of growth for us.
the key to our ability to operate in a joined-up way that is consistent across the success is the quality of customer relationships and the ability to provide organisation matters particularly for major customers who work with continuous improvement for customers, to build partnerships that us on a multiplicity of contracts and projects and is essential if we are broaden the scope of contracts and extend them through renewals.
to deliver the benefits implicit in a long-term partnership relationship.
Infrastructure investments In summary our investments business is a leader in ppp markets, with We have created a unique capability to deliver across the 31 concessions in the UK, 18 in the US and one in Singapore.
We see major growth opportunities in the US.
We are a leader in We have four strong, market-leading businesses, which are mutually the military housing market, one of the most developed ppp markets reinforcing and we are diversified, through our market and geographic in the US so far, and are well positioned to undertake privatisation positions, which give us real resilience and provides access to more projects in other sectors.
our strategy includes applying the skills we have acquired in the UK i am very confident that we have the right skills and capabilities to take and US ppp markets to the wider non-ppp market, particularly where advantage of the necessary demand for infrastructure.
there are attractive opportunities to take management control and improve asset quality.
We are a direct investor in infrastructure assets, Ian Tyler including a 25.5% stake in the combined cycle Barking power Station in Chief executive london, a 95% share of Blackpool international Airport and 60% of exeter international Airport.
