Group overview In addition... the Group is continuing to focus on the action needed to drive the longer-term performance of the business which will enable it to recover more quickly from the downturn when the market begins to improve land and planning: sales and marketing: people and efficient production.
Group Chief Executives statement of social housing fell to 15.7% 2008: 20.4% as the Group reduced the number of new sites.
During the year houses represented 50.5% Overall performance of the business during the 2008: 54.9% of the Groups completions, excluding central London, and the Group financial year was dominated by the significant decline expects site replans to increase the proportion in customer demand for new housing.
In response, of houses available on its sites in future.
Properties sold to investors rose to 20.9% the Group reduced the scale of its business, cut costs, of total completions compared with 14.1% sold at acceptable rates and reduced debt.
Net private reservations per site per week were The first half of the year was particularly exceptional items fell from 550.2m to 34.2m.
up 10.5% compared with the 2008 financial challenging for the Group.
Conditions became Operating margins before exceptional items year, 6.0% down for the first half and 28.6% immensely difficult as a result of the were 1.5% 2008: 15.5%.
As a result of up in the second half.
A return to more normal deteriorating economic outlook and the inventory write-downs and other operating seasonal selling patterns emerged, with resulting contraction in the availability of exceptional items of 519.5m 2008: 255.0m, second half net private reservations 15.4% mortgage finance, and decline in customer the Groups loss from operations was 485.3m above the first half levels on a per site per confidence levels.
Sales were only achievable 2008: 295.2m profit.
In the second half of the year, the Group started to achieve Tight control of land spend and work in A lack of customer confidence, in particular some pricing stability, albeit at reduced levels.
progress and disposal of commercial the perception of falling house prices, led to This combined with acceptable sales rates at development assets helped to reduce a sharp decline in sales.
This contributed to a planned selling prices allowed the Group to net debt to 1,276.9m at 30 June 2009 lower forward order book of 464.3m 2008: achieve its cash targets.
697.6m at the year end, of which 286.4m 2008: 538.7m was contracted.
Declining volumes and prices have had a Total completions for the year decreased significant impact on the profitability of the to 13,202 2008: 18,588.
Group profit from operations before of completions also changed.
The proportion 04 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Group overview | Group Chief Executives statement Image left: Great West Quarter, Brentford, West London.
Image top right: The five bedroom Headcorn home at Highwood, Kenley.
Image bottom right: Squires Walk, Pulborough.
A range of products has been used effectively Stock of completed units continues to reduce.
The average selling price measured over all to address different market sectors and the We had 822 unreserved stock units at completions reduced by 14.1% to 157,200 barriers to house purchasers in the current 30 June 2009, 3.9 weeks supply at current 2008: 183,100.
Shared equity has been important in sales rates, down 55% from the holding of excluding the impact of mix changes, was addressing the first time buyer market where 1,821 units at 30 June 2008. approximately 22%.
During the second half the lack of higher loan to value mortgage of the year, the Group experienced improved finance has become a particularly difficult Cost reductions price stabilisation across the housebuilding issue.
11.4% of the Groups completions Cost reduction programmes are well business.
Prices are now approximately 27% during the year depended on shared equity.
established and embedded in the Groups lower than at their peak in the summer of HomeBuy Direct, the Government scheme, operations.
During the year the number of 2007.
Following the resetting of prices from is now in operation and the Group reserved divisional offices was reduced from 32 to 25, January 2009 and as a result of increased around 24 homes per week during the fourth whilst seeking to ensure that the core visitor numbers in the second half and reduced quarter of the financial year using this scheme.
infrastructure of the Group and its brands stock levels, the Group was able to reduce the have been preserved.
level of sales incentives being offered.
Part-exchange has been used to address the customer sector that has had difficulty finding The programme to reduce supply and build Driving business performance purchasers for its existing homes.
During the costs has continued to deliver substantial During the year the Group has focused on year 11.8% of completions 2008: 12.3% were benefits for the Group.
For example, since improving its operating efficiency.
It has supported by part-exchange incentives.
The June 2007, the Group has reduced the basic continued to prioritise driving sales, reducing Groups ability to sell second hand properties, housebuild costs of a standard house type costs and generating cash to reduce debt.
and thus manage its working capital, has by approximately 15%.
Material prices and These objectives were pursued whilst seeking enabled it to continue to use this mechanism subcontractor rates have been reduced to preserve the capability of the organisation as an effective sales support tool throughout significantly to reflect the current conditions to respond to any market recovery.
Whilst it is unlikely that these reductions will be permanent, other cost Maximising sales Part-exchange stock levels have also reduction programmes including technical The effectiveness of the Groups sales continued to fall.
At 30 June 2009, we had design changes and replans from apartments channels has continued to improve.
The 150 unreserved part-exchange units, down to houses are expected to yield longer-term Group has moved increasingly towards online 78% over the last twelve months 2008: 677. efficiency improvements.
and new technology to support sales.
-60% compared with y e June 2008 -60% compared with y e June 2008 1 25 26 52 1 25 26 52 Week No Week No Cost reductions For example, since June Administrative expenses before 1 exceptional items Savings have been generated 2007, the Group has through supplier and reduced the basic housebuild 2009 95.2 million employee cost reduction costs of a standard house 2008 132.0 million and structural changes in the type by approximately 15%.
costs base such as divisional Reduction 36.8 million closures, specification and Mark Clare design changes.
Group Chief Executive 1 Administrative expenses 115.2m 2008: 178.6m Managing cash Net debt cash Tight control of land millions The Group has continued spend and work in to focus on generating cash.
05 -276.9 progress... helped to reduce 06 -34.9 Having reduced excess net debt to 1,276.9m 07 1,301.2 stock in the first half, it 08 1,650.6 carefully controlled work in at 30 June 2009.
09 1,276.9 progress, closely matching Mark Clare build rates to sales rates.
Group Chief Executive Driving up quality NHBC Pride in the Job quality awards Would recommend to a friend Number % The Groups high quality homes have been recognised 71 07 88 08 73 independently by the recent 08 09 96 09 76 achievement of Four Star builder status in the Home Builders Federation 4th annual customer satisfaction survey.
06 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Visitors per site Res per site Group overview | Group Chief Executives statement Managing cash Building for Life standard for the development Government initiatives During the year the Group has continued to at Tachbrook Triangle in Pimlico, London, The Government has put in place a number focus on generating cash.
Having reduced by The Commission for Architecture and the of measures during the year to support the excess stock in the first half, it carefully Built Environment CABE.
The Building for housebuilding industry.
On the demand side, controlled work in progress, closely matching Life awards are the National Standard for HomeBuy Direct, after a slow start, is now new build starts to sales.
Site openings have well-designed homes and neighbourhoods.
making a significant difference to the Groups been tightly managed, in particular by The Group is continuing to improve the quality sales of shared equity products.
Whilst deferring investment on sites with significant of design in its developments and has Government support to the banking sector upfront infrastructure requirements.
The produced new internal design guidelines has been welcome, the Group has yet to see average number of sites during the 2009 which seek to promote examples of good a material improvement in the availability of financial year was 503 2008: 594.
In addition, practice across the business.
mortgage finance, in particular for the higher the progress made in disposing of certain loan to value sector.
Addressing this issue commercial development assets from the Product innovation remains a priority to drive recovery.
Wilson Bowden Developments portfolio Customer demand, economics and regulation generated cash for the Group.
continue to influence the nature of the Groups On the supply side, the Governments products.
Houses made up 50.5% of Group commitment of 400m of funding, announced Land spend during the year was largely completions, excluding central London in the 2009 Budget, and the additional restricted to fulfilment of pre-existing 2008: 54.9%.
As the Group replans sites, resources that have since been made contractual commitments which could not this proportion will rise further as apartments available to the Kickstart programme be cancelled or deferred, although there was are replaced by new house types.
were a welcome development for the limited expenditure where the Group could industry and the Group.
Final funding source attractively priced opportunities on Design innovation will be particularly important for the Group under the scheme will be deferred terms.
Land spend totalled 263.7m, in meeting environmental challenges of the determined later in the year.
a significant reduction on the spend of future at the most economical cost.
Groups zero carbon house at the Building Health and Safety Research Establishment BRE continues to The Group considers health and safety to Although the Groups net debt has been be tested and management are pleased with be of paramount importance.
A Health and reduced significantly during the year, future its performance to date.
Planning permission Safety Committee, including members of the cash flows remain vulnerable given continued has been granted for the flagship zero Board, has been formed in order to provide market uncertainty.
Nevertheless, the Group carbon development at Hanham Hall and further focus to the Groups strategy for has operated within its financial covenants it is expected that work will start on site later improvement and to review overall Group throughout the last twelve months and, as this year.
During the financial year the explained in the basis of preparation on Groups commitment to health and safety page 58, expects to continue to do so in Building on experience, the Group is currently resulted in an improvement to its reportable the absence of a further downturn.
developing a range of houses designed to Injury Incidence Rate to 522 per 100,000 meet the requirements of various aspects of persons employed, a 20.4% decrease on Driving up quality the Code for Sustainable Homes.
The Group the prior financial year.
The Group is pleased The Group has continued to focus on the believes that this work will provide both cost to have achieved its objective to reduce the quality of the products it builds and on and reputational advantages for its products.
Injury Incidence Rate below 560 per 100,000 customer support during and after the sales by 2010 one year ahead of target.
The Group recently became, for Commercial developments the first time in its history, a Four Star builder Good progress has been made in the disposal Planning for recovery in the Home Builders Federation 4th annual of commercial developments assets from the In addition to the measures to improve the customer satisfaction survey.
In addition, the Wilson Bowden Developments portfolio, with short-term performance of the organisation, Group has achieved 76 2008: 73 National total cash proceeds of 181.1m received in the Group is continuing to focus on the action House-Building Council Pride in the Job the financial year ended 30 June 2009. needed to drive the longer-term performance of quality awards.
Investments and development opportunities, the business which will enable it to recover more with a net asset value of 55.9m as at 30 June quickly from the downturn when the market The Group continues to make progress to 2009, have been retained and are being begins to improve land and planning: sales improve the design of its products, internally, managed by a dedicated team with a view and marketing: people: and efficient production.
externally and for the development as a to realising value when the market improves.
The Group has been awarded its This team will also seek opportunities to create first ever Building for Life award for the value from the wider Group portfolio including development at City Point in Brighton and where there are mixed-use sites.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 07 Group overview | Group Chief Executives statement Forward sales at 30 June 2009 were 464.3m 2008: 697.6m representing 3,328 plots 2008: 4,586 plots.
As at 13 September 2009 forward sales had increased to 733.4m.
Total completions for the 2010 financial year are currently expected to be approximately 12,000, with a similar mix between social and private completions, but consistent with the replanning and build programme undertaken since the second half of the 2009 financial year, a shift in product mix towards a higher proportion of houses.
The Group anticipates this shift will slightly improve average selling prices for the period.
Nevertheless, the encouraging signs being experienced are subject to continued Image above: The Longfellow Exclusive four bedroom executive detached home with two en suites and a uncertainty in the wider economic climate.
Ideally placed on the edge of the historic town of Usk.
There is unlikely to be a sustained recovery in the UK housing market until mortgage finance is more readily available particularly in the higher loan to value segment and consumer confidence is more fully restored.
Land and planning land buying, will be required and the Groups If build activity scales back up in order to successful graduate and apprenticeship Proposed Placing and Rights Issue satisfy increased demand, it will be necessary programmes will need to be relaunched.
The Board is today announcing a fully to identify and secure investment opportunities underwritten Placing and Rights Issue to raise in the land market, including strategic land, on Efficient production gross proceeds of approximately 720m, appropriate terms to replenish the land bank to The competition for suppliers and contractors together with amended financing arrangements meet more normalised build levels.
The Group is expected to intensify when activity levels which will come into effect upon successful intends to exploit fully its planning capabilities increase and shortages of labour, appropriate completion of the Placing and Rights Issue.
in order to extract maximum value from both skills and materials, as well as cost pressures, existing and newly acquired sites.
Whilst the Groups strong The Firm Placing and Rights Issue will: procurement function and existing national substantially strengthen the Groups balance Sales and marketing procurement agreements with major suppliers sheet and reduce its financial indebtedness: The sales function is expected to benefit will provide a firm base, it is committed to allow the Group to develop its existing in an improving market from the efficiencies strengthening these relationships to ensure sites: and achieved during the downturn.
A combination the support it needs as the market recovers.
improve the Groups competitive positioning of a step up in training support and deployment and enable it to take advantage of land of new technology on site will enable the Current outlook purchasing opportunities as and when Group to improve conversion rates.
In addition, The second half of the 2009 financial year has they arise in a period of market recovery.
a shift in marketing focus away from deal-led seen a degree of stability return to the UK advertising should support an improvement housing market.
The Company was able to The amended financing arrangements in sales performance.
maintain price levels after significant falls in will enable the Group to take advantage of the first half year, whilst achieving improved opportunities that may arise in a recovering People reservation rates per outlet.
market, as well as to provide an appropriate The Group has continued to develop and alternative framework, should a further invest in its people and their expertise, despite This trend has continued since the start of the downturn arise.
the downturn, in order to ensure appropriate new financial year with reservation rates in the and adequate resources are available to meet first eleven weeks both above budget and Mark Clare, Group Chief Executive future demand.
Increased professional and those in the same period of the previous year.
23 September 2009 skilled resources, including in areas such as Overall reservation prices are running ahead of internal expectations.
08 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
