Chief Executive Review Strategic Review It remains our overriding objective to maintain and consolidate our position as the UK s largest quoted specialist residential property owner.
On a divisional level, our position is as follows: Core portfolio.
We will seek to build on our existing position in the ownership and management of properties subject to regulated tenancies.
The supply of such tenancies is finite and our objective is to replenish our stock levels through individual, portfolio and corporate acquisitions to the extent they can be sourced at appropriate prices and to look at opportunities to grow market share.
We hold a market leading position in home reversions and intend to retain this.
A key focus to support future acquisitions will be funding for which we will investigate alternatives such as non-recourse asset specific debt and or third party equity investment.
Fund management and residential investments.
The G:res fund launched by the Group in 2007 is the largest of its type in the UK and we also have experience in working in residential joint ventures such as our association with Genesis Housing Association.
We believe this represents a significant potential growth area for Grainger and offers the opportunity to retain exposure to a variety of residential asset classes with a reduced capital and risk exposure to direct ownership of such properties and the opportunity to generate stable income through fees obtained from fund and asset management services as well as performance based distributions.
This division represents a very different risk reward balance from that we obtain from our core and retirement solutions portfolios, we intend to ensure that our exposure remains controlled.
It is our intention that this division will not account for greater than 10% of the Group s assets but, at this level and given the greater risks involved, we aim for it to contribute at least 15% of Group profit.
We will continue to focus on residential-led schemes, in joint ventures where appropriate.
We believe that we have reached critical mass in the size of our German residential portfolio.
It is our intention to introduce third party equity into the structure and build on our management platform in Germany to create sources of fee income.
However, current pricing levels are not attractive and we will only move to a co-investment structure when we believe that we can obtain adequate value.
Grainger intends to use its experience of the residential market allied to our existing portfolio to investigate and invest in other sectors of the residential universe, either through direct ownership or in co-investment vehicles and joint ventures.
Areas currently under consideration range from intermediate housing and shared equity to retirement villages and student accommodation.
Market Review The disruption to the global financial markets, which began in the summer of 2007, and the consequential global recession, particularly in the UK, has led to marked declines in residential housing prices and significant restrictions in the availability of mortgage financing in the UK.
This continues to have a negative impact on the largely credit-dependent UK residential property market.
However, the latter part of our financial year has shown signs of stability returning to the housing market.
The rate of house price fall has slowed considerably and most indicators show a slight increase in prices over the summer months.
The improvement in the market is reflected by the results of our year end valuation.
Vacant possession values of our UK residential properties fell by 4.1% over the year, a significantly better result than was anticipated at the beginning of the year.
The strengthening of the UK residential investment market was also shown by a narrowing of the discount applied to vacant possession values to obtain the market value of our properties.
At 30 September 2008 our regulated properties were valued at 71.3% of vacant possession value and this had increased to 72.5% at 30 September 2009.
8 Chief Executive Review continued Nevertheless, we believe the market remains fragile and our near term outlook is suitably cautious.
In the longer term, however, we see grounds for optimism.
There remains a significant shortfall between supply and demand.
The Government has indicated that some three million new homes will be required by 2020 but we believe new house build levels will be well below 100,000 for 2009.
Inevitably such an imbalance will serve to produce upward pressure on prices over the longer term.
We are also seeing signs of a political imperative to make changes to the structure of the UK housing sector most notably the Homes and Communities Agency HCA work on the Private Rented Sector Initiative PRSI.
With suitable fiscal incentives and planning policies and practices to encourage, for example, build to let schemes, the PRSI would not only help alleviate the supply problem but would also present Grainger, as the UK s largest listed residential owner, with significant business opportunities.
Our recent focus has been on cash conservation particularly through maximising sales revenue and reducing property spend.
Following completion of the Rights Issue we will have positioned our business to ensure that we are able to take advantage of opportunities if the market continues to stabilise and recover.
Risk Review The major risks to Grainger s business are macroeconomic Housing Market - further severe and rapid downturn in UK house prices - stagnation in the market including through lack of mortgage finance and or finance to acquire properties Financing - significant increases in borrowing costs - lack of or reduction in finance available to Grainger Housing market Our unique UK residential portfolio has a number of defensive features in the face of a market slow-down including: - it has been assembled over a significant period of time and, even after recent falls in value, its current market value exceeds cost by 320m.
- it is a reversionary portfolio and the value to be obtained by selling on vacancy exceeds the present tenanted market value by 570m the reversionary surplus.
- it is geographically diverse although 54% is in London and the South East and not overly exposed to cluster risk.
- the low average value average vacant possession value at 30 September 2009 is 189,000 2008: 190,000 and un-modernised nature of our regulated properties support demand.
- as demonstrated by the level of sales we have achieved in the last two difficult trading years, our portfolio is liquid.
As well as normal sales on vacancy we are also able to sell many of our properties with a tenant in place investment sales.
Average vacant possession value 09, 189,000 08, 190,000 07, 205,000 06, 188,000 9 Chief Executive Review continued Financing We seek to mitigate financing risks by: - Our hedging policy.
At 30 September 2009, 93% of Group debt was hedged through being fixed or subject to caps or swaps.
Debt subject to caps or which is floating can benefit from lower LIBOR rates.
At 30 September 2009 this stood at 171m 2008: 370m and, assuming a successful outcome to the Rights Issue, this will increase to 304.5m.
We have no debt repayments uncovered by 30 September 2009 headroom until December 2012.
The business has generated 170m of cash from operating activities, excluding sales of investment property, compared to net interest paid of 76m.
- monitoring of covenant compliance to ensure that any pre-emptive action such as asset sales is taken to prevent any breaches occurring.
Details of our covenants are given in the financial review.
Andrew R. Cunningham Chief Executive 5 November 2009 10
