3i Group plc Report and accounts 2009 Overview Chief Executives statement Having spent over 20 years at 3i, it is a great honour to have been While the operating environment appointed Chief Executive.
3i is one of the leading global private equity businesses with great brand strength, established business remains very challenging I have great franchises, a strong network, and excellent people.
My immediate confidence in 3is intrinsic strengths.
priority is to ensure 3i performs to its potential through the current downturn and is well placed to use its strong market position to take advantage of the opportunities that will be available as the global economy starts to recover.
Market environment This has been a very difficult year.
The sub-prime mortgage crisis spread during the year to a broader liquidity crisis affecting all financial institutions.
Significant capital raising by banks during summer 2008 failed to stop the downward momentum, leading to the failure of Lehman Brothers and government rescues of other financial institutions in most developed economies.
Multiple interventions and stimulus packages have failed to stop most western countries experiencing their sharpest downturn in economic activity since the 1930s.
India and China, while continuing to grow, have done so at much slower rates than in recent years.
This environment has resulted in significant asset price deflation, with values of financial assets falling particularly sharply.
3i has been affected in three ways through the fall in asset values, by the lack of liquidity available from the stressed banking sector, and by the fall in underlying economic demand for goods and services.
Activity in the private equity industry has fallen to the lowest level since 1997 with 87 billion invested in Europe during 2008 this is a fall of 59% on the previous year.
Fund raising has also slowed down and this will have a significant impact through the next few years with 2009 expected to be the lowest year for fund raising for a decade.
Performance Total return of 53.0 % 2008: 18.6% was mainly the result of valuation falls as a result of valuing assets using multiples derived from quoted markets, portfolio performance and realised losses on the sale of non-core assets and the impact of leverage.
During the year, we have been highly selective in the investments we have made, investing 968 million and adding 10 new companies to the portfolio.
This level of investment is under half that of the previous year.
Realisations have also fallen, but at 1.3 billion compared with 1.7 billion in 2008, this demonstrates that, even in the toughest economic conditions, there is considerable liquidity in the 3i portfolio.
The number of companies in the portfolio has continued to fall to 376 from 487 last year, as we continue to increase our investment focus to a smaller number of larger investments.
Assets on the Group balance sheet fell from 6,016 million last year to 4,050 million at 31 March 2009.
The value of assets that 3i manages on behalf of third parties increased from 3,776 million to 3,969 million, resulting in total assets under management at the year end of 8,019 million 2008: 9,792 million.
Michael Queen Chief Executive 8 May 2009 10 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2009 Overview 0112 Business review 1332 Case studies 3336 Financial review 3746 Risk 4752 Corporate responsibility 5364 Governance 6590 Financial statements 91120 Portfolio and additional information 121144 Each of our core business lines was impacted by valuation falls and, 3i has experienced a period of expansion both internationally and by as a result, each produced negative returns in the year.
Despite this business line over the past five years.
overall performance, there were encouraging aspects.
We achieved an During the year, we have taken the opportunity to review our overall uplift of 5% on opening values on assets that we sold, despite cost base and have identified cost savings of circa 15% through selling into declining markets.
Income from external funds grew in the re-engineering certain processes, outsourcing and consolidating year from 60 million to 75 million as we saw the benefit of a full parts of our office network.
Over the next year, we will continue years fee income from the 3i India Infrastructure Fund.
We also saw a this process and, in order to do this and meet the changing market small net positive contribution to returns from earnings in the underlying environment, I have made a number of changes to the senior team.
This reflects the fact that while many companies are seeing In an investment business, particularly when in a bull market, experience falls in turnover and profits, others are still seeing the opportunity to is often an undervalued asset.
I am very fortunate that on the grow market share or take advantage of growth in specific subsectors.
Management Committee, Jonathan Russell, Guy Zarzavatdjian, Paul Waller, Ian Nolan and I have all worked together for over 20 years.
Strategy and short-term priorities A common understanding of what makes a good investment and experience of previous downturns is key to future prospects.
Since becoming Chief Executive, my main priorities have been to ensure 3i is financially robust and operationally agile to both withstand Ian Nolan was appointed Managing Partner, Investments, in what is a the downturn and be ready to take advantage of investment new role for 3i Chief Investment Officer.
Ian will be responsible for opportunities when the economy recovers.
ensuring consistent quality and rigour in all investment decisions and that a consistent approach is taken across business lines.
Our core strategy, as outlined on page 8, remains valid, though timing and implementation will naturally alter to take account Since the year end, Chris Rowlands has retired.
Chris made a huge of economic conditions and reshaped priorities.
contribution to 3i, both in establishing our Growth Capital business and, as the Head of our Asia business, building our business in Asia.
We remain committed to maintaining our international network, Everyone at 3i thanks him and wishes him every success in the next investing in Europe, Asia and North America as this remains an phase of his life.
important strength of our business model.
Denise Collis, who was responsible for Human Resources, has left the Looking forward, we will concentrate on Buyouts, Growth Capital Company since the year end.
I would like to thank her for her support and Infrastructure as the three business lines where we have clearly over the past few years.
Kevin Dunn has taken over responsibility differentiated products and, as a result, can build a sustainable for Human Resources in addition to his existing responsibilities.
Robert Stefanowski has joined the Company from GE Capital and Our decision to stop investing in new venture capital assets was based is now responsible for North America and Asia.
Bob brings great on inconsistent returns and an inability to scale this type of investing.
experience and rigour to this role.
Similarly, the accelerated sale of our remaining SMI assets reflects the Following my appointment as Chief Executive, Cressida Hogg has need to focus on those business lines where we can achieve improved taken over my previous position as Managing Partner, Infrastructure.
Cressida has been largely responsible for building this business since We have also announced the decision to acquire the assets and business it was started four years ago.
of 3i Quoted Private Equity plc and, subsequent to the year end, As noted in the Chairmans statement, Julia Wilson was appointed following a board recommendation, shareholders of that company Finance Director during the year.
She is currently on maternity leave have voted in favour of this proposal.
The original idea behind 3i QPE and her operational responsibilities are being covered by a combination was sound, ie that 3i could bring private equity skills to bear on listed of Ian Nolan and Stephen Halliwell Chief Financial Officer of 3is companies.
Unfortunately, the listed vehicle through which this was Infrastructure business line.
delivered was trading at a significant discount to net assets, resulting in 3i shareholders suffering a double discount to the underlying value of These changes enable 3i to move forward in a challenging environment.
This activity has now been absorbed within our Growth Capital A combination of experience, external challenge and a leaner business, although it is unlikely much new investment in listed stocks organisational structure will enable faster, more consistent decision will take place in the near future.
making to both deal with current conditions and prepare for the future.
Since the mid-1990s, 3i has managed external capital alongside Given the economic challenge and more difficult investment its own balance sheet capital.
Currently, 51% of investment assets are environment, I would like to thank all 3i staff for the huge on balance sheet and 49% are managed or advised.
Over the next few commitment shown during the year.
Our most recent staff survey years, we intend to manage a higher proportion of capital on behalf highlights a high level of engagement.
of third parties such that, over time, the proportion held on balance sheet will fall to between 25% and 33%.
I do not envisage this resulting in a fall in assets on balance sheet, but the majority of future increases in assets will not require additional shareholder capital.
This will give 3i significant advantages in broadening the potential pool of capital available for investment.
It will also provide shareholders with less volatile returns as a higher proportion of returns will be in the form of asset management and performance fees.
11 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2009 Overview Chief Executives statement Balance sheet management Outlook Periods such as these are a significant test of any business strategy, Looking forward, we face an uncertain macroeconomic landscape.
risk management and control environment.
I am encouraged that We are approaching this uncertainty by adopting a conservative the investment discipline within our business lines has held up well financing strategy but preparing 3i to take advantage of the upturn.
and our active portfolio management is helping many businesses The steps that have already been taken to boost balance sheet strength to ensure they will survive and prosper.
We could not, however, and liquidity through the rights issue and sales of non-core assets escape the impact of significant falls in portfolio values on the overall mean 3i is well funded.
As a consequence, gearing has risen to 103%.
Looking forward, it is clear that financial risk needs to be reduced Our three core businesses are also well placed to see excellent and borrowing should fall significantly over the next few years.
investment opportunities once it becomes clear the global economy is recovering.
Our through-the-cycle gearing target of 30% to 40% has been significantly exceeded as asset values fell sharply in the second half of Equity for private companies will be in short supply and our Growth the year.
Given that market movements are outside of our control, Capital business with its international reach is one of the few we will also target an absolute level of net debt.
Our current objective significant investors that can fill this gap.
is to reduce net debt from 1.9 billion to about 1.0 billion over the Many countries are now looking to the private sector to finance next 12 to 15 months.
infrastructure investment, which is seen as a means of revitalising The rights issue announced today, will make a significant impact on developed economies.
We are well placed in Europe, North America achieving this objective.
Adjusting the balance sheet at 31 March and India to provide this capital.
2009 for the impact of this capital, together with the impact of the We can also be confident that as the recovery becomes established, 3i Quoted Private Equity plc transaction, will result in pro forma companies will re-define what are core and non-core activities.
gearing of 42% and net debt of 1.1 billion.
From previous cycles, we can see that this stimulates mergers and Assets denominated in currencies other than sterling have historically acquisitions activity, providing opportunities for the Buyouts business.
been hedged using a combination of currency borrowings and shortWhile the operating environment remains very challenging, I have term derivative contracts.
In recent years, the use of short-term great confidence in 3is intrinsic strengths which will help it weather contracts increased.
During the year, the cost of rolling over these the difficult times while remaining alert to seize the opportunities that contracts increased to such an extent that the Board decided to rely undoubtedly lie ahead.
solely on currency borrowings as the hedging strategy.
In the short term, 3i is therefore only partially hedged through the use of matching borrowings and will be exposed to potential foreign exchange fluctuations.
In order to reduce this exposure, the Board will review the introduction of a more comprehensive hedging strategy as a priority.
