8 Directors Report: Business Review Chief Executives statement Very good momentum in 2009 in implementing our business plan and increased confidence in the Groups growth prospects.
Frank Chapman Chief Executive Although challenging market conditions had Progress in 2009 on a steep trajectory to achieve more than an impact on gas demand during the year, the The global business environment in 2009 400 000 boed net to BG Group by 2020.
The Santos Basin pre-salt is one of the worlds Group continued to demonstrate very good proved to be one of the most challenging momentum in implementing its business for many years.
The slowing of growth in most important new hydrocarbon provinces.
BG Group is in a strong position as the plan.
There was excellent progress with the energy demand and consequent fall in gas pre-salt developments come to fruition, Groups projects, particularly in Australia, prices were reected in a reduction in with net reserves and resources of more BG Groups earnings and lower growth in Brazil and the USA, and total reserves and than 3 billion boe and a close relationship resources grew by 10% to 14.5 billion barrels production volumes.
While the Group expects with our partner Petrobras.
Taken together, these weak demand effects to continue through 2010, we believe the outlook will be more developments underpin our confidence in During 2009, we also made excellent progress the Groups growth prospects.
For further details of our view of towards sanction this year of our Queensland the market context, see page 15.
Curtis LNG project in Australia.
This is a In Exploration and Production E&P, significant and material new liquefaction BG Group has assembled a portfolio of assets total operating profit of 2 087 million venture, controlled and operated by BG Group, which we are confident can sustain upstream 2008 3 512 million was 41% lower close to the worlds largest LNG markets on year-on-year, reecting reductions in volume growth out to 2020 at the upper end the Asia-Pacic rim and underpinned by up of our 6-8% compound annual growth rate international benchmark oil and gas prices, to 8.3 mtpa of LNG agreements.
The plant is target, resulting in upstream production of partially offset by the effect of a stronger planned to come onstream in 2014, with net US Dollar.
E&P volumes increased by 4% to 1.2-1.6 million barrels oil equivalent per day plateau production from our QGC business boed by the end of the decade.
In LNG, we 234.9 million boe, up from 226.7 million boe low-cost coal seam gas resources ultimately expect to reach 20 million tonnes per annum in 2008.
However, production growth during reaching 225 000 boed.
mtpa of contracted volumes by 2015 and to the year was below expectations, principally deliver profits of $1.8-2.0 billion per annum due to weakness in demand in a number of The entry into and subsequent development through to 2012.
This marks our confidence the Groups key markets and the delay to the of our new alliance with EXCO Resources, Inc. that LNG performance will be sustained for start-up of the Hasdrubal project in Tunisia.
EXCO, a US shale gas producer, was the foreseeable future.
Further detail is set out in the Operating another key highlight of 2009.
We now expect Review on pages 16 to 23. our US shale gas interests to contribute net Our confidence in delivering growth that production of 100 000 boed by around 2015. is a multiple of the industry average is An effective commodity price risk underpinned by a strengthened and management programme combined The very positive developments in Australia, rebalanced portfolio, summarised in the Brazil and the USA contributed to further with favourable exchange rate movements Operating Review on pages 16 to 23. ensured that operating performance in growth in BG Groups total reserves and Liqueed Natural Gas LNG was sustained resources, up by around 1.4 billion boe to Our key projects in Australia, Brazil and reach a total of 14.5 billion boe.
LNG total operating profit the USA are being signicantly and rapidly of 1 551 million 2008 1 585 million was fide-risked.
Moreover, our successful appraisal This represents an increase of 10% over last broadly in line with 2008 despite sharply and commercialisation programme in 2009, year, yielding a reserves and resources to lower commodity prices during the period taken together with targeted acquisitions at production life of around 62 years based on under review.
the recent low point in the economic cycle, 2009 production.
Discovered resources are up means that BG Group already owns, today, by 32% to 4.9 billion boe.
The Groups proved Total operating profit for BG Groups the reserves and resources needed to meet reserves replacement ratio for 2009 was 160%, Transmission and Distribution T&D our growth ambitions.
As a result, I believe with a three-year replacement ratio of 166%, businesses increased by 266 million to we are well-placed to extend our track record which is an upper-quartile performance.
426 million 2008 160 million, principally of growth and shareholder value creation reecting the recovery of gas costs incurred Since 2005, BG Group has doubled its total deep into the future.
in earlier periods at the Groups Brazilian reserves and resources, equating to a gas distribution business, Comgs.
Power However, importantly, our growth story is not compound growth rate of some 20% per Generation Power total operating profit just about tomorrow.
The strong increase in the Groups increased by 40 million in the full year to projects in the Santos Basin pre-salt, offshore total reserves and resources provides a rm 158 million 2008 118 million.
Brazil, is already underway today and will foundation for our plans to achieve upstream ramp up strongly in the first half of the decade production of 1.2-1.6 million boed by 2020.
For a reconciliation between Business Performance and Total Results, see note 2, page 77.
BG Group net production is pre-CNOOC farm-out 5%.
com Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Corporate Governance Statements Information 9 Sustainability and safety I would also stress that my colleagues and Group Executive Committee I fully appreciate the human reality behind There were a number of changes to the BG Groups activities are guided by our Business Principles, which define our the statistics.
Each of us at BG Group, from Group Executive Committee in 2009.
In July, the most junior employee to the most senior commitment to responsible conduct and Sami Iskander was appointed as Executive Vice director, shares a common duty to do all we can President & Managing Director, Africa, Middle which set out our responsibilities to our to prevent these incidents in our work sites.
Mark Carne left the Group in people, to the societies within which we November 2009 and Ashley Almanza assumed work and to the environment.
Five years ago, BG Group introduced the the interim role of Executive Vice President Step Up in Safety programme to embed an The BG Group Business Principles reect a core & Managing Director, Europe and Central Asia understanding of, and adherence to, safe belief that it is in our shareholders long-term in addition to his duties as Chief Financial behaviour rules amongst all employees interests for the Group to develop stakeholder officer.
Sir John Grant joined us in September in all of our workplaces worldwide.
We relationships that are enduring, based on the 2009 as Executive Vice President, Policy and supplemented this two years later with the pursuit of mutually-supportive objectives and Corporate Affairs, replacing Charles Bland who Step Up in Asset Integrity initiative, focused that aim to conform to the highest standards retired from BG Group.
I would like to thank on heightening process safety awareness in of integrity and corporate behaviour.
An Mark and Charles for their contribution to our facilities.
overview of our approach to our Business the Group.
Principles is also set out on pages 34 to 37.
In March 2009, the Groups focus on Conclusion preventing harm to our people evolved to Our achievements against those principles are BG Group is entering a new decade of high form the Step Forward for Safety programme.
reected in our inclusion in the FTSE4Good growth.
Our confidence in delivering that This programme emphasises the need for and Dow Jones Sustainability Indices.
The growth ows from our strengthened and every individual to make full use of the Group is also one of the five leading energy rebalanced portfolio, with significant progress Groups wide range of safety tools and companies on the Goldman Sachs GS Sustain in our key projects in Australia, Brazil and systems as part of a collective endeavour to Energy focus list.
Further details can be found the USA during 2009.
Our portfolio already reduce the risk of an incident taking place.
in the BG Group Sustainability Report at contains a reserves and resources base Despite these efforts, it is with great regret sufficient to underpin our growth ambitions, www.
com sustainability that I report the death of two contractors giving BG Group the potential to extend our BG Groups intense focus on safety is central during 2009.
In April 2009, a contractor died track record of growth and shareholder value to our commitment to sustainability and is while carrying out electrical work on a drilling creation long into the future.
All of this is one of our Key Performance Indicators, set rig offshore India, and in December 2009, a testament to the commitment, energy and out on pages 4 to 5.
We expect all of our contractor died at our Karachaganak joint vision of the people of BG Group, and I would people, myself included, to take personal venture operation in Kazakhstan.
like to thank them for their achievements accountability for ensuring not only their in 2009.
These fatalities underline the importance own safety but also the safety of others.
In of what will be a continued key focus for all of our operations, we are guided by our BG Group in 2010 and beyond the safety goal of zero injuries and by our belief that performance of our contractors.
Contractors all incidents are preventable.
signicantly outnumber BG Group employees in our work sites: they also account for 87% Performance against the Groups key safety of recordable incidents in 2009 and all of measure, Total Recordable Case Frequency the fatalities recorded across our operations TRCF, demonstrated a positive trend in 2009, over the last nine years.
This year we are falling to 1.59 recordable cases per million work Frank Chapman introducing new measures to strengthen hours compared with 1.74 in 2008.
This reects Chief Executive internal accountabilities for the safety of continuing improvements to safety across the contractors at our facilities.
We are also Group, particularly at QGC in Australia, where developing new high-visibility pictograms safety performance at the time of acquisition to be displayed widely across our work sites in October 2008 was signicantly inferior to to communicate key safety rules right at the the Group average but which showed steady point of risk.
However, while the falling trend is to be welcomed, the The outcomes from all of these measures overall TRCF measure including QGC safety will be assessed against a new TRCF target performance for the first time did not meet of 1.2 recordable cases per million hours the Groups target of 1.35. worked for 2010.
Our strategy To understand our strategy, how progress is measured and how we manage our risks, please refer to the following sections: Strategy Performance Key strategic Outlook Principal risks at a glance developments and uncertainties An overview Key Performance How our strategy Our view of the How we manage Indicators pages progressed in 2009 market context and our principal risks of our strategy 4 to 5 pages 12 to 14 pages 30 to 33 BG Groups growth page 10 prospects page 15 Delivering The Boards shareholder approach to value page 11 governance and strategy page 42 BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
