4 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 Chief Executives Statement I am delighted to have been appointed to the Our priority is to continue to role of Chief Executive of Alliance Trust.
I am proud to have been given the opportunity to be improve investment the ninth Chief Executive of the Company, and the seventh person who has combined the role performance in order to deliver with overall responsibility for management of the Companys investment portfolio.
increased shareholder value Performance Summary Our priority is to continue to improve investment performance in order to deliver increased shareholder value.
The Companys relative performance compares favourably to that of global equity markets over the past 12 months, a period when the global economic and stock market environment was among the worst in Alliance Trusts long history.
In local currency terms, many equity markets were down 30% to 40%.
The Companys share price fell by 20.7% and the discount to net asset value, whilst volatile along with market conditions, ended the year at 15.4%, broadly in line with the previous year end.
Our Total Shareholder Return ranked 11th in our peer group of 42 Global Growth and Global Growth and Income Investment Trusts over the year.
This improved position compares to a ranking of 25th out of 38 one year ago.
Our long term investment philosophy and the depth of experience of our investment team have helped to shield the Companys portfolio from the extremes of equity market turbulence.
The enhancements made to our investment process over the past 18 months and the greater flexibility we deployed in our asset allocation decision-making have been immediately put to the test.
The reach of the financial crisis and the pace at which it has moved are unprecedented.
All of the asset classes in which we invest have faced very tough trading conditions.
Economic conditions deteriorated throughout the year and market volatility increased as the magnitude of the repercussions of the financial crisis became apparent.
In both the US and the UK, financial companies succumbed to the extreme pressures they were suffering.
Rescue packages in the banking and US insurance Katherine Garrett-Cox Chief Executive sectors were hurriedly arranged in a bid to Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 | 5 restore stability and confidence to global continued to grow, but the fall in interest rates financial markets.
Clients of Alliance Trust Savings held over 20% of the share capital of In our Interim Report, we indicated that central Alliance Trust at the year end.
banks around the globe were undertaking a concerted effort to ease the liquidity crisis in Alliance Trust Asset Management launched its money markets.
By late 2008, however, the first funds, the Alliance Trust UK Equity Income credit markets remained frozen and economic Fund and the Alliance Trust North American news was becoming increasingly grim.
By that Equity Fund, in February 2009.
We proceeded stage we had already progressively reduced our with the launch at that time in full recognition equity exposure and as a result increased our of the turmoil in the financial markets.
Our net cash peaked at over expect Alliance Trust Asset Management to 21% of net assets in the autumn, the highest deliver meaningful returns for shareholders cash position held by the Trust in many years, over the medium to long term.
The funds before being reduced to over 11% of net assets are being managed consistently with the by the year end.
Trusts own assets in each region and we are encouraged by the positive market response Within our quoted equity portfolio, we achieved to our initial proposition.
above benchmark index returns in UK Large Cap, UK Mid Cap, North America and Europe.
Foreign dividend income was boosted by the Performance of Major Equity Indices decline in sterling during the year.
Further Sterling details of our asset allocation changes and of 31 Jan 08 100 our investment activity over the year are given % later in the report.
120 We have invested a relatively small proportion 110 of our total net assets in other asset classes.
Our quoted private equity portfolio experienced a 100 difficult year with discounts to net asset values increasing significantly.
The UK commercial 90 property sector suffered from the economic 80 slowdown and the freeze on bank lending and valuations declined accordingly.
We remained 70 very cautious on the property sector and did not Jan 08 Mar 08 May 08 Jul 08 Sep 08 Nov 08 Jan 09 add to our direct property portfolio during the FTSE All-World Developed Europe ex UK Total Return year.
Rental income from our property portfolio FTSE All-World Total Return FTSE All-Share Total Return TOPIX 1000 Total Return S & P 500 Total Return increased to 4.2 million against 4 million last year.
Our US mineral interests continued Source: FactSet to produce good revenues, increasing to 2.2 million against 1.6 million, helped by the high oil price in the first half of the year and the strength of the US dollar against sterling.
Within our financial services subsidiaries, I am delighted to welcome Robert Burgess as Managing Director of Alliance Trust Savings.
Robert joined the company on 16 February 2009.
He has extensive leadership experience in financial services.
Robert will lead the next phase of Alliance Trust Savings development to ensure that it delivers long term value to our shareholders.
During the year client numbers report front amends.
indd 5 20 4 09 12:51:30 6 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 Chief Executives Statement Business Review Our key strategic priority is to In the second half of the year, against a backdrop of rapidly deteriorating global focus on equities as our core economic and market conditions, we undertook investments.
a review of all aspects of the Companys activities.
The principal conclusions arising from the review, together with the actions we have taken, are summarised below.
Our key strategic priority is to focus on equities as our core investments.
We will seek to deliver strong long term performance through investing primarily in equities and we will continue to operate on a self-managed basis with a low cost base and low level of risk.
We will retain a modest exposure to other asset classes where we identify opportunities to provide enhanced returns for shareholders relative to our core equity investments.
We believe that our private equity capability complements our quoted equity portfolio.
Our team will continue selectively to seek opportunities to invest in quality private equity funds.
Our operating subsidiaries, which together currently form less than 2% of our total portfolio, must generate returns over the long term which are at least comparable to those from our other investments.
The creation of a centralised investment team based in Scotland will allow for a better exchange of ideas between portfolio managers and facilitate the move towards a more cohesive global equity portfolio.
As a result, the investment management of our Asia-Pacific and Japan portfolios was transferred back to Scotland in January and the Hong Kong office was closed.
We have undertaken a targeted cost reduction initiative to remove excessive administration and support costs and to achieve staffing levels consistent with our more focused business plan.
This initiative resulted in the redundancy of some 40 employees in Dundee, London and Hong Kong, representing 12% of our workforce.
With the exception of Hong Kong, none of these employees were engaged in the day to day management of our investment portfolio.
We expect that the restructuring costs will be more than offset by the savings made in the first year.
indd 6 20 4 09 12:51:30 Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 | 7 Outlook Performance of Sterling vs major currencies 31 Jan 08 100 We face considerable challenges over the % next few months.
Although markets remain 105 weak, since the year end we have been 100 redeploying cash where we find quality 95 investments at good value.
90 In times of crisis equity markets tend to become 85 backward looking, whereas in normal times, as 80 a discounting mechanism for future earnings 75 and growth prospects, they look 12-18 months 70 ahead.
Many of the leading indicators we 65 analyse are at all time lows and there are signs 60 Jan 08 Mar 08 May 08 Jul 08 Sep 08 Nov 08 Jan 09 that consensus expectations of corporate Japanese Yen US Dollar Euro earnings are catching up with reality.
We are closely monitoring a number of potential key Source: FactSet triggers which will help indicate to us when markets are entering recovery.
These include Net Cash and Gearing v Market Chart stability returning to credit markets as banks start to lend to one another at LIBOR rates % of closer to official base rates, early signs of a net assets 30 110 recovery in the US housing market, a rebound 105 25 in consumer confidence and a turnaround in 100 labour markets.
20 95 15 90 We are committed to increasing value over 10 85 the long term for our shareholders and will 80 5 retain our long term investment focus.
We are 75 0 continuing to refine and develop our investment 70 process.
We believe that the enhancements we -5 65 have made and our flexibility in implementation 60 -10 Jan 08 Mar 08 May 08 Jul 08 Sep 08 Nov 08 Jan 09 of asset allocation decisions will serve us Cash LHS Gearing LHS well.
We are currently retaining a defensive FTSE All-World Index RHS bias to our portfolio: however we continue Source: Alliance Trust FactSet to seek opportunities to commit cash to quality companies with strong balance sheets, increasing our exposure to global equities to ensure that we are well positioned for a market recovery.
Our key priorities for 2009 are: to focus on investment in equities to continue to improve investment performance to manage our cost base in line with market conditions to develop our subsidiary businesses to invest in the development of our people report front amends.
