Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Chief Executives review A year of growth and delivery Charles Philipps Chief Executive Financial results Outlook Once again, the Groups The restoration of financial strength across 2009 profit before tax, at 509.1 million, was financial performance a record for the Group 2008: 121.6 million.
much of the insurance industry during 2009 Our return on equity of 37.0% brings our is affecting our ability to raise rates in 2010 in 2009 was excellent, and leading to downward pressure in some average return to 25.6% since we first set reecting the quality classes.
That said, markets appear to be our cross-cycle target of at least 15% per demonstrating good levels of discipline annum back in 2001 2008: 7.8% and of our underwriting in many areas and rate reductions over 22.4% respectively.
businesses and a 1 January renewals, which represent an As anticipated, we achieved price increases estimated 20% of the years premiums, recovery in investment across many lines of business, particularly in averaged only 1.2%.
We also reinsurance rates were down 4.4% on few large catastrophe losses during the year, peak prices achieved following the 2008 made significant helped us to record an excellent combined hurricanes.
However, rate increases were ratio of 72% 2008: 76% and, with a stronger progress strategically, achieved in some loss-affected areas, US dollar relative to sterling, our highest yet particularly in France and Australia, and this most notably with the contribution from underwriting of 365.8 helped balance the reductions.
acquisition of the Fortis witnessed improving conditions in our UK commercial business and expect this to Groups commercial Syndicate 2001 and Amlin Bermuda continue during 2010.
This, combined with contributed 185.0 million and 161.8 million insurance operations in the improving airline rates achieved in the respectively to the underwriting return 2008: last quarter of 2009, should help offset the the Benelux countries, 174.4 million and 46.2 million respectively modest weakening in other areas.
with a smaller contribution from Amlin which now trade Corporate Insurance ACI of 11.2 million.
Premium income levels in 2010 will benefit as Amlin Corporate from the consolidation of ACI for a full year Having taken a cautious approach to our and from the actions taken to enhance the Insurance.
investments in 2008, given the economic growth potential of Amlin UK.
We anticipate environment which resulted from the credit overall premium growth of some 42% in crunch, we were in a good position in early theyear.
2009 to increase our exposure to risk assets given the low returns offered by UK gilts and We remain cautious about the economic US treasuries.
With the tightening of credit outlook, and having benefited from tighter spreads seen in the second half, record credit spreads in 2009, it will be more difficult investment returns of 207.5 million were to achieve good investment returns in 2010. achieved 2008: 18.0 million.
We nevertheless believe that we are well 16 www.
Shareholder information 201 Key highlights in 2009 Record pro t before tax of 509.1 million.
New organisational structure operating effectively.
Recruitment to increase strength and depth of Group operations.
Acquisition of Fortis Corporate Insurance.
Positioning of Amlin UK for further growth.
Preparing to reap the bene ts of Solvency II.
Ipsos MORI employee opinion survey shows excellent results.
placed to achieve an overall return on equity from the success of Amlin Bermuda which market penetration and effi ciencies as it which is above our cross-cycle target of at we started in 2005, ACI added 225.2 million grows from a combined premium income least 15%.
of diversifi ed income to the Group in 2009, of54.4million.
so bringing greater balance to overall risk A key component of integration will be Capital strength exposures and scope to further grow our the transition, by June 2011, to Amlins Net tangible assets increased by 29.3% to reinsurance business in the future.
This will improve 1.4 billion during 2009, after 58.5 million While the Benelux market has been controls and provide materially better and spent on goodwill and intangibles associated competitive over the last two years and more timely management information on with acquisitions and dividends paid of performance was affected by the companys both performance and risk.
We remain in a robust fi financial nationalisation by the Dutch state in October this, and our considerable experience in ACIs position with capital and available resources 2008, ACI has a good longer-term track business classes, will result in increased of 655.5 million in excess of our assessed record and we are confi dent that it is performance potential and a better platform capital requirements.
This will support capable of delivering a long-term return in for further growth in continental Europe.
organic growth, gives us the ability to make line with Amlins cross-cycle return target further strategic acquisitions, and leaves Post acquisition, approximately 64% of ACIs of at least 15%.
us well placed to continue to steadily grow business was marine insurance, bringing the dividend even if earnings are adversely The acquisition by Amlin resulted in an marine to approximately 14% of Amlins affected by signifi cant catastrophe losses.
immediate improvement in ACIs security overall business in 2009.
We anticipate this ratings which refl ects the benefi t of There is no doubt that our capital strength, will grow further in 2010.
This reinforces our becoming part of the Amlin Group.
which supports favourable insurance relevance to brokers and insureds in this area security ratings relative to many competitors, and places us amongst the leading marine Work on integrating the company has contributes to Amlin being a favoured market underwriters in the world.
proceeded at pace with the intention, over for brokers and insureds.
This is evidenced the next two years, of replacing those As recognised at the time of acquisition, the by our ability to retain income in markets services which have historically been ocean hull and marine cargo parts of ACIs where capacity has increased materially provided by other parts of the Fortis Group account required corrective action which in2009.
and ensuring that Amlins standards of risk had commenced before acquisition.
This is management are applied to this business.
resulting in a contraction of income in these Amlin Corporate Insurance classes as ACI declines risks where it cannot The acquisition of ACI, for consideration The management of ACIs investment achieve satisfactory pricing.
The company of 350 million, was completed in July, portfolio was integrated into the Group has also reorganised the management providing us with an excellent entry to the portfolio shortly after the year end.
The merger of its French business with Anglo structure of its marine underwriting in Benelux markets where it is the leading commercial lines insurer.
Following the French Underwriters, which we acquired Rotterdam, bringing it more into line with growth of our catastrophe income and in 2008, is on track for completion in April.
Amlins focus on the accountability of line exposures over recent years, resulting largely This will create a business with increased underwriters and underwriting profi tability.
17 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Chief Executives review continued 2009 return on investment from recent Amlin UK acquisitions and investments Acquisition of HCC fl eet 61% Strategic investment for today and for the future motor account In response to changes in the UK market and in anticipation of an upturn in UK Investments in Miles Smith 14% commercial markets, we have taken a number of steps in the past 18 months to and TL Dallas strengthen our UK proposition.
Acquisition of Anglo French 9% We have made signifi cant investment in our UK marketing capability.
Underwriters Investment in Leadenhall Capital 9% We have increased the recognition of Amlins brand in the UK, now supported Partners and funds by Amlins sponsorship of European rugby.
Acquisition of Amlin Corporate 13% We have continued to expand our property insurance business and successfully Insurance hired a new team of property underwriters.
Where relevant, the above returns include the pro t We have selectively increased our alignment with UK brokers such as Miles Smith generated from additional premiums sourced as a result and TL Dallas.
of the acquisitions and investments.
The return shown for ACI is the five month pro t after tax over acquisition cost.
In January 2010, we acquired Locktons insolvency scheme business.
Business improvement The changes made to our organisational structure in 2008, involving the creation of Amlin London and Amlin UK, allowing Group It was a sign of confi dence in ACI following Generating returns management to focus more on strategy, its acquisition by Amlin that Rets Marine, fromacquisitions have bedded down well.
We have also a signifi cant Dutch marine agency, renewed In addition to ACI, we have invested increased resources capable of managing its association with ACI at the end of 2009 some 59 million in acquisitions since the change across the Group with the aim of having moved its business to a competitor beginning of 2008.
In 2008 we acquired achieving consistently high standards of following nationalisation in October 2008. the renewal rights to HCCs fl eet motor process and risk management, and in Rets sources approximately 60 million account, acquired minority investments in particular integrating ACI and ensuring of good and profi table marine hull and two UK brokers, and bought Anglo French that we are ready for Solvency II, the EU liability business.
We also set up Leadenhall legislation which takes effect from 2012.
Capital Partners in partnership with its ACI contributed 53.7 million to the Proper preparation for Solvency II is critical management.
In November 2009, we Groups profi t before tax and a return on to maintaining the Groups ability to deliver purchased Crowe Livestock Underwriting the investment, since the acquisition on superior levels of return on equity, as a failure Ltd and in January 2010, we completed 22 July 2009, of 12.8%.
Having fi nanced to meet the standards expected by regulators the transfer of Locktons UK insolvency the acquisition mostly with cash, it has could result in the need to carry signifi cantly practitioners insurance business.
enhanced earnings per share and return more regulatory capital.
We consider it an on equity in 2009.
These investments have enhanced the excellent opportunity to take our risk balance of the Groups overall underwriting management practices up a level and believe I have been pleased with the hard work portfolio, have added experienced that this could create further competitive and enthusiasm demonstrated by the ACI professionals to the Group who we believe advantage, for example through the prospect management and employees to deliver fi t well with Amlins culture, and importantly of improving our fi financial security ratings.
change where it is required and to adopt are already delivering incremental return to Moreover, we believe that there are likely Amlins practices.
While much remains to shareholders.
to be good opportunities to take advantage be done in optimising its potential, I am of situations where weaker companies fail confi dent that good progress will continue to meet the required standards or need to be achieved in 2010 and that it will prove substantial additional capital and, for to be a value adding acquisition.
example, are forced to shed business.
Shareholder information 201 People Crowe Livestock Underwriting Ltd Yet again, our employee turnover has been low, with total and senior underwriter Leading expertise in a new class for Amlin turnover during 2009 of only 4.9% and 1.9% respectively.
Established in 1996, Crowe is a leading and internationally recognised coverholder We conducted our third Ipsos MORI survey which provides specialist insurance to the livestock industry.
of employees, which again showed very Based in Norfolk with 16 employees, Crowe operates through a network of brokers and positive results with a high alignment managing general agents across 45 countries and underwrites a diverse book of livestock between Amlin and our employees on business including poultry, cattle and aquatics.
For the 2010 fi financial year Crowe expects our strategic direction and goals.
We also to handle approximately 11 million of gross written premium.
compared very favourably against Ipsos MORIs norms for the fi financial services The acquisition adds further diversifi cation to Amlins underwriting portfolio, providing sector and overall.
the opportunity for Amlin to build on its well regarded bloodstock book by entering the livestock class.
The considerable talents and experience of our people is a core strength of Amlin.
In 2009, in addition to those who joined the Group through acquisitions, we have hired experienced professionals to increase our expertise and penetration in a number of business classes, such as marine hull, property and US casualty, and have reinforced our capabilities in risk and change management.
The consistent delivery of superior performance, ensuring that acquisitions deliver value to shareholders and the attainment of our Vision of becoming the global reference point for quality in our markets require dedication and hard work.
I am both proud of, and thankful for, the efforts and achievements of our employees during 2009.
Summary 2009 was clearly an exceptional year, both in terms of fi financial performance and strategic development.
It would be foolhardy to assume that such a benign claims environment is the norm.
However, underwriting markets in most classes remain suffi ciently strong to offer good margin potential and we remain focused on continuing to deliver superior returns on equity.
The capability and potential of the Group continues to go from strength to strength.
