ashmore Group pLC ar 09 performanCe review Chief eXeCuTive offiCers sTaTemenT 06 Chief executive officers statement world events over the last year have both emphasised and accelerated the increase in the significance of the emerging markets.
The Groups overall financial Whilst all investment themes have seen activity levels.
Foreign exchange performance achieved in the year net redemptions across the year, these losses for the full year were 38.6 million, ended 30 June 2009 was broadly slowed significantly in the second half, comprising 38.3 million realised hedging satisfactory within the context which also saw a turnaround in markets costs related to hedging the US$- of the extraordinary global market and investment performance.
The pace denominated management fee income conditions.
In the first half, as a result of recovery varied by theme, with for the period, 4.1 million unrealised of significant reductions in asset external debt recovering fastest to hedging loss related to the hedging valuations and sharply increased record a 9 per cent increase in AuM of management fees for future periods, outflows, assets under management in H2, while local currency still had and a 3.8 million gain from foreign AuM were reduced by a third and net redemptions that outweighed its exchange movements on the Groups after a further small fall in the third positive performance during that period.
quarter the final quarter saw an Special situations lagged the listed increase to close at a level of equity markets, as is usual emerging After costs of 52.9 million 2008: 58.8 US$24.9 billion.
from stress events, and as we waited million and interest income of 9.2 million for corporate and capital market activity 2008: 15.0 million profit before tax was The opportunity presented now for the principal driver of revaluations 159.8 million, a decrease of 19 per cent Ashmore is greater than ever as world to pick up.
AuM in the theme remained from the previous year.
Basic earnings events over the last year have both broadly flat in the second half of the year.
per share for the year were 17.1 pence emphasised and accelerated the Lately there have been some positive 2008: 21.0 pence.
increase in the significance of the signs pointing to the re-establishment emerging markets within the global of the global IPO market after an almost The impact of the credit crisis economy.
We continue to see complete absence of such activity in The events of the global credit crisis opportunities going forward across the last year.
have been extensively documented the asset classes we operate in, and over the last year.
There is little merit in during the last year have further improved see page 15 for further details recounting them again, rather in looking our operating platform to enable us to The Group achieved net revenue instead at the impact felt in the emerging take full advantage of these opportunities.
for the year of 203.5 million 2008: markets and at our resultant opportunity 240.0 million a reduction of 15 per cent.
It is clear that the crisis did not assets under management and financial Management fees net of distribution originate in the emerging markets but, performance costs in Sterling terms rose marginally in a global crisis as severe as that The opening AuM at 30 June 2008 stood to 183.2 million 2008: 182.0 million, experienced over the last year, no at US$37.5 billion.
Overall during the reflecting the fact that the reduction in market or sector could be immune year, net redemptions of US$7.5 billion average levels of AuM was offset by from impact.
H1 US$5.8 billion, H2 US$1.7 billion the strengthening of the US Dollar and and negative investment performance the increase in management fee margin.
of US$5.1 billion H1 negative US$7.1 Total performance fees for the year were billion, H2 positive US$2.0 billion have 52.5 million 2008: 44.7 million, an resulted in final AuM of US$24.9 billion.
increase of 17 per cent, including the maturity of the first Global Special Situations Fund in July 2008, and the August 2008 annual performance fees.
Other income was 6.4 million 2008: 10.1 million, the reduction occurring as a result of reduced transaction Ashmore R&A09 front n. indd 6 21 9 09 16:23:29 Overview PerFOrMANCe review gOverNANCe FiNANCiAl stAteMeNts AshMOre grOuP PlC Ar 09 PerFOrMANCe review ChieF eXeCutive OFFiCers stAteMeNt 07 Ashmores experienced fund management team have managed funds through crises before.
Ashmores experienced fund Secondly, based upon Ashmores be allocated.
At the same time, levels of management team have managed experience in managing across cycles redemptions, which were predominantly funds through significant crises before, through a number of past crises we liquidity-driven rather than assetperhaps most notably in 1994 and 1998. believe we are well positioned for strong allocation-based, have reduced On this occasion the global scale of the investment returns in the future.
The dramatically from the levels we received crisis was greater but the emerging investment process employed managing during the middle of the year ended market impacts have been very different.
a portfolio during periods of market 30 June 2009.
Capital allocators within Unlike in the earlier crises the emerging stress is one where the liquidity of those largest emerging world sources of markets are now net creditors in global a portfolio is retained through the capital central banks, governments terms and as a result there has been purchase of highly liquid instruments, reserve managers and sovereign wealth relatively little increase in the default risk whilst adding lower liquidity instruments funds are also seriously assessing in Latin America and Asia and lower with high embedded value such as greater reserve allocations to the levels of contagion.
The impact in those special situations and corporate high emerging markets and so diluting the yield to provide significant alpha over regions has principally been one of historic dominance of the US Dollar in collateral damage from either reducing the cycle.
This active management this role.
Therefore, looking forward, the cross-border flows or a reduction in approach is not based on market opportunity for greater emerging market export levels.
In Eastern Europe there indices and accepts short-term marksignificance, strong investment returns has been a more direct impact, in part to-market declines, often arising simply and AuM growth sees Ashmore very due to the greater direct investment as a result of wider bid-offer spreads well positioned.
from a concentration of EU countries in distressed markets, to secure see page 11 for further details and institutions and also to the greater long-term gains through the acquisition Operational delivery extent to which leverage had been of attractive assets which will appreciate At the core of Ashmore lies our central employed compared to other emerging over the medium to long term.
We have, investment committee whose as expected, begun to see the start market regions.
established investment processes of such outperformance, and look focus on the maintenance of long-term Following these events the resultant to realise further upside.
Periods of high market position is an opportunity in three ways.
stress drive increased volumes of Firstly, in a macro sense we believe that Thirdly, we are confident Ashmore inputs to those processes, including it has accelerated the shift of economic remains well positioned to raise more correspondingly greater analysis to weight to, and the bargaining positions AuM in the future through the second enable the best investment decisions of, the emerging markets.
The G20 and third phases of the Groups strategic to be implemented.
The investment London summit saw emerging markets development the further diversification professionals in all themes have been deliverables dominating and indicates of developed world capital sources tested extensively this year in and themes and the mobilisation of that the international community successfully implementing active recognises that emerging markets will growing emerging market capital pools.
define globalisation in the future.
Developed world capital sources have Some of the public funds with broad undoubtedly been the most affected by mandates not tied to benchmarks saw the events of the last 18 months with an short-term underperformance for part extreme reduction in leverage available of the year as we added illiquid assets resulting in an overriding reduction in the and subsequently as the special scale of funds deployed.
However, we situations valuations lagged more liquid are beginning to receive subscriptions investments in the recovery phase.
from these pools again, as investors work out where their capital should best Ashmore R&A09 front n. indd 7 21 9 09 18:45:49 ashmore Group pLC ar 09 performanCe reVIeW ChIef eXeCuTIVe offICers sTaTemenT 08 Chief executive officers statement: our investment themes continued overview assets under management aum Theme Theme premise Year ended 30 June 2009 Ashmores longest established and Launched 1992 external us$bn largest theme.
The external debt Total AuM at 30 June 2009 Opening AuM 20.9 debt theme comprises principally US US$14.7 billion Subscriptions 1.3 Dollar and other hard currency Redemptions 5.8 22 accounts funds Net redemptions subscriptions 4.5 denominated instruments, which 5 public Ashmore sponsored funds Performance 1.7 may include derivatives, investing Closing AuM 14.7 AuM invested in 36 countries in mainly sovereign bonds.
Year ended 30 June 2009 The local currency theme comprises Launched 1997 Local us$bn local currency and local currency Total AuM at 30 June 2009 Opening AuM 7.2 currency denominated debt instruments, US$4.2 billion Subscriptions 1.4 which may include derivatives, Redemptions 3.1 13 accounts funds Net redemptions subscriptions 1.7 investing in FX and mainly 8 public funds Performance 1.3 sovereign bonds.
AuM invested in 30 countries Closing AuM 4.2 Year ended 30 June 2009 The special situations theme Launched 1998 special us$bn comprises investments in debt and or Total AuM at 30 June 2009 Opening AuM 4.6 situations other instruments, typically focusing US$3.3 billion Subscriptions 0.2 on situations involving corporate Redemptions 0.5 9 accounts funds Net redemptions subscriptions 0.3 distressed for control investments 8 public funds Performance 1.0 or restructuring, distressed assets AuM invested in 21 countries Closing AuM 3.3 or distressed sellers of assets, and often with a private equity approach.
Year ended 30 June 2009 The equity investment theme Launched 2000 equity us$bn comprises public equity and Total AuM at 30 June 2009 Opening AuM 0.5 equity-related securities.
The US$0.1 billion Subscriptions 0.0 Redemptions 0.1 investments invested in by the funds 6 accounts funds Net redemptions subscriptions 0.1 can include equities, convertibles, 5 public funds Performance 0.3 warrants and equity derivatives.
AuM invested in 18 countries Closing AuM 0.1 Year ended 30 June 2009 The corporate high yield theme Launched 2007 Corporate us$bn comprises investments in corporate Total AuM at 30 June 2009 Opening AuM 0.5 high yield debt within emerging markets.
US$0.5 billion Subscriptions 0.1 Redemptions 0.0 2 accounts funds Net redemptions subscriptions 0.1 1 public fund Performance 0.1 Closing AuM 0.5 AuM invested in 21 countries Year ended 30 June 2009 The multi-strategy funds supplement Launched 2003 multius$bn the core product range, investing Total AuM at 30 June 2009 Opening AuM 3.8 strategy into the five core themes and any US$2.0 billion Subscriptions 0.7 new themes where appropriate.
Redemptions 1.8 3 accounts funds They include Ashmore Global Net redemptions subscriptions 1.1 2 public funds Performance 0.7 Opportunities Limited, a permanent Closing AuM 2.0 AuM invested in underlying funds capital vehicle, which listed on the included in above themes LSE on 12 December 2007.
Year ended 30 June 2009 New themes developed in line Existing other us$bn with strategy to diversify capabilities Fund of third-party funds Opening AuM 0.0 and investor base.
Subscriptions 0.1 Liquidity management Redemptions 0.0 In development Net redemptions subscriptions 0.1 Infrastructure Performance 0.0 Closing AuM 0.1 Real estate Overlay strategies hedging Ashmore R&A09 front n. indd 8 22 9 09 09:10:13 Overview PerfOrmance review gOvernance financial statements ashmOre grOuP Plc ar 09 PerfOrmance review chief eXecutive Officers statement 09 new funds, new themes, potential clients and strategic initiatives are underway which we hope will bring significant value over the coming years.
accounts by theme geography by theme current markets opportunities fund classification no.
aum as invested by geography % Now widely accepted as an asset class 4 within fixed income.
1 1 4 1 ashmore sponsored 5 1 eastern europe 26 Dominated by long-term institutional investors.
2 segregated 7 2 asia 22 Strategic allocation benefits from improving 3 3 structured product 3 3 latin america 47 fundamentals and global importance of 2 2 4 white label dual branded 7 3 4 middle east and africa 5 emerging economies.
aum as invested by geography % Rapidly growing asset class.
5 4 Best hedge against the long-term structural 1 1 ashmore sponsored 8 1 eastern europe 33 2 decline in the US Dollar.
2 segregated 5 2 asia 26 3 Many countries are looking to develop total 13 3 latin america 26 1 domestic yield curves to help develop local 4 middle east and africa 12 capital markets and stimulate growth.
2 5 g7 and other 3 fund classification no.
aum as invested by geography % Unique access to private investments in 4 2 1 emerging markets which are often complex 1 ashmore sponsored 8 1 eastern europe 10 and difficult situations.
3 2 segregated 1 2 asia 57 Aim to create value through an event s which total 9 3 latin america 25 transforms the Company, hence preference 4 middle east and africa 8 2 for distressed for control.
1 Provides investors with potentially high returns and low correlations to public markets.
aum as invested by geography % Attractive, potentially high, returns 5 4 2 from growing and deepening emerging 1 ashmore sponsored 5 1 eastern europe 36 1 equity markets.
3 2 segregated 1 2 asia 34 Index returns have seen ten-year periods total 6 3 latin america 18 of negative returns, emphasising the benefit 4 middle east and africa 10 of active management of country risk.
1 2 5 g7 and other 2 fund classification no.
aum as invested by geography % Emerging markets corporate high yield 4 is a fast-growing segment of emerging 1 ashmore sponsored 1 1 eastern europe 55 3 debt markets.
2 segregated 1 2 asia 21 2 1 Offers historically attractive risk-adjusted 1 total 2 3 latin america 13 returns, and a strong alternative to 2 4 middle east and africa 11 G7 corporates.
allocation by investment theme % An ideal strategy for investors who prefer 1 external debt 29.1 1 to let Ashmore make the dynamic asset 1 ashmore sponsored 2 2 2 local currency 4.4 2 allocation decisions across Ashmores 2 white label dual branded 1 investment themes.
3 special situations 55.8 3 total 3 4 equity 0.1 4 Early access to new asset classes as the 1 5 corporate high yield 5.4 5 number of themes increases, for example 6 real estate.
6 cash other 5.2 fund classification no.
aum as invested by geography % For every asset class in the developed 4 world there is a potential asset class 2 1 1 ashmore sponsored 3 1 eastern europe 25 in the emerging world.
2 white label dual branded 1 2 asia 29 There is a strong strategic case for investing total 4 3 latin america 28 3 in the emerging world across a growing 1 4 middle east and africa 18 2 number of asset classes, particularly at their nascent stages.
Ashmore R&A09 front n. indd 9 21 9 09 16:27:03 ashmOrE GrOuP PLC ar 09 PErfOrmanCE rEviEw ChiEf EXECuTivE OffiCErs sTaTEmEnT 10 Chief Executive Officers statement continued Our long-term institutional investor The Groups local asset management a number of the Groups funds, and by base has a good understanding of our subsidiaries now operate in Brazil, Ashmores shares.
This demonstrates approach but nevertheless a feature Turkey and India.
At the beginning the long-term nature of our commitment of last year was a significant increase of January we launched equity funds to make returns for both our investors in the time spent by our marketing and managed in our Sao Paulo office and our shareholders.
Our culture client relationship teams in reinforcing mirroring the onshore and offshore doesnt change.
fund structures established there last see page 35 for further details year with the local currency funds.
The organisation has grown as we have In the area of new product launches, All these funds have begun to see recruited a significant number of people the period has naturally seen somewhat some subscriptions following the into the Ashmore team during the last reduced levels achieved compared establishment of good opening track two years.
The experiences we have with recent periods.
In Turkey, having established shared in the delivery of investment saw the fifth global special situations the local asset management business performance, client management, fund launched with AuM of US$0.1 billion in Istanbul following regulatory approval support and infrastructure development and in May we launched the Global in August last year, we launched three over the last year have been stretching, Consolidation & Recovery Fund giving Ashmore mutual funds in May this year.
but nevertheless highly enjoyable and financial institutions a way of addressing In India the period has been a busy rewarding.
I would like to thank everyone some or all of their distressed or other one for both the locally based special for the part they have played over emerging market balance sheet situations team and our mid-market the period in providing Ashmore with exposures.
In addition to these public private equity venture.
the platform to seize the significant fund launches, the period saw two new opportunities going forward and I segregated mandates funded in external Following the acquisition of a majority look forward to us all getting on and debt and corporate high yield.
At the interest in Dolomite Capital, a New seizing them.
same time we have been working hard York-based emerging market fund see page 12 for further details on future initiatives to provide our clients of third-party funds manager and Performance fees with further diversification into those independent advisor, in November we Unaudited annual performance fees for asset classes where we see significant completed the acquisition of the balance the funds with performance years ended opportunity in the next one to three years.
before the year ended to enable us 31 August 2009 including EMLIP and to consolidate the team with our existing see page 14 for further details LCD were 5.1 million August 2008: staff and grow our overall Ashmore It has been another very busy year in 31.0 million which will be recognised marketing and distribution presence the area of infrastructure projects with in the financial year ended 30 June 2010. in the United States.
the implementation of a new portfolio management system which, in People and culture conjunction with the fund accounting Ashmore has been successful over system implemented last year, provides the long term because we have the backbone upon which to execute combined a successful operating model our long-term fund management with good people and a robust culture.
In addition we have deployed At the heart of the culture we believe are new core systems in the human two overriding principles alignment with resources and company secretarial our clients and alignment with our areas and implemented a new general shareholders.
The performance of the ledger system.
In all cases these team at Ashmore over the year to provide us with further robust scalable 30 June 2009 has been one of immense applications that can be used across effort and significant achievement in the Group.
Nonetheless, as in past years, the financial rewards for the team have been reduced, mirroring the negative absolute returns delivered by Ashmore R&A09 front n. indd 10 21 9 09 16:30:06 Overview PerFOrMANCe review gOverNANCe FiNANCiAl stAteMeNts AshMOre grOuP PlC Ar 09 PerFOrMANCe review ChieF eXeCutive OFFiCers stAteMeNt 11 At the heart of the culture we believe are two overriding principles alignment with our clients and alignment with shareholders.
Outlook statement following the trend established in emerging markets as these markets May and June.
make up an ever greater proportion The outlook can be assessed from of world markets, whether measured two standpoints, the internal perspective of the firm and the external perspective As far as the prospects for emerging by market capitalisation in debt or market investment are concerned we equity or through alternatives like GDP of the markets in which we operate.
Our believe the reshaping of the emerging or growth potential, continues to be very outlook based on the first of these is as positive as at any time I can remember markets role within the global order positive for Ashmore.
The largest source as the number of new opportunities, has received a significant boost in the of capital to manage over the long term last year.
We are also optimistic that we remains the capital from within the projects and initiatives that are being worked upon across the firm is are seeing investors begin to allocate emerging markets themselves, and we extensive.
New funds, new themes, capital again and our challenge remains, are increasingly focused on this, and as always, to persuade them of the on the resources required to access it.
potential clients and strategic initiatives compelling investment opportunities are underway which we hope will bring significant value over the coming years.
presented in the emerging markets.
Mark Coombs Chief Executive Officer The long-term trend of an increasing July and August have seen net inflows allocation from investors towards and positive investment performance, Our strategy the group remains focused on its stated strategy to deliver long-term investment outperformance: generate and diversify net management fee income through the attraction of net subscriptions across investment themes: and develop the Ashmore brand and business model through a number of phases: Developed world capital eM investment Phase i: establish emerging Phase ii: Diversify developed world capital market asset class sources and themes 1 2 status: largely completed status: underway significant growth available establish Ashmore establish new investment themes to diversify emerging markets emerging market product offerings investment processes Develop new product structures and capabilities enhance understanding establish Ashmore as trusted allocator of emerging markets debt Broaden and deepen developed world investor base in the developed world Deliver strong performance consistently Provide access to emerging markets, and their rapid development opportunities Phase iii: Mobilise emerging markets capital Develop strong performance 3 status: Commenced enormous future growth opportunities track record increase developed world Mobilise emerging markets capital managed offshore: investor allocations into Capital sourced initially from largest pools, i. e. central banks, emerging markets governments, reserve managers and sovereign wealth funds Develop network of domestic asset management businesses: Manage domestic capital locally Create strong local performance track record eM capital eM investment Ashmore R&A09 front n. indd 11 21 9 09 18:46:37
