04 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Group chief executives review A year of significant progress Im pleased with our progress this year.
It has been a year of strong financial performance and delivery against our strategic plans.
Im proud of the way my team has performed and Im confident that by remaining focused on our strategy we will make further progress in 2010.
Aviva has delivered a strong return to profit with IFRS total profit after tax at 1,315 million.
On an MCEV basis, which takes into account the long-term nature of life insurance business, the total profit after tax was 2,935 million compared to Andrew Moss a loss of 7,707 million in 2008.
This rebound in total profits reflects the combined Group chief executive effects of a recovery in equity markets, together with our disciplined business management and cost control.
Operating profit is 12% lower at 2,022 million on an IFRS basis and up 3% on an MCEV basis to 3,483 million.
Read more about We have strengthened Avivas capital position substantially over the past year our strategy and IGD solvency surplus, the buffer we hold above our liabilities, has more than 06 07 l doubled to 4.5 billion reflecting some bold capital management initiatives and a recovery in investment markets.
We have made excellent progress in the delivery of our strategy, including our move to a single brand, the IPO of our Dutch business, the reattribution of the Read more about inherited estate in the UK and the restructuring of our cost base.
how our regions In driving Aviva forward, we will retain our disciplined approach.
We expect the are performing external environment to remain unpredictable for some time but are encouraged 12 18 l that we saw the first signs of an improved appetite to save among our customers in the final quarter of last year.
We will continue to deliver against the strategy that has helped us to navigate the global economic crisis so successfully.
We will maximise the value of being a Listen to Andrew discuss single, global group, as we aim to deliver a consistently positive experience for our our year in our new 53 million customers around the world.
online review Visit Aviva at www.
com Progress Creating a global brand has been the most visible sign of One Aviva so far.
We're working hard to ensure it's much more than a name change.
We're making progress towards delivering twice the value improving the way we serve our customers, increasing our efficiency, focusing on profitability, removing cost from the business and delivering strong results.
Regions Successful rebrand to Aviva in the UK Integrating 12 of our businesses in Europe Life assurance portfolio outperforms market in North America Expanded customer reach in Asia Pacific through new bancassurance deals Improved investment and earnings performance for Aviva Investors Highlights Improved financial strength with IGD solvency more than doubled in 2009 Successful partial sale of Delta Lloyd in the Netherlands for 1 billion Sale of Australian life business 471 million paid to policyholders from reattribution of inherited estate 05 Performance review Aviva plc Group chief executives review continued Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information How has Aviva performed throughout How is your business Q Q a difficult 2009?
Like all financial services companies, we have In 2008 we initiated a programme to create been affected adversely, both by market a simplified and more modern way of doing volatility and understandable customer caution.
business to improve efficiency and reflect However, the business has stood up well.
This customers preference to do business online: is due, in part, to our global diversity, having weve invested in new technology and both life and general insurance operations and streamlined our processes.
also because of the decisive action we have This fundamental change in the way we taken through the strategy put in place two operate means our business is now fit for years ago.
the future, with improved capacity and Several months into 2010, we have made productivity.
We have reduced our costs by great progress in transforming our UK business 500 million and Aviva has 19% fewer under one team.
We are also starting to see employees than two years ago.
positive results from the creation of our one What's really pleasing is that during this Europe operating model.
In North America, the period our customer satisfaction has improved, life market has been really challenged and its with nearly 70% of our businesses at or above good to see that coming back.
In Asia Pacific, the local market benchmark and 50% are in despite customers being cautious, we have the upper quartile.
continued to grow our business, particularly What are you most proud of in China and South Korea.
investment performance has radically improved I'm most proud of our people: their dedication along with solid earnings.
and resilience over the past year has been How financially strong incredible.
They'five remained focused on what Q is Aviva?
we're here for delivering prosperity and peace Weve seen a marked improvement in our of mind to our customers and have done a capital position.
Focusing on costs in order to great job.
improve margins has meant that, whilst we have Ive already talked about our financial seen volumes drop, w e still reported a resilient strength and the strategically significant operating profit and a strong balance sheet.
However, none We have worldwide sales of 45 billion and of this could have been done without the hard 379 billion of funds under management.
work of all of our people around the world.
We are managing our financial risks prudently Looking forward how would you and skilfully.
Q sum up your priorities for 2010?
Why did you cut your dividend Theres no question that the economic climate Q mid-year?
remains uncertain: 2010 is still challenging but In light of Avivas lower IFRS operating Im confident we have the right team, strategy earnings, the continuing economic uncertainty and commitment to make it another successful and our desire to retain flexibility, we felt it was year.
We will continue to deliver our strategy, the right decision to make.
So in spite of it maintain our capital strength and focus on the being a tough decision, we believe it was the profitable growth of our company.
53 million customers place their business with us.
Thats a great responsibility and we Do you remain committed to your will be working harder than ever in 2010 to Q One Aviva, Twice the Value strategy?
continue to earn their trust and attract new We have made good progress towards our customers to Aviva.
If you compare earnings per share of 37.8 pence in 2009 with those of 2008 a loss of 36.8 pence, it's a great improvement.
In the past 12 months weve increased the Andrew Moss Group chief executive pace of transformation and restructured our portfolio, giving us new opportunities to redeploy capital to support profitable growth.
Our senior management team is committed to this target and it remains our focus in 2010.
