14 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Group Chief Executives review John Varley Our key output goal is to produce top quartile total shareholder returns over time.
We achieved that goal for 2009. www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 15 Summary agreed in June to sell the whole of BGI to BlackRock, Inc. BlackRock.
We Our primary objective is generating returns for shareholders.
But we completed this transaction in December for an aggregate consideration of recognise that we can, and should, in ways consistent with that objective, $15.2bn 9.5bn, realising a profit on disposal of 6.3bn.
Our shareholders contribute to the well-being of society by conducting our business will be able to participate in the institutional asset management sector responsibly and by performing well, on behalf of our customers, our core through our continuing holding of 37.567 million new BlackRock shares.
This functions of payments and money transmission, safe storage of deposits, gives us an economic interest of 19.9% in the enlarged BlackRock group, and maturity transformation and lending, and the provision of advice and also provides a strong basis for a new commercial relationship between execution in underwriting and trading.
These activities lie at the heart Barclays and BlackRock, which will be particularly relevant to Barclays Capital of economic activity in a modern economy, and if economies are to grow as a provider, and Barclays Wealth as a consumer.
Bob Diamond and I look and reap all the beneficial consequences that flow from that growth forward to contributing to the progress of this new global leader in asset then banks must help those they serve take appropriate risks.
Getting this management as members of the BlackRock Board of Directors.
balance between our obligation to create returns for our owners and our Across our retail and commercial banking activities we continued need to do that in a responsible way has never been more important.
to consolidate our position in our core markets through organic revenue, Economic slowdown last year impacted most parts of the world in cost and risk management measures.
We took advantage of inorganic which we operate.
But despite that, I am pleased with the way we have opportunities as they arose.
In September, we established a long-term life performed both in 2009 and in the two tumultuous years which preceded insurance joint venture with CNP Assurances CNP in Spain, Italy and it.
That performance allows us to enter 2010 with confidence.
In the same month, we agreed to acquire the Portuguese credit During 2009, we increased our income substantially.
Barclays Capital had card business of Citibank International plc, adding some 400,000 new credit a very strong year across all global franchises, in particular as its businesses in card customers to our Portuguese business as we continued to invest in the North America started to reap the benefits of the acquisition of the Lehman expansion of our GRCB Western European retail operations.
And in October Brothers North American business and integration.
We have invested during we agreed to acquire Standard Life Bank Plc from Standard Life Plc, adding 2009 in building out our equities and advisory platforms in Europe and Asia, an attractive mortgage and savings book to our UK Retail business.
This which will be sources of income growth in Barclays Capital in the years ahead.
acquisition completed in early January 2010.
Barclaycard also produced good income growth.
The steadiness of our profit performance over the past three years, even after absorbing the impact of 2009 priorities higher impairments and the continued legacy of credit market writedowns, In my review a year ago, I said that we had three priorities for 2009: staying is attributable to the diversification of income that we have built during close to customers and clients: managing our risks and maintaining recent years.
How did we fare in these areas?
It was clear as we came into 2009 that the regulatory balance sheet Staying Close to Customers and Clients: In the dense fog that was should be an area of considerable focus during the year.
So we have brought down on the industry by the credit crunch, it was clear that we strengthened our capital position, reduced leverage and added to our needed a powerful magnetic north customers.
The rapid economic liquidity buffer.
We are, by consequence, both well prepared for any future slowdown of 2008 and 2009 has complicated the lives of many of those economic weakness and also able to continue to execute on our strategy that we serve.
Our job in 2009 was to stay close to them as they sought to as opportunities arise.
navigate the risks and the opportunities thrown up by the crisis.
The income In March, we decided not to participate in the UK Governments Asset line is a good proxy for customer activity levels and customer relationships.
Protection Scheme, following the application of a detailed stress test by And our income generation in 2009 achieved record levels.
the UK Financial Services Authority to determine our resilience to stressed I am pleased with the number of new mortgage, savings, Premier credit risk, market risk and economic conditions.
This test confirmed our accounts and Local Business customers we have added in UK Retail Banking expectation that we would continue to be able to meet our regulatory and with the increase in customer account balances.
In Barclays Commercial Bank, we were able to increase average asset In April, we announced our intention to sell the iShares business of and deposit balances in a difficult business environment.
Following unsolicited interest for the whole In Barclaycard, we rolled out a number of initiatives to offer support to of BGI, and strategic analysis of the optimal ownership structure within the customers in financial difficulties whilst limiting our exposure to the most at future asset management industry given the direction of regulation, we risk segments of the market.
16 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Group Chief Executives review continued There is a lot of focus from stakeholders on the willingness of banks to certain macroeconomic assumptions.
The economies of the world in lend, and of course availability of credit is a critical component of economic which we do business performed worse in 2009 than our central planning stabilisation and regeneration.
In April 2009, we said that we would make case had projected at the beginning of the year.
Despite that, our loan loss a an additional 11bn of lending available to UK households and businesses.
rate was 135bps on a consistent basis, towards the bottom end of the In fact, our gross new lending to UK households and businesses in 2009 130-150bps range we planned for.
This is evidence of the robust risk totalled some 35bn, indicating both that we were open for business, and management and planning procedures we have in place.
And although that we were able to extend credit on terms which we regard as prudent.
impairment rose significantly in 2009 versus 2008 and in certain areas Our retail and commercial banking businesses in GRCB Western of our business could rise further in 2010, a combination of strong income Europe, where we now serve almost three million customers, have and good cost control enabled us, though substantial profit generation, continued to grow.
In addition to the CNP joint venture and cards acquisition to enter 2010 with our Core Tier 1 capital ratio at 10.0%.
At the same time, in Portugal, we added nearly 100 new branches in Italy and 50 in Portugal we reduced our leverage to 20x, from 28x, and our total assets by 33%, and attracted almost 8bn of new customer deposits as we increased our and we increased the surplus of liquid assets in the balance sheet by 84bn.
focus on the asset:liability mix of our business flows in these markets.
Our Governments, regulators and banks are currently focused on many task looking forward is to ensure this business produces sustainable profits, of these metrics of financial and risk management health as they seek to which will require it to be less reliant on one-offs than it has been in the past ensure that the excesses of the previous economic cycle, and the costs two years.
of financial failure that have resulted from it, are not repeated.
We support In the developing countries of the world in which we operate, our these moves and are committed to adapting our business to the changes performance in the ten mature markets of Africa and the Indian Ocean that result.
where we are present has been strong.
GRCB Emerging Markets as a Those reforms need to balance three things: the need for a safer whole made a loss.
We now serve almost four million customers across financial system, the importance of economic growth and the ability of these markets, but we have been too aggressive in our approach to business the suppliers of bank capital to earn appropriate returns.
The achievement expansion here over the past two years.
This business must now convert of those twin objectives, which is so important to the world over the course investments made in the last three years in terms of people, customer of the next decade, will be facilitated by a strong and supportive banking recruitment and sales outlets into sustainable profits.
system providing credit, managing risk and supporting innovation.
GRCB Absa performed resiliently in a very difficult economic An important dimension of the reform agenda is that decisions about environment.
Notable during the year was its ability to continue to grow investment banking are based on science and experience, not on rhetoric.
customer deposit balances, particularly for the South African consumer.
There has been much talk about gambling by investment banks.
Barclays Our success in Barclays Capital is reflected both in the exceptional Capital no more gambles in the work it does on behalf of its clients than revenue progress across 2009 and also in some of the client and marketthe clients do themselves.
Its work is the work of risk management and nominated awards which it has won over the year.
Its job is to help governments, companies and investors around Debt House of the Year from Euromoney, IFR Bond House of the Year, the world raise money, stimulate economic growth, create employment, Derivative House of the Year from Risk magazine and the Number 1 Ranking and manage pensions and other savings.
This is a real economy role.
for US Equity Research and US Fixed Income Research in the Annual Investment banking plays an important part in the universal banking Institutional Investor All-America Team surveys.
model that we have built in Barclays because many of those that we serve In Barclays Wealth we continued to attract client assets at a time of great need to have access to the capital markets, and because we cannot meet uncertainty.
Our intention for 2010 and beyond is to accelerate growth in the their financing and risk management needs without having a strong advisory, High Net Worth businesses.
execution and trading capability within the Group.
History and the current Managing Our Risks: As we expected, 2009 was another year of vicious crisis demonstrate that the performance of the capital markets businesses and testing of our risk management.
In February, we shared with the market our retail and commercial businesses is naturally asymmetrical.
The asymmetry planning assumption for loan loss rates for 2009, indicating that we of their respective income and impairment cycles provides a strong source of expected them to be in the range of 130 to 150 basis points, predicated on resilience.
The effects and benefits of that are very clear in the performance of November 2009: Regrouping of activities Global Retail Banking Profit growth and profit diversification: n 2009, Global Retail Banking GRB businesses were resilient in unsettling and challenging Improving our liquidity the ratio between loans times.
We have shown that we are strongly and deposits: positioned to build and grow in a tough environment.
For example, the acquisitions of Deeper penetration of our existing markets and I Standard Life Bank and Citigroups credit card international diversification: and business in Portugal show our appetite and Generation of net equity.
capabilities to maximise on market opportunities, whether through organic or inorganic growth.
Delivering on these priorities and ensuring that Looking forward, I am very excited about the we maintain control over every aspect of our potential for GRB in 2010 and beyond.
We want to operations are key to achieving our ambitions be the best retail bank in our chosen markets and and strategy.
The external environment has been to be seen as a leader in our industry.
We want to extremely difficult, but when the cycle turns, the grow our non-UK business and increase, over profits of GRB and its contribution to Barclays time, the ratio of non-UK to UK business.
The Group will shift significantly.
emphasis is on creating critical mass in markets Antony Jenkins where we have a greater presence.
Our ambition Chief Executive, is depth, not breadth.
Global Retail Banking To help us achieve this, our key priorities for this year are: www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 17 Barclays during this cycle.
That is one of the principal benefits of the universal between traditional corporate banking and investment banking product banking model: the others include: capital and funding efficiencies: and needs within our client base.
This is a global opportunity with significant business and risk diversification.
Forcing banks to adopt narrow business income growth potential for CIB in the years ahead.
Our early work has only models, as some have suggested as part of the ongoing reform dialogue, will reinforced that strongly held belief.
not make the system safer.
There has been no correlation so far in this crisis In the area of wealth management, the competitive landscape in the between failure and the popular dichotomies drawn of bank business models: global industry has gone through a sea change over the course of the last big or small: narrow or broad: domestic or international.
That creates opportunity, and we intend to seize that by Maintaining Strategic Momentum: Despite the regulatory uncertainty investing to change the scale of this business over the next five years.
that will continue to confront the industry this year, our strategic path remains clear to increase the growth potential of Barclays by continuing to diversify Remuneration our business by customer, product and geography.
That strategy lay behind Recognising the political and regulatory focus on remuneration practices, b the broadening of our executive Committee and changes to senior and the interest of both our shareholders and our staff in the topic, it is management responsibilities that I announced in November 2009. important for me to say that we see compensation as a means of supporting The executive Directors of the Group, Bob Diamond, Group President, the implementation of strategy in a way that best serves the interests of our Chris Lucas, Group Finance Director, and myself, have been joined on shareholders.
So our objective in this area is to ensure that we use the Executive Committee by the leaders of a number of Barclays business remuneration well, making it the servant of the interests of our owners.
units and control and governance functions.
We have also regrouped our We aim to achieve an appropriate balance between paying dividends to activities to form: shareholders, investing in the business, strengthening our capital ratios and paying staff appropriate compensation.
I dont pretend that achieving that Global Retail Banking GRB, comprising UK Retail Banking, Barclaycard balance is always easy, or that the judgements involved are straightforward.
and the former Western Europe and Emerging Markets businesses, led by The market for the best people is both global and intensely competitive.
Banking is a service industry and, if we are to remain successful, we must Corporate and Investment Banking CIB, comprising Barclays Capital attract and retain the best people.
We have to pay for performance but, and Barclays Commercial Bank now called Barclays Corporate : I emphasise, we seek to pay no more than the amount consistent with Jerry del Missier and Rich Ricci are Co-Chief Executives of Corporate and competitiveness.
Our compensation framework is determined by the Board HR and Remuneration Committee, a sub-committee of the Group Board GRB focuses on mass consumers, mass affluent consumers and small which is chaired by our Deputy Chairman, Sir Richard Broadbent.
We have significantly changed the footprint here recommendations to the Remuneration Committee and its decisions are over the past three years, and we intend to push that forward, increasing, only made after appropriate input from the Board Group Risk Committee through time, the ratio of non-UK to UK business whilst strengthening our and the Group Chief Risk Officer to ensure that the level of risk within the UK franchises.
We will place particular emphasis on creating appropriate business and the quality of underlying profits generated are taken properly scale in the markets in which we have a presence.
As we do that, our into account.
The Remuneration Committee has also considered the impact objectives will be four-fold: profit growth: an improved loan-to-deposit ratio: on profits of our usage of Government and Central Bank schemes, higher further international diversification through deepening existing presences: liquidity requirements and the shape of the yield curve.
and the generation of net equity.
Our discretionary pay awards for 2009 are fully compliant with the Barclays Corporate, as part of CIB, focuses on the high end of what we FSA Remuneration Code and the Financial Stability Board Implementation used to call Barclays Commercial, particularly financial institutions, public Standards, endorsed by the G20.
This has resulted in an increase in the sector entities and corporate clients.
We brought this business alongside deferred awards by approximately 70% and greater use of equity in deferral Barclays Capital within CIB because we see significant synergy in sharing structures, particularly to senior staff.
100% of the discretionary pay awards relationship management and sector expertise across the two.
Realisation for 2009 to our Executive Committee will be deferred.
of that synergy is enabled by the increasing fungibility of client requirements Corporate and Investment Banking and Wealth Management Barclays is now one of a handful of leading n November 2009 we announced changes to the management structure and leadership global universal banks able to offer the full array team of the Barclays Group.
The formation of of products and services to clients, and we are Corporate and Investment Banking and Wealth gathering momentum as we increase market Management was designed to accelerate share in all our franchises.
This new structure I the execution of our strategy, continue to adjust allows us to serve our clients even better.
dynamically to the changing environment, and We have a unique opportunity, and we are respond rapidly to client and customer needs.
We have the right Now is the time for execution, for capitalising model, the right culture and the right people to on the progress we have made and for seizing succeed as long as we continue to manage our the opportunity before us.
risks and our costs, deliver flawless execution of By moving Commercial Banking, now our plans, and maintain our momentum.
Most Barclays Corporate, into the new Corporate and important of all, however, we must as always, Investment Banking and Wealth Management stay close to our clients who need us more grouping, we signalled our desire to extend the than ever.
already attractive synergies and working Robert E Diamond Jr practices among our three global businesses, Chief Executive, Barclays Corporate, Barclays Capital and Barclays Corporate and Investment Banking Wealth.
Barclays Corporate is a great business, and Wealth Management with superb relationships, a client-focused culture, and outstanding prospects around the globe.
18 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Group Chief Executives review continued The overall quantum of compensation we pay is designed to ensure cumulative impact of intended reforms on the economy is well that we exceed the FSAs minimum capital requirements at all times.
We understood, and to ensure the reforms are implemented over sufficiently understand how important it is to our shareholders that we maintain Core extended transitional periods to enable the banking industry to support Tier 1 ratio well in excess of regulatory minima.
A direct and intended economic growth and job creation.
We will be obliged to accommodate consequence of our decisions on pay has been the further strengthening such changes as are finally enacted over the coming years and we will of this ratio.
Meanwhile, we have been able to meet the commitment that have the ability over the period to take mitigating actions.
Meanwhile, we announced in April 2009 to resume dividend payments and we seek to we are seeking to anticipate many of the changes that may be required ensure that we manage the business in such a way including in relation to of us in the areas of capital, leverage and liquidity.
It is within our power compensation as facilitates the adoption of a conservative but progressive to be net generators, rather than consumers, of capital, which our dividend policy.
We will maintain high levels of Our approach to the UK Bank Payroll Tax since the tax was announced liquidity, and we will be very attentive to the size and composition of our in December last year has been to manage the compensation pool in such balance sheet.
In particular, we will manage leverage tightly, and we will a way that the cost of the tax to the Group broadly equates to a reduction in seek to bring down, over time, our loan to deposit ratio.
Stress testing has the size of the pool, with the reduction being borne by senior executives.
been institutionalised across Barclays in recent years.
This is also now The cost to the Group of the UK Bank Payroll Tax in respect of 2009 cash part of the FSA supervision cycle.
We will ensure that we continue to compensation is 190m, and 35m in respect of certain prior year awards monitor regularly our responsiveness to changing economic, market and which may fall within the proposed legislation.
Where a liability arises in operational environments and align our views with those of our regulator.
subsequent years, we will follow the same approach.
We have recommenced dividend payments in accordance with our prior commitments.
We will make three quarterly fixed payments in 2010 strategic framework 2010 and a final variable payment relating to the calendar year 2010 The economic outlook remains uncertain.
The worst of the financial crisis is in March 2011.
Given uncertainty about the full consequences of behind us, but the environment remains unpredictable, and for that reason, regulatory reform, prudence dictates that our dividend policy should we have to be very clear about the strategic framework in which we will be be conservative.
But, subject to that caveat, we intend our dividend doing business in 2010 and beyond.
The principal components are as policy to be progressive relative to a 2009 annualised dividend of follows: 4.5 pence per share.
We will continue to act as responsible corporate citizens.
Our allocation of capital across the Group will continue to be made on that our wider responsibilities to society are reflected in how we act.
To both an economic and strategic basis, reflecting our goal of increasing the extent consistent with what is required of us by our regulators and the international diversification of our income sources in the pursuit of with our obligations to shareholders, we will continue to play our part as medium-term growth.
So we will nurture Barclays Wealth, Barclays a source, via service to customers and clients, of economic growth and Corporate, Absa and GRB, whilst ensuring that Barclays Capital takes job creation in the geographies in which we operate.
We must behave advantage of the structural changes in the investment banking sector.
constructively to help our customers and clients as they cope with the 2010 will be another year, however, in which we put returns before growth, economic downturn and to support governments and supervisors as and where prudence will determine our approach to balance sheet size.
they deal with the effects of the financial crisis.
Notwithstanding the regulatory uncertainty which colours the goals I have 2.
We will ensure that we maintain a sound financial and organisational described so far, we must deliver another year of significant profitability.
footing that anticipates and adapts to the regulatory changes that will The balance of earnings is also important to us, and we continue over be required from us.
The Basel authorities announced a package of time to target two-thirds of our profits coming from GRB, Absa, Barclays proposed reforms in December on which they are consulting.
We are Wealth and Barclays Corporate and one-third from Barclays Capital.
working hard to advocate regulatory consistency: to ensure that the Absa ince its establishment in 1991, Absa has Ensuring a simple streamlined Group for grown into a well-diversified financial customer delivery: and services group and although 2009 has Instilling a customer and people centred ethos been a test of our resilience as an in our organisation.
Sorganisation, I am satisfied that we have delivered solid underlying performance, improved Implementation of the strategy is a key priority our risk management and continued to and in this regard we have reorganised the top strengthen our balance sheet.
Absa maintains a management team to drive a disciplined focus strong capital base and is well positioned for on delivery.
With the economic prospects in future growth.
During the year we launched our 2010 expected to remain uncertain, we are One Absa strategy which aims to drive an confident that our strategy is robust and integrated approach across all of our businesses positions us well to capitalise on the growth so that our customers are serviced in a seamless opportunities that emerge.
Our strategic objectives are supported by Maria Ramos four key pillars: Group Chief Executive Achieving sustainable growth in targeted Absa Group Ltd markets: Embedding balance sheet optimisation and proactive risk management: www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 19 Goals Maintaining strategic momentum As I stated at the time of our Interim Results last August, our key output goal is to produce top quartile total shareholder returns TSR over time.
Premier, full-service, global We achieved that goal for 2009, generating a TSR of 80% for 2009, at the c upper end of our peer group.
But I recognise that for many shareholders the investment bank delivering starting point from which this return was generated was unacceptably low.
We will continue to measure our performance against this output goal.
We will carefully manage multiple input goals.
These include economic through the cycle profit: overall balance sheet size and leverage: risk weighted assets RWAs and the returns they generate: the level of our Core Tier 1 capital: our return on equity: our overall funding and liquidity positions, and our loan to deposit ratio as part of this: our comparative income and cost performance the jaws : and dividend payments.
Providing holistic solutions for customers Our medium-term goal is to generate an average return on equity that exceeds our cost of equity over the cycle.
In 2009 and again in 2010, the Strong client franchise reflected by combination of very high levels of capital and the relatively high cost of top-line income of 17.9bn: up 81% capital make this a very stretching target.
But we are well aware of the direction in which our shareholders expect us to be moving in this context, he past year has seen us deliver on our vision to be a premier, and we have constructed our medium-term plans accordingly.
This means we have the scope and the scale to compete against the very best firms in Conclusion all the different businesses in all of the different regions.
Our We have over 144,000 employees worldwide who have helped us weather TFixed Income, Currency and Commodities businesses FICC the economic storm of the last two and a half years.
They have not allowed are top three globally, and our new Equities and M&A advisory franchises the events in the market place to distract them from attending to the needs are building real momentum and delivering excellent results.
Our vision of those they serve: on behalf of the Board, I thank them warmly.
They are as means achieving leading positions for our clients in every region and in determined as I am that we shall meet the expectations of our owners in the every business in which we compete.
year ahead, by putting the resources of the Group to work on behalf of our Our clients continue to come to us with their business challenges, customers and clients.
and we are using the breadth and depth of our expertise to help address their needs comprehensively.
We are expertly placed to service the needs of our clients, whether its a government looking to raise syndicated debt, an institutional investor wanting to increase its equities exposure or a large corporate undertaking a rights issue.
We provide holistic solutions for our clients.
John Varley This is what we mean when we say that our client focus is driving Group Chief Executive our business.
We are helping our clients to meet their challenges, and the scope of how we can help them is wider than ever.
And this is what makes Barclays Capital such an exciting place to be right now.
We are now one of a handful of leading global, full-service investment banks.
Our businesses are growing with speed, discipline and focus, resulting in a full-service offering much greater than the sum of those businesses.
Were having new conversations with existing clients.
Were delivering for clients weve never worked with before.
And were using the strength of our full-service franchise to make a real difference to their success.
Further information on Barclays Capital is available at www.
com annualreport09 Notes a On consistent year end loans and advances balances and impairment at average 2008 foreign exchange rates.
b The following have been promoted to the Group Executive Committee: Antony Jenkins, Chief Executive of Global Retail Banking: Tom Kalaris, Chief Executive of Barclays Wealth: Rich Ricci, Co-Chief Executive of Corporate and Investment Banking: Jerry del Missier, Co-Chief Executive of Corporate and Investment Banking: Maria Ramos, Chief Executive of Absa: Mark Harding, Group General Counsel: Robert Le Blanc, Chief Risk Officer: Cathy Turner, Group Head of Human Resources and Corporate Affairs.
c TSR Total Shareholder Return is defined as the value created for shareholders through share price appreciation, plus reinvested dividend payments and is compared against a peer group containing Banco Santander, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, HSBC, JP Morgan Chase, Lloyds Banking Group, Royal Bank of Scotland, Unicredit and UBS.
