Q&A Andrew Horton describes the trends, risks and opportunities that he foresees in 2010. information but also health records are expertise so its a natural extension for Q: Rates came off slightly at the a growing threat.
Also in London weve just hired an 1 1 renewals do you see this trend have their own statutes on who needs underwriter to develop a range of continuing throughout the year?
to be notified after a data breach, and offerings to support M&A transactions.
While hackers are getting Thats not because we foresee a tidal increasingly sophisticated, at least wave of M&A transactions, but because A: We expect rates for reinsurance as much sensitive data is lost accidentally we think that the participants in deals will and other catastrophe-exposed lines of through simple carelessness or through be more risk averse and will want to business such as energy and large scale the acts of malicious employees.
minimise their contingent liabilities, so commercial property to continue to theyll be buying more insurance.
But rates in these lines are Until now, insurers have not been very coming off historic highs, so there are good at helping their clients handle data still profitable underwriting opportunities.
breaches because theyve focused mainly Q: There has been a move by The average rates for our reinsurance on the third party risk what happens if London market companies, including business are more than twice what they you get sued?
What companies really Beazley, to increase their reinsurance were in 2001 and more than 50% up on need is a broader response to the first exposure in recent years is this a 2005.
In our specialty lines book, which party exposures the administrative and trend that is set to continue?
represents 40% of our premiums, we reputational problems that a data breach expect to see a slight uptick in rates presents.
Thats why were seeing a overall in 2010, driven by increasing A: Theres a trade off here that we great deal of interest in our Beazley claims frequency in certain lines and, look at very closely.
Yes, reinsurance Breach Response solution that provides across the market, by depressed business has shown the strongest rate notification and credit monitoring services investment returns.
But with a growing for up to two million affected individuals.
reinsurance account comes growing I think its this kind of creativity that volatility for your overall portfolio.
In our Q: In a challenging rate insurers are going to have to business you can have too much of a environment, where are the growth demonstrate if they are to grow good thing and so we manage our opportunities in the insurance organically in the coming year.
Were catastrophe exposures very carefully.
excited about a number of opportunities.
That said, we have a very successful We think there is significant scope to reinsurance account and we want to grow our specialist accident and health A: I do not see significant growth grow it.
For this coming year, we have business in the United States.
We also opportunities for the insurance industry established a sidecar syndicate at Lloyds think that as the US pulls out of as a whole in the coming year.
There is to support our reinsurance underwriting.
recession, demand for environmental still excess capacity in the market.
Thats a syndicate backed by third party insurance and for construction and Growth in the developed economies, capital from Lloyds Names that writes a engineering insurance, known in the US where most insurance is bought, will share of our reinsurance business.
This as builders risk insurance, will grow.
The opportunities helps us in two ways.
It boosts our line And weve got the teams on the ground will be very much niche opportunities size in other words the size of each risk to write these risks.
accessible to carriers with the relevant we can underwrite so that we can track record and specialist In London, weve added a new team as really punch at our proper weight in the underwriting expertise.
part of our marine division that will focus market.
Before this, brokers were saying One thats bearing fruit for us now is on the professional liabilities of port to us: We love Beazley as a lead data breach insurance.
In the United operators, ship charterers and others.
underwriter, but cant you write a States in particular, data breaches This is business that has not historically bigger line?
And of course the second involving the loss of sensitive customer come to Lloyds.
It straddles our marine attraction is that we earn fees and, information usually financial and professional liability areas of we hope, profit commissions as the managing agency for the new syndicate.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements But we expect them to learn from through insurance.
We need to be Q: You had a busy first year as mistakes and not to make them twice.
constantly pushing at those boundaries.
What are your Finally, I want us to continue the good So accountability is very important to biggest priorities in the year ahead?
work that we have started to deepen our us and if youre not willing to be broker relationships.
We have excellent accountable for your actions and A: I see myself as having three main relationships already at the team level decisions, you probably dont belong responsibilities as CEO.
First, allocating and our task now is to ensure that we at Beazley.
But if you are, youll find an capital wisely to achieve sustainable are systematically identifying new areas open and collaborative culture that will profitability across the group.
Second, of mutual opportunity with our partner help you to succeed.
The insurance nurturing and enhancing our skills base.
market has a high degree of job mobility.
And third, scaling our operations so that, But I like to think and our retention as we grow, the service we offer our levels seem to bear me out that clients and brokers gets even better Q: Talented underwriters and people make careers at Beazley.
and thats not very common in the claims professionals have a broad Its not just a job.
range of employment choices underlying profit comprises profit before among specialist insurers.
Why My priorities for 2010 fit into this income tax after the notional adjustment on should they choose Beazley?
First, Id like us to continue foreign exchange on non-monetary items.
to expand our Lloyds business.
We See detailed explanation in note 3b to the intend to continue to grow in the US and A: I joined Beazley in 2003.
we are looking for growth opportunities the company had 120 employees and in Europe, but Lloyds is our preferred we wrote 334m.
Today we have almost location for writing business, wherever 670 employees, we wrote more than that business originates.
I believe the 1.1bn last year, and we achieved a Lloyds model for assuming and record underlying profit.
Weve grown syndicating risk in a highly capital across all our lines of business and, from efficient manner will continue to benefit a standing start in 2005, weve built a both clients and investors.
We were one business in the US that wrote $371m of the biggest underwriters at Lloyds last last year.
So people who join Beazley are year and I want Beazley to be a leader in buying into a success story.
the continuing growth of Lloyds.
The second reason, which I believe gives Second, were looking very closely at rise to this success, is about the sort of product innovation.
This has always people we strive to attract and what we been a strength of Beazley but we need offer them.
We are looking for to quicken the pace because our clients entrepreneurial individuals, self-confident needs are evolving ever more rapidly.
If people with strong opinions who are not you look at the total universe of risks afraid to express them.
They have the confronting businesses today, you can freedom to make mistakes because that see that only a very small proportion of is essential to an entrepreneurial culture.
those risks can currently be transferred Beazley Annual Report 2009 17
