08 BlueBay Asset Management plc Annual Report 2009 Chief Executives Review Hugh Willis Chief Executive 2009 A year of two halves BlueBay entered the 2009 financial year against the backdrop of a credit market crisis already a year old.
The first half of the financial year saw the crisis intensify dramatically: culminating in the unexpected collapse of Lehman Brothers in the middle of September 2008.
This gave rise to a very demanding second quarter to the financial year: as credit spreads spiked to levels previously unseen and disorderly markets prevailed.
The second half of the financial year was characterised, however, by a notable improvement in markets: creating far more favourable industry conditions for participants.
Given such an unprecedentedly chaotic macro environment, it was pleasing to see BlueBays AuM rising meaningfully during the financial year and its corporate profitability while lower than in the previous year remaining sound.
This collective achievement reflects the strength of the Companys brand and the calibre of its people.
Executive Summary 09 $5.8 billionofnet inflowsreflecting continuing confidence in BlueBay.
Group strategy 2009 results Investment performance over the financial The Groups strategy continues to be to Our product focus and the strength of our year was mixed.
As observed previously, both position itself as a leading, specialist manager infrastructure together drove an increase in the relative and absolute performance of of European corporate and global emerging AuM over the financial year an uncommon our investment grade long-only product was market debt funds and products.
This reflects achievement amongst asset management strong throughout the year.
Our high yield our belief in the secular growth market firms in the face of arguably the most funds produced very strong relative returns characteristics of European corporate credit disruptive market conditions in close to a during the first half of the financial year before a major new global asset class: and emerging century.
At the heart of this achievement giving some of this back as markets rallied: market debt increasingly a mainstream asset were $5.8 billion of net inflows predominantly but still recorded commendable, positive, class for institutional investors worldwide.
from our institutional client base experienced absolute and relative returns for the overall largely in the second half of the fiscal year: period.
Our emerging market sovereign bond Alongside our product focus, we continue to reflecting those investors continuing funds suffered in both relative and absolute invest heavily in our infrastructure: believing confidence in BlueBay and appetite for its terms in the first half of the year, before that institutional investors will increasingly specialist fixed income product offerings.
performing very strongly in the second: and require from asset managers state-of-the-art our newer product launches in convertible systems, process, compliance and risk The Groups long-only funds fared particularly bonds, emerging market corporate debt management as a necessary corollary to well in terms of growth over the year: with and corporate loans all performed well strong investment performance.
It remains net inflows of $7.3 billion and assets under throughout the year.
As previously noted, our mission statement to combine the management increasing to $21.5 billion by the performance of the Groups long short infrastructure of a mainstream asset manager year end.
By contrast, our long short funds funds was negative over the year: although with the investment mindset of a boutique.
under management fell to $2.8 billion in its flagship Multi-Strategy Fund recovered well a very difficult period for the alternative from a difficult first half to post returns only The secular drivers behind our corporate asset management industry: with the decline marginally negative for the period as a whole.
strategy remain firmly in place some eight reflecting both net outflows and negative years after the Groups formation: and investment performance.
Of particular continue to be bolstered by the growing note overall was BlueBays market leading preference amongst liability-driven investors Investment Grade Bond Fund, which was as a function of both demographics and the amongst the biggest selling mutual funds relative actuarial certainty of returns for fixed in Europe during the early part of calendar income rather than equity investments.
It is year 2009: as excellent investment clear, moreover, that 2009 has ushered in performance combined with significant a new credit cycle: serving to overlay the investor demand for early cycle credit product.
secular opportunity with a cyclical one in all likelihood for some years to come.
The Groups strategy, accordingly, remains unchanged.
10 BlueBay Asset Management plc Annual Report 2009 Group profitability in 2009 was impacted New products In this context, we are pleased further by the change in product mix referred to Subject to investor demand and our conviction to report that the first two months of previously: with the increase in lower margin that we have the skills and resources to deliver the current financial year have continued long-only assets under management unable them effectively, we have sought over the to provide evidence both of strong fund fully to offset the decrease in higher margin years to maintain a healthy pipeline of new performance and of robust asset growth: long short funds.
This, combined with a products at both the development and launch with BlueBays AuM rising a further 15% reduction in performance fees, meant that phases.
The financial year 2009 saw the to $27.8 billion on the back of $1.8 billion Total Fee Income at 100.9 million was down continued fruits of this: with two well-received of additional net inflows, predominantly 12% on the previous year.
While we have new fund launches the BlueBay High from Investment Grade products and $1.7 taken steps meaningfully to reduce costs Income Loan Fund and the BlueBay Global billion of fund performance inclusive of in response to changed market conditions, Convertible Bond Fund.
foreign exchange differences of $0.4 billion.
the impact of such steps centred on a total headcount reduction of 20.5% by 30 June Looking forward, we continue to explore We believe that this overlay of a new 2009 from its peak in October 2008 is, new product areas in which we believe credit cycle, with its twin characteristics of of course, subject to a lagged effect.
Group institutional investor demand and BlueBays investment opportunity and investor demand, profitability was affected accordingly: with abilities and resources might combine to upon the secular asset class drivers already pre-tax profits of 17.5 million well down produce relevant and profitable new product in place in credit markets, creates conditions from the previous years level.
In this context, we are currently that should be advantageous for BlueBay and examining both a new long-only product its specialist credit franchise over the coming It is a priority for the Group, as we move and several potential new product launches years.
There are of course necessary caveats into 2010, to restore profitability to a growing in the long short alternatives space.
to this: investor demand, while strong, path and operating margins to pre-2009 is currently concentrated in higher quality, levels: and we believe that we are well placed Outlook lower margin products and will need to to do so over the medium term as revenues It now seems clear that the last credit cycle broaden out over time: absolute returns from benefit increasingly from the sharp asset troughed in the final calendar quarter of 2008 credit markets over the next few years will growth experienced in the later months of and that the first calendar quarter of 2009 not be able to be sustained at the pace the 2009 fiscal year and the benefits of cost ushered in a new cycle.
This is likely to herald experienced during the first six months of cutting measures implemented over the same a period of strong performance for the asset calendar year 2009: and a good deal remains period are felt.
class of credit: indeed, this is already being contingent upon a macro economic outlook experienced, with absolute returns on the that continues to be uncertain and a recovery Groups flagship long-only products ranging that will, at times, disappoint.
Nevertheless, from 11% to 32% over the first six months with the global banking system unlikely to of the calendar year and its flagship multibe in a position to play its full historic role strategy long short product returning 22% in the provision of credit to companies for over the same period.
It is also likely to herald some time to come and credit markets likely a period of solid investor demand for credit to grow appreciably to fill the gap, the funds and products: again something already outlook is a very interesting one for asset beginning to be borne out by strong net managers such as ourselves: with a credit inflows into BlueBay funds in the January focus and strong stock selection capabilities.
Executive Summary 11 BlueBays Investment Grade Bond Fund was amongst the biggest selling mutual funds in Europe.
A thank you It is well known that asset management companies, probably more so than many firms, are dependent for their success upon the skill, loyalty and work ethic of their people.
These characteristics are tested in full during difficult years and this year it has, moreover, as previously observed, sadly been necessary to part company with a number of people in response to market conditions.
The resilience and determination with which everyone at BlueBay has faced an unprecedentedly difficult period says a great deal about the quality of the work force that we are fortunate enough to have.
It also bodes very well for the future as we tackle a significant opportunity set amongst improving market conditions.
I would like to thank everyone at the firm for their outstanding efforts during 2009: they have been greatly appreciated.
