4 Close Brothers Annual Report 2009 Overview Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement Strone Macpherson Chairman Close Brothers has also made Close Brothers Group has considerable internal progress in the achieved a solid overall past year.
There has been significant change in the senior management performance for the year.
team, including the appointment of This is despite some of the Preben Prebensen as group chief executive.
The group has been most challenging financial strengthening the capabilities at its and economic market centre, including making a number of new senior hires.
Following the sale of conditions in its history, the Corporate Finance division, the and is thanks to the group is concentrating on developing those areas where it has the strongest strength of its businesses, capabilities and potential for growth.
the experience of its Results and Dividend people and the resilience Adjusted operating profit from of its business model.
It continuing operations, which excludes the trading result and gain on disposal remains soundly funded of the Corporate Finance division, was and well capitalised, and 113.7 million 2008: 127.5 million, an 11% reduction year on year.
Adjusted has successfully avoided earnings per share from continuing the worst effects of the operations reduced 5% to 60.5p 2008: 63.7p and basic earnings per share from financial crisis.
indd 4 1 10 09 10:17:34 Close Brothers Annual Report 2009 5 Basic earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations, which includes the trading result and gain on disposal of t of the he Corporate Finance division, w, wa as 50 s 50.5p.
Basic earnings per share fro om m continuing operations inclu ud des t es th he e impact of exceptional expe ens nses of es of 6 6.. 0 0 million 2008: 9.1 million r re elat lating to ing to restructuring costs, primar ril ily y in the in the Asset Management division n. In.
In aggregate, restructuring me measu asur re es s across the group undertaken in 2 en in 20 008 08 and 2009 have resulted in cos cost s t sa av vi in ng gs s of around 11 million in 200 09 9, o ou ut of a t of a total run-rate of around 13 3 milli millio on n expected to be achieved by t y th he en e end of d of Pr Pre eben Pr ben Pre ebensen 2010.
In 2008 exceptional e ex xp pe ens nses es Ch Chief E ief Ex xe ec cu utive included 4.1 million of res st tr ru uc ct tur uring ing costs and 5.0 million relate ted d to to advisers fees in respect of an of an offer fo fer for r the group.
At the half year, the group als also r o re eco cor rd fide ed d a 19.0 million 2008: nil g go oo od dw wi ill ll impairment charge related to a numb d to a number er of past acquisitions in the A As sset set Management division.
The group retains a sound f fundin unding g position and a strong capital bas lb e. During the year the group has diversified its sources of funding in order to increase the resilience and Divisional Performance flexibility of its funding model, and has The Banking division has had a resilient raised over 1 billion of term retail performance and overall adjusted deposits via its Premium Gold offerings.
operating profit was 54.0 million At the year end the group had a core tier 2008: 74.5 million.
The loan book 1 ratio of 14.8% 31 July 2008: 14.4% increased 6% to 2.4 billion, including The group and total capital ratio of 16.6% 31 July the acquisition of an 80 million 2008: 16.1%.
These ratios are a source premium finance loan book in August of strength in the current environment 2008.
The division is seeing continued retains a sound and give the group good flexibility.
good demand, notably in asset, motor and property finance, and maintained a funding position The board is recommending a strong net interest margin of 9.4% maintained final dividend of 25.5p 2008: 8.6%.
As a result, adjusted and a strong 2008: 25.5p per share in cash, resulting operating income increased 14% to in a total dividend for the year of 39.0p 235.5 million 2008: 207.1 million capital base.
This reflects the although the divisions profit was groups solid performance in the 2009 impacted by an increase in the bad debt financial year and strong capital ratio to 2.6% 2008: 1.3% reflecting the position.
The final dividend will be paid impact of the recession on our borrowers.
on 19 November 2009 to shareholders on the register as at 9 October 2009.
indd 5 30 9 09 18:34:42 30 9 09 18:34:42 6 Close Brothers Annual Report 2009 Overview Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement continued The Banking division continues to apply The Securities division has had an prudent and consistent criteria to its excellent year and the divisions lending decisions, and to focus on adjusted operating profit increased 68% managing credit quality through the to 64.9 million 2008: 38.7 million.
Going forward, the division will be a turbulent market environment, operating under a new structure in Winterflood has strengthened its Going forward, order to more effectively evaluate new position as the leading market-maker to growth opportunities and has been the retail stockbroking industry in the reorganised into four business units: UK.
Winterflood has benefited from the group will Retail, which includes the premium volatility in the markets and increased finance and motor finance businesses: bargains per day to over 42,000 2008: continue to Commercial, which incorporates the 27,000.
This resulted in a doubling of asset finance operations as well as adjusted operating profit to 47.3 focus its invoice finance: Property: and Treasury.
Within each of these units the division activities will be exploring potential opportunities Winterfloods trading performance has for growth, within and outside existing been consistently profitable throughout around its three business lines whilst retaining its niche, the period, with only seven 2008: 14 high margin, expertise based lending loss days out of a total 253 2008: 254 model.
trading days despite the financial core divisions of market turbulence.
In the Asset Management division, Banking, Asset adjusted operating profit reduced 63% Winterflood has continued to increase to 12.0 million 2008: 32.6 million, the trading functionality offered to its Management reflecting difficult financial market clients and now offers smart order conditions.
Closing Funds under routing capability across the major pan and Securities.
Management FuM reduced 17% to European exchanges and the 6.8 billion 31 July 2008: 8.2 billion as Multilateral Trading Facilities such as a result of the deconsolidation of the Chi-X, Turquoise and BATS Europe, in groups three private equity businesses addition to its own pool of internal and negative market movements, while liquidity.
Going forward, Winterflood net new funds were broadly neutral.
The will continue to build on its existing Private Clients business has been franchise and leverage its in-house resilient and achieved positive net technology whilst retaining a strong new funds of 161 million and stable focus on its core retail market.
The groups associate Mako also made a The Asset Management division significant contribution, due to a very continues to focus on the three core good performance in the first half, areas of Private Clients, Funds, and although Close Brothers Seydlers Banking and Administration, and is CBS performance has been muted continuing the process of strategy reflecting difficult conditions in the development and investment to German market.
identify and realise growth opportunities.
The Private Clients In early July 2009 Close Brothers business is looking to leverage its completed the disposal of its Corporate existing offering to the mid-high net Finance division to Daiwa Securities worth market, and is exploring the SMBC Europe for a net consideration of expansion of its discretionary offering 67 million.
through Independent Financial Advisers as well as direct distribution.
In Funds, Going forward, the group will continue the division is focusing on positioning its to focus its activities around its three specialist businesses to take advantage core divisions of Banking, Asset of any upturn in the cycle.
It will also Management and Securities, which are continue to develop the offshore well positioned and have strong Banking and Administration prospects.
The group will be actively business, which provides resilience evaluating the scope for growth and diversification.
opportunities in each of these areas and has been strengthening the functional capabilities at the centre in order to work more closely with each business on strategy development and implementation.
indd 6 30 9 09 18:34:44 30 9 09 18:34:44 Close Brothers Annual Report 2009 7 The group has recently made a number Outlook of senior hires including Tazim Essani, We continue to plan for a challenging group head of corporate development, economic and financial market Elizabeth Lee, general counsel, and environment in the current Rebekah Etherington, group head of financial year.
human resources, all of whom will be joining the Executive Committee.
As In the Banking division, we continue to part of strengthening the groups see good demand for our specialist capabilities the board is also planning to lending services, but we expect bad debts introduce new incentive arrangements.
to continue to run at a high level given the These are described in further detail current economic environment.
in the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration.
In Asset Management, the outlook for fund flows remains uncertain but we Board Changes continue to invest in new business Preben Prebensen was appointed chief initiatives and structuring the business executive of Close Brothers Group with for long term growth.
Preben was previously group chief investment In Securities, Winterflood has had a officer and a member of the group strong start to the financial year with executive committee at Catlin Group good volumes in August and plc.
Prior to that he was chief executive September, but the divisions of Wellington Underwriting plc and held performance will remain sensitive to a number of senior management market conditions.
Overall, market conditions remain Colin Keogh stepped down as chief uncertain but we are confident that our executive in April 2009 after 23 years strong businesses will allow us to with the group and six as chief continue to deliver a resilient executive.
The board recognises Colins performance.
significant contribution throughout his time with the group.
Ray Greenshields was appointed to the board as an independent non-executive director with effect from 13 November 2008.
Ray has been appointed to the Audit, Nomination and Governance and Remuneration Committees.
Peter Buckley, a member of the board for twelve years who retired on 31 December 2007 but remained an alternate director, sadly passed away in December 2008.
