ID4874 Bc AR2009 14. qxp 5 3 10 16:06 Page 10 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW TRADING OVERVIEW 2009 was undoubtedly one of the fiercest economic storms that Bodycote, and indeed most other companies, has endured.
In the face of rapidly declining demand on almost every front, volumes fell at the worst point to nearly 37% below prior year levels.
The storm started to abate in the fourth quarter of the year and the final picture for the whole of 2009 was a year-on-year revenue decline of 116.4m, or 29.6% in constant currencies, to 435.4m.
Aided by significant and rapid restructuring actions, the fall in 1 headline operating profit was contained to 63.2m, so that the year end figure finished at 8.0m 2008: 71.2m, notwithstanding the loss that was incurred in the first half.
This represents an operational gearing of 40%, at constant currencies, well below that exhibited by Bodycote in previous downturns.
The restructuring actions led to an exceptional charge of 25.4m, of which 12.8m was cash and 12.6m was asset write-downs.
In addition, the impairment of goodwill and investments amounted to 31.5m.
The restructuring programme has involved the closure of 25 facilities in total, the permanent decommissioning of some inefficient process lines and mothballing of others at a number of the remaining plants, together with the matching of headcount to demand throughout the organisation.
The benefit has been a cost reduction of 30.4m in 2009 - equivalent to 43.0m on an annualised basis.
In addition to these restructuring actions, all costs were critically examined and reduced where possible, leading to further substantial savings.
The number of employees has been reduced by 29% since the peak in July 2008, to a total of 5,512.
STEPHEN HARRIS The savings achieved from closing or consolidating plants and Chief Executive decommissioning lines are permanent.
Other savings are largely volume related and can be expected to reverse to some degree as volumes rise.
Capital expenditure at 32.2m was well controlled and yielded a capital expenditure to depreciation ratio of 0.6, net of 4.3m of asset sales.
Headline operating cash 1 flow was 34.7m, well above headline operating profit.
The increase in net debt was effectively due to 22.4m of tax paid in the year relating to the disposal of the Testing division that occurred in 2008.
A new 110m debt facility, extending until 2013, was put in place in January 2010, replacing the expiring 2010 facility.
A second facility for $20m, which was also due to expire in 2010 was renewed in February 2010 and also extends to 2013.
The covenant terms are unchanged, and the facilities provide headroom for expansion opportunities.
1 A detailed reconciliation is provided on page 13.
FOCUSED 10 BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS ID4874 Bc AR2009 14. qxp 5 3 10 16:06 Page 11 RESHAPING BODYCOTE THE FUTURE As the restructuring activities have progressed, great care has been Irrespective of the pace of the recovery, in the short term the tighter taken to ensure that operational excellence and customer service business disciplines and more focused capital investment procedures have been maintained and that the business is ready for the upturn.
which were put in place in 2009 will enhance shareholder value in In addition, a detailed strategic review has been carried out that has 2010 and beyond.
The business process improvement and customer enabled us to refine our future strategy and reshape the business service enhancement programmes initiated during the year are another along specific strategic lines.
The Group has now been organised as part of the drive for value creation.
two business areas, each facing a different customer set with different Bodycotes recovery will be driven not only by general global demand characteristics and different requirements.
but also by our own ability to gain market share.
In addition, in the The Aerospace, Defence & Energy ADE business consists of 63 longer term, Bodycote stands to benefit from two trends.
facilities and is organised on a global basis.
It includes the Groups The first is a likely acceleration in the trend for customers to outsource.
aerospace, defence and energy certified heat treatment activities, In 2009 many have seen the problems associated with having high hot isostatic pressing and surface technology services.
The latter two fixed cost thermal processing operations in-house that are entirely of these technologies are predominantly used in the aerospace, defence dependent on their own product throughput.
Outsourcing this type of and energy markets and the total available market is overwhelmingly activity, which is often not core to our customers business, is becoming in these end-user sectors.
a hotter topic as a result of the recession.
The Automotive & General Industrial AGI business consists of The second significant factor that will help to drive Bodycotes business 115 facilities organised into four geographically based sub-divisions.
in the coming years is the growing awareness of environmental The geographic organisation reflects the predominance of local sustainability and the need for carbon reduction.
One of Bodycotes work that is carried out for customers in the automotive and general core competences as specialists in thermal processing is the efficient industrial sectors.
The ability to aggregate work from multiple customers It is worth noting that all of Bodycotes facilities in the emerging and process the work in a more energy efficient way helps reduce markets Eastern Europe, Brazil and Asia, with the exception of the costs for customers and also lowers their aggregate carbon footprint.
facilities in Singapore and Dubai, are part of the Automotive & General Clearly, the key to Bodycotes future success is its employees.
While this does not impede our ability to expand difficulties of 2009 have been demanding, and the Groups employees in the ADE sectors when it is required in these geographies, it does have risen to the challenge that the world economy threw at us and reflect the growth of core manufacturing activities in the emerging moved the business a long way forward, even in the face of adversity.
markets that the AGI customers are driving.
So far, our customers SUMMARY & OUTLOOK from the developed markets in the ADE sectors have moved or are 2009 was a year of transition for Bodycote, with a major cost reduction in the process of moving primarily activities such as assembly to programme implemented, a new strategy defined and the Group these markets.
Little or none of this ADE assembly activity requires reshaped accordingly.
End markets were very challenging with sharply the thermal processing services that Bodycote offers.
lower volumes, the impact of which was addressed by significant cost One of the refinements to the strategy is to be more selective about reductions.
We delivered a headline operating profit for the full year, which emerging markets we pursue, and to drive harder in those more than offsetting the losses incurred in the first half.
As a consequence of this approach, we have consolidated automotive and general industrial markets have already started to recover our facilities in India into one from three and have exited Thailand.
but we do not expect the aerospace, defence and energy markets to The small associate venture in Thailand was sold back to the original strengthen until later in 2010.
The pace of recovery remains uncertain owners in late 2009. and potentially uneven.
We anticipate that full recovery in demand may In total, the new divisional structure allows the Company to take several years.
This notwithstanding, we enter 2010 with a reshaped discriminate much more readily between different types of customer business and renewed vigour.
needs and to focus activity and investment in a more deliberate way.
In keeping with the new organisational structure, the executive committee has been expanded from five to nine members with the addition of two new global Divisional Presidents, a Director of Human Resources and a Director of Business Development.
S. C. Harris Chief Executive 25 February 2010... the tighter business disciplines and more focused capital investment procedures which were put in place in 2009 will enhance shareholder value in 2010 and beyond BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 11
