F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 06 Business Review Chief Executives report Bu Busi sin ness ess Rev Reviiew ew Go Gov ver ern nan ance ce F Fiin nan anci cial al S St tat atemen ement ts s S Sh har areh eho ollder der IIn nfo for rmat matiio on n Chief Executives report levels.
At 31 December some 55 per cent of our assets Alain Grisay Chief Executive under management were in Euro-denominated portfolios.
Net revenues, of 225 million, remained relatively stable 2008: 230 million.
While net investment management fees were some 18.6 million lower, performance-related management fees increased to 18.7 million 2008: 7.9 million on the back of strong investment performance.
Underlying operating costs were 5.7 million lower reflecting the cost reduction measures implemented at the start of the year, which were partially offset by the acquired cost base of REIT Asset Management.
The Group made an underlying profit after tax, excluding foreign exchange gains and losses, of 28.3 million 2008: 37.3 million.
This resulted in underlying earnings per share of 5.8 pence 2008: 7.6 pence.
The Group also recognised a number of exceptional and non-recurring items.
These included the gain on debt refinancing, corporate advisory costs, and the exceptional employment costs of implementing our cost reduction programme.
Market Overview On a statutory basis our profit after tax was 18.7 million 2009 was a year in which the world's major economies compared to a loss of 50.6 million in 2008. endured the worst recession since the 1930s.
Despite this, investors in financial markets benefitted from a remarkable Statement of Financial Position rally in both equities and bonds.
Even accounting for The Group closed the year with 186 million of shareholder significant equity market declines in the first quarter, the cash reserves and net debt of some 79 million.
FTSE 100 Index returned a 27.3 per cent gain during 2009 and investment grade bonds produced their best returns in In the second half of the year we took advantage of a decade.
prevailing conditions in the subordinated debt markets and executed an exchange offer to existing holders of our Notwithstanding the scale of the rally since March, the subordinated loan notes.
This enabled bondholders to average level of the FTSE 100 Index during 2009 was 4568 exchange part of their subordinated notes for new points compared to 5363 points during 2008, a reduction guaranteed notes, and the Group to raise 25 million of of 14.8 per cent.
Consequently, 2009 was another tough additional finance.
As a result of this transaction we were year for asset managers as lower average market levels fed able to repay 25 million of vendor loan notes issued in through to reduced management fee revenues.
relation to the acquisition of REIT Asset Management in Against this challenging market environment, F&C 2008, and to reduce gross and net debt by some 30 continued to make progress in the implementation of its million.
strategy with strong investment performance and good progress with investment consultants.
Strategic and Operational Review Our strategy is to develop the Group as a leading multiFinancial Results specialist asset manager, focused on delivering a With a diversified asset base, F&Cs assets under competitive range of investment products, supported by management are less exposed to equity markets than excellent client service, for a broad range of insurance, some of our peers.
We were relatively defensively institutional, wholesale and retail investors.
We are on a positioned during the sharp equity market declines in 2008, long-term journey to diversify beyond our traditional core and thus were more limited in our participation in the equity business mix by expanding our presence across multiple recovery during 2009.
We ended the year with assets client segments in specialist business areas which offer under management of 97.8 billion, broadly flat on the year scaleable, high growth potential.
Over the year, the strengthening of Sterling against the Euro had an adverse impact on our assets under management, partially mitigating the recovery in market F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 07 Business Review Chief Executives report Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Groups product strategy has three distinct pillars: environmental, social and governance services, emerging market debt, emerging equities, equity-linked Advisory and client solutions servicing strategic bond funds, and commercial property.
clients with solutions including liability matching, fiduciary management, governance overlays, asset We generated 2.5 billion of new institutional business allocation and risk-profiled products during the year and had a further pipeline of mandates that were won but awaiting funding of 1.4 billion at the Alpha investing active portfolio management across year end.
Institutional outflows were at their lowest a range of traditional and alternative asset classes level since the merger of F&C and ISIS in 2004, Responsible investing developing our strong reducing significantly from prior year levels to 4.8 market presence in the management of ethical and billion 2008: 7.6 billion.
responsible investment products Third-party mutual fund sales OEICs and SICAVs of 710 million were down 31 per cent from the peak We will seek to add scale and enhance our product set and levels achieved in 2008.
In particular, due to our fund distribution capabilities both organically and through range we did not participate in the strong industry acquisitions.
We believe that the acquisition of REIT Asset preference in 2009 for investment grade corporate Management has demonstrated our ability to acquire and bond products.
preserve the value of entrepreneurial businesses.
We will therefore look to build on this model with further Infrastructure The major infrastructure projects acquisitions should we find them to be attractive, value initiated as part of our three-year plan have now been creating opportunities that can be structured to minimise completed.
These include the consolidation of our disruption to the business.
operations on to a single platform and the upgrading of our Decision, Risk and Dealing systems to support our Business Developments investment teams.
Three years ago we initiated a fundamental restructuring of the business.
This aimed to improve investment F&C REIT Asset Management performance, build our distribution capability, expand our F&C REIT, our property asset manager, was accretive to presence in specialist investment areas and enhance our the Groups underlying earnings per share in its first fullinfrastructure to support future growth.
We are pleased to year as part of the Group.
report that the three-year objectives that we had set ourselves for core investment performance and Property investment performance was strong during 2009. infrastructure development have been, in the main, The aggregate of all F&C REIT property portfolios achieved.
New business wins did not reach our targets monitored by Investment Property Databank IPD ranked largely because of elements outside of our control: two F&C REITs UK performance in the 8th percentile.
All three years of unexpected ownership uncertainty and the impact closed ended listed UK commercial property vehicles of the market turmoil.
managed by the Group outperformed the IPD Quarterly Index throughout the year.
The following was achieved by the end of 2009: Outlook Investment Performance Overall investment Despite the sharp recovery in asset prices during 2009, the performance was strong across all asset classes during economic outlook for 2010 remains uncertain.
On an asset weighted basis we outperformed public debt is forcing governments to take tough action in agreed benchmarks or targets on 71 per cent of the form of spending cuts and tax rises.
These measures, actively managed equity portfolios and 94 per cent of combined with the winding down of stimulus packages, actively managed fixed income portfolios.
As reported also have the potential to choke off economic recovery.
below, 2009 was also an excellent year for property We therefore remain cautious in our short term market investment performance, where all our funds outlook and will continue to rigorously manage our cost outperformed their benchmark.
performance resulted in a 137 per cent increase in performance fees compared to the previous year.
With both private investors and pensions schemes needing Mutual funds and other pooled funds represent a to rebuild capital, the business is well positioned for an minority of our assets under management with the upturn in fund flows.
majority of portfolios in insurance funds and segregated accounts.
Our overall pooled fund performance, while competitive in a number of specialist areas, does not yet reflect the strong outperformance delivered for our institutional and insurance clients.
Improvements in Alain Grisay pooled fund performance are therefore a priority for the Chief Executive business in 2010.
31 March 2010 Distribution Since the end of the uncertainty over our ownership we have made good progress with institutional investment consultants, the prerequisite to winning new mandates.
At the year end we had a record 43 consultant ratings, spanning a number of products including liability driven investments, F& F&C C A As ss set et Manag Management ement A An nn nu ual al Repo Repor rt t an and d F Fiin nan anci cial al S St tat atemen ement ts s 2 20 00 09 9 8 08BB us us ines ines s sOR ver evi vi ew ew Ou Wr el v co alu me es:fr to hm e fo thu e nC dat hai iorn man s of excellence Bu Busi sin ness ess Rev Reviiew ew Go Gov ver ern nan ance ce F Fiin nan anci cial al S St tat atemen ement ts s S Sh har areh eho ollder der IIn nfo for rmat matiio on n Client focus Our values: the foundations of excellence F& F&C C A As ss set et Manag Management ement A An nn nu ual al Repo Repor rt t an and d F Fiin nan anci cial al S St tat atemen ement ts s 2 20 00 09 9 9 09BB us us ines ines s sOR ver evi vi ew ew Ou Wr el v co alu me es:fr to hm e fo thu e nC dat hai iorn man s of excellence Bu Busi sin ness ess Rev Reviiew ew Go Gov ver ern nan ance ce F Fiin nan anci cial al S St tat atemen ement ts s S Sh har areh eho ollder der IIn nfo for rmat matiio on n F&C is a service business.
Each employee needs to excel in everything we do for our clients, adding value and building relationships.
