BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review Group chief executives review Performance has been restored and about their motivation and skills.
The results the group is competitive with the from our 2009 employee survey con rm industry once again, so what that employee morale is improving as our priorities have you now set for BP?
Our priorities have remained absolutely We have placed greater emphasis on consistent safety, people and performance organizational quality, which is about driving and you can see the results of this focus continuous improvement in our leadership with improvements on all three fronts.
and culture, skills and capability, and systems This year we have increased emphasis on and processes.
We have redesigned the way operational ef ciency, with a particular focus we manage and reward people to incentivize on compliance and continuous improvement.
We are simplifying the Ef ciency, Achieving safe, reliable and compliant organization and freeing people to do their operations is our number one priority and jobs.
We are placing particular value on deep the foundation stone for good business.
specialist skills and technical expertise, and momentum This year we achieved a reported recordable are developing and recruiting the excellent injury frequency of 0.34, an improvement of professionals we need to ensure a 20% over 2008.
In Re ning and Marketing sustainable future for the group.
and growth reported major incidents have been reduced by 90% since 2005.
All our operated How is this focus translating into re neries and petrochemicals plants now performance in Exploration and Tony Hayward Group Chief Executive operate on the BP operating management Production?
26 February 2010 system OMS, which governs how BPs 2009 was an outstanding year.
Reported operations, sites, projects and facilities are production grew by 4% and unit production Highlights managed.
In Exploration and Production 47 costs were down by 12%.
We are now the Progress on safe and reliable operations.
of our 54 sites completed the transition to largest producer in deepwater elds globally.
Real momentum in growing our businesses.
OMS by the end of 2009, and I expect all BP In the Gulf of Mexico we ramped up Continued focus on ef ciency and improvement.
operations to be on OMS by the end of 2010. production at Thunder Horse to more than This represents good progress and we must 300,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Production started from Atlantis Phase 2, 2009 saw the continuation of dif cult Dorado and King South.
And in September economic conditions and a volatile energy Why are you putting such strong we announced the Tiber discovery, the market, with rising demand for oil in emphasis on operational ef ciency?
deepest oil and gas discovery well ever non-OECD countries failing to offset lower In 2009 we invested $20 billion in our drilled.
These successes make us the largest levels of consumption in OECD countries.
Oil prices began the year at $36.55 per businesses and realized more than $4 billion producer and leading resource holder in the b barrel and recovered to $77.67 per barrel in cash cost savings, of which approximately deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
Re ning margins and gas 40% related to foreign exchange bene ts During the year we also shipped prices fell sharply.
Despite these dif cult and lower fuel costs.
Within an organization the first cargo of lique ed natural gas LNG conditions, a revitalized BP kept up its of our scale, putting a long-term commitment from the Tangguh project in Indonesia, and momentum and delivered strong operating to ef ciency at the heart of the group is we brought first gas onstream at Savonette, and financial results while continuing to essential to improving earnings, year after Trinidad & Tobago, in record time.
We also focus on safe and reliable operations.
Our challenge is to maintain a relentless gained access to new resource opportunities Replacement cost pro t for the year was focus on continuous improvement, making in Iraq, Egypt, the Gulf of Mexico, Indonesia, $14 billion, with a return on average capital today better than yesterday, so that we Jordan and onshore US.
We entered Iraq a employed of 11%.
continue to drive the business forward through a contract to expand production whatever the market conditions.
a from the Rumaila eld near Basra, one of the The return on average capital employed on a replacement basis is the ratio of replacement cost pro t before interest largest oil elds in the world.
Working with expense and minority interest but after tax, to the average What does the focus on ef ciency partners China National Petroleum Company of opening and closing capital employed.
Capital employed is BP shareholders interest, plus finance debt and minority and continuous improvement mean CNPC and the Iraqi State Oil Marketing interest.
Organization SOMO, we intend to grow Better performance starts and ends with the production in Rumaila from approximately actions of individuals and I want to thank our 1 million barrels per day to 2.85 million employees for the commitment they showed barrels per day.
Our performance speaks volumes Overall, 2009 was the 17th b consecutive year of delivering reported Cash costs are a subset of production and manufacturing expenses plus distribution and administration expenses.
reserves replacement of more than They represent the substantial majority of the expenses in 100%.
Our success in adding reserves these line items but exclude associated non-operating items and certain costs that are variable, primarily with volumes and resources gives us con dence in our such as freight costs.
They are the principal operating and ability to grow oil and gas production.
overhead costs that management considers to be most directly under their control although they include certain foreign exchange and commodity price effects.
6 Business review Revitalizing BP Tony Hayward discusses priorities, results and continuous improvement with employees at BPs International Centre for Business and Technology, Sunbury, UK.
greenhouse gases of 80% or more relative to conventional transport fuels.
We have focused our wind business on the US, where a we now have more than one gigawatt of spinning power generation capacity.
In solar, we are repositioning our manufacturing footprint to lower-cost locations, principally India and China.
And in carbon capture and storage, we are investing in two major projects one in California, the other in Abu Dhabi.
In 2009 we saw further challenges for international oil companies in terms of generating growth and achieving access, together with the continued strong emergence of national oil companies.
BP has always operated at the frontiers of the energy industry and our core strengths are more relevant and valuable than ever.
BPs experience, skills, capability, technology and access to markets enable resource What progress are you making The world must meet growing holders to maximize returns over the long in Re ning and Marketing?
demand for energy in a sustainable term.
We continue to show our ability to take The transition to full OMS status across all way: what role will BP play in this on and manage risk, doing the dif cult things our operated re neries and petrochemicals energy evolution?
that others either cant do or choose not to plants is a major milestone, and oil spills and We are looking to build a future energy do.
This is why we are able to form such recordable injuries are at the lowest levels for industry that provides energy that is strong relationships with governments and 10 years.
So, Im pleased with the progress available, sustainable, secure and affordable.
national oil companies and why we continue made on safety and we have made very For BP, supporting the transition to a lowto have a critical role to play in supplying the strong progress on operational performance carbon economy has several dimensions.
world with its future energy needs.
in a year when re ning margins were hit First, we are improving energy ef ciency In a world of increasing energy hard by recession.
Re ning availability is in BPs own operations through close demand and growing technical challenges, up around 5% on 2008 and we have restored performance monitoring.
We are also I believe BP will continue to set itself apart our performance so that it is once again developing more ef cient products such by operating and succeeding at the frontiers competitive with our supermajor peers.
as BP Ultimate fuels and Castrol lubricants.
We saw a really competitive Second, we are promoting a greater a On a gross joint-venture basis which includes 100% of the performance from our international role for natural gas as a key part of the capacity of equity-accounted entities where BP has partial businesses in 2009.
We are building strong energy future.
Gas is easily the cleanest ownership.
Including BPs share of joint ventures on a net basis, the capacity was 711 megawatts.
positions in the petrochemicals market in burning fossil fuel and is ef cient, versatile China and we are continuing to enhance and abundantly available.
We are also our six integrated fuels value chains around including a cost of carbon in investment the world to maximize ef ciency and appraisals for all new major projects to allow Speeches by Tony Hayward pro tability.
It is critical that we keep driving informed investment in fossil fuels and to bp.
com speeches ef ciencies through the businesses while encourage development of the technology growing our positions in the most valuable needed to reduce their carbon footprint.
And nally, we are investing in our low-carbon businesses.
Since 2005 we have invested more than $4 billion in Alternative Energy, with our activity focused on four key areas.
We are investing in advanced biofuels, which are low cost, scalable and sustainable, and can provide reductions in 7
