Chief Executives Statement We are pleased to present our final results for the year ended 30 June 2009.
These figures should be reviewed in the light we were a year ago.
We think investors are the result of referrals from existing clients.
Within this shell-shocked and most believe they already Many businesses in our sphere view the accounting period the UK financial system have enough invested to benefit if this Retail Distribution Review RDR as a was close to breaking point, a situation market rally is sustained.
We count ourselves which resulted in the loss of public fortunate that we could comply with most of confidence in all parts of the financial sector.
Our strategy will therefore be no different the provisions of the RDR immediately, and Investment businesses suffer during any than it has been for most of this decade.
the few exceptions without much effort or inclement investment climate.
Similarly Rather than solely asking our clients to cost.
We are therefore positive and believe these conditions destroy investor commit new money we are continuing to that when the confidence in the markets confidence.
The FTSE 100 Index at the encourage existing clients to transfer the becomes more sustained, we are as well financial year end, 30 June 2009, was remainder of their assets into Vantage placed as any business in our sphere and approximately 40% lower than its peak at the Vantage is our investment platform which considerably better positioned than the beginning of the millennium 9 years prior.
holds and values clients investments giving majority.
A bear market not experienced since the them a first class administration system for 1930s.
managing their portfolios and to find new Summary clients who will transfer their existing The FTSE All-Share Index is probably the investments into Vantage.
Investors can A significant portion of our earnings is based most representative of the assets that we transfer their ISAs, SIPPs and investments on the value of our clients investments at hold, and that index was some 24% lower at held outside those tax wrappers.
On these dates in the year end than it had been at the start of the year under review the average level of our financial year.
This has a seriously One material loss of income will be the the FTSE 100 was approximately 4490. deleterious effect on the assets on which we return we make on cash balances.
This was Currently the index stands at 5134 as at derive much of our earnings.
This was on tailing off during the financial year under 21 09 09.
Should the market remain at the back of a decrease in the All-Share Index review but the current financial year will these levels or improve this will go some way of 16% in the previous year ended 30 June bear the brunt of this loss of revenue.
towards offsetting our reduced return on 2008.
It was difficult to find anywhere cash deposits.
where investors could have made money A positive point is that low interest rates are during the accounting period under review, also causing savers to consider other homes We continue to capture market share and we other than gilts and overseas government for their deposits which should eventually are well positioned for the RDR.
We have bonds where on the back of sterlings benefit us.
Similarly the population has been vigilant in containing recurring costs decline UK investors enjoyed a currency once again become a net saver.
Initially this and my team are still showing the innovative bonus too.
Fortunately our clients had will manifest itself in paying down debt but flair they have exhibited over the years.
We negligible exposure to property, which on will eventually result in investment.
are seeing definite signs that the citizens of the whole would have done worse than the UK have a more positive attitude almost any equity investments during that The economic climate will affect all parts of towards saving.
We are a market leader in period.
When you judge our trading results our business.
However as more and more ISAs, and the increased ISA allowance will in this light we can justly claim to be proud investment advisory businesses cease to certainly benefit the group.
trade or fail to service their clients properly, we benefit as investors seek our services.
We The year ahead will be a challenging one but Outlook and Strategy believe that this is resulting in us improving I have every confidence that the directors our market share.
Internally the ideas flow and staff of Hargreaves Lansdown will be Twelve months ago we felt the outlook for has not subsided and our team remains more than up to that challenge.
markets was gloomy and from the current enthusiastic and motivated.
We should be levels things dont look much better today.
able to capitalise on the malaise within most Peter Hargreaves The only certainty is that we must be twelve of our competitors.
It is interesting to note Chief Executive Officer months nearer the revival of markets than that a major source of leads for new clients is 22 September 2009 7 Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2009
