Risk management of insurance Manuals.
The control framework for monitoring risk operations includes the Group Insurance Risk Committee, Audited which oversees the status of the significant risk categories in the insurance operations.
Five subHSBC operates a bancassurance model which committees report to the Committee, focusing on provides insurance products for customers with products and pricing, market and liquidity risk, whom the Group has a banking relationship.
credit risk, operational and insurance risk.
Insurance products are sold to all customer groups, mainly utilising retail branches, the internet and All insurance products, whether manufactured phone centres.
Personal Financial Services internally or by a third-party, are subjected to a customers attract the majority of sales and comprise detailed product approval process.
Approval is the majority of policyholders.
provided by the Regional Insurance Head Office or Group Insurance Head Office depending on the type HSBC offers its customers a wide range of of product and its risk profile.
The process consists insurance and investment products, many of of an analysis of the inherent risks of a product, which complement other bank and including but not limited to market risk, credit risk, consumer finance products.
insurance and pricing risk and regulatory risk.
Certain products, for example those of a particularly Many of these insurance products are complex nature or those providing a guarantee, are manufactured by HSBC subsidiaries.
The Group reviewed by the Product and Pricing Committee as underwrites the insurance risk and retains the risks part of the approval process.
The committee and rewards associated with writing insurance comprises the heads of the relevant risk functions contracts, retaining both the underwriting profit and within insurance and sits at both regional and Group the commission paid by the manufacturer to the bank Insurance levels.
distribution channel within the Group.
When the The processes and controls employed to monitor Group chooses to manage its exposure to insurance each risk are described under their respective risk through the use of third-party reinsurers, the headings below.
associated revenue and manufacturing profit is ceded to them.
HSBCs exposure to risks associated with The main contracts manufactured by HSBC are manufacturing insurance contracts in its subsidiaries as follows: and its management of these risks are discussed below.
Life insurance business Audited Where the Group considers it operationally more effective, third parties are engaged to Life insurance contracts with discretionary manufacture insurance products for sale through participation features DPF allow HSBCs banking network.
The Group works with a policyholders to participate in the profits limited number of market-leading partners to provide generated from such business, which may take the products.
These arrangements earn HSBC a the form of annual bonuses and a final bonus, in commission.
addition to providing cover on death.
Certain minimum return levels are also guaranteed.
The HSBCs bancassurance business operates in all largest portfolio is in Hong Kong.
six of the Groups geographical regions with over 30 legal entities, the majority of which are Credit life insurance business is written to subsidiaries of banking legal entities, manufacturing underpin banking and finance products.
Management of these insurance policy pays a claim if the holder of the loan is manufacturers set their own control procedures in unable to make repayments due to early death addition to complying with guidelines issued by the or unemployment.
This is headed by Annuities are contracts providing regular HSBCs Managing Director of Insurance, supported payments of income from capital investment for by a Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial either a fixed period or during the annuitants Officer and Chief Risk Officer.
The role of Group lifetime.
Payments to the annuitant either begin Insurance Head Office includes forming and on inception of the policy immediate annuities communicating the strategy for insurance, setting the or at a designated future date deferred control framework for monitoring and measuring annuities.
insurance risk in line with Group practices, and drawing up insurance-specific policies and guidelines for inclusion in the Group Instruction 265
