CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW The importance of a consistent business strategy that delivers in bad times as well as good has never been more amply demonstrated than over the past year.
Paul Adams Chief Executive Sustainable growth in troubled times These cost savings enabled the Group to OUR STRATEGY The first decade of the 21st century has been offset the impact of higher leaf prices and characterised by both boom and bust and, other input costs due to adverse foreign in 2009, the world found itself in the grip exchange rates, and our overall operating of the deepest global recession since the margin increased from 30.7 to 31.4 per cent 1930s.
Tough times indeed, with investors in the year.
ACHIEVE LEADERSHIP OF THE GLOBAL TOBACCO INDUSTRY and consumers alike looking for stability In further support of our 800 million target, amid the turmoil of financial uncertainty we have initiated a major programme to help and rising unemployment.
GROWTH PRODUCTIVITY RESPONSIBILITY us take better advantage of our global scale The importance of a consistent business and simplify and accelerate the execution of strategy that delivers in bad times as well our strategy.
WINNING ORGANISATION as good has never been more amply Sustainability agenda demonstrated than over the past year.
While Sustainability, for us, means business our volume was up 1 per cent, our revenue sustainability, as well as being green.
in constant currency improved by 10 per cent, In 2009, we continued to focus on our due to favourable pricing conditions and the established agenda of harm reduction, the resilience of our Global Drive Brands GDBs Our strategy to deliver our vision is based marketplace, our supply chain, our impact Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Strike and Pall Mall on growth, productivity, responsibility on the environment and our people, and our which grew by a combined 4 per cent.
Our 2009 Sustainability Acquisitions continue to play a part in our Report will be published in May 2010 read the VISION: To achieve leadership of the global growth strategy.
Tekel and Skandinavisk report online at www.
Tobakskompagni ST, both acquired in midGROWTH: Increasing our volume and The right working environment 2008, were fully integrated into the Group in value share of the global tobacco market We conduct a global employee opinion survey 2009, contributing to our overall growth in through organic growth and mergers and every two years.
The last one, in 2008, found volumes.
During 2009, we acquired Bentoel acquisitions.
that 87 per cent of our people were proud in Indonesia, giving us a stronger position PRODUCTIVITY: Effectively and efficiently to be associated with our organisation and in the fourth largest cigarette market in the deploying our global resources to increase 90 per cent said they understood how their role world and enabling us to enter the distinctive profits and generate funds to reinvest in contributed to the achievement of the Groups kretek segment.
The next survey will be held in 2010.
Productivity driving profit RESPONSIBILITY: Balancing our commercial Industry outlook objectives with the expectations of a broad Productivity savings represent released Global economy range of stakeholders, thus ensuring a resources that can be reinvested in the While most commentators are forecasting sustainable business.
business and drive profit growth.
Savings in improving economic conditions in 2010, supply chain, general overheads and indirect WINNING ORGANISATION: Ensuring we unemployment is likely to worsen in costs amounted to 239 million in 2009.
We have the right people and the right work developed countries and we would expect environment to deliver our vision.
are firmly on track to achieve our 800 million some level of adverse consumer response in per year savings target by 2012.
06 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Business review Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
However, some developing competitors, representing anything up to GROUP NUMBERS 2009 markets have been less affected by the global 12 per cent of world consumption.
Thats recession and are likely to see a measure a black market estimated at up to 660 billion of economic recovery and lower levels of cigarettes a year, losing governments up to unemployment in the year ahead.
Some 30 billion a year in tobacco taxes.
40,713 million two-thirds of our revenue comes from We support the development of the World developing markets.
GROSS TURNOVER INCLUDING DUTY, Health Organisations Framework Convention EXCISE AND OTHER TAXES Sales of our premium brands remained on Tobacco Control protocol aimed at creating reasonably resilient in 2009, driven by an international regulatory framework for our commitment to innovation, and we are addressing illicit trade.
However, we are well placed to meet the needs of consumers, increasingly concerned that some of their whether they are down-trading in times of other guidelines, especially those relating to 14,208 million recession, or up-trading as situations improve.
significant excise increases, retail display bans Our volume is still approximately one-third and plain packaging, are playing into the REVENUE in each of the premium, mid-price and hands of organised crime by creating fertile low-price segments.
conditions for further growth in illicit trade.
Tobacco regulation Managing risks 4,461 million It is important for us to maintain channels Each of these areas could represent a risk to of communication with regulators globally.
As shareholders can see from We believe there is much to be gained by our review of the key Group risk factors, we ADJUSTED PROFIT FROM OPERATIONS including responsible tobacco businesses that regularly monitor their potential impact and a compete in the legal market in the regulatory number of controls are in place to ensure that, process and we remain in dialogue with many where possible, they are carefully managed.
Competitive landscape World consumption Excluding China, our principal competitors are ADJUSTED DILUTED EARNINGS Forecasts suggest that the world market Philip Morris International, Japan Tobacco and PER SHARE is likely to remain fairly stable at 6 trillion Imperial Tobacco.
British American Tobacco cigarettes, one-third of which are sold and these three companies account for around in China.
Trends indicate that individual 70 per cent of the market outside China.
smokers will consume fewer cigarettes each 112 million Our corporate activity in 2009 has been and smaller percentages of populations will confined to relatively small acquisitions, such smoke.
However, offsetting these trends, the RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT as Bentoel in Indonesia, rather than the large number of adults in the world over the age EXPENDITURE scale, transformational deals that have seen of 20 continues to grow.
significant consolidation in our marketplace Volume declines have been evident in a in recent years.
number of markets in 2009 and we expect 724 billion The future global volumes to remain under pressure Its tough out there.
We estimate that the global legal that and the next few years may be just as GROUP CIGARETTE VOLUMES, market, excluding China, fell by 3 per cent EXCLUDING ASSOCIATES turbulent in the marketplace as the last two or in 2009, compared to its long-term trend three have been.
However, we wont change of declining by 1-1.5 per cent each year.
Our strong brand portfolio with Pricing has remained positive, however, and a balance of products across price segments the global profit pool is expected to continue and geographies has allowed us to deliver to grow.
In many key markets, legal volumes consistent growth year on year, whatever the have been affected as consumers move to trading conditions.
With the right products illicit products.
and the right people, working hard to ensure Illicit trade our strategy is executed effectively and ever The illicit trade in tobacco products more efficiently, I look forward to many smuggled, counterfeit or tax-evaded in other successful years ahead for our business.
ways is in effect one of our major global Directors report: Business review British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 07
