ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 16 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW THESE ARE RESILIENT RESULTS AGAINST THE BACKDROP OF THE MOST EXTRAORDINARY FINANCIAL UPHEAVALS EXPERIENCED ACROSS THE GLOBE DURING THE PAST 12 MONTHS.
Our goal is to be the leading global intermediary and post-trade services provider in the wholesale OTC markets.
We aim to have at least a 35% share of overall interdealer market revenues and generate 50% of our operating profit from electronic broking.
Strategy There are three components to our strategy: R expanding our leading voice broking business both organically and by acquisition: R growing our leading electronic broking business both in existing products and by developing new markets: and R developing our post-trade businesses to provide innovative Michael Spencer services that enable our customers to reduce their costs, risks and increase their efficiency, return on capital and capacity ICAP Group Chief Executive Officer to process trades.
Our strategy ensured that ICAP was well positioned to weather the turbulent markets of the past year.
It also placed us in a good position to take full advantage of the likely restructuring of the financial markets.
Delivering on our strategy We have identified several markets we believe to have considerable structural growth potential over the next three to five years.
It is in those focus areas that we have been investing primarily to expand our voice broking business emerging markets, credit, cash equities and equity derivatives and commodities, including shipping.
We have during the year: R launched our cash equities business in Europe, North America and Asia: R established our domestic Brazilian business: R acquired the equity derivatives broker, Link: and R integrated Capital Shipbrokers, a leading tanker broker.
Excludes amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
17 ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements ICAP is diversifying its revenue base.
This year the proportion of ICAPs revenue derived from businesses acquired or started in the previous three years increased again to a very healthy 28%, Key achievements 2008 09 up from 20% in the previous financial year.
In addition to our Expanded our business in the key focus areas including acquisitions, we maintained our commitment to the future growth of the business by investing 44 million in new organic initiatives R completed the successful integration of in our focus areas during the year.
We will continue to invest in the Link equity derivatives business: these and other opportunities in the coming year to support R launched our cash equities business with 76 staff in the long-term growth of the business.
This has had an impact Europe, North America and Asia: on margins but we believe the current environment presents an excellent opportunity to accelerate the development of R established our domestic Brazilian business: our business.
R continued ICAPs expansion into the shipping markets with We maintained our focus on costs and took advantage of a the acquisition and integration of Capital Shipbrokers: number of opportunities in both voice and electronic broking R in addition to our acquisitions, invested 44 million in to reduce annualised costs by 38 million: costs were reduced new organic initiatives: this year by 15 million and in 2009 10 will be reduced by a further 23 million.
These savings partially offset the continuing R further expansion in post-trade services Traiana, investment in the new focus areas described above, many of which Reset and TriOptima: are still in their development phase.
R extended the coverage on our electronic ICAP and the changing landscape broking platforms: and We believe ICAP is well positioned to take advantage of the R generated 9% adjusted basic EPS growth for our trends emerging from the recent financial crises.
short-term interest rates and capital rebuilding by the banks will, in due course, restore confidence in the financial markets.
However, the period of turbulence, as banks and other financial Strategic priorities for 2009 10 institutions restructure to address asset disposals and reduce costs and leverage, is likely to continue through the rest Continue investing in the key focus areas of this year.
R further expansion in post-trade services: In their recent results, the major banks have demonstrated that R extend the new product coverage on our electronic the high volume flow markets have provided strong revenues.
broking platforms: and Furthermore, banks and their customers continue to use derivatives R generate superior EPS growth for our investors.
as the most efficient way to manage their risks.
It is these flow and derivative markets that form the core of ICAPs business.
Our continued investment in both the voice business and electronic broking platforms is designed to capture the benefits of this trend.
On both sides of the Atlantic, politicians and regulators are examining changes to the operation and regulation of the OTC Volumes in electronic broking began to slow in November from markets to ensure that the infrastructure is as robust as possible.
the very high levels of the prior year, but overall have stabilised They are calling for a stronger regulatory framework for OTC since then.
Our market position in both FX and fixed income remains derivatives markets, improved access to information for regulators, very strong and there is potential for volumes to grow with increased efficiency and the reduction of credit risk through the increased government bond issuance.
Our reported revenue for expansion of clearing.
electronic broking has increased by 19% to 324 million, primarily as a result of the strong performance from post-trade services.
The solution to current problems in financial markets does not The operating profit margin was maintained at 39%, despite lie in attempting to mandate the transfer of OTC trading on to investing in the development of Traiana, a key component of exchanges, as politicians and regulators understand.
Clearing our post-trade services offering.
Over one third of ICAPs houses already operate very effectively in many OTC markets and OTC markets themselves play a different role to exchange operating profit is now derived from electronic broking traded markets.
They are much larger than exchange markets and and post-trade services.
provide vital, flexible risk management tools, their use benefiting governments, corporations, investors and individuals worldwide.
Furthermore, a mandated exchange solution needlessly grants the exchange a monopoly on trade execution, and often clearing, to the detriment of the market as a whole.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 18 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW CONTINUED We welcome the further development of central counterparties In voice broking markets, competitive strength is a function clearing houses for those OTC markets that do not already of longstanding customer relationships, coherent asset operate in such a manner.
Approximately 60% of ICAPs class coverage and, increasingly, the speed and efficiency transaction volume derives from markets where clearing already of  that is normally provided or exists.
Historically, we have seen volumes increase substantially facilitated by ICAP as a free ancillary service in conjunction in markets where clearing is introduced, mainly as a result with voice broking.
of the reduction in the costs and risk of doing business.
In the past year, market share among the leading interdealer ICAP is an equal member of a consortium of a number of brokers continued to consolidate as our customers rationalised leading financial institutions that has collectively made a cash their voice broking relationships to achieve economies of scale, offer for LCH.
a process that increased in pace due to the difficult market The majority of OTC derivatives are already traded using conditions.
ICAP is well positioned in this market and our revenue standardised documentation and the US Department of Treasury per voice broker increased during this period.
In electronic broking has called for the movement of these trades on to regulated markets, our key competitive advantages are: depth of available transparent electronic trade execution systems and regulated liquidity, breadth of the electronic network and established exchanges.
We believe the migration of trading of interest-rate customer connectivity.
Our networks are also highly scalable, swaps, credit derivatives and other OTC derivative markets to offering scope for functional enhancement and delivery of new electronic execution platforms would be a great step forward: we innovative products.
have proven systems to take these markets electronic, improving Our competitors in post-trade services are widely dispersed and market efficiency and auditability.
ICAP is a regulated business there are no businesses with the scale, technology or connectivity and we have many years experience of operating electronic covering the segments in which we operate.
Our post-trade trading systems in global markets, integrated with independent operations have significant growth capacity and can be leveraged clearing and settlement facilities.
We fully expect to have across different asset classes throughout their trading life cycle competition in electronic trade execution of OTC derivatives and, to reduce further risk and improve operational efficiency in given our previous investment in installing these technologies, the wholesale financial markets.
we are in a strong position to be successful.
In the past year, volume growth at the major financial and The demands for improvements in the efficiency of post-trade commodity exchanges in the US and Europe has slowed either processing and for reductions in the capital allocated to existing in line with or more than the corresponding OTC markets, positions are providing significant opportunities for ICAP to expand demonstrating the often symbiotic relationship between the our range of post-trade processing and risk management services.
A valuable illustration was our announcement, just after the end Our people of the financial year, of our new joint venture with CLS Group As a people business, a key attribute of our management is our using technology provided by our subsidiary Traiana, through its ability to attract and retain the highest quality staff.
The new business addresses the back office continued to expand successfully, both organically and by acquisition, strains created by the rapid increase of trading volumes in FX by and once again we have seen a substantial growth in the number a widening group of hedge funds, algorithmic traders, retail and of ICAP staff, to more than 4,300.
My thanks go to them all, institutional market participants.
It will provide trade aggregation to our executive management team and to my fellow directors, services to reduce operational risk, rationalise and consolidate for their individual and collective contributions to ICAPs legacy post-trade processes and reduce post-trade costs.
of banks has committed support to the joint venture including Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, J. P. Morgan and The Royal Bank of Scotland.
Charity Day ICAPs Charity Day has, for the past 16 years, raised very significant Competitive environment revenues which are donated to charities chosen by our staff round We operate in a robustly competitive environment and we have the world.
In December 2008 we raised an amazing 11 million further consolidated our position as the leading interdealer broker in one day an incredible achievement, particularly in the current by a clear margin.
The wider definition of our markets, which we introduced last year, includes interdealer broking markets in interest rates, credit, commodities including shipping, FX, equities and emerging markets together with markets such as i post trade.
Markets like global cash equities and financial futures remain separate from this broader definition, although ICAP does act as an executing broker in all the largest equity and financial $12.6 BILLION futures markets.
By our estimates, the size of ICAPs available market has grown by 3% to $12.6 billion.
On this basis ICAP ICAPs estimated available market in 2009, excluding cash currently estimates its share of this market to be 21%23%.
Our target is to increase this share to 35%.
19 ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements market environment.
I would like to thank our customers, staff and supporters who made Charity Day 2008 such a fantastic Business drivers success, helping many people round the world with their efforts.
ICAP is a growth company and it is now more important Dividend than ever that we continue to invest in supporting and Our business is highly cash generative and the post-tax profit tends to equate to free cash flow, which grew to 296 million, facilitating this growth.
The recent financial crisis has an increase of 64 million over the previous year.
As a result we resulted in severe macroeconomic and financial market are able to continue to invest in the growth and development dislocations, however long-term trends continue to of the Group and to increase the dividend paid to shareholders: favour ICAPs business.
Factors that support this growth the directors recommend a final dividend of 12.35p per share and provide new opportunities for our business include to be paid on 21 August 2009 to shareholders on the register R instability in currencies, interest rate and credit markets on 17 July 2009 making a total dividend of 17.05p per share leading to price volatility and forming the basis for for the year, an increase of 9%.
further growth in interest rate and credit derivatives, FX, In order to give shareholders greater flexibility and the commodities and listed financial markets: opportunity to elect to receive new ordinary shares in ICAP, we will be seeking authority at the annual general meeting to R the overall commitment of bank and hedge fund capital introduce a scrip dividend scheme.
The scrip dividend scheme to trading in these markets: gives shareholders the opportunity to elect to receive a share R increasing use of derivatives to efficiently manage and alternative to any cash dividend declared by the Company hedge risk exposure to changes in interest and FX rates, including this years final dividend.
commodity and other price fluctuations: Looking ahead R the substantial increase in government and corporate We entered this period of financial instability with a very clear bond issuance as a result of liquidity concerns in global strategy and are well positioned to take advantage of the significant markets: restructuring of the financial services industry that is taking place and the changes that will happen in our customers business R reallocation of capital to commoditised flow markets models.
Increased focus on reducing the overall level of risk in and the structural shift away from complex structured the global financial markets by improving market infrastructure products: offers particular opportunities for our post-trade business.
This R increased regulatory pressure on financial market environment also creates new opportunities for an un-conflicted, participants to overhaul market infrastructure, reducing independent agency broker like ICAP in areas such as equities and futures.
systemic and operational risk by improving back office procedures and introducing centralised clearing of OTC It seems likely that developments in the global financial markets traded products: this year will continue to be dominated by regulators and the banks: as the former demand increased oversight of the wholesale R increased regulatory pressure for electronic trading, financial markets, clearing of OTC derivatives and improved best execution and price transparency with the transparency and the latter reallocate the risk capital committed associated audit benefits: to both their buy-side and sell-side business.
The extra regulatory R continued liberalisation of emerging markets and oversight should enable improvements in both the operational development of on and offshore interest rate, FX and and capital efficiency of the infrastructure that supports trading, credit markets in these countries: and resulting in reduced costs and other commercial benefits.
R overall demographic shift towards emerging markets.
We operate in a robust competitive environment in all of our markets worldwide and expect these conditions to prevail.
There is potential for further consolidation of market share among Overall, reduction in risk capital, increased regulatory interdealer brokers as traders concentrate their business in the oversight and the increased demand for improved largest, deepest and most reliable liquidity pools.
operational and capital efficiency in global financial We are keeping our focus on costs and are taking advantage of a markets provide attractive opportunities for ICAP.
number of opportunities to reduce overheads.
These savings will partially offset our continuing investment in opportunities to build our business, both by attracting high quality people and acquiring some assets at attractive prices.
The Group continues to be highly cash generative to support these investments and benefits from a strong balance sheet.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 20 GLOBAL EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT GROUP 1 3 2 4 The Global Executive Management Group consists of the four executive directors of ICAP and six members of senior management and meets six times a year.
1 Michael Spencer 3 Mark Yallop Group Chief Executive Officer Group Chief Operating Officer He was the founder of Intercapital in 1986 and became Chairman and Chief He was appointed on 13 July 2005 and is chairman of the group risk committee.
Executive of Intercapital in October 1998, following the Exco Intercapital merger.
He had previously been Group Chief Operating Officer of Deutsche Bank Group, He is deemed, with IPGL and its subsidiary INFBV, to have an interest of 21.32% following many years involvement in trading in the derivatives, foreign exchange in ICAP plc.
IPGLs other interests include City Index Limited and investments in a and cash markets.
He was also a director of ISDA from 1996 to 1998.
Aged 49. variety of other financial services companies.
Michael Spencer was non-executive Chairman of Numis Corporation plc from April 2003 until his resignation in May 2009.
In February 2007, he was appointed the Conservative Party Treasurer.
Chief Executive Officer of ICAP Electronic Broking 2 Matthew Lester He was appointed on 15 May 2008.
In addition to electronic broking and ICAPs Group Finance Director information business, he is responsible for strategic acquisitions.
He has more than 30 years experience in the interdealer broking industry.
Prior to his full-time He was appointed on 13 September 2006 and is chairman of the finance committee.
involvement with ICAP, he was a non-executive director of ICAP plc from 1998 Previously he worked for Diageo plc in a number of senior finance roles, most to 2002.
He was previously the Chief Executive Officer of Tullett and Tokyo Forex, recently as Group Financial Controller.
He is a Chartered Accountant and a member now part of Tullett Prebon, where he worked from 1978 to 1997 in Toronto, of the main committee of The 100 Group of Finance Directors.
21 ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements 5 8 6 9 7 10 5 David Casterton 8 Douglas Rhoten Chief Executive Officer of ICAP London and EMEA Chief Executive Officer of ICAP Americas Since June 2008 he has been responsible for all voice broking, technology and He is also a director of SIF ICAP, ICAPs joint venture in Latin America.
He is a support functions in London and EMEA.
Prior to joining ICAP in 1995 he was with founding member of The Green Exchange and a former member of the US Federal MW Marshalls and Guy Butler International.
Reserve Bank Foreign Exchange Committee.
6 Kim Rosenkilde 9 Ron Purpora Chief Executive Officer of ICAP Asia Pacific President of ICAP North American Securities With effect from 1 January 2009 he has been responsible for all voice broking and He also serves as President of First Brokers Securities, a subsidiary of ICAP.
support management in the region.
Prior to joining ICAP in September 2008, he held Within the industry he serves as a board member of the Depository Trust Clearing a number of positions at ABN Amro, most recently as Chief Executive Officer and Corporation and a member of its HR compensation committee.
He is a director of Country Executive Japan and Head of Global Markets, North America.
He has 23 the Securities Industry and Financial Market Associations primary dealer committee.
years of experience in fixed income and currency trading and risk management.
10 David Rutter 7 Stephen McDermott Deputy Chief Executive Officer of ICAP Electronic Broking Chief Operating Officer of ICAP Americas Prior to joining ICAP in 2003 he was a significant shareholder in Prebon.
His tenure He was, until March 2008, an executive director of ICAP plc.
He oversaw the at Prebon began in 1988 and he served in various capacities including Global Chief integration with EBS and the interface between the Groups voice and electronic Executive Officer of Prebon Energy and Managing Director of the Americas.
He was appointed a director of the US operations in December served on several corporate boards of entities in the e-commerce field.
1995 having joined the foreign exchange business of Garban in 1986.
He is also a board member of Columbia Universitys Executive Masters of Science and Technology Management.
