IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Chief Executives Report 17 Our growth has been driven by strong account opening.
Our financial businesses opened over 74,000 accounts during the year, up from 43,000 Chief Executives Report Against a backdrop of chaos in financial markets worldwide, the reason we have attained the position of market leader in so and a severe global recession, we have achieved good levels of many of the countries in which we operate.
growth in revenue and earnings per share.
Our revenue grew by During October we saw extreme volatility, the collapse in share 40% this year, but that includes the impact of acquiring FXOnline price of many banking stocks and a severe market crash.
This Japan KK FXOnline part way through the year.
Organic growth, resulted in a high incidence of doubtful debts within our client excluding the impact of FXOnline, was 25%.
For the year as a whole our doubtful debt charge was earnings per share increased by 22% statutory diluted earnings 18.2m, with over 80% of this charge arising in the first half.
We per share increased by 10%.
continue to pursue all of the outstanding debts vigorously and This growth was driven by strong account opening.
Our financial we are beginning to achieve some recovery of amounts initially businesses opened over 74,000 accounts during the year, fully provided for.
compared to 43,000 in the previous year.
After October we changed our approach to managing credit We have made good progress on our two key strategic objectives risk.
The introduction of the close-out process provides a safety of continuing to grow our market-leading UK business and net, closing out client positions before they owe us money.
replicating that UK success internationally.
Over the last three Since we made these changes we have seen a second collapse years, we have progressed from operating in only two countries, in the prices of banking shares in January and a significant fall the UK and Australia, to having offices in 11 countries worldwide.
in global equity markets in late February and early March.
Both Over those three years we have grown revenue for our UK of these severe market events provided a good test for our new financial business by 32% per annum compound.
Three years approach to credit risk management and we incurred almost no ago only 17% of our revenue came from outside the UK: in the doubtful debts in either.
This approach not only provides us with second half of this year this proportion had risen to 47% and our protection from doubtful debts, but it also serves to protect and non-UK businesses accounted for half of all accounts opened in preserve our client base by reducing client losses.
IG Index has long been recognised as the leader in the UK UK spread betting market.
This year IG Markets established a Our UK financial business, which includes clients residing outside market leading position in Contracts for Difference CFDs in the UK who choose to transact through the UK office, achieved many of the countries in which we operate.
Of particular note, revenue of 150.6m, an increase of 9%.
This sub-divides into independent market research has just confirmed that we are growth in spread betting of 15% and a fall of 3% in CFDs, the now the most widely used primary CFD provider among active latter revenue principally driven by the reduced activity of a CFD users in Australia.
Our approach differs from that of some subset of the client base who trade long-only equity positions.
We quote our CFD clients the underlying Throughout the year we saw a progressive shift in mix between market price and offer near-instantaneous execution, with new clients for spread betting and CFDs, with an increasing around 99% of client orders accepted.
Unlike some of our proportion of new accounts opened in the UK being for CFDs competitors we do not re-quote and we are the only spread rather than spread betting.
betting or CFD provider other than our own white label partners to offer Price Improvement whereby the benefit of We have a programme of continual improvement of all of our any significant favourable price movements in the market websites and have recently undertaken a complete redesign of between order and execution is passed on to clients.
g that this approach, of high quality, transparent, fair execution, is Investment Trends June 2009 CFD report IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 18 Chief Executives Report evolves.
Our experience elsewhere in the world is that there is Europe significant price elasticity in forex, with volumes increasing as During the year we extended our coverage in Europe, opening spreads reduce.
The evidence so far suggests that the same is a small satellite office in Luxembourg and marketing into true in Japan.
Portugal from our office in Madrid.
Together our European offices produced revenue of 30.2m, an increase of over 300%.
As we have previously announced, the Japanese FSA undertook a In each of France, Spain and Italy we have established a very period of public consultation on proposals to restrict leverage for clear market lead.
This consultation period has ended and the FSA are now assessing the responses.
We expect that within the By the end of the year our European offices were contributing next few weeks they will announce the final form which any rules 13% of the Groups monthly revenue.
to restrict leverage may take.
Prior to the consultation period, the FSA indicated that they intended that restrictions would not come into force for at least a year, and not fully for two years.
This Australia and Singapore extended implementation timetable, if confirmed, will give us Our Australian business achieved revenue of 27.9m, up 12%.
The year ended strongly, with monthly revenue in April and A major objective in buying this business was to acquire a May higher than in any previous month of the year, despite platform from which to launch CFDs and binary options in significantly lower volatility.
Japan, a country with a Revenue for Singapore very active speculative was 9.5m, more than four trading culture.
We Our Australian business achieved times the level achieved launched these products revenue of 27.9m, up 12% in the previous year.
Our progressively between Singapore office has the late March and early May.
highest rate of account opening of any of the offices we have Early take up has been encouraging and last month these new established in the last three years, an impressive achievement products contributed more than 5% of our revenue from Japan.
when considered relative to population.
The importance of these products has been recognised by existing online brokers and we are in discussions with several parties about establishing white label relationships.
We are Japan currently the only provider of binary options in Japan and one We acquired FXOnline Japan KK FXOnline in October 2008.
In of only a handful of CFD providers.
We are at a very early stage its first eight months under our ownership it achieved revenue of but I believe we are well positioned to become a leading player 28m and the acquisition was earnings enhancing.
in these markets as they develop.
FXOnlines existing retail forex business faces challenges.
The competitive landscape has shifted significantly in the US last few months, with a number of competitors actively We achieved revenue of 2.3m in the US compared to 48k in marketing spreads of 1 pip or less on the most popular currency the previous year.
The majority of the revenue came from our US pair $.
To counter this competitive threat we moved to a retail forex business, IG Markets Inc, which started to trade shortly variable spread model at the beginning of June, so that we go before the beginning of the financial year.
as low as 0.9 pip when underlying market spreads are tight.
This change has had some beneficial impact on volume and In December 2007 we acquired HedgeStreet, a US based, revenues, but the feedback we have had indicates that Japanese CFTC-regulated, exchange.
Since then we have been clients prefer a fixed spread model.
Within the last few weeks progressively extending the range of contracts trading on the we began to introduce lower fixed spreads progressively across exchange and have adapted our PureDeal dealing platform to the client base, initially targeting some larger clients who had provide the front-end for members to trade on the exchange.
left us to obtain lower spreads elsewhere.
The early indications This development work culminated in the re-launch of the are that this has had a beneficial impact on revenues.
The speed exchange last month under the new name Nadex, the North and reliability of our dealing platform mean that we are well American Derivatives Exchange.
Nadex offers two types of equipped to compete in this low spread environment and we contract: binary options, which have an all-or-nothing payout, will continue to adapt our offering as the competitive landscape and spreads, which have a variable payout.
Both types of IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Chief Executives Report 19 contracts are offered on equity index futures, forex, precious We have made encouraging progress in each of our newer metals and commodities: binary markets are also offered on offices and they all have scope for significant further growth.
Nadex is unique in that members Our main focus for the coming year will be on maximising the of the public in the US can, at no cost, become a member of the recruitment, conversion and retention of clients in each of exchange and then trade on it directly on its website, nadex.
the countries in which we operate.
Our US product range now includes contracts analogous to the Alongside our direct offering to retail clients we continue to most popular markets that we offer elsewhere.
While we were develop our network of introducers and white label partners.
developing the product range and new front-end we did little This network provides us with access to established pools marketing for the exchange.
Now that the Nadex offering is of clients on a revenue sharing basis, with no cost of client complete we have, over the last few weeks, begun to increase acquisition.
We have established white label partnerships marketing and public in a number of countries relations activity.
Our in recent months and are research indicates that in discussions with several We have made encouraging there is a gap in the more potential partners.
We market in the US for a expect these partnerships to progress in each of our newer offices simple, limited risk, easily become a more significant accessible way of trading source of revenue in the the financial markets.
The early reaction we have had from coming year.
We continue to develop the tools to allow our exchange members and the press has been encouraging.
partners to offer our services in a variety of different ways.
Sport Current trading and outlook Our sports business, which represents less than 4% of group The new financial year has started well, despite subdued revenue, saw a 24% decline in revenue to 8.7m.
This fall was market volatility.
It remains difficult to predict future trends mainly attributable to the loss of a number of larger clients, in volatility or customer reaction to changing market and who have curtailed their sports betting activity in the current economic conditions.
We face challenging comparatives in economic environment.
the first half of this year, particularly in the second quarter, as our revenue last year was boosted by the volatility caused by Towards the end of the year we combined our two sports websites the extraordinary market events of September and October.
and re-launched them with a new dealing interface under the extrabet.
com website is unique in offering This has been a challenging year for most businesses, sports spread betting, fixed odds and binary betting from a single including ours.
However, I believe we emerge from it platform.
With all three forms of betting, the client has the ability in good health, with improved risk management and a to close out a bet so as to lock in a profit or mitigate a loss before strong competitive lead.
Our longer-term growth trajectory the end of the event.
Client and press reaction to the new site and continues to be underpinned by good levels of account dealing interface have been overwhelmingly positive and the early opening and I remain confident about the prospects for the signs are that we are achieving greater take up of sports spread coming year.
n betting by new clients as a result.
Future developments Over the last three years our main focus has been on Tim Howkins, Chief Executive, 21 July 2009 extending our geographic reach and we now have businesses in most of the major economies worldwide where regulation permits us to operate.
We will open an office in Sweden within the next few months.
We are not currently planning further office openings, but will continue to monitor regulatory and other developments in a number of potential markets.
