U07039 1030 p3-5:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:08 Page 4 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Directors report review of the business Chief Executive Ofcers statement Three years after launch, 2.2 million customers have joined Sky Broadband and Sky is a business which embraces change: we look for opportunities, we invest Sky Talk now has 1.9 million customers, of whom almost half also take our line and we grow.
Our approach is based on identifying trends in the marketplace rental product.
Overall, 16% of our customers now choose Sky for all three of which will develop over time, and on using those trends as tailwinds to drive TV, broadband and telephony, compared with 11% a year ago.
We believe there our growth.
In doing so, we aim to create a larger, more profitable business and is significant potential for further growth, as more of our existing customers create significant value for shareholders.
respond to the quality and savings we offer.
Many times over the last 20 years, Sky has shown that it is prepared to take risks For a number of years, we have seen an emerging opportunity in the shift and adapt.
By doing so, weve been able to keep moving forward to meet towards HD and have been positioning our business to take advantage, using consumers changing needs, such as with the transition from analogue to our high-bandwidth satellite platform to assemble the UKs best HD content digital broadcasting or our belief in the potential of digital video recorders such offering by far.
In January 2009, we decided to accelerate the growth of Sky HD, as Sky.
in part by passing on cost savings achieved in our supply chain following the acquisition of Amstrad.
Around 1,000 new jobs were created in our service and The pace of change is accelerating, not slowing down.
In the last three years, we installation teams to meet anticipated demand at the new everyday low price of have made significant changes to align further our business with long-term 49 for a Sky HD box.
The response from customers has been huge, with the trends in the marketplace.
We entered the communications sector and total number of Sky HD customers more than doubling to 1.3 million since the challenged the established providers with the quality and value that has made start of the financial year.
Sky the UKs fastest-growing broadband and home phone provider.
And we made an early commitment to high denition HD television that helped us to HD represents a highly attractive investment opportunity for Sky and we remain achieve a clear leadership position from which we have gone on this year to put focused on extending our leadership even further going forward.
HD at the centre of our strategy.
Our confidence in the continued growth of pay TV reects customers growing The consequence of this continuous change is that our business today is focused willingness to pay for the content they value.
During 2009, weve continued to around two distinct legs of growth.
First, we continue to grow our overall invest in high-quality programmes to satisfy existing customers and create more customer base by attracting new customers to Sky and, second, we are reasons for people to subscribe.
increasing take-up of additional products among our existing customers.
In each We have identied drama and the arts, for example, as two genres where we of these areas, we see a substantial opportunity.
can reach out to new audiences, meeting needs that are increasingly less well Our results show that this clear, consistent strategy is working.
Sky today is of a served by free-to-air broadcasters.
Weve doubled our arts output by expanding dramatically different size and shape compared with three years ago.
Since the Sky Arts portfolio to include four dedicated channels with an average reach 2006, our total number of customers has increased by 15%.
of around 1.5 million viewers each month.
Sky1, our agship entertainment channel, is stepping up its commitment to original UK drama with critically In addition, there has been a step-change in the volume of activity, with total acclaimed productions such as Martina Coles The Take and Skellig.
In acquired annual product sales rising almost threefold to more than 7 million in 2009. content, House is the latest example of a quality US drama that has moved to Sky1, while Sky Movies has acquired the rights to the forthcoming HBO drama Whereas three years ago a large majority of customers took our standard The Pacic, the follow-up to the hugely successful Band of Brothers.
television product, customers are now choosing Sky for more products than ever.
Today most of our customers choose to control their viewing with Sky Sky Sports has had an outstanding year, with live coverage of events such as the and our new products in HD, broadband and home telephony have grown Ryder Cup, the UEFA Champions League, the British and Irish Lions tour of rapidly to scale.
It is testament to the capability within Sky as an organisation South Africa, the US Open, and crickets ICC World Twenty20, and customers can that we have been able to diversify and expand our business in such a short look forward to more live Barclays Premier League football for the three seasons period through organic growth.
Looking back at our performance during 2009, we have continued to achieve While focusing hard on our strategic priorities in customer-facing areas, we strong growth in a tough economic environment.
While these are difficult times have continued to seek operational efficiencies behind the scenes.
Lower costs for many customers, our experience is that people are making careful choices in our supply chain and administrative functions have allowed us to reinvest in and spending money on the things they really care about.
We know that they areas where customers see value, such as Sky HD, high-quality content and value the products that we offer: quality entertainment for the whole family: customer service.
increased control and exibility in how they watch: the superior picture and sound quality of HD: and great-value broadband and phone services.
This puts us This approach has allowed us to deliver a strong financial performance despite in a good position, particularly when people are spending more time at home.
the upfront cost of strong demand for our products and a number of cyclical headwinds.
Group revenue exceeded 5 billion for the first time in 2009, rising While there is no room for complacency, our results for the last year are by 7% to 5.323 billion on an adjusted basis.
Adjusted operating profit evidence that the quality and value of our offering are resonating with increased by 4% to 780 million and free cash ow rose by 25% to customers.
In terms of overall customer numbers, the rate of growth 474 million.
The Company is in a strong financial position and we are focused accelerated year-on-year to reach its highest level for five years.
In our second leg of growth, we continue to see increasing demand from The issue of consumer trust in business has risen in prominence following the existing customers to take more from us and our HD, broadband and home banking crisis and its impact on the broader economy.
As customers become telephony products all passed significant milestones this year.
increasingly careful about the companies they do business with, we believe that reputation will become even more important.
4 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report 2009 U07039 1030 p3-5:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:08 Page 5 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% At Sky, we recognise that being a responsible business is a vital component of long-term, sustainable success.
Were committed to doing the right thing in the way we operate and to working with our people and our customers to play our part in the communities in which we live and work.
Our focus is on three areas where we believe we can make a positive difference: helping to create a healthy environment by tackling climate change: encouraging participation in sport: and opening up the arts to more people.
This year, we have helped customers to reduce their energy use by extending our pioneering auto-standby feature to all active Sky boxes, a move that we believe will save around 20 million in energy costs each year, as well as 90,000 tonnes of CO.
In our broadcasting business, were working with independent 2 producers to make television production more energy-efficient and were building a broadcasting facility on our west London campus that will be the most sustainable of its kind anywhere in Europe.
In sport, weve renewed our support for the ECBs Coach Education Programme, which has already trained 13,000 cricket coaches.
Working with the Youth Sport Trust, weve opened up the Sky Sports Living for Sport initiative to all UK secondary schools, with the aim of using sport to help even more young people to overcome problems at school.
Through our partnership with British Cycling, weve set an ambitious goal of getting one million more people cycling regularly within five years.
A programme of mass-participation Skyride events will take place in cities across the UK and, to provide inspiration, we have announced the creation of Team Sky, a professional road racing team with the ambition of creating the first British winner of the Tour fide France.
As well as expanding our Sky Arts channels, weve continued our off-screen support for the arts through our partnerships with the Hay Festival, English National Ballet and English National Opera.
In addition, weve committed to extend our Sky Arts At initiative, to bring increased exposure to arts organisations across the UK, and formed a new partnership with the UKs leading public arts company, Artichoke.
Our first joint project with Artichoke is Antony Gormleys One and Other on Trafalgar Squares Fourth Plinth, with more to come next year.
Sky is a company which makes a positive and growing contribution to life in the UK and Ireland.
Continuing to invest in our brand and reputation is one of the ways in which we will build trust in our business, reach out to new customers and lay the foundations for long-term, sustainable success.
Our people, as always, are the key to achieving that success.
I would like to pay tribute to their contribution over the last year and thank them all for their commitment, energy and creativity.
The opportunity for Sky is substantial.
I am confident that we have the capability to continue to grow our overall customer base, while encouraging existing customers to take a broader set of products from us.
By delivering on our plans and remaining focused on customers, we have the potential to build a larger, more durable business and create significant value for shareholders.
Jeremy Darroch Chief Executive officer British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 5 Annual Report 2009
