Chief Executives statement In addition, there has been a step-change Sky is a business which embraces in the volume of activity, with total annual change: we look for opportunities, product sales rising almost threefold to we invest and we grow.
Our approach more than seven million in 2009. is based on identifying trends in the marketplace which will develop over Whereas three years ago a large majority of customers took our standard television time, and on using those trends as product, customers are now choosing Sky for tailwinds to drive our growth.
In doing more products than ever.
Today most of our so, we aim to create a larger, more customers choose to control their viewing with profitable business and create Sky and our new products in HD, broadband significant value for shareholders.
and home telephony have grown rapidly to scale.
It is testament to the capability within Many times over the last 20 years, Sky has Sky as an organisation that we have been able shown that it is prepared to take risks and to diversify and expand our business in such adapt.
By doing so, weve been able to keep a short period through organic growth.
moving forward to meet consumers changing needs, such as with the transition from analogue Looking back at our performance during 2009, to digital broadcasting or our belief in the we have continued to achieve strong growth potential of digital video recorders such as Sky.
While these are difficult times for many customers, our The pace of change is accelerating, not slowing experience is that people are making careful Jeremy Darroch down.
In the last three years, we have made choices and spending money on the things they Chief Executive significant changes to align further our business really care about.
We know that they value the with long-term trends in the marketplace.
products that we offer: quality entertainment We entered the communications sector and for the whole family: increased control and challenged the established providers with the flexibility in how they watch: the superior quality and value that has made Sky the UKs picture and sound quality of HD: and greatfastest-growing broadband and home phone value broadband and phone services.
And we made an early commitment puts us in a good position, particularly when to high definition HD television that helped people are spending more time at home.
us to achieve a clear leadership position from which we have gone on this year to put HD at the centre of our strategy.
We have continued to achieve The consequence of this continuous change strong growth in a tough is that our business today is focused around economic environment.
two distinct legs of growth.
First, we continue to grow our overall customer base by attracting new customers to Sky and, second, we are While there is no room for complacency, our increasing take-up of additional products results for the last year are evidence that the among our existing customers.
In each of quality and value of our offering are resonating these areas, we see a substantial opportunity.
In terms of overall customer numbers, the rate of growth accelerated yearOur results show that this clear, consistent on-year to reach its highest level for five years.
Sky today is of a dramatically different size and shape compared with three years ago.
Since 2006, our total number of customers has increased by 15%.
04 B ritish Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Review 2009 In our second leg of growth, we continue to see HD represents a highly attractive investment increasing demand from existing customers to opportunity for Sky and we remain focused 9.442m take more from us and our HD, broadband and on extending our leadership even further Total Sky TV customers home telephony products all passed significant going forward.
Our confidence in the continued growth of Three years after launch, 2.2 million customers pay TV reflects customers growing willingness 5.323bn have joined Sky Broadband and Sky Talk now to pay for the content they value.
During 2009, has 1.9 million customers, of whom almost weve continued to invest in high-quality Adjusted Group revenue half also take our line rental product.
Overall, programmes to satisfy existing customers and 16% of our customers now choose Sky for create more reasons for people to subscribe.
all three of TV, broadband and telephony, We have identified drama and the arts, for 25.9p compared with 11% a year ago.
We believe example, as two genres where we can reach there is significant potential for further Adjusted earnings per share out to new audiences, meeting needs that are growth, as more of our existing customers increasingly less well served by free-to-air respond to the quality and savings we offer.
Weve doubled our arts output by expanding the Sky Arts portfolio to include four dedicated channels with an average reach Overall, 16% of our customers of around 1.5 million viewers each month.
now choose Sky for all three of TV, Sky1, our flagship entertainment channel, is broadband and telephony, compared stepping up its commitment to original UK drama with critically acclaimed productions with 11% a year ago.
such as Martina Coles The Take and Skellig.
In acquired content, House is the latest example of a quality US drama that has moved to Sky1, For a number of years, we have seen an while Sky Movies has acquired the rights to the emerging opportunity in the shift towards HD forthcoming HBO drama The Pacific, the followand have been positioning our business to take Andy Murray, US Open 2008, Sky Sports HD up to the hugely successful Band of Brothers.
advantage, using our high-bandwidth satellite platform to assemble the UKs best HD content Sky Sports has had an outstanding year, offering by far.
In January 2009, we decided with live coverage of events such as the Ryder to accelerate the growth of Sky HD, in part Cup, the UEFA Champions League, the British by passing on cost savings achieved in our and Irish Lions tour of South Africa, the US supply chain following the acquisition of Open, and crickets ICC World Twenty20, Amstrad.
Around 1,000 new jobs were created and customers can look forward to more in our service and installation teams to meet live Barclays Premier League football for anticipated demand at the new everyday low the three seasons from 2010 11 to 2012 13. price of 49 for a Sky HD box.
The response from customers has been huge, with the total number of Sky HD customers more than doubling to 1.3 million since the start of the financial year.
Ross Kemp Return to Afghanistan, Sky1 HD B ritish Sky Broadcasting Group plc 05 Annual Review 2009 Chief Executives statement Continued While focusing hard on our strategic priorities This year, we have helped customers to reduce in customer-facing areas, we have continued their energy use by extending our pioneering to seek operational efficiencies behind the auto-standby feature to all active Sky boxes, scenes.
Lower costs in our supply chain and a move that we believe will save around 20 administrative functions have allowed us to million in energy costs each year, as well as reinvest in areas where customers see value, 90,000 tonnes of CO.
In our broadcasting 2 such as Sky HD, high-quality content and business, were working with independent customer service.
producers to make television production more energy efficient and were building This approach has allowed us to deliver a a broadcasting facility on our west London strong financial performance despite the campus that will be the most sustainable upfront cost of strong demand for our products of its kind anywhere in Europe.
Antony Gormleys One and Other, Sky Arts and a number of cyclical headwinds.
Group revenue exceeded 5 billion for the first time In sport, weve renewed our support for the in 2009, rising by 7% to 5.323 billion on ECBs Coach Education Programme, which has an adjusted basis.
Adjusted operating profit already trained 13,000 cricket coaches.
Working increased by 4% to 780 million and free with the Youth Sport Trust, weve opened up cash flow rose by 25% to 474 million.
The the Sky Sports Living for Sport initiative to all Company is in a strong financial position and UK secondary schools, with the aim of using we are focused on delivering increasing returns.
sport to help even more young people to overcome problems at school.
The issue of consumer trust in business has risen in prominence following the banking Through our partnership with British crisis and its impact on the broader economy.
Cycling, weve set an ambitious goal of getting As customers become increasingly careful one million more people cycling regularly within about the companies they do business with, five years.
A programme of mass-participation Sky News award-winning coverage of the we believe that reputation will become even Skyride events will take place in cities across Mumbai terror attacks in November 2008 more important.
the UK and, to provide inspiration, we have announced the creation of Team Sky, a At Sky, we recognise that being a responsible professional road racing team with the business is a vital component of long-term, ambition of creating the first British winner sustainable success.
Were committed to doing of the Tour fide France.
the right thing in the way we operate and to 1.5m working with our people and our customers Total monthly audience reach of Sky Arts channels to play our part in the communities in which At Sky, we recognise that we live and work.
Our focus is on three areas being a responsible business where we believe we can make a positive difference: helping to create a healthy is a vital component of long-term, 13,000 environment by tackling climate change: sustainable success.
encouraging participation in sport: Cricket coaches trained through our partnership with the ECB and opening up the arts to more people.
06 B ritish Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Review 2009 As well as expanding our Sky Arts channels, What Sky is about weve continued our off-screen support for the arts through our partnerships with the Creating choice Hay Festival, English National Ballet and English We believe that bringing choice to National Opera.
In addition, weve committed more people is a fundamentally to extend our Sky Arts At initiative, to bring good thing.
Its not just about increased exposure to arts organisations across more, its about better.
the UK, and formed a new partnership with the UKs leading public arts company, Artichoke.
Our first joint project with Artichoke is Antony Gormleys One and Other on Trafalgar Squares Putting customers first Fourth Plinth, with more to come next year.
Building long-term relationships means putting customers first, understanding their needs and being responsive to what they say.
The quality and value of our offering are resonating with customers.
Fuelling passions Our channels exist to fuel the passions Sky is a company which makes a positive of more than nine million families.
and growing contribution to life in the UK and To entertain, excite and inspire.
Continuing to invest in our brand and reputation is one of the ways in which we will build trust in our business, reach out to new customers and lay the foundations for long-term, sustainable success.
Pushing boundaries Always moving forward and changing Our people, as always, are the key to achieving things for the better.
I would like to pay tribute to their innovation, from the simplicity of contribution over the last year and thank them Sky to the brilliance of HD.
all for their commitment, energy and creativity.
The opportunity for Sky is substantial.
I am confident that we have the capability to continue Seeing the bigger picture to grow our overall customer base, while Weve always been about the small encouraging existing customers to take a screen, but we also see the bigger broader set of products from us.
We understand that a on our plans and remaining focused on successful and sustainable business customers, we have the potential to build is a responsible business.
a larger, more durable business and create significant value for shareholders.
Making talent shine Meeting our ambitions for customers and our business rests on the people at Sky.
So we employ the best and make sure they can give their best.
Read on to find out more... B ritish Sky Broadcasting Group plc 07 Annual Review 2009
