Chief Executive Officers review Overview The 2009 global recession was the first faced by our business and, as we expected, we were negatively impacted.
Our profit reduced and we needed to restructure our business in Hungary, but we continued to report a good level of profit.
We have John Harnett proven our business model to be cash generative and resilient.
Chief Executive Officer We enter 2010 with a strong, profitable business and a good foundation for future growth.
Entering 2009, we had prepared for the impending impact of the global recession.
We focused on credit control, cost management and managing cash flow.
Credit controls were substantially tightened, management focused on collections quality Quarterly profit before taxation rather than growth, and both borrowings and costs were reduced.
The outturn from continuing operations 2008 and 2009 m for the year clearly reflects both the recessionary external environment and the focus of management action: Customer numbers, receivables and revenue 34.6 31.8 remained relatively flat but profit before tax from continuing operations reduced by 19% to 61.7 million 2008: 76.3 million.
Impairment costs increased by 20.0 17.6 18.218.0 37.1 million 31% but were largely offset by a reduction in agents commission 6.3 costs of 8.0 million 9% and other costs of 23.2 million 5%.
Finance costs increased by 5% reflecting the increase in funding costs since October 2008.
8.5 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Several years of investment in people, training and infrastructure are required before new markets reach the scale and maturity needed to earn a profit.
2008 2009 Our operations in the developing markets of Mexico and Romania made good progress on this journey during the year, with start-up losses from the two markets combined reduced to 2.1 million 2008: 16.5 million.
Mexico passed the 500,000 customer milestone and reported its first annual profit and Romania reached 164,000 customers and reported a much reduced loss.
We expect these markets to make a growing and significant contribution to the results of the Group in the medium-term and this performance is, therefore, very encouraging.
The greatest impact of the recession was in Central Europe and, as a result, profit from our established Central European markets reduced by 29.5 million 28% from 106.0 million in 2008 to 76.5 million in 2009.
Each of our Central European markets was badly affected by the recession in the first quarter of the year but as economic conditions stabilised and the actions we had taken in late 2008 gained traction, collections performance, credit quality and profitability improved.
Amongst the Central European markets our customers in Hungary were the most severely affected by the recession and this led to a sharp and sustained reduction in credit quality for almost a third of our 300,000 Hungarian customer base during the first half of 2009.
As a result, impairment levels rose sharply and the market became loss making.
In response, we removed agent service from about 80,000 poor paying customers and passed them to our centralised debt recovery team.
In June and July we substantially reduced our headcount and cost base to a level commensurate with the reduced customer base.
All affected employees were provided with appropriate redundancy packages and career advice.
These actions, alongside continued tight credit controls, returned the Hungarian business to profit for the second half of the year and leave it well placed to rebuild its customer numbers and profitability over the medium-term.
12 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 Directors report: Business review The closure of our pilot test of the Russian market reflected slower growth than we would have expected but we believe this largely reflected consumer caution Our actions returned the during a period of recession, rather than a lack of underlying demand for our Hungarian business to service.
However, we reached the conclusion that the cost of continuing the profit for the second half pilot for a potentially long period whilst market conditions returned to normal of the year and leave was too great and that in the near-term our resources would be better used it well placed to rebuild in the development of our existing markets.
Taking our business model to new, its customer numbers emerging markets remains a key element of our strategy and we will look to and profitability over enter new markets when conditions are right.
We have made significant progress with the programme of work to improve the quality, efficiency and consistency of execution of our business model.
Collectively the programme is known as Excellence in Execution.
Our aim is to improve customer service, reduce operating costs and increase the effectiveness of our employees and agents.
During the year, we implemented a unified definition of best practice with associated training, performance measurement and compliance testing.
This allows us to better control the quality and consistency of our service delivery.
We introduced a new approach to branch performance management which enables the setting of localised marketing activities, credit controls and profit targets, and measures profit performance at branch level.
The result is a more granular and flexible response to local conditions and opportunities, and proved valuable during the challenging economic conditions we faced during 2009.
We also worked on developing the software and systems to allow the use of hand-held technology for our agents and field managers.
This offers the potential to improve administrative efficiency and the better execution of sales and credit strategies.
Especially relevant is our treating customers fairly project which is helping us to emphasise the customer centricity of the business and consider better the impacts of our decisions on customers.
We believe this is good for our business because it promotes responsible lending and high levels of customer satisfaction, and helps us to manage better the uncertain regulatory environment that is evident in the aftermath of the global recession.
Economic conditions, whilst uncertain, are continuing to improve and although severe weather in Central Europe has affected performance in January and early February, we expect the impact of this to unwind later in the year and so aim to carry the momentum achieved in the second half of 2009 into 2010, and to deliver improved results.
Percentage change figures for all performance measures, other than profit or loss before taxation and earnings per share, unless otherwise stated, are quoted after restating prior year figures at a constant exchange rate CER for 2009 in order to present the underlying performance variance.
