BuSineSS Review cHief executiveS Review In the 52 weeks ended 27 September 2009, Britvics GB brands have again performed extremely well, growing in revenue and taking both volume and value share in key categories.
This is despite the small decline in the soft drinks market, driven by subdued consumer confidence.
The GB & International businesses underpinned the performance of the group, with revenue growth of 8.7% to 789.3m.
Poor local trading conditions drove a 5.6% revenue decline in Ireland, though the strength of the GB and International businesses delivered total group revenue of 978.8m, up by 5.6% on the prior year.
We have continued to deliver on our point-of-purchase and innovation strategies, delivering another healthy top line whilst maintaining our proactive focus on the cost base.
Group operating profit before exceptional items is up 13.9% while profit after tax PAT and basic earnings per share EPS are both up by more than 20%.
These strong results build on our strong and accelerating track record, ensuring repeated delivery of shareholder returns.
Free cashflow was 69.7m, 3.5m ahead of the prior year number, driven by the ongoing focus on disciplined cash and capital expenditure management.
Return on Invested Capital ROIC including Britvic Ireland has increased by 160 basis points reflecting the strong management of the groups asset and cost base.
The board is proposing a final dividend per share of 10.9p bringing the full year dividend per share to 15.0p, an increase of 19.0% on the prior year.
ThE GB TaKE-hOME SOFT DRInKS MaRKET Though relatively resilient, the soft drinks market has not been immune to the slowdown in consumer spending in 2009, with a 0.9% decline in volume over the period.
The move out of carbonates by the UK consumer experienced in 2006 was again countered in 2009 by the ongoing gradual return into carbonates by consumers taking a rational and balanced approach to their soft drinks repertoire.
This was accentuated by consumers looking for enhanced-value propositions, particularly Paul Moody in large-pack carbonates and resulted in the carbonates market increasing in volume terms by 0.8%, driven by the cola and Chief Executive glucose stimulant categories.
Every carbonates category showed value growth in the period.
The stills category declined by 2.5% this year.
Notable subcategories in material decline were smoothies and pure juice.
However, there was substantial volume growth within the water plus and dairy categories, and value growth within squash.
Plain water also recovered to only a minor decline in the year, with strong growth in the last quarter.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2009 13 BuSineSS Review cHief executiveS Review cOntinueD ThE GB LICEnSED On-PREMISE SOFT DRInKS MaRKET CORPORaTE RESPOnSIBILITy The GB licensed on-premise soft drinks market experienced Our Corporate Responsibility Programme has been further a volume decline of 1.9% for the year to September 2009, developed in the past year and we have revised our vision though the most recent quarter encouragingly saw a 0.6% progressive brands, responsible business, dedicated people.
However, given the pressures within the This reflects our values as a business and is underpinned by overall licensed on-premise market, we remain cautious on the four strategic goals that address the most pressing sustainability prospects for a fuller and sustained recovery in the channel.
Environmental performance is a key part of this programme and we continue to build on our positive GB BRanD PERFORManCE track record.
For example, we have achieved year on year Against this general background, Britvic has again outperformed reductions in energy and water use per litre produced, all GB the market in its key categories during the period, with Britvics manufacturing sites now operate Environmental Management GB stills volumes up 3.6% and GB carbonates volumes up Systems to ISO 14000, and packaging optimisation remains 7.9%.
A description of the performance of some of the core a priority, such as the light-weighting of our J O bottles, saving 2 brands is shown below: 4,000 tonnes of glass per year.
Further details of the Britvic Corporate Responsibility Programme are provided later in The cola market was up by 3.3% by volume and up 3.5% this statement.
Pepsi outperformed this with a 0.7%pts increase in market volume share and a 0.5%pts increase in market BRITvICS STRaTEGy value share Management action has focused on five main areas: The squash market was down 3.1% by volume and up 1.
SUPPORTInG anD GROWInG OUR CORE BRanD 5.6% in value.
Market volumes remain subdued due to the Britvic GBs six core brands are Pepsi, 7UP, Robinsons squash, increasing preponderance for own-label squash to be sold in Tango, Fruit Shoot and J O.
They are the key profit drivers of 2 double-concentrate form.
Robinsons squash outperformed our current GB business and therefore the brands to which we the market again with a 0.7%pts increase in market volume allocate greatest resource.
Other supporting brands help to share and a 0.2%pts increase in market value share leverage customer relationships with scale and account wins.
We continue to invest in our strong total portfolio of brands The fruit carbonates market was down by 2.3% by volume through both innovation and media, to ensure that they are and up 1.8% in value.
7UP outperformed this with a 0.7%pts preferred by consumers.
Examples of our successful core increase in market value share.
Tango also benefited from its GB brand performances are shown below: award-winning campaign with 0.7%pts increase in market volume share and a 0.3%pts increase in market value share The Pepsi brand has continued its volume and value share gains of the cola market, an increase of 0.7%pts and 0.5%pts on last year respectively.
The success enjoyed by the brand in the period reflects repeated strong promotional execution across all key customers and the highly successful Max-It-For-AMillion and Comes-With-Music campaigns that, in conjunction with the increased in-store distribution from the successful investment in trade-ready display units, has led to real success for the brand again this year.
The growth in market share was also achieved against a background of increased competitor activity this summer, though our promotion management meant no adverse impact on our own ARP, despite our continuallygrowing presence in the discounters sector.
Our close working relationship with the brand owner, PepsiCo, has been instrumental in achieving this performance.
14 Britvic plc Annual Report 2009 Robinsons squash has consolidated its number one position 3.
ManaGInG EFFICIEnCy IMPROvInG MaRGInS further with volume and value share gains in the squash market, anD FREE CaSh FLOW an increase of 0.7%pts and 0.2%pts on last year respectively.
Against the background of the tough cost environment, Robinsons best ever Wimbledon, plus excellent brand equity we continue to drive costs out of the business.
programmes and in-store execution mean that the brand goes We have repeated the success of the Product Value from strength to strength as the 10th most valued grocery brand Optimisation PVO programme, delivering a further 2.0m within the GB take-home market.
Innovation in the form of of savings in the year in GB, in addition to the 2.0m delivered Robinsons Be Natural, plus brand-equity programmes such as in each of 2006, 2007 and 2008.
We anticipate delivering the sponsorship of British pantomimes during Christmas 2009, a further 2.0m incremental saving in the 2010 financial year.
mean that further share gains are well within our grasp.
Added to this we realised the final incremental annualised 2.
InnOvaTInG DEvELOPInG nEW PRODUCTS savings as a consequence of the outsourcing of the secondary The focus of this years innovation programme in GB was distribution network and vending and chiller re-manufacturing brand extensions and new packaging concepts and flavours operations outlined in March 2008.
We have also realised some to continually match consumer needs and drive an increase of the benefits of the business review in GB and most notably in in ARP as well as margin for both Britvic and the retailer.
Ireland, delivering group savings of around 3.0m this year.
All launches are performing in line with our expectations.
The two major new innovation launches this year were Juicy drench and Robinsons Be Natural.
Packaging also plays a significant part in the innovation and product launch programme, with ARP and margin-enhancing new SKUs including: J O mixers in the licensed on-premise channel 2 250ml multipacks and 1 litre packs for core brands such as Pepsi Pepsi Raw into single-serve can within the impulse channel, as well as four-pack glass in take-home grocery New pack designs for J O, Fruit Shoot and Tango drove 2 material consumer engagement this year, and these successful initiatives helped build both momentum and Britvics record of great brand management.
Britvic also launched Lipton Ice Tea in GB in conjunction with Pepsi Co.
Cold hot drinks is one of the worlds largest soft drink categories, and is another example of a category which Britvic can take the lead in building within GB in the medium term.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2009 15 BuSineSS Review cHief executiveS Review cOntinueD 4.
ExPanSIOn InTO EUROPE In the extremely challenging macro-economic environment, the Britvics European presence centres around Britvic Irish soft drinks market shows no indication of a return to growth Internationals main focus of export into the Netherlands and in the short term.
ROI grocery market volumes are down 5% in Scandinavia.
Our International division delivered another strong the year, whilst the licensed on-premise market is down 19% in performance of 18.5% revenue growth, despite a backdrop of the year to August.
significant double-digit decline in the euro-flight travel sector and traditional tourist markets.
The performance was driven Despite the trading conditions, Britvic Ireland continues to by strong in-market activity in Holland where we delivered deliver on a synergy programme that was enhanced during the our highest ever market shares during the summer, strong year.
Total achieved cumulative synergies to date now amount Robinsons squash activity in the Nordics, and the launch of to 15.3m, with further planned synergies of over 9.0m coming Fruit Shoot in Sweden in August.
In addition we saw volumes in 2010 and 2.0m in 2011.
These already-guided synergy gains materialising from new travel contracts in the airline and shipping are primarily a result of: sectors, and rapid growth in some new, though opportunistic, export markets such as Turkey and Bulgaria.
The implementation of our Business Transformation Programme, begun during the first half of the 2009 Britvic International continues to look at opportunities to further financial year establish Britvics international presence.
Aside from traditional sales into the travel industry and via export, the business remains The outcome of the January 2009 business review, which focused on developing its licensing and franchising arm through restructured and right-sized operations on the island of Ireland.
brands such as Fruit Shoot and Robinsons.
As an example of this The measures were designed to underpin sustainable strategic intention, the sale of Fruit Shoot in the southern United business growth and enhance group integration States through Buffalo Rock continues to meet expectations, The business fundamentals remain strong: albeit within the depressed convenience and gas channel.
1 in the licensed on-premise market now 40% volume share and No.
2 in the ROI Grocery market Alignment of business model and systems with Britvic GB from the implementation of the Business Transformation Programme From January 2009, investment in the Kylemore production facility in Dublin facilitated the production of Robinsons squash for the Irish market for the first time In a tough Irish market, core brands have played a significant part in the robust performance of the business.
7UP retains its position as the number two soft drinks brand in the market, whilst Pepsi has become the fastest-growing carbonate brand, up 14% in the period, according to Nielsen.
16 Britvic plc Annual Report 2009 MEDIUM-TERM REvEnUE GROWTh DRIvERS IRELanD Given the strong track record of growth, it is worth noting In Ireland, the structure of the business is now appropriate for a number of previous revenue drivers that are likely to a resized soft drinks market.
Commanding presence in routes continue driving the top-line over the medium to long-term.
to market such as licensed on-premise is juxtaposed with significant opportunities in other channels.
Category gaps also Britvic intends to grow within GB, Ireland, as well provide room for material growth, and a strong brand portfolio as internationally.
can only benefit from potential innovation and product launches of GB, PepsiCo and Ireland-specific brands and products.
While GB the soft drinks market remains challenged in the near term, In GB, the drivers of future growth will to be: group-wide systems, processes and infrastructure will keep the 1.
Market volume growth synergy programme on track and give Britvic Ireland the right Estimated by Britvic to average 2-3% per year in the medium platform to grow when conditions ease.
We expect this growth will marginally be led by InTERnaTIOnaL the stills category as consumers renew their focus on health, Internationally, Britvic is focused on two main routes to build wellbeing and a natural agenda.
Per capita consumption of its global presence: purchased soft drinks will be in turn driven by: Through the already successful Britvic International Cohorting business that not only concentrates on export and the travel Younger generations drink more purchased soft drinks industry, but is also exploring ways to extend the availability and less tea, coffee, alcohol, dairy drinks and tap water of Britvics wholly-owned brands worldwide through than previous generations licensing and franchising arrangements Population Growth Through European acquisition of soft drink businesses and Over the next 20-25 years, the British population is expected assets in order to drive Britvics current portfolio and unlock to reach 70m from the current population of around 60m material cost synergies and revenue opportunities across Continuing Trends the Continent According to Canadean, per-capita soft drink consumption By concentrating on brand management purely within the continues to increase.
This is against 10-year declines of 2% soft drinks category, a clear growth strategy has led to for dairy drinks, 4% for hot drinks, and 8% for alcoholic drinks a material track record of growth that positions us well for 2.
Typically adds 1-2% to Britvic GBs revenue line in a full year.
SUMMaRy 3. aRP Growth We have grown market share and revenue across all of the Derived from promotional management, product channel categories with a strong performance from both our core and mix and headline price increases.
seed brands, despite continued difficult trading conditions.
Distribution Opportunities Our robust top-line performance has again translated into Britvic does not yet have anywhere near-ubiquitous distribution double-digit operating profit and earnings growth, with another within the GB soft drinks market and particularly under-trades material increase in operating-profit margins.
Revenue growth in attractive routes to market such as convenience, impulse and will continue to be driven by an expanding market, successful leisure catering.
With Britvics balanced and extensive brand innovation, management of ARP, as well as significant portfolio, as well as market-leading consumer insight, there are distribution opportunities.
Indeed, our GB and International significant opportunities for GB growth over the medium to long operating profit margin increase of 170 basis points over the term within other channels.
last three years gives us the confidence required to enhance our margin guidance, given the strength of our delivery to date.
Together with cost reduction and operating leverage, Britvic is better-equipped to anticipate and react to competitor activity, and we are therefore well-placed to build on our successful track record in the short, medium and long-term.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2009 17 Emails, phone calls, meetings, yet more emails!
Take a bottle of 7UP at lunchtime or a quick break to escape from it all.
Its refreshingly clear and bursting with natural vitality.
18 Britvic plc Annual Report 2009 Britvic plc Annual Report 2009 19 11Am BRitvic Office, wiDfORD
