Business Review The Group went into the recession in good shape The challenges have increased as the year progressed but we have adapted our plans and have continued to invest Costs have been reduced as the business has The BSS Group plc has shown resilience with revenue and earnings holding up well despite been set up to meet the challenges of a contracting market.
Employee numbers have the impact of a financial crisis and a contracting economy.
The challenges have increased as been reduced by 6% as market circumstances the year has progressed but we have adapted have been re-assessed.
our plans: scaling down the business where appropriate, identifying new growth The Group extended its committed banking opportunities and picking up new contracts facilities in April 2009.
The revolving credit and revenue in adjacent markets.
facility was re-negotiated for 90m on a three year term with a syndicate of banks comprising: The Group went into the recession in good HSBC, Barclays and Lloyds TSB.
In addition to shape with a strong balance sheet, limited the 72m US Private Placement, this gives the exposure to residential new build and revenue Group the capacity, flexibility and longevity of primarily driven by essential repair and funding needed to take advantage of any maintenance activity.
We had a solid first half to development opportunities that may arise in the the financial year but business got tougher as near term.
With net debt of 86m at year end, the year progressed, recessionary conditions the Group remains well positioned.
took hold and markets tightened.
In response, we have adapted our plans, repositioned Despite the turmoil in the wider economy our resources in order to reduce our cost base but strategy has remained unchanged: we continue Revenue Growth have continued to invest to support a number to drive for profitable, cash generative organic of organic growth initiatives.
growth in the existing businesses through superior service and continue to deliver good % Group revenue in the year increased by 4.0% shareholder value.
The business remains 4.0 against last year with operating profit before resilient as a specialist distributor with revenue Group amortisation of intangibles and exceptional primarily driven by R & M activity much of which charges, increasing by 4.1% to 68.1m 2008: is non-discretionary.
remains on four core elements: % 3.7 New revenue streams are being pursued and Consistently delivering excellent customer gross margin enhanced with the benefits of a service Domestic direct sourcing capability acquired with Strong leadership and sensible business Birchwood Products.
practices % Profitable organic growth and value 4.3 enhancing acquisitions Industrial Results driven culture % 5.6 Specialist 4 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Gavin Slark Group Chief Executive Our success is underpinned by keeping close The BSS Groups products: to our customers and the market and we continue to see growth opportunities, despite the recession.
Plumbing, Heating and Air Conditioning Renewable Energy Products Like for like sales increased by 3.3% in the first Sanitaryware Solar thermal panels and accessories half but were 4.2% lower in the second half, a Showers and accessories decrease of 0.7% in the year.
The decrease in Heat pumps, ground source, air to water like for like sales in the second half reflects the and exhaust air to water Taps and brassware impact of reduced new build housing activity Water reclamation Boilers and a tightening in R & M spend.
Bio mass boilers Radiators and heat emitters Gross margin improved to 22.9% of revenue H & V control equipment 2008: 22.5% reflecting the benefits of better Specialist Pumps and pressurisation equipment commercial terms, direct sourcing and selective Hand and power tools Hot water generation price improvement.
The costs to sales ratio Personal protective equipment increased to 18.0% 2008: 17.6%, with like for Cylinders and equipment like costs up 2.0% in the year but down 1.9% in Industrial consumables Ventilation and air conditioning equipment the second half.
As a result of action taken, Gas and electric fires including surrounds annualised costs have been reduced by 12m.
Flues and chimneys Operating margin, before exceptional costs and amortisation of intangibles, was 5.08% 2008: Plastic and metal piping systems 5.07% with the improvement in gross margin Pipe supports more than off setting the increase in the costs Heating spares and burner to sales ratio.
Productivity continues to improve Heating and plumbing consumables with sales per employee up 3% 2008: 4% with investment in infrastructure and systems including own brand ranges supporting the improvement achieved.
The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 5
