8 Annual Report 2009 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Chief Executives report operations also maintained their trading 2009 proved another margin of 19%.
year of good financial As I highlighted at the time of our interim report in July, our Employee Benefits performance and business has been affected by the general substantial strategic contraction in corporate discretionary spend on employee benefits.
Despite this, progress for JLT.
the business maintained its underlying revenue and delivered a 3% increase in reported revenues mainly due to the The rate of organic revenue growth acquisition of HSBC Actuaries & excluding currency effects and Consultants on 1st December 2009 and acquisitions recorded by the Group in the contribution it made over that month.
This is significantly Whilst our Employee Benefits business has higher than our larger competitors and faced challenging economic conditions demonstrates how the success of our sales over the past year, it is now seeing efforts is enabling us to win market share.
encouraging signs of a return to improved trading.
Dominic Burke Competitive performance Chief Executive Our Risk & Insurance group achieved Details of the performance of each strong revenue growth of 16% in 2009, individual business area are set out in the or 8% at constant rates of exchange CRE.
We entered the year in good shape and, This growth was achieved through a despite the difficult worldwide economic combination of organic growth of 6% and Distinctive brand environment and the continuing softness of a contribution from acquisitions of 2%.
the insurance markets, delivered a strong Clear differentiation is key to the success of Within the Risk & Insurance group, our set of financial results.
Moving into 2010, JLT, as the fourth of the international Risk London market operations performed JLT is well placed to build momentum, Specialist and Employee Benefits particularly well with revenues increasing benefitting from a series of major business Consultants groups.
During 2009 we took 19%, or 13% at CRE, driven by an developments, which are coming to advantage of the opportunity created by impressive organic growth rate of 10%.
fruition, and our improving marketplace the introduction of new Group branding to Our retail broking operations traded in positioning and differentiation.
This is clarify both internally and externally the unusually competitive market conditions in reflected in the growing sense of characteristics that are distinctive to JLT and 2009, nevertheless they delivered revenue confidence amongst my colleagues across the reasons why clients and colleagues growth of 14%, 4% at CRE, with the businesses of the Group.
It is now well particularly good performances in Asia understood by our clients, our employees and Latin America.
Our combined retail and in the insurance industry at large, that Retail London Market Employee Benefits Turnover Trading profit Turnover Trading profit Turnover Trading profit million million million million million million 269.5 250.4 51.0 237.2 211.3 46.2 45.7 90.5 87.6 14.9 14.7 34.3 08 09 08 09 08 09 08 09 08 09 08 09 Trading margin Trading margin Trading margin 19% 16% 17% 19% 18% 16% 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 Introduction Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2009 9 JLTs culture is built on the imperative of develop our business in the UK and around the world in order to provide the meeting the needs of each and every worldwide to succeed both by serving multi-country service that is increasingly client.
We stand apart because of the todays marketplace principally centred on demanded by multi-national clients.
single-minded yet flexible way in which we the occupational pension scheme legacy Significant progress has been made in this respond to that imperative.
in the UK and delivering the employee area with a number of major wins secured benefits and retirement savings in Asia, Australasia and Latin America.
Prospective clients fully understand that JLT requirements of the future.
BenPal, the on-line benefits platform that provides a genuine alternative to the three has been developed by JLT, has played an larger brokers.
Our colleagues are proud The acquisition in December of HSBC important role in this development: BenPal of what JLT stands for and across the Actuaries and Consultants Limited HACL, is inherently suited to multi-country Group, morale is high.
This does not go followed by the acquisition of iimia Wealth application and is attracting considerable unnoticed within the industry.
It provides us Management division of Midas Capital in interest from a number of multi-national with a strong platform to retain and attract January this year, are significant steps in companies.
market leading professionals, be they the fulfilment of this strategy.
individual recruits or new colleagues We expect to complete the integration of With its strength in actuarial and investment joining the Group as a result of an HACL by the end of the first half of 2010. consulting HACL added substantially to our acquisition.
With the benefits of this integration and the capacity to respond to the demand for improved strategic positioning of the advice in relation to defined benefit business, we anticipate that 2010 will Investing in growth pension schemes.
Additionally, looking to show a return to historic trading margins JLT's businesses are cash generative.
the marketplace of the future, HACLs for our Employee Benefits business, with This allows us to invest substantially for strength, in consulting and arranging both the momentum for improvement building future growth and in 2009 we made money purchase pension schemes and once again into 2011. significant investments in the business group personal pensions, has added to through accretive acquisitions, the our existing capabilities in relation to these Thistle development of new products and savings media.
The iimia acquisition adds platforms and by recruitment.
During the 2009 was an important year for Thistle further strength in advising and providing year we were able to strengthen specialist Underwriters Limited as it develops into the discretionary portfolio management to teams substantially by attracting some of third leg of the JLT Group.
With all aspects of the very best professionals in the industry in was started from scratch in late 2008, is a pension arrangements becoming areas such as aviation and financial Managing General Underwriter MGU, increasingly a matter of personal choice, institutions.
focused on the portfolio underwriting of JLT offers the range of capabilities high volume, comparatively low value demanded by todays pensions and Despite the impact of adverse economic insurance cover as a series of standard savings marketplace.
conditions on our Employee Benefits products.
Thistle provides an end-to-end business in 2009, we anticipate long-term A further strand of our Employee Benefits service, from designing and branding the growth and in this area we are committed strategy has been to strengthen the products, to underwriting the risk and to further investment.
Our strategy is to international coordination of our operations Group Turnover 2009 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group Risk & Insurance Employee Benefits 85% 15% p12 p18 London Market Retail 41% 44% Jardine Lloyd Lloyd & JLT Re Australasia Asia Latin Canada Insurance Europe Thompson Partners America Management Ltd Specialty Reinsurance Wholesale 22% 9% Aerospace 12% 14% 8% 5% 4% 1% p16 p16 p17 p13 p13 p14 p15 p14 p15 10 Annual Report 2009 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Chief Executives report continued handling claims.
Thus the business performs and will facilitate the exploitation of JLTL's The success recorded in 2009 by JLTs all the activities of an underwriter, except industry specialist strengths, be it in subsidiary in Brazil demonstrates the two that it uses third-party capital rather than Construction, Life Sciences or Telecoms, in distinct facets of our international that of the JLT Group.
Its remuneration order to add an extra dimension to what representation.
Our reinsurance broker in model is substantially weighted towards a we do for our corporate clients in the UK.
Brazil, which flourishes by collaborating share of underwriting profit, aligning closely with our international specialist The non-advisory business will be Thistles interest closely to that of the capital teams and is a substantial producer of combined with Thistle.
business for our London market brokers, differentiated positions held by JLT UK's has established itself as market leader.
Key to the success of Thistle is access to non-advisory business in clearly defined Its success generates a positive comprehensive data that can be managed markets results in highly profitable environment within which our retail and interpreted at the core of the underwriting and this combines naturally business in Brazil, recently strengthened underwriting process.
During the year we with Thistle's underwriting capabilities.
following the recruitment of a number of invested in the development of software The overall impact of these changes will new senior colleagues, is now growing systems to provide this data.
be a slight 'lag' in growth as the business rapidly both as an insurance broker and in The premium flow generated by Thistle in moves from a front-loaded commission employee benefits.
In line with our strategy 2009 followed the acquisition of Ingham, remuneration model to greater reliance on for Latin America and in reinforcing the a UK underwriting agency, in June, and the share of underwriting profits.
However, alignment between retail and reinsurance, the progressive introduction of Thistle as over a two or three year perspective, the a substantial minority shareholding in JLT product provider for a number of UK new focus will generate significant Brazil is shared by the top management business streams in the second half of the economic advantage to JLT together with across both businesses.
The opportunity for Thistle to greater control and 'ownership' of our revolutionise product manufacture in other portfolio overall.
Business Transformation Programme existing Group business streams and other During the second half of 2009 the Group International network overseas operations is substantial.
The started a Business Transformation restructuring of our UK retail operation, to The international network operated by JLT is Programme.
This Group wide initiative was be effected in the first quarter of 2010, an important strategic asset.
It is composed launched to build on the successes we represents our first step in taking advantage of Group members wholly and majority have already recorded by automating of this opportunity.
owned and some in which we own administration and delivery processes significant minority interests and of through our Mumbai office.
It is expected Advisory and non-advisory selected partners in countries in which we we will have approximately 400 staff In recent years, the operations of JLT UK have not, to date, chosen to invest.
employed in this office by the end of While actively managed, the JLT Network have tended to polarise into two areas: an 2010, making it JLT's largest facility outside is not a monolithic structure: we take pride advisory and a non-advisory business.
in configuring it flexibly to deliver advisory business is a traditional broker, The new three year programme will serving and providing advice to larger international retail service in the way that improve the quality and efficiency of best meets the needs of each particular corporate clients and accessing a range of administration and delivery in every Group client.
A substantial continuing programme markets to secure the right cover for them operation.
Details of the financial impact of is underway to reinforce the JLT Network on the best terms.
This advisory business this programme are contained in the has increasingly relied upon and benefited but its value is already demonstrated by the Finance Director's review but, in summary, clients we are able to win.
from the expertise and specialist industry we anticipate total exceptional costs focus of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Limited A unique differentiator of the JLT Network is spread over three years of some 18 JLTL, our London market specialty business.
that it is not solely used for international million, providing annualised savings of at retail insurance broking and servicing.
The second business stream has provided least 14 million by 2011.
It plays an increasingly important role in small-ticket insurance cover as a more-orThe benefits of this programme will be the coordinated international delivery of less standard product, for policyholders efficiency gains and a further improvement such as very small businesses, caravan employee benefits services.
It also provides in the service we provide to our clients.
producing brokers and clients with access owners or professional cameramen and The programme will free up client facing to specialist expertise in dealing with the musicians.
This separate, non-advisory professionals who will no longer see their complex risks specific to their industries capability distributes cover, principally time absorbed by process and operational underwritten by a single insurance and, where appropriate, to the risk transfer demands that can more readily be met by capacity of London and international capacity provider, with JLT holding other colleagues.
The culture of JLT - to markets.
This combination of retail and substantial delegated authority as to focus on serving our clients and not to seek speciality delivery through a single network whether, at what price and on what terms to shoehorn them into a process - is to provide the product.
is a distinctive JLT offering and we are reflected in the way we are approaching positioning ourselves to utilise this more With effect from the end of the first quarter this project.
Processes will be streamlined comprehensively.
2010, the advisory operations of JLT UK only where this improves quality and not are joining forces with JLTL.
This will where delivery might be impaired.
Client concentrate management focus on broking contact is not being transferred to an as a specialised activity in its own right offshore location.
Introduction Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2009 11 Our emphasis on improving the quality of commissions.
JLT is of course interested in world enables us to focus our attention and processes is also apparent in the work ensuring a level of playing field for brokers resources where we believe the greatest undertaken during 2009 to ensure that our and insurers and we will continue to potential lies.
Regions such as Latin risk management is fully in line with best observe, monitor and analyse the results of America and Asia, where our new practice and is fully integrated into the the current debate on the reintroduction of management team is recording substantial strategic and operational decision taking contingent commissions with a view to progress with the implementation of our processes throughout the Group.
ensuring that JLT is not disadvantaged by 2008 medium-term strategy, represent great developments within its peer group.
opportunities for the future of JLT.
Today each of the Groups businesses and every one of our colleagues has a clear Meanwhile, we will continue to put the The prevailing economic conditions around vision of what JLT stands for.
Strategically, interests of our clients first and observe our the world and the soft insurance markets we are firmly committed to our individual responsibilities of transparency as well as will of course present challenges.
We lines of business and we will continue to our regulatory obligations, whilst always have, however, taken clear and decisive invest where we see potential for growth.
seeking to optimise our earnings from the action to develop and grow each of our Equally importantly, all our clients and those market.
working within our industry now have a To support our belief in transparency, JLT Visiting JLT's businesses around the world clear understanding of JLT and what we has for many years disclosed, in its annual and working with colleagues from the have to offer.
report, earnings received by way of various operations, I am struck by how Large companies, including some of the incentive commissions PSAs.
In 2009, strongly momentum is building across the world's largest with the most complex riskPSAs received amounted to 6.9 million Group.
We therefore, feel positive about management issues, come to JLT for and this represents approximately 1% of the JLT's prospects for 2010. innovative solutions.
JLT devotes its Group's revenue for the year.
considerable expertise to address each client's particular needs rather than seeking Future growth to impose a pre-prepared package.
Our success in winning new business and To achieve this JLT has to attract and retain therefore creating organic growth gives us the very best in the industry.
And we are great confidence that the regions of the now establishing the market position that world and the areas of activity in which we Dominic Burke allows us to do precisely that.
have chosen to operate are the right ones Chief Executive for JLT.
Our strategy of not seeking to have I would like to add a few words on recent 22nd March 2010 an owned presence in every part of the developments concerning contingent Group Executive Committee Left to right, back row to front row Leo Demer Andrew Agnew Dominic Burke CEO, Australia and New Zealand Chairman, Jardine Lloyd Thompson Ltd Group Chief Executive Warren Merritt Martin Hiller Vyvienne Wade CEO, Asia Pacific CEO, Jardine Lloyd Thompson Ltd Chairman, JLT Insurance Management, CEO, Latin American operations and Group Legal Adrian Girling Duncan Howorth Director Chairman, Thistle Insurance Services Ltd CEO, JLT UK Employee Benefits Group CEO, Jardine Lloyd Thompson - Europe John Lloyd William Nabarro Chairman and CEO, Lloyd & Partners Ltd Mike Methley Commercial Director and International Chairman of Group COO Employee Benefits.
Alan Griffin Chairman and CEO, JLT Reinsurance Mark Drummond Brady Jim Rush Brokers Ltd International Chairman of Risk & Insurance Group Finance Director Board Director
