7716 Report 2009. qxd 16 6 09 16:08 Page 20 Were in great shape to deliver on our plans.
Dr Louise Makin Chief Executive Officer 7716 Report 2009. qxd 16 6 09 16:08 Page 21 20 21 BTG plc Annual Report 2009 Chief Executive Officers review Chief Executive Officers review We have a clear strategy for growth.
Q: How do you see BTGs business Q: What are the key challenges developing?
Our growth strategy has three components.
The main challenges relate to implementing The first is to build commercial operations our growth plans so they are really in the US, enabling us to sell CroFab and opportunities.
The first is our goal of DigiFab to hospital-based critical care establishing a US hospital sales force.
This physicians when sales rights return in 2010. is obviously much more than just putting Second, to leverage these operations we sales reps on the ground its about intend to acquire additional products to sell establishing the infrastructure to support to US hospital specialists.
The third part is a professional sales operation.
We have to continue to invest in our pipeline to build the financial resources this requires, and value.
We will seek to partner most of our we have strengthened our team with current development programmes in return experienced people to ensure we do it for milestones and a royalty on sales.
Another challenge is to acquire new Future pipeline additions will be focused products that we can develop and sell.
on products we can sell ourselves.
We have the resources and capabilities, and the current economic climate means there are good opportunities out there, but we Q: What makes the specialty have to choose carefully.
Finally, a number pharmaceuticals sector attractive?
of programmes in the internal and partnered pipelines will soon reach key decision points It provides niche products to specialist and choices will need to be made in relation physicians, who are generally accessed to further development activities.
through small sales forces supported by one back office.
Products are often used in critical situations, so appropriate pricing Q: How competitive is the market for and reimbursement is usually achievable.
Competition is often limited because of the niche status of products, and product There is always competition for good lifecycles can be long.
While products programmes and products.
BTG has may not often have blockbuster potential, substantial financial resources and we have margins are good.
Also, the model is readily strengthened our late-stage development scaled, so the addition of new products can capabilities, so we are in a good position to improve revenues and margins for modest compete for the sorts of products we want incremental investment.
Our focus is on products we can sell through the planned US hospital sales force, which is another attraction to licensors, and we are prepared to complete late-stage development or to take on products that are already approved or marketed.
7716 Report 2009. qxd 16 6 09 16:08 Page 22 22 BTG plc Annual Report 2009 Chief Executive Officers review Priorities in 08 09 Priorities in 09 10 1 Complete Varisolve Phase II safety 1 Achieve EBITDA and cash flow targets.
study and pilot Phase III studies to 2 Make progress in establishing US enable application for special protocol commercial operations to prepare assessment: progress partnering for selling CroFab and DigiFab.
3 Seek to acquire in-license additional 2 Initiate a Phase II study of BGC20-1259 programmes to sell through the in patients with Alzheimers disease.
planned US hospital sales force.
3 Complete Phase I studies of BGC20- 4 Achieve planned development and 1531 and BGC20-0134 and prepare manufacturing milestones.
5 Partner at least one programme from 4 File the IND for BGC20-0166 and the current development pipeline.
progress development of proprietary formulation.
5 Partner at least one programme from the current development pipeline.
6 Expand the development pipeline through in-licensing and or acquisition.
Performance against 08 09 priorities 1 Varisolve Phase II study successfully 4 IND opened for BGC20-0166 and completed and preparatory Phase III Phase I study completed to progress studies under way: partnering development of proprietary discussions continuing.
2 Decision taken not to progress 5 BGC 945 ONX 0801, a targeted BGC20-1259 into Phase II on technical anti-cancer agent, was licensed to and commercial grounds.
Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in return for an upfront payment of $13m plus 3 Phase I studies of BGC20-1531 potential milestones of $307m and and BGC20-0134 completed a royalty on sales.
and Phase II studies planned to commence in H2 09.
6 Pipeline strengthened through Protherics acquisition.
7716 Report 2009. qxd 16 6 09 16:08 Page 23 23 BTG plc Annual Report 2009 Chief Executive Officers review Q: Is the risk profile of the business margins to our royalty revenues.
Together, increasing by moving into later-stage we are more efficient and we have the development, manufacturing and sales?
resources and capabilities to get value from the combined pipeline, to establish US By acquiring later-stage products, commercial operations and to acquire development risks may actually be lower additional, later-stage products to feed as more safety and efficacy data have into the planned hospital sales force.
Access and We have to be flexible and ready development costs are generally higher to respond to opportunities.
To strengthen for later-stage assets, but product selection our pipeline we have to license or acquire plays an important role.
We will always first make sure the on programmes only where there is a clear product fits our strategy and then find the and affordable development pathway.
If the best way to do Manufacturing adds complexity, though that is to acquire a company we will do so we believe our polyclonal antibody if it makes financial and strategic sense.
manufacturing platform is among the most advanced in the industry, and has the potential to generate additional value Q: What is the outlook for the business beyond the current products it supports.
over the next two-to-three years?
Selling products adds a layer of commercial risk, but also provides the The next few years will be busy and Im opportunity to retain much more of a sure there will be challenges we dont yet products value than out-licensing.
CroFab know about, but I believe were in great and DigiFab are established products, shape to deliver on our plan to become so launch risks are eliminated.
Throughout a sustainably profitable specialty the business, we operate a sophisticated pharmaceuticals company.
I feel very risk management programme and have confident about our future.
appropriate mitigating activities in place.
Q: Are other corporate acquisitions a possibility?
The Protherics acquisition has given us the means to address many of the growth challenges we faced.
It brings established marketed products, smoothing our revenues through 2011 and adding higher product
