C HIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Operating performance Michael Roney Revenue increased 11% to 4,648.7 million Chief Executive and operating profit before intangible amortisation rose 5% to 295.7 million.
After adjusting for the positive impact from currency translation, revenue was at the same level as 2008 while profits at constant exchange rates were held back by pressure on margins, particularly in the UK & Ireland and the Rest of the World resulting from the difficult market conditions and some transactional impact of the significant weakening against the US dollar of sterling and the Australian dollar in the latter part of 2008.
The strong cash flow of the Group once again continued as we converted 102% of our operating profit into cash.
In this review all references to operating profit are to operating profit before intangible amortisation.
In North America revenue and operating profit rose by 19% and 16% respectively due principally to the stronger US dollar and some organic revenue growth.
Revenue and operating profit fell by 3% and 26% respectively in the UK & Ireland due to weaker performances in our less resilient businesses vending, catering The Group has delivered robust results against equipment, safety and non-food retail and in Ireland and the negative transaction impact the backdrop of challenging macroeconomic from weaker sterling.
In Continental Europe revenue rose 11% due to the stronger euro conditions across its international markets.
and the full year impact of acquisitions made in 2008 and operating profit increased 22% as a result of these factors and the positive impact in the second half of the year from A combination of new customer wins, additional increased sales of cleaning and safety products related to H1N1 prevention, a better customer business with existing customers, the favourable mix and operating cost reductions.
In the Rest of the World revenue rose 8% due to the impact of currency translation and the results positive impact of currency translation and prior of cost reduction initiatives across the world year acquisitions while operating profit declined 3% largely due to challenging economic contributed to our overall performance.
conditions and the transactional impact in the first half from the weaker Australian dollar.
ORGANIC REVENUE GROWTH % PROFIT MARGIN % PROFIT MARGIN EXCLUDING CURRENCY AND ACQUISITIONS % Increase in revenue for Ratio of operating profit Profit margin excluding the year excluding the before intangible the impact of currency impact of currency and amortisation to revenue.
and current year 2.0 6.7 6.7 current year acquisitions acquisitions but 6.4 6.3 but including a pro rata including a pro rata part part year in respect of year in respect of prior prior year acquisitions.
1.1 08 09 08 09 08 09 06 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009 Basic earnings per share were 46.4p, up 4%.
In January 2010 we announced the acquisition While difficult economic conditions and the Adjusted earnings per share, after eliminating of Clean Care, a business principally engaged uncertain outlook in 2009 have made it difficult the effect of intangible amortisation, rose 6% in the supply of cleaning and hygiene for us to have conclusive discussions with to 55.9p, a decline of 6% at constant exchange consumable products and equipment to a potential acquisition targets, we have completed rates.
Return on average operating capital variety of end users including contract cleaners two acquisitions since the end of the year continued at a high level of 55%.
and other industrial and institutional customers and we believe that the current environment will throughout Denmark.
Revenue in the year lead to us finalising more transactions in 2010.
Since there has been a significant impact from ended 30 September 2009 was DKK60.4 strengthening foreign currencies, principally million.
Today we are announcing a further Although it is hard to predict the future direction the US dollar and the euro, the operations, acquisition in Denmark, Hamo, a distributor of economies globally, the Board believes that including the relevant growth rates, are reviewed of catering disposables and light catering our businesses, which have leading positions below at constant exchange rates to remove the equipment to customers in both the public in the markets in which they compete, will impact of these currency movements.
Changes and private sectors, which had pro forma continue to show resilience and should develop in the level of revenue and profits at constant revenue of DKK43.2 million in the year ended well due to revenue growth and the positive exchange rates have been calculated by 31 December 2009. impact of cost reduction initiatives.
retranslating the results for 2008 at the average exchange rates used for 2009.
Prospects Even though the economic environment is Acquisitions expected to remain challenging and uncertain, While acquisitions remain a key component of a return of economic growth to the markets in our strategy and we have held discussions with which we operate, together with management a number of potential targets, acquisition activity initiatives already taken to reduce operating has decreased significantly since mid 2008 costs, should have a favourable impact on Michael Roney as the difference in our price expectations profitability.
In North America underlying growth Chief Executive and those of prospective sellers has proven should be supported by new business wins and 22 February 2010 to be an impediment to finalising transactions.
additional business with existing customers.
The difficult economic conditions in the UK & In March we acquired the businesses of two Ireland are expected to persist, and as a result companies in administration, W. K. Thomas affect revenue, but the positive impact from and Industrial Supplies, which were part of cost reductions and some benefit from stronger a group including King UK which was also in sterling relative to the same period in 2009 administration.
W. K. Thomas is a distributor should improve margins.
In Continental Europe, throughout the UK of foodservice products, while we do not expect to repeat the significant particularly to customers in the catering and benefit from the sale of H1N1 related products airline sectors.
Industrial Supplies is engaged which we saw towards the end of the year, in the distribution of cleaning and hygiene trading is expected to hold up well.
The Rest of products throughout the east of England.
the World should show improvement resulting The aggregate annualised revenue of these from higher margins in Australasia and the businesses is some 25 million per annum.
return to growth in our market sectors in Brazil.
ACQUISITION SPEND m ANNUALISED REVENUE FROM ACQUISITIONS m Consideration paid and Estimated revenue payable, together with which would have net debt assumed, in been contributed by 123 151 respect of businesses acquisitions made acquired during the during the year if such year including any acquisitions had been adjustments relating to completed at the acquisitions made in beginning of the prior years.
6 27 08 09 08 09 Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 07 NORTH AMERICA In North America revenue rose 2% at constant more economical than eating out, our and creative solutions to them.
We have also exchange rates to 2,454.1 million with customers in this sector should benefit.
We continued to improve our logistics platform, underlying growth of 2.6% as a result also continue to broaden the array of products allowing us to service more efficiently our of new account wins, particularly in the grocery available in an effort to expand our penetration facilities in North America.
and non-food retail sectors, and additional into these accounts by giving them creative penetration of existing customers.
This increase solutions to sell more of their own products During the year we reduced our operating was driven by volume gains rather than by the and providing them with a more extensive costs despite an increased level of sales.
impacts of price and product mix which were one stop shop programme.
Reduced fuel costs and freight rates and negative.
Difficult economic conditions continued increased productivity have contributed to the to affect our customers own businesses during Our customers in the non-food retail sector reduction.
We consolidated six of our facilities, 2009 and also put pressure on our margins suffered lower sales throughout 2009 as the mostly in the Northeast, into other existing resulting in a 1% decrease at constant exchange challenging economic conditions negatively facilities to streamline our operations and improve rates in operating profit to 155.3 million.
However service to our customers in the various business new business wins and the expansion of our sectors.
We have also achieved substantial Grocery, our largest business, saw an increase product line, including the introduction of jan savings in updating our truck fleet and in revenue as our leading market position was san items at several large accounts, offset most warehouse transportation equipment by enhanced principally by customers awarding of the decline in this sector.
In addition we purchasing used rather than new equipment.
us additional business as they continued to moved from a third party warehouse to one recognise the benefits of outsourcing their of our own, driving cost savings and improved Our consistent year on year revenue growth requirements for goods not for resale.
Co-ordination between the in North America in varying macroeconomic proposition of supplying creative packaging Groups business areas has also opened cycles demonstrates that our value added solutions along with our one stop shop up new opportunities with some global offering to our customers continues to be programme allows our customers to reduce customers in this sector.
in demand even when economic conditions working capital and operating costs.
In addition, are at their most difficult.
Each customer has our wide range of biodegradable, recyclable and Our business serving the convenience store unique needs but our flexible approach built compostable products allows them to reduce sector was negatively impacted by both the on a national operating platform remains well their impact on the environment.
reduction of consumer spending in, and the placed to meet the demands of our markets.
number of visits to, these outlets.
We have Our redistribution business, R3, encountered taken steps to offset the impact of these difficult market conditions as most of the circumstances by increasing product penetration foodservice customers in this sector themselves at several of our large accounts and by faced lower sales due to consumers choosing significantly reducing our operating costs.
less expensive alternatives for their meals.
Furthermore, several opportunities for new However, a significant part of this volume business developed late in the year as decline was offset by innovative programmes customers continued to look for ways to designed for the foodservice distributor, reduce their investment in working capital.
enabling them to increase their assortment 08:55 of packaging products while opening space Programmes undertaken with many of our in their warehouses for more expensive food strategic suppliers to target specific customers items.
Additionally we successfully implemented have produced successful results.
We have some comprehensive import programmes for partnered with many of them on both new and several large national foodservice distributors environmentally friendly products and innovative and buying groups.
As well as the innovations solutions to meet changing consumer needs.
in the foodservice sector we were also able to We have also continued to expand our private offer a more expansive jan san janitorial label line by delivering alternative solutions to sanitation supplies programme through a our customers at various price points and we regional warehouse and purchasing system have worked closely with our strategic suppliers introduced late in 2008. on logistics programmes that reduce supply chain costs and improve service to our mutual Despite a reduction in processed meat customers.
Our import programme has been production in 2009, our food processor expanded to provide our customers with quality, business continued to grow through our focused low cost alternatives for many new products, expansion into fresh cut produce processors, enabling us to be competitive in the bakeries, specialty processors and meat marketplace as well as introduce alternative processors which are dedicated to supplying some of our large grocery and foodservice accounts.
As consumers continue to look at lower cost and take home solutions that are Angela is responsible for food quality 07:35 and hygiene at a sausage processing facility in Kansas City, USA.
Having finished work, she collects her groceries and a takeaway meal on her way home.
Throughout her busy day she uses a number of Bunzl supplied products.
08 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Angelas essentials include: Paper towels Hair net Safety glasses Wellington boots Cotton knit gloves Thermal wear Hard hat Earplugs Food thermometer Angelas Clipboard Polystyrene trays Latex gloves essentials Plastic food containers Sterilising handwash Plastic fruit bags Bag ties Paper bags Aluminum foil Paper plates 13:30 18:34 11:25 09:03 19:42 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 09 10:35 11:07 Dianas essentials 15:09 Diana is a health & safety worker in the UK.
Her job takes her to different locations across the country which often means an overnight stay in a hotel.
Whether visiting construction sites or resting between assignments, she regularly comes into contact with a variety of products supplied by Bunzl.
10 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW UK & IRELAND Our UK & Ireland business area had a difficult offset by reusable bags.
Our approach has year with revenue falling by 4% at constant been to extend the offering to our customers exchange rates to 1,068.4 million and in terms of product ranges and also to target operating profit down 27% to 57.8 million.
more retailers who are looking to outsource the supply of their goods not for resale.
Our Our businesses here operate in a number much smaller, less resilient, non-food retail of sectors which have been less resilient to supplies business was adversely affected the prevailing economic conditions including by the economic downturn.
vending, catering equipment, safety and non-food retail.
Disappointing performances Margins have also been under pressure in these sectors, together with the particularly in our healthcare business as many products challenging market conditions in Ireland, are imported resulting in higher sterling cost have detracted from our more resilient sectors prices due to the movement in exchange rates.
being cleaning and hygiene, healthcare, food The implementation of a new IT platform was Dianas 14:09 retail and catering disposables.
completed at the beginning of the year.
This essentials include: helped to enhance service levels greatly and Steel toecap boots The weakening of sterling from the levels of further work has been done to streamline our High visibility jacket the first half of 2008 impacted our margins processes and reduce costs as margins have Paper cups as many of our products are sourced from been slow to recover.
Safety signage euro or dollar denominated countries and Safety glasses subsequently sold in sterling.
The degree of Within our cleaning and safety business, Hard hat product cost increases caused by the rapid volumes in the cleaning and hygiene sector Protective gloves exchange rate changes had a notable negative have proved to be resilient in the current Food bags impact in the first half of 2009 and, in the economic cycle.
Our business has continued Hotel toiletries challenging economic environment, it took to develop well, both with established Slippers some time to be able to pass these cost contracts with a number of key customers Plates increases on to our customers.
In order to and a continued increase in the proportion of Glasses mitigate the impact of both the reductions in transactions that are handled via the internet.
Cutlery volumes and profit margins, we implemented This has resulted in a more efficient business Napkins a number of programmes to reduce operating that continues to deliver a consistently high Salt & pepper pots costs and position the businesses for more robust level of service.
Industrial Supplies was performances going forward.
As a result of the acquired in March and this has proved to subsequent strengthening of sterling and the be an excellent fit with our existing operations.
19:10 cost reductions, we saw margins improve Although the safety sector has been particularly significantly in the second half.
impacted by the downturn in construction, our good position in this market, combined In our horeca hotel, restaurant and with our strong relationships with our customers catering business we grew volumes as a and the quick actions taken to realign the cost result of a number of customer wins, a base with the reduced level of activity, helped competitor going into administration and the offset the pressure on sales and margins.
acquisition of W. K. Thomas, an established supplier of foodservice products to customers Vending has been severely affected by in the catering and airline sectors.
In the early the slowdown in the corporate and banking part of 2009 margins were under greater sectors.
During the year the integration pressure and since then extensive work of Coffee Point was completed and the has been undertaken to review the costs implementation of a new IT system continued.
of serving our accounts as we have sought Together with the actions taken following the to operate more efficiently to the benefit of fall off in activity levels, these initiatives have both our customers and ourselves.
Catering led to a significant reduction in the cost base equipment volumes also came under and we should start to see the benefits pressure due to the more discretionary nature coming through in 2010. of spending on such items.
We have however seen a slowing of this decline more recently During 2009 the economy in Ireland contracted as a result of active marketing and category by 8% and this has had a significant impact management campaigns.
The hospitality sector which we serve has been disproportionately 20:35 Our food retail supplies business, supplying affected due to declining demand, a fall a consolidated range of goods not for resale, in tourism and an oversupply of hotel rooms.
had another good year in spite of a continuing This has necessitated an aggressive decline in demand for single use plastic carrier programme of cost cutting and infrastructure bags.
Carrier bag volumes have declined year rationalisation and we have worked hard on year since 2007 but now appear to be to maintain a robust business that is well stabilising.
Some of the decline has been positioned for a future recovery.
Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 11 CONTINENTAL EUROPE In an environment of declining economic output In Germany, sales remained robust in our main across the region, revenue only fell by 1% horeca sector although were weaker in guest at constant exchange rates to 910.2 million amenities, despite new customers won and and operating profit rose 9% to 81.7 million.
cross-selling opportunities exploited with other Particular focus was placed on gross margin parts of the Group, due to the slowdown in management as sales growth started to slow the hotel sector.
Gross margins improved and towards the end of 2008.
In addition costs costs remained tightly managed.
In addition were reduced quickly to reflect the lower the business benefited from the full year impact levels of activity such that the overall operating of savings made from the 2008 integration of margin has improved.
In France, our cleaning and hygiene business In Denmark, our retail business improved saw only a minor reduction in revenue as the margins and reduced costs to report a rise loss of some business was compensated by in profits despite a slowdown in its sectors, some new customer wins and increased sales especially the sale of capital goods to of products related to H1N1 prevention in the supermarkets.
The horeca business increased second half.
Margins improved, in part due both sales and operating margins, benefiting to greater sales of own brand and imported from its relocation to more efficient premises Philippe is a hotel facilities products, and operating costs fell, resulting at the start of 2009.
Clean Care, a distributor manager in Paris, France.
After in significant profit growth.
Two more regional of cleaning and hygiene consumables and ensuring the hotel is running businesses implemented the new ERP system equipment and Hamo, a supplier of catering smoothly and well stocked with and the roll out is scheduled to be completed disposables and light catering equipment, which cleaning and hygiene supplies in the first half of 2010 enabling further were acquired in January and February 2010 from Bunzl, he leaves to attend an efficiency gains to be realised.
Our personal respectively both have a strong customer focus appointment at the local hospital protection equipment business also benefited and broad product offering and are excellent which uses healthcare related from H1N1 related sales, improved margins additions to our existing business.
products also provided by Bunzl.
and lower costs, delivering higher profits than in 2008 despite its exposure to the In central Europe, trading conditions have been industrial sector.
particularly difficult with a significant slowdown in industrial production and retail store openings In the Netherlands, our horeca, food retail and adversely impacting our businesses in the cleaning and hygiene businesses all improved region.
Margins have been under pressure gross margins.
Total operating costs were and as a result we undertook substantial cost tightly controlled leaving profit at a similar level reduction measures in the first half of the year to last year despite lower sales, particularly in the such that we are now well positioned to benefit horeca and retail sectors.
Worldpack, acquired from an upturn in activity.
in June 2008, performed well in the first half but has seen a slowdown in recent months due In Spain, our safety business continues to to its exposure to the non-food retail sector.
be impacted by difficult conditions in its core markets for personal protection equipment.
In Belgium, weaker sales have also been However, margins remain robust and cost compensated for by stronger margins and lower reduction measures have reduced the impact costs.
Following disruption in 2008 due to a of lower sales.
The cleaning and hygiene warehouse relocation and IT implementation, business has benefited from new customer the cleaning and hygiene business has delivered wins and improvements in margins to strong profit growth from its more efficient deliver strong profit growth despite the operating platform.
The retail business has weak Spanish economy.
also performed well despite particularly slow sales of industrial packaging and delivered above average profit growth.
08:25 11:12 16:05 Philippes essentials 16:12 Philippes essentials include: Bin liners Toilet rolls Hand sanitiser Tissues Microfibre mops Hand towels Towel dispensers Sanitisation foam Air fresheners Cleaning fluid Toilet brushes Face mask Latex gloves Hand sterilising fluid 14:10 Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 13 Nigels essentials 13:05 13:05 14:35 12:07 14 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009 REST OF THE WORLD In the Rest of the World revenue decreased by changes to the organisational structure of 1% at constant exchange rates to 216.0 million the business to strengthen its management and operating profit fell by 12% to 17.0 million and operational performance.
These included principally due to the impact from the economic successfully completing the migration of downturn and the transactional impact in the remaining branch network on to the main the first half of the year from the significant IT system.
In addition we introduced new weakening of the Australian dollar, particularly technology to automate order capture which against the US dollar.
will improve the speed and accuracy of this process in the future.
In Australasia cost reduction programmes were implemented early in the year to help reduce Our catering equipment business felt the effects the impact of these external factors.
The of the downturn in the hospitality and catering subsequent strengthening of the local currency sectors but benefited from work to improve also helped results in the second half.
its product mix into the more resilient quick service restaurants and healthcare sectors.
Our largest business, Outsourcing Services, This, combined with ongoing operational and while affected by higher imported product service improvements, helped improve results costs and reduced demand, benefited from which were ahead of last year.
operational performance improvements and finished the year strongly with new business In Brazil, while our personal protection opportunities which should continue the equipment business was affected by the momentum into 2010.
The business slowdown in the construction and industrial strengthened its position in the more resilient sectors that we serve, we saw a higher level healthcare sector following the successful of sales towards the latter part of the year integration of our specialist healthcare business and improved our margins compared to 2008. during the year.
Overall this business is now We are well positioned to benefit from future well positioned to capitalise on the market improvements in economic activity.
Work began as it recovers.
on the implementation of a new IT system to increase the efficiency of our operations and we Nigels Our food processor business was also affected opened two new branches, thereby extending essentials include: by the transaction impact of currency and a our geographic coverage of the country.
Bouffant cap reduction in demand from our major customers.
Cling film The combination of lower sales and increased Cutlery margin pressure was only partially offset by cost Napkins reductions.
During the year we made significant Food server Water jug Disposable cups Tissues Shape pads Wipes Slippers Multipurpose cleaner 18:09 Nigel has a varied role looking after the elderly in a care home in Melbourne, Australia.
He ensures Bill has everything he needs to be comfortable, making use of many different products sourced from Bunzl.
