CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS LETTER Extraordinary context In April 2008, mindful of the softening economic environment, Burberry began the 2008 09 financial year continuing to execute its strategic plan, consistent with the previous two years.
This course produced good first half results: during the period ended September 2008, Group revenue increased 13% at constant exchange rates 20% at reported rates, while adjusted operating profit increased 3%.
Mid-September then brought the onset of true economic crisis almost fully coincident with the start of Burberrys second half.
This led to the addition of new, urgent priorities to the agenda.
While the core strategies remained in effect, tactical adjustments were made.
Matters relating to inventory management, capital investment and expense structure were evaluated in a new light.
This drove development of a 50m cost efficiency programme.
Involving all areas of the business throughout the world, the programme presented a challenging shift for our growth oriented organisation.
The team responded brilliantly to the task, and the programme is targeted to underpin profitability in 2009 10.
Continued progress At the same time, good progress continued across key strategies during the year.
The front end of the business refers to the public face of Burberry.
Burberry continued to purify the brands message and enhance consistency across all forms of its expression.
During the year, the Group completed and relocated to new global headquarters in central London.
Designed internally, Horseferry House is a comprehensive expression of the Burberry brand for customers, partners and employees.
Store base upgrading continued, with renovation of the London Knightsbridge and Beverly Hills agships as highlights.
Our talented design and merchandising teams responded quickly to the changing environment.
Through continued innovation, outerwear remained at the centre of our business.
significant, new brand platforms brought further progress in underdeveloped segments of our product architecture, while new interpretations of classic icons addressed a consumer trend toward authenticity and heritage.
Burberry strengthened its position in Burberry Foundation.
Aimed at empowering the important underdeveloped markets through the intellectual creativity of young people, the Burberry establishment of new operating structures.
The Foundation began operating in earnest.
During the Group transformed its existing Middle East franchise year, the Foundation engaged with high performing relationship to a joint venture to best capitalise on charities in key cities and added internal expertise the potential of this high growth region.
Burberry also and energy to the Foundations monetary contributions formed a joint venture with current licensees to develop through an employee engagement programme.
the brands luxury accessories categories in Japan, These accomplishments, strategic and operational, the worlds largest luxury accessories market.
ongoing and exceptional, point to the quality of Burberrys Back-of-house.
Continuous operational improvement teams throughout the world and their ability to work as remains a primary objective.
In the end, the full year financial results of a 7% revenue increase currency adjusted and 12% Merchandising.
Enhancing merchandising disciplines adjusted operating profit decline are more in keeping across Burberrys complex product assortments to with external conditions than internal efforts.
improve efficiency has been a key goal.
Through implementation in 2008 09 of a global planning Staying the course function, more targeted design processes and new A look forward presents a distinct lack of visibility regarding regional purchasing models, the Group expects the economy and consumer behaviour.
While the precise significant expense savings, improved working timing is unclear, economic recovery is anticipated to begin capital management and higher retail sell-through within this year or the next.
With respect to the luxury in future seasons.
sector, we believe the consumer preferences which fuelled growth during the past 15 years will remain relevant.
The year also allowed the Groups infrastructure to continue to catch up with its front So, fundamentally, Burberry plans to stay the course.
Modernisation of the supply chain continued The brand has perhaps never been better positioned.
with the move to a more sophisticated sourcing Relative momentum is strong and our strategies have base and a rened logistics operation, producing proven effective.
Burberrys 150-year heritage and the substantial expense savings.
SAP implementation authenticity of core products stand the business well amid neared completion with the Americas region going the uncertainty.
At the same time, we approach 2009 10 live at year end.
Sales are planned conservatively and the expense structure has been rationalised with an ongoing Great brand Great company.
In addition to a great focus on costs.
Capital investment plans are reduced.
brand, Burberry aspires to be a great company.
Management is maintaining exibility and vigilantly The Group advanced across several measures monitoring the business to respond to unanticipated during the year.
Still, this united, dynamic team remains Supply chain.
In supply chain, increased investment optimistic, with a strong belief that Burberry can prosper.
in ethical compliance teams enhanced visibility of Angela Ahrendts supplier operations and improved practices in line Chief Executive officer with Burberrys values.
Burberry continued efforts to thoughtfully reduce its environmental impact.
The Group signicantly reduced carbon emissions during the year through relocation to the new energy-efficient global headquarters, policy shift from air to sea for product shipments and adjusting activities to reduce dependency on international travel.
