6 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 OUR GROUP GROUP CHiEf EXECUTiVEs REViEw.
DELiVERiNG OUR sTRATEGY In March 2009 I set out our intention to accelerate the net cash generation of the Group.
We set targets to deliver 450 million of net cash and 50 million of annual cost savings in 2009.
Both of these targets were exceeded by the end of September, and end of year net cash generation was 699 million and annual cost savings were 69 million.
Legal & General is a balanced manufacturer of Risk, Savings, and Investment management products.
In Risk, market leading positions in protection and annuities are generating significant, sustainable cash flows and continue to perform well despite a weakened UK housing market.
Our General insurance business is now delivering healthy returns.
The turnaround in our Savings business is ahead of schedule.
New business sales have been strong in 2009 with emergence of sustainable cash flow and profit in the second half of 2009. iN LAsT YEARs REPORT wE OUTLiNED OUR sTRATEGiC DiRECTiON Legal & General Investment Management LGIM has AND THE fiVE iMPERATiVEs KEY continued to receive strong new business flows and has established a top ranked position in the UK TO REALisiNG OUR AsPiRATiON pensions fund market.
Our International businesses Of BECOMiNG THE UKs LEADiNG are now poised to become a significant source of RisK, sAViNGs AND iNVEsTMENT future profit growth.
i AM Our diverse mix of distribution channels puts us in PLEAsED TO REPORT THAT iN 2009 a good position ahead of the implementation of the wE HAVE ACCELERATED OUR Retail Distribution Review RDR.
New distribution PROGREss iN THEsE AREAs AND arrangements with SAGA, Skipton Building Society DELiVERED sOME sTRONG REsULTs.
and Northern Rock, amongst others, will contribute to overall sales in 2010.
We have also worked closely with industry associations and relevant Government bodies to highlight the impacts of regulation and policy, particularly the potential unintended consequences of the European Solvency II Directive and its impact on UK savers.
To see a video of Tim Breedon please visit www.
com fiNANCiAL HiGHLiGHTs Worldwide new business sales for 2009 were 1,388 million on an annual premium equivalent APE basis 2008: 1,486 million.
In part this reflects more difficult economic conditions, and low investor confidence in OuR GROup ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 7 Final diVidend payaBle iFRS pROFit FOR the yeaR 160m 844m 2008: 120m 2008: loss of 1,130m OuR puRpOSe In Savings, a strategy of reducing volumes in traditional capital-intensive life and pensions products in favour of I strongly believe insurance can be a catalyst for more capital efficient Self Invested Personal Pensions economic improvement, and a force for good.
SIPPs and unit trusts continues to drive growth.
Overall We can take on new responsibilities to benefit our UK Savings APE was 3% higher than last year at 907 policyholders, investment customers, shareholders million, boosted by a 69% growth in unit trusts sales.
Having proved we can survive the financial crisis, it is now up to us to prove our value Investment management received gross inflows of in the recovery, but we will need the right regulatory funds of 33.3 billion for the year.
Of this LGIM inflows framework and the right spirit of partnership with accounted for 31.5 billion, our second highest annual Government to do so.
level of gross funds ever, as UK Corporate pensions trustees and institutional clients continue to be attracted We need to deliver on our promises and meet our to our range of indexed, fixed income and liability driven obligations where it is right to do so.
We must not investment LDI products combined with high levels forget that our products should be designed to meet of service.
the real needs of customers, not be driven by our own preferences or those of our distributors.
International sales were down 3%, as businesses in the Tim Breedon, Business In the Community BITC AGM, United States, France and the Netherlands performed 3 December 2009. well in challenging market conditions.
New joint ventures in India and the Gulf began trading during In recognition of this important aspect of our role, a the fourth quarter.
new section has been added to this years report and can be found on page 36.
Balance Sheet and capital Financial strength was a major focus in 2008 and Our CSR Report contains further details and can be continued to be so in 2009.
Our balance sheet is stronger found at www.
and our estimated IGD surplus at the end of the year was 3.1 billion 2008: 1.8bn.
This is more than double the required level of regulatory capital, resulting in a coverage ratio of 224%, up from 169% at the end of the first half of the year.
However it is also the result December 2008. of a deliberate strategy on our part to focus more selectively on higher quality, higher return new business.
OutlOOk International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS These results demonstrate the significant progress operating profit was 1,109m 2008: 592m restated.
we continue to make in transforming the Group into a lower cost, capital efficient, cash generative business.
In Risk, individual annuities recorded double digit sales Our business outlook is exciting.
Confidence is slowly growth and individual protection outperformed the falls returning to the economy and I believe the actions that in gross mortgage lending reflecting sector leadership we have taken this year leave our businesses well placed and breadth of distribution.
The pensions buyout market, to continue delivering growth going forward.
We have after an extraordinary 2008, returned to the levels seen a clear strategy based on strong cash generation and in previous years and Legal & General took a broadly profit growth, an efficient manufacturing capability, and consistent share of this market in 2009. proven distribution strength.
The strategy of focusing on the small scheme market coupled with a highly selective approach to larger transactions has been maintained.
Total APE in the Risk business fell 25% to 366 million.
tiM BReedOn GROup chieF eXecutiVe
