10 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW J Eric Daniels Udam endernat aut ut voluptur serum re, officid quid qui ne AQUE NULLAB INCTI voluptatur sinctatur, est quate porum dolupta tinverum re maxim ex 2009 WAS A YEAR OF SIGNIFICANT Udam endernat aut ut voluptur serum re, officid quid qui ne et quae cusciat quasimeni dendandem qui cum ipsae solum quam voluptatur sinctatur, est quate porum dolupta tinverum re maxim ex fugit maio molorpos cuptassint, quis quia volorest plitatio.
Ut et quae cusciat quasimeni dendandem qui cum ipsae solum quam ACHIEVEMENT IN SHAPING THE GROUP.
estionsequi tet estotat iaturero endi aspieni hilitios quae venis fugit maio molorpos cuptassint, quis quia volorest plitatio.
Ut quam re omnihiciis prera anissintotam qui restias mi, officitium estionsequi tet estotat iaturero endi aspieni hilitios quae venis esedit molorrorro estemol uptate nistecte sequatatur?
WE HAVE ESTABLISHED POSITIVE TRENDS quam re omnihiciis prera anissintotam qui restias mi, officitium esedit molorrorro estemol uptate nistecte sequatatur?
Quia SIT AUT LATIAE RE DOLORES verestrum que ni vidi que sus enihic totae volorro explabo reptatem IN MARGIN, COST AND IMPAIRMENTS AND lacit ut aut laboren tionsequist que molora corent aut eum fugit int Ique res es acit dolestis que conserr umquos aut evellit, temped qui mos dolum dunt ipsaniet ut eicatem volo ipidictem raescipis que enda niatus erci si con consequi occus que volorit hicienis sed ARE WELL POSITIONED dolumquid estota doluptature cor repratus exero beatium con cus molore voles exere nis adignam cus qui non cone pelendit, que labor alibusa cus estius sint.
nihicimus sed quo totatem oluptate seressit audiat ad et volestium ex est res cum reiusam doloreres magnis aut dolore et quo Ique res es acit dolestis que conserr umquos aut evellit, temped qui erepudis si quaspero estion pe nis mos volorer cipsuntemque que enda niatus erci si con consequi occus que volorit hicienis sed voluptatem expedit quo exercie necumque et hic te illatur?
Ipsus molore voles exere nis adignam cus qui non cone pelendit, soloris itiunti bustist est, volorit aut rem eiunto blaut aut eicatquo nihicimus sed quo totatem oluptate seressit audiat ad et volestium mos consequ isciatia quas nem est facessi amus aut ea siti ex est res cum reiusam doloreres magnis aut dolore et quo denderoribus et re, quid qui quis et ullupta tiuscia nducien disit, erepudis si quaspero estion pe nis mos volorer cipsuntemque occusapis audit minciti onecum, con re, solorit ut ut pos ipsantis voluptatem expedit quo exercie necumque et hic te illatur?
Ipsus excepel il ipiendusam voluptat.
Nam liber tempor cum nobis soloris itiunti bustist est, volorit aut rem eiunto blaut aut eicatquo eligend optio comgue nihil impedit doming id quod maxim placeat mos consequ isciatia quas nem est facessi amus aut ea siti facer possim omnis voluptas assumenda est, omnis dolor denderoribus et re, quid qui quis et ullupta tiuscia nducien disit, repellend.
Temporibud autem quinusd at aur office debit aut tum occusapis audit minciti onecum, con re, solorit ut ut pos ipsantis rerum necessit atib saepe eveniet ut er repudiand sint et molestia excepel il ipiendusam voluptat.
Itaque earud reruam hist entuary sapiente delecatus Nam liber tempor cum nobis eligend optio comgue nihil impedit auaut pre fear enrdis doloribr asperiore repellat.
Hanc ego cum doming id quod maxim placeat facer possim omnis voluptas tene sententian, quid est cur verear ne ad eam non possin assumenda est, omnis dolor repellend.
Temporibud autem quinusd accommodare nost ros tu paulo ante cum memorie tum etia ergat.
at aur office debit aut tum rerum necessit atib saepe eveniet ut Nos amice et nebevol, olestias access potest fier ad augendas cum.
er repudiand sint et molestia non recus.
Itaque earud reruam hist Conscient to factor tum poen legum odioque cividua.
entuary sapiente delecatus auaut pre fear enrdis doloribr asperiore repellat.
Hanc ego cum tene sententian, quid est cur verear ne MOLUPTATIA AUT ULPARIS RESSUS ad eam non possin accommodare nost ros tu paulo ante cum Itaque earud reruam hist entuary sapiente delecatus auaut pre fear memorie tum etia ergat.
Nos amice et nebevol, olestias access enrdis doloribr asperiore repellat.
Hanc ego cum tene sententian, potest fier ad augendas cum.
Conscient to factor tum poen quid est cur verear ne ad eam non possin accommodare nost ros tu legum odioque cividua.
paulo ante cum memorie tum etia ergat.
Nos amice et nebevol, olestias access potest fier ad augendas cum.
Conscient to factor Ique res es acit dolestis que conserr umquos aut evellit, temped qui tum poen legum odioque cividua.. que enda niatus erci si con consequi occus que volorit hicienis sed molore voles exere nis adignam cus qui non cone pelendit, nihicimus sed quo totatem oluptate seressit audiat ad et volestium ex est res cum reiusam doloreres magnis aut dolore et quo erepudis si quaspero estion pe nis mos volorer cipsuntemque voluptatem expedit quo exercie necumque et hic te illatur?
Ipsus soloris itiunti bustist est, volorit aut rem eiunto blaut aut eicatquo mos consequ isciatia quas nem est facessi amus aut ea siti denderoribus et re, quid qui quis et ullupta tiuscia nducien disit, occusapis audit minciti onecum, con re, solorit ut ut pos ipsantis excepel il ipiendusam voluptat.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 11 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 SUMMARY ADDRESSING THE KEY ISSUES 2009 was another challenging year for the financial services industry, both in the UK and around the world, reflecting a continuation CREATING THE PLATFORM FOR FUTURE GROWTH of many of the issues that arose in 2008.
During the year, the We now have market-leading positions in many of the financial UK experienced its sharpest contraction in gross domestic markets in which we participate, a market-leading distribution product GDP for many decades, with a sharp fall in the value of capability, well recognised brands and a large customer base.
Over commercial property alongside rising company failures and higher the last 12 months we have appointed the management team and unemployment levels.
Despite the tough market conditions, our implemented the management structures to ensure delivery of our core businesses have performed well.
Our significant achievements in 2009 will shape the future of the INTEGRATION Lloyds Banking Group.
We strengthened our franchise, attracting Excellent progress is being made on the integration of the two new customers and building deeper relationships.
Detailed integration plans have been developed and excellent progress with the integration of HBOS, which we acquired implemented and we exited the year with a cost synergy run-rate in January 2009.
The Groups capital is robust and our funding of 766 million.
The significant progress being made has led us to profile was strengthened considerably during the period.
raise the expected synergies to a 2 billion annualised run-rate by The management team implemented a number of programmes that the end of 2011. have resulted in positive trends in margins, costs and impairments.
RISK MANAGEMENT Given the momentum we have already developed in these The strong risk management culture and more prudent risk areas, and with the stabilising economy, we believe the Group is appetite previously prevalent within Lloyds TSB has been applied well positioned to deliver a strong financial performance in the to the enlarged Group.
The new Group has already exited a coming years.
number of non-core areas in which HBOS previously participated We believe we have substantial additional growth opportunities and the more prudent through the cycle approach to risk is being from continuing to develop our business model and applying applied to all new business.
it across the broader franchise.
As we realise the potential, it will enable us to further improve our growth trajectory in the EU STATE AID coming years.
The uncertainty of the state aid repercussions was addressed in November when our restructuring plan was agreed by the Although we are forecasting a slow, below trend, economic recovery, European Commission.
The board approved the restructuring plan the Group is successfully addressing the near-term challenges and is and is confident that this will not have a materially negative impact well positioned to deliver value for our customers and shareholders.
As a result, the financial performance of the Groups continuing businesses is expected to improve significantly in 2010 and beyond.
CAPITAL The successful capital raising in December significantly RESULTS OVERVIEW strengthened the Groups capital ratios.
The appropriateness of capital levels will continue to be a focus for the regulatory On a statutory basis, the Group delivered a profit before tax of authorities but we will always seek to satisfy capital requirements in 1 billion for 2009.
This result includes an 11.2 billion negative a way that protects and maximises value to shareholders.
goodwill gain associated with the purchase of HBOS, given we acquired the business at half book value in anticipation of the likely losses resulting from their troubled asset portfolios.
On a combined businesses basis, the Group reported a 6.3 billion loss for the year, compared to a 6.7 billion loss in 2008.
Our total income rose 12 per cent, whilst costs fell 5 per cent.
The higher income and lower costs drove a substantial uplift in the trading surplus, which increased by 35 per cent, and our cost:income ratio improved to 48.4 per cent.
As guided last August, there was a significant increase in impairments, which rose to 24 billion from 14.9 billion in 2008, principally due to the HBOS portfolios and their high level of exposure to commercial property.
12 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW RESILIENT CORE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE COST SYNERGY TARGET INCREASED Total income, net of insurance claims, was up 12 per cent on Costs fell by 5 per cent in the year.
We have made great strides prior year, helped by lower write-downs on treasury assets and on delivering the integration of Lloyds TSB and HBOS, one of the profits from debt swaps.
These gains more than offset the the largest financial services mergers ever undertaken.
We exited year-on-year decline in margins, which suffered from the impact of the year with a cost synergy run-rate of 766 million.
The key very low base rates and increased funding costs as we lengthened programmes we have put in place are: rationalising our businesses our maturity profile.
to eliminate areas of duplication: leveraging our procurement skills and re-aligning our property requirements.
Given we have The continued development of our customer franchises has enabled now achieved half of our cost run-rate target, we have raised our us to offset the impact of the weak economy.
In Retail, we opened guidance and are now targeting annual run-rate cost synergies of nearly 2 million current accounts and nearly 5 million new savings 2 billion by the end of 2011. accounts, which are important drivers for future profitable growth.
We delivered an equally good performance in the Wholesale division.
In our Commercial business, we opened approximately IMPAIRMENTS EXPECTED TO REDUCE 100,000 new accounts and achieved a 23 per cent share of start-up SIGNIFICANTLY IN THE COMING YEARS businesses, and in Corporate we saw a 49 per cent improvement Impairments in the year were 24 billion, which is reflective of the in cross-sales income from Lloyds TSB customers.
Wealth and problem HBOS portfolios, in particular, the over-concentration in International, our new division, made a very encouraging start in commercial real estate.
When we released our half-year results, we 2009 with a strong growth in the number of relationship clients and said that total Group impairments would peak in that half, and the a 13 per cent growth in the number of UK private banking customers.
full-year numbers confirm that guidance.
In Insurance, despite the more difficult market conditions, we made good progress in key product areas such as Open Ended The Lloyds TSB conservative approach to risk management has Investment Companies OEICs and life assurance protection.
been implemented across the Group, and is making a difference.
All new lending is within the Groups risk appetite and the existing With over 30 million customers we understand the financial portfolios are being managed to Group standards.
Looking hardships that many households and businesses are experiencing forward, we expect to see a similar pace of half-yearly improvement as a result of the recent economic decline in the UK.
We are throughout 2010, with further substantial reductions in 2011, and committed to helping our customers in these challenging times, beyond.
We expect reductions in all three customer divisions, which is reflective of our relationship-based approach.
In Retail, although we remain cautious on the Irish portfolios, given the we maintained strong levels of mortgage lending, with 35 billion uncertain economic outlook.
of gross new lending, and helped thousands of our customers to buy new homes.
In Wholesale we have provided approximately 10 billion of committed gross lending to small and medium-sized ROBUST CAPITAL POSITION enterprises and approximately 25 billion to Corporate customers.
Following our recent successful capital raise, the Groups year end We are acutely aware of the importance of supporting households core tier one ratio was 8.1 per cent and it rose by a further 30 basis and businesses as we exit the recession, and we will remain just as points in February 2010.
This reflects a number of successful actions focused on this in 2010 as we were in 2009. during the year which included the 4 billion ordinary share placing Our asset margin improved during 2009, although the upturn came and compensatory open offer in June, and the 22.5 billion equity earlier than we had expected.
We are pricing assets to appropriately raising and liability management exercises announced in November.
reflect risk and our funding costs, and the net interest margin recovered somewhat in the second half.
The key drivers influencing FUNDING AND LIQUIDITY STRENGTHENED our margin in 2010 will be asset pricing, a possible increase in the base rate and the cost of wholesale funding.
We expect to be able A number of steps were taken in the year to extend the Groups to achieve a margin of 2 per cent this year, and to be on an upward wholesale funding maturity and to further improve our liquidity trajectory after that.
The Groups loan to deposit ratio improved and over 50 per cent of the wholesale funding had a maturity of over one year We envisage minimal medium-term impact on our margin from the 2008: 44 per cent.
We had also established an 88 billion liquidity cost of wholesale funding, as we reduce our absolute wholesale buffer at the end of 2009.
In addition, the Group continued to widen funding requirement.
Additionally, whilst we anticipate that a high its diverse range of funding sources and had already achieved a proportion of our existing government and central bank funding will significant amount of its expected term funding issuance for 2010 by not have to be re-financed, we believe we can replace the residual the end of January.
portion at a cost that is similar to that which we are paying for these facilities at present.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 13 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 DELIVERING SUSTAINABLE VALUE BUSINESS OUTLOOK THROUGH THE CYCLE 2009 was a year of substantial achievement, in which we shaped the Group to enable us to deliver the growth potential of the The Groups aim is to be recognised as the UKs best financial enlarged franchise.
We achieved this whilst maintaining good services business and to deliver sustainable value through the cycle momentum in the core business, and as a result the Group is now for our customers and shareholders.
The principal element of the in a strong position.
Groups strategy remains the focus on building deep, long-lasting customer relationships in all its franchises.
We continue to support We have established positive trends in margin, costs and this with a focus on driving down costs and maintaining effective impairments.
The management actions we have already taken in capital management disciplines, within a strong, conservative, risk these areas, combined with the underlying business momentum, management framework.
point towards significantly improved financial performance in the coming years.
The Group aims to: We also believe there are significant opportunities for additional Deliver high single-digit income growth from our continuing growth, potentially amounting to hundreds of millions of pounds businesses within the next two years.
Over the last five years Lloyds TSB has delivered Deliver annual reductions in our cost:income ratio of 2 per cent accelerating growth by focusing on acquiring, deepening and over the next few years.
We can see significant Run-off non-relationship assets to reduce the size of our balance opportunity from sustaining this trend in the legacy Lloyds TSB sheet, providing the capacity to re-invest in growing our franchise, and extending the model across the enlarged Group.
As we realise this potential, we will add to our growth trajectory.
STATE AID OUR PEOPLE During 2009, the Group was required to work with HM Treasury The last 12 months have been very challenging for all of our staff, to submit a restructuring plan to the European Commission in across the Group.
The external environment has been difficult, the context of a state aid review.
During the last few months of but our staff have continued to serve and support our customers 2009, the final terms of the restructuring plan were agreed by the superbly while delivering one of the largest banking mergers in European Commission College of Commissioners.
I, along with all the members of the board, am very proud of approved the restructuring plan and is confident that it will not their achievements this last year, and their performance underpins have a materially negative impact on the Group.
my confidence in our ability to deliver in the coming years.
ECONOMIC OUTLOOK The economic performance last year was worse than most J Eric Daniels expected, with a 4.8 per cent decline in GDP.
Looking forward, we Group Chief Executive remain cautious but realistic.
Our view is that the risk of a severe 25 February 2010 further downturn in 2010 is lower than a few months ago and we continue to forecast growth in GDP of 1.8 per cent for 2010, with a similar trend in 2011.
Against that backdrop, we expect property prices will be broadly flat in 2010 and we remain on the cautious side of the range of market expectations.
We anticipate that company failures will peak this year, but do not expect them to reach the heights seen in the last recession due to much lower corporate debt servicing costs.
We believe unemployment will also peak in 2010, but at a lower level than seen in the last recession.
Our financial outlook and guidance are based on a range of economic scenarios.
Having stressed our portfolios, we are confident of our capital position and the expectation of improving financial performance, albeit the growth would be slower in coming through if there were a second economic downturn, or a weaker than expected economic recovery.
