14 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES Q&A ISSUE: THE GOVERNMENT SHAREHOLDING ISSUE: STATE AID As a result of the recapitalisation of the banking sector and the The European Commission required the Group to agree a subsequent capital raisings the Government now holds a significant restructuring plan as a result of the investment in the Group by stake in Lloyds Banking Group.
What are the implications of this holding, how does the What remedies were agreed with the European Commission Government intend to reduce its holding and how does the and what are the implications of these remedies?
Governments share ownership impact the Groups business?
As a result of HM Treasurys investment in the Company in As at the date these accounts were approved the Governments the context of the placing and open offer undertaken by the shareholding in Lloyds Banking Group was approximately Company in November 2008 and the Groups participation in 41.3 per cent, which is managed by UK Financial Investments the Credit Guarantee Scheme, the Group was required to work UKFI on behalf of HM Treasury.
with HM Treasury to submit a restructuring plan to the European Commission in the context of a state aid review.
This plan was We have a very good working relationship with UKFI who act required to contain measures to limit any competition distortions like any value orientated shareholder with regard to the strategic resulting from the state aid received by the Group.
development and financial performance of the Group, providing significant constructive challenge where they see fit.
The During the last few months of 2009, HM Treasury and the Group Government has made it very clear that UK financial institutions were involved in detailed negotiations with the European in which it holds substantial stakes will continue to be separate Commission in relation to the terms of the restructuring plan in economic units with independent powers of decision and will order to reach a mutually acceptable solution.
The final approval continue to have their own independent boards and management of the UK Governments state aid measures, including the terms teams, determining their own strategies and commercial policies of the final restructuring plan, was agreed by the College of including business plans and budgets.
The plan consists of the following principal elements: Moreover, the relationship between the Government and the Group falls within the framework document between HM Treasury and a the disposal of a retail banking business with at least UKFI published on 2 March 2009, which states that UKFI will manage 600 branches, a 4.6 per cent share of the personal current investments in the UK financial institutions in which HM Treasury accounts market in the UK and approximately 19 per cent of holds an interest on a commercial basis and will not intervene in the Groups mortgage assets.
The business consists of: the day-to-day management decisions of the investee companies TSB brand: the branches, savings accounts and branch based including with respect to individual lending or remuneration mortgages of Cheltenham & Gloucester: the branches and decisions.
branch based customers of Lloyds TSB Scotland and a related banking licence: additional Lloyds TSB branches in England and The timing of any share disposal will be at the discretion of UKFI.
Wales, with branch based customers: and, Intelligent Finance.
However, within the publication An Introduction: Who We Are, These disposals need to be made within four years of the date What We Do and the Framework Document Which Governs the of state aid approval: Relationship Between UKFI and HM Treasury, it is stated that UKFI b an asset reduction programme to achieve a 181 billion is to develop and execute an investment strategy for disposing of reduction in a specified pool of end 2008 assets by the investments in the banks in an orderly and active way through 31 December 2014: and sale, redemption, buy-back or other means within the context of c behavioural commitments, including commitments: not to make an overarching objective of protecting and creating value for the certain acquisitions for approximately three to four years: and taxpayer as shareholder, paying due regard to the maintenance of not to make discretionary payments of coupons or to exercise financial stability and to acting in a way that promotes competition.
voluntary call options on hybrid securities from 31 January 2010 Going forward the Group is focused on delivering strategy and until 31 January 2012, which will also prevent the Group from subsequently value to all our shareholders.
The Government holding paying dividends on its ordinary shares for the same duration.
does not impact this management focus and we remain committed The assets and liabilities, and associated income and expenses, to operating as a wholly privately owned, self supporting, dividend of the business to be divested referred to above cannot be paying, commercial enterprise over time.
determined with precision until nearer the date of sale.
However, the Company estimated that, as at 31 December 2008 and after aggregating the elements relating to Lloyds TSB and HBOS, the retail business to be divested comprised approximately 70 billion of customer lending and 30 billion of customer deposits.
For the year ended 31 December 2008, the board estimated that the retail business to be divested generated income of approximately 1.4 billion and contributed approximately 500 million of profit before tax to the Group.
The board approved the restructuring plan and is confident that this will not have a materially negative impact on the Group.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 15 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 ISSUE: FUTURE GROWTH ISSUE: THE GROUP DIVIDEND At the time of the acquisition of HBOS the Group indicated that the The European Commission state aid review prevents the Group acquisition was a unique transaction that would position the Group from paying dividends on its ordinary shares.
When will you recommence the payment of dividends?
Does the Group still believe that this is the case and how is As a result of the UK Governments investment in the Group as part the Group going to deliver earnings growth over the next of the initial recapitalisation by the Company in November 2008, the few years?
rights issue announced in November 2009 and our participation in The acquisition of HBOS at the beginning of 2009 has undoubtedly the Credit Guarantee Scheme, the Group has been deemed to have improved the strategic positioning of the Lloyds Banking Group and accepted state aid and subsequently the European Commission helped position the Group for future growth.
We now have market required us to undertake a restructuring plan see the state aid leading positions in many of the financial markets in which we question for further detail.
This, amongst other things, includes a participate, a market leading distribution capability, well recognised behavioural commitment not to make discretionary payments of brands and a large customer base.
The scale of the organisation coupons or to exercise voluntary call options on hybrid securities from provides us with the opportunity to further invest in products and 31 January 2010 until 31 January 2012.
This also prevents the Group services, systems and training, offering unparalleled choice and from paying dividends on its ordinary shares for the same duration.
This strategic positioning along with our We understand the distress the lack of dividend has caused many of strong relationship focus and prudent risk appetite provides the our shareholders and are working hard to restore shareholder value.
The capital raising in December 2009 was a significant step towards Our customer franchise and relationship focus will be key drivers of meeting our objective of operating as a wholly privately owned, earnings growth going forward and we believe that the Group can self-supporting, dividend paying, commercial enterprise over time.
deliver high single-digit income growth within the next few years as The board intends to resume dividend payments on ordinary shares we meet the needs of our customers more effectively and extend as soon as market conditions and the financial performance of the the depth of our customer relationships.
Group permit, subject to the expiry of the restrictions arising from the European Commission remedies.
Lloyds TSB has historically been strong in managing the cost base but the unique positioning of the Group also now provides a number of opportunities not available to other providers.
The integration of the two businesses provides the opportunity for significant cost synergies.
We have already outlined that we are looking to achieve 2 billion of cost synergies per annum by the end of 2011 and are already well on track for this, having delivered 766 million of synergies on an annualised basis in 2009.
To date these synergies have primarily arisen from fide-duplication of functions and property consolidation but going forward significant opportunities still exist from system integration and procurement.
We believe that the Group can deliver a 200 basis points reduction in the cost:income ratio per annum over the next few years.
Impairment losses, particularly from the heritage HBOS business, have also significantly impacted profits over the past two years.
We outlined at the half-year that we believed Group impairment losses had peaked in the first half of 2009 and this was borne out in the full year numbers which showed a 21 per cent reduction in impairment in the second half of the year.
The Group believes impairment losses will continue to fall going forward and though given the current economic environment such levels are still inflated we believe impairments will return to more normalised levels over the next couple of years.
The significant reduction in expected impairments will evidently benefit profits.
Overall the Group believes that the successful execution of its strategy focusing on core markets, customer and cost leadership, capital efficiency and a prudent risk appetite should enable the Group to deliver earnings growth and shareholder value whilst achieving its vision to be recognised as the best financial services company in the UK.
