Review of business chief executives Review ouR business links compAnies lARGe And smAll to the woRlds cApitAl flows this peRfoRmAnce undeRlines the Resilience of ouR business model, the ReAl And meAninGful benefits ARisinG fRom A full yeARs contRibution fRom ouR meRGeR, And the hARd woRk And quAlity of ouR stAff.
In the last year, against the backdrop In November, we reached a key milestone of extraordinarily difficult financial markets in successfully migrating our Italian cash and economic circumstances, we have equities market onto our TradElect platform, facilitated access to unprecedented creating the largest and most liquid equity amounts of equity capital for companies market in Europe.
AIM Italia was established quoted on our markets and have continued in December and six Italian intermediaries to provide transparent, liquid and price had already been admitted as Nominated forming trading services.
Advisers by year end, with a road show across Italy to promote AIM Italia to Operating profit, excluding goodwill hundreds of entrepreneurs taking place.
impairment, amortisation of purchased intangibles and exceptional items, By year end, 19 million of cost synergies increased 17 per cent to 338.6 million.
had been delivered and we now expect total This performance underlines the resilience cost synergies from the merger to be at of our business model, the real and least 32 million, an increase of 60 per cent meaningful benefits arising from a full years on our original forecast.
The full run rate of contribution from our merger, and the hard at least 32 million will be delivered in the work and quality of our staff.
We have had a busy year integrating London Stock Exchange and Borsa Italiana and I am grateful to our colleagues at Borsa Italiana for their hard work and dedication in developing the many assets that Borsa Italiana brings to the Group.
London Stock Exchange Group 14 Annual Report 2009 the woRlds cApitAl mARket continued to grow, increasing 15 per cent We continued to build our international to 740,000 trades per day.
In Italy, average network, entering into a strategic trades per day declined 12 per cent on a pro partnership with Oslo Brs which will forma basis to 256,000 although volumes use TradElect for Norwegian equities and increased in March, as share prices started fixed income trading.
In March we also to recover from recent lows.
As part of this collaboration, our London derivatives The growth in the number of trades in business, EDX London, will use TMX London reflects the increasing importance Groups derivatives trading platform by of high frequency, highly automated the end of the year and TMX Group has electronic trading which we have highlighted recently invested in EDX London, with in previous years.
Indeed, new specialist a view to building new products and trading firms continue to join our markets, services together.
This high frequency trading flow requires a very As I step down after eight eventful and high speed service and a different fee very enjoyable years, I am delighted that structure.
To incentivise their participation, Xavier Rolet will assume the role of Chief we launched a new equity price list in Executive.
I believe he is exceptionally well I would also acknowledge the engagement September that introduced a tiered qualified to take the Company forward.
and support we received throughout the credit scheme for liquidity provision.
year from our customers and the regulatory I would particularly like to extend my authorities, CONSOB and Banca dItalia, We also continue to invest in the speed deepest gratitude to my Chairman and in Italy.
This has been fundamental to the and capacity of our trading platform and Board, my colleagues, our customers, success of our merger.
are busy preparing the next stage of our shareholders and advisors for their technology development.
steadfast support over the last eight years.
Demonstrating the critical role that our I wish you all very well in the years ahead.
equity market plays in supporting the real Our derivatives business performed well, economy, we saw a record 106 billion with Group volumes increasing 14 per cent of money raised in new and further issues on a pro forma basis to a record total for across the Group.
This included a total of the year of 98 million contracts.
This growth 160 new issues and a record 99 billion of was driven in particular by very strong further money raised as companies issued trading in our Russian derivatives service.
new equity to fund growth or repay debt In November we launched a new Italian and strengthen balance sheets.
power derivatives market, IDEX, which has started well with 14 trading members clara furse To build on our position as the worlds most already using the service.
chief executive international capital market, we continued to promote London around the world.
In the Information Services also delivered a strong last year we held a series of events for performance, reflecting the quality and global companies and investors from the value of our trading information.
Demand Americas, the Middle East and Asia.
We for professional terminals receiving real attracted 21 international IPOs, raising 3 time London Stock Exchange data was billion between them, once again more than resilient throughout most of the year with a all of our major exchange competitors put small decline in the last quarter to 104,000. together.
Highlights from the year included Professional users of Borsa Italiana data nine companies joining us from the Middle were down 9,000 to 151,000.
As part of our East raising a combined 1.4 billion, and the continuing development and diversification, Mexican mining company Fresnillo joining in September we launched our Hosting our Main Market, raising over 900 million.
service, providing speed-hungry trading firms with even faster access to our trading Equity trading for the full year was resilient, and information services.
This is one although it weakened in the second half as example of a number of new initiatives the fide-leveraging effects of the financial being developed by the Group.
As a number of new entrants emerged, our market share in the electronic Throughout the financial crisis our clearing trading of FTSE 100 securities remained service, CC&G, performed its crucial around 75 to 80 per cent and over 90 per function as central counterparty very cent in S&P MIB securities.
We continue effectively, highlighting the quality of its risk to offer best execution: the tightest spreads management processes and operational and the greatest certainty of execution in excellence.
Clearnet in the shares of the companies listed on our London, we also launched a new central market.
For the full year in London, average counterparty service for the 50 most liquid daily value traded decreased 24 per cent depositary receipts on the London Stock to 6.9 billion per day, reflecting the 22 per Exchanges International Order Book.
cent fall in the average value of the FTSE Monte Titolis post trade router, X-TRM, 100 index and general fide-leveraging.
is now being used in the UK market for However, the average daily number of trades the first time as part of this service.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report 2009 15
