Man Group plc 10 Annual Report 2009 Business Review Chief Executives Review The past year has seen extraordinary turmoil in financial markets globally.
Severe market dislocations, sharp falls in asset prices, the absence of liquidity and a loss of confidence in counterparties have all combined to stress business models throughout the financial services world.
Peter Clarke Chief Executive Peter Clarke Chief Executive Business Review Man Group plc Annual Report 2009 11 Investor confidence across our industry period, we benefitted from our long-standing has been shaken by negative returns, emphasis on allocations to managed futures, heightened levels of volatility, constrained primarily through AHL, but also through third liquidity and some high profile investment parties.
This had a positive effect on scandals, including Madoff.
Mans business performance and provided diversification, has not been immune to these stresses.
Profit both for our private investor products and our before tax and adjusting items fell by 40% to institutional investor portfolios, ranging from the $1.2 billion.
Our funds under management fell positive return over the period of 7.7% for by around a third over the year as redemptions investors in our flagship AHL product to a increased and we took action to reduce significant contribution to RMFs 200 basis investors risk in light of volatile markets.
points outperformance of the HFRI Fund of We have therefore entered the current financial Funds Composite Index RMF down 15.5% year with a materially reduced asset base over the period versus the index at negative compared to prior years and are focused on 17.5%, with a backdrop of world equities efficiencies as we ensure that our cost base is returning negative 38.4% over the same period.
The impacts of recent markets have also been felt in our corporate The real life stress test of markets through holdings, principally an impairment charge the recent turmoil has identified issues for of $299 million against Ore Hill investments managers and investors alike.
Evaporation of and goodwill to reflect the deterioration of risk capital weighed heavily on performance conditions in the credit markets and an across many strategies as markets became impairment charge of $126 million against illiquid, with a number ceasing to function our residual investment in MF Global.
Selling pressure increased, driven largely by banks The turmoil has also served to highlight realising assets to raise capital and fide-lever many of Mans strengths.
Investors in their balance sheets.
The listed derivatives our products saw favourable returns and markets favoured by managed futures and capital preservation against a backdrop of global macro managers provided one of the extreme negative industry and world equities few areas where liquidity was preserved and performance.
Liquidity was maintained across where counterparty risk could be mitigated the private investor product range throughout through centralised clearing houses.
In the the entire financial year, a significant last quarter of the financial year, the liquidity competitive differentiator which gives us position across markets eased, a position substantial ongoing credibility with distributors.
which continues, although sentiment remains The benefits of portfolio diversification, an fragile and contradictory.
adaptable product range and the attraction of guaranteed product offerings meant that we It is unlikely that the seizure of markets on the saw record levels of demand from the private scale which we saw last year will repeat, but investor.
Our strong balance sheet, significant the stability of the listed derivative markets has surplus regulatory capital and access to been noted by international regulators.
Moves liquidity provided confidence and allowed to bring on-exchange elements of the huge us to continue investing in our business.
over-the-counter derivatives markets have the potential to create significant and enduring In this testing environment, the professionalism new listed markets in a range of instruments, and commitment of our people at all levels has and so an expanded opportunity set for been the key factor which has allowed us to managers such as AHL.
address successfully the challenges we have faced.
The pace of change in our business has Protecting the interests of our investors, been demanding of everybody in the firm.
maintaining the value of our franchise Their commitment, ambition and energy have and ensuring financial discipline enabled us to position Man for the future in a Our investor focus has been on both rapidly evolving world.
I would like to take this investment management and risk management opportunity to thank them all sincerely.
Performing in difficult markets Man has always seen diversification as the The year to 31 March 2009 saw negative key attribute of our product offering and we performance across a wide range of asset monitor the appropriate investment exposure classes.
In our industry, many funds also within our products against the risk return recorded negative returns for investors with objectives of each product.
In the final very few positive performing styles over the calendar quarter of 2008 we took pro-active period the principal exception being measures to reduce investor risk in MGS managed futures.
Over the course of the products in light of highly volatile and illiquid Man Group plc 12 Annual Report 2009 Business Review Chief Executives Review continued markets, so preserving investor capital.
The Our institutional experience was more in Sustaining competitive advantage and speed of this reduction in investor risk was keeping with the industry as a whole, with building for the future greatly facilitated by our infrastructure and our lower margin institutional funds under AHL delivered exceptional performance in in particular the managed account platform, management reducing to end the period at 2008, with an annual return of 33%.
AHL has through which we had invested, a key $19 billion or around 41% in aggregate of our one of the longest and most impressive track advantage of the managed account being total funds under management.
This result records in the industry and a reputation for the control over assets it provides.
Our close came in spite of RMFs strong performance innovation, refinement and expansion of its partnership with banks and prime brokers, relative to industry indices and equities and successful trading strategies.
who provide services and leverage to our shows the extent to which investors sought products, was maintained throughout the liquidity wherever they could find it, irrespective We have continued to invest in AHLs people, process.
In an environment of scarce product of performance.
In December we disclosed an systems and relationships.
Specific examples funding from banks, it is important that we exposure to Madoff representing around 1.5% include: have maintained the trust and confidence of RMFs assets at the time and an associated of our counterparties.
1.6% negative impact on RMF flagship strengthening the teams with the addition performance.
As soon as events came to of 43 new members since January 2008 Throughout this process, MGS product light, we communicated with those investors mainly in research, but with some on the guarantees were unaffected and remained affected and have kept these institutions up operations side : in place in accordance with their terms, and to date with subsequent developments.
In opening an AHL Hong Kong trade liquidity terms were respected.
There was practice, Madoff was one example of a broad execution desk in April of this year, active dialogue with our intermediaries and set of industry issues and challenges which delivering improved execution efficiency, investors to provide a range of options to included redemption freezes, counterparty risk better leveraging of local broker investors including fee free switches.
issues and high levels of correlation to equity relationships and expanding into new markets.
These have resulted in increasing instruments in the region: The reduction in MGS investor risk was the calls for transparency in the way hedge fund rapid expansion of the Man Research single most significant contributor to the fall in businesses themselves are structured and run, Laboratory at Oxford now nine full time private investor funds under management over alongside transparency on the identity and researchers with plans for more and with the year accounting for $12.1 billion of the liquidity of the underlying investments.
the outputs of several projects having aggregate net decrease.
It also caused us Addressing this wider set of industry issues is already filtered through to AHLs trading to accelerate the amortisation of $107 million part of the proposition behind our new hedge programmes : and commission payments in our first half.
investing in technology to enhance trading Nonetheless, I strongly believe that these efficiency, reducing time to market for new actions were absolutely in the best interests Through these extreme markets a further key trading strategies, through the use of small of the investors in our products and that our focus has been to maintain the continued scale exploratory models and new tactical shareholders interests have been best served financial strength of the firm.
trading environments and increasing by protecting our franchise in this way.
We processing power through innovative know from feedback we have received from We exercised disciplined use of the firms high-frequency price storage and investors and distributors that the manner balance sheet to support our core franchise.
in which we have taken and worked through Proprietary investments reduced from $1.3 the consequences of difficult decisions billion to $0.7 billion over the course of the We have continued to invest in our distribution has re-inforced our reputation with them.
year, as a result of management action and network and intermediary relationships.
In As markets have stabilised and liquidity losses.
We ended the year with increased net November last year we opened a Dutch office eased somewhat, we have begun a gradual cash balances of $1.7 billion, our regulatory to enhance our presence in the Netherlands re-gearing of some MGS products, as part of capital surplus increased to $1.7 billion and and additional offices for specific markets in the dynamic process of investment exposure.
our $2.4 billion standby committed banking Europe and Asia are under active consideration.
Difficult market conditions reinforce the need We are pleased to have widened our distribution for high levels of investor and distributor At the end of March 2009 we announced relationships in Japan, alongside our existing servicing, even when assets are falling and that we would reduce the fixed costs of our strong alliances there.
A considerable amount investor appetite is muted.
business to reflect the lower current level of of planning, preparation and careful product funds under management.
That cost reduction analysis over the course of last year resulted in We saw record levels of demand from the has been implemented, reducing our fixed the launch of a publicly distributed managed private investor, with sales over the period costs run-rate by $60 million per annum.
futures product which raised almost $1 billion of $11.3 billion.
The benefits of portfolio We have taken the associated restructuring of new investor money after the financial year diversification, an adaptable product range costs of $37 million in the results for the year.
We have also committed time and effort and the attraction of guaranteed product Synergies arising from the new hedge fund to relationships in longer term prospects, most offerings all contributed to this powerful management business will reduce the fixed notably in China.
demonstration of our asset raising capabilities.
cost run-rate by an estimated further $30 Redemptions were up on historic averages, million per annum.
Current investor caution suggests that driven by high open-ended product portfolios containing highly liquid investments redemptions as is often the case in periods are likely to see most demand in the shorter of strong AHL performance.
Man is well placed to cater for these Business Review Man Group plc Annual Report 2009 13 Performance in difficult markets preferences and our new hedge fund Year to 31 March 2009 management business provides an efficient 20% Man Industry means of delivering the strength and breadth 10% of the whole firm to the end investor.
An early 7.7% 3.4% example of product managed by the new 0% business is an open-ended combination of 3.6% managed futures and global macro managers, 10% 8.3% giving access to broad manager pools and 15.5% 16.4% 20% 17.5% managed account relationships across Man.
The product launches in June 2009.
30% 36.7% In an environment of increasingly complex and 40% 38.4% engaged regulation, our ability to design and 50% structure products on-shore in a regulatory AHL IP 220 RMF Stark 300 Corporate HFRI Fund of World stocks Man Glenwood Man MultiTrader Index bonds Funds compliant format in many countries is an Multi-Strategy Strategy Composite Guaranteed important component of our flexibility and Index competitive advantage.
In the course of the year we launched our first UCITS III compliant product and continue to investigate the the investment management benefits that the Investors of all types are reflecting on the opportunities this format presents for both new business will bring.
turbulence of markets over the last two years single manager and multi-manager blends and are looking for diversification opportunities across our product range.
Dividend within their portfolios offering an appropriate Based on the Groups earnings generation risk and return, and for investment firms who Man is already regulated in many countries, and business performance in the year and have scale and breadth.
Institutional investor including the Financial Services Authority in the the strength of its balance sheet, the Board sales have remained muted since year end UK and has developed regulatory relationships proposes to declare a maintained final and redemptions, as announced in March, across the globe.
Accordingly we already have dividend of 24.8 cents per share, giving continued into April.
Our recent private investor in place the resources, structures and capital an unchanged total dividend for the year product offerings have focused on liquid to address additional regulation of our industry of 44 cents per share.
strategies, in both guaranteed and noninternationally.
guaranteed formats, with conservative Outlook and sustainable leverage.
Private investor In March we announced plans to address After the turmoil of 2008, our industry has demand has been strong, with sales since evolving investor requirements through the shown signs of stabilisation in early 2009. year end totalling $2.6 billion, including creation of an integrated hedge fund A number of market commentators anticipate around $1.5 billion across Asia Pacific.
management business to lead the industry that industry funds under management will Funds under management at 26 May are in providing access to hedge fund investing bottom-out at around $1 trillion during 2009, estimated at $44 billion.
in a transparent and flexible format.
That then regain upward momentum.
With overall announcement created significant interest in industry performance in positive territory for This is a period of significant opportunity in our our industry and was widely welcomed by the year to date and outflows slowing, there industry.
The lower level of current funds under investors, distributors, intermediaries, banks are some signs in support of this view.
management will result in lower management and other stakeholders.
The new hedge fund However, it is clear that a major industry fee income in the coming year.
We have management business will become operational shake-out is underway, precipitating a sharp addressed our cost base and have made a during June.
It builds the strengths of RMFs fall in the number of managers, led more by number of substantial changes to Mans infrastructure and disciplined investment attrition than consolidation, as many mangers business to reinforce our competitive process, Glenwoods bottom-up manager have not been able to survive the decline in advantage, and address future investor selection philosophy and Mans managed assets.
The factors underpinning these trends requirements and evolving markets.
Man is account expertise, into a new, strong, play to the strengths of Mans business model.
well positioned for growth in market share.
comprehensive and integrated structure, underpinned by Mans capital strength, We have continued to invest in our business global distribution capabilities and structuring and sharpen our product focus to take expertise.
The new structure has been driven advantage of markets and new opportunities.
first and foremost by a thorough analysis of The launch of our new integrated hedge fund what both private investors and institutions management business demonstrates where want and need, in a rapidly evolving world.
we see clear and wide-ranging potential for In serving the needs of investors for growth in market share, and the first product confidence and choice, the new business will be in the market during June 2009.
We gives us access to a range of investor flows have taken further steps to reduce costs and and economics, whilst maximising internal rationalise products as part of this initiative.
All existing products and portfolios We have also separated our principal investing will continue to be managed according to and seeding activities to take advantage of the their investment guidelines but will receive clear opportunities in this area.
