Man Group plc 14 Annual Report 2009 Business Review Questions for the Chief Executive This has been a difficult year for the hedge fund industry, and for Man.
Here, Peter Clarke answers some of the questions asked most frequently by our institutional investors.
Are lower management fee levels inevitable?
The hedge fund industry saw its first ever net outflows in 2008.
In our private investor business, Man the rationale for investing in hedge has a long-term track record of delivering the funds changed?
attractive, uncorrelated returns investors are seeking from hedge funds.
Hedge fund assets under management not expect fee pressure in this area.
AUM fell by some 25% in calendar year 2008.
In the first quarter of 2009, hedge fund In the fund of funds industry, there is performance returned to positive territory, ongoing management fee pressure.
In Mans which we see as a good leading indicator institutional business, this is partially offset by for a return to AUM growth.
recent performance disparities between fund of funds offerings, with RMF outperforming We see the investment case for hedge funds the benchmark, and by our ability to deliver as being very much intact, with the key themes distinctive, customised solutions to of diversification and non-correlated returns institutional investors.
continuing to resonate with investors.
Hedge funds in general recover more quickly after a PAGE 70 drawdown than conventional asset classes, Margin Analysis and provide better liquidity than other alternative asset classes such as private Q.
How will greater regulatory equity and property.
Mans strategy mix, scrutiny affect Man?
with its weighting towards the managed futures style, excels at providing the liquidity, A.
Greater regulatory scrutiny will clearly transparency and uncorrelated performance increase barriers to entry in our marketplace.
Man is already fully regulated, on a consolidated basis by the FSA, and by national regulators wherever we have offices currently PAGE 16 we operate from 19 separate locations.
As a Industry Trends consequence, we have the infrastructure and expertise in place to handle existing regulations and respond to increased regulatory scrutiny.
PAGE 16 Industry Trends Business Review Man Group plc Annual Report 2009 15 Private investor business Q.
Your decision to fide-risk the MGS We are building an integrated hedge fund product line caused a significant management business that combines the Q.
Can you continue to deliver reduction in funds under strengths of RMF, Glenwood and MGS, and guaranteed products in an management.
will give us a highly competitive, large scale environment of constrained funding fund of funds offering.
The MGS product line was exposed to under-performing strategies, which continued to A.
One of the key strengths of Mans business lose money until the end of 2008.
So from the Shareholder returns is our ability to adapt our product line to product investors viewpoint, the MGS fide-risk meet investor demands in changing market was a logical investment management decision Q.
You have seen your share price conditions.
In the short-term, we will respond which achieved its objective of protecting decline by over 50% in the last to investor demand by focusing our guaranteed investor capital.
How concerned product launches around AHL and other liquid are you?
content, to provide liquidity, transparency and The MGS fide-risk was the single largest performance, in a structure with low cash contributor to the reduction in FUM this year.
As substantial shareholders ourselves, and intensity and little to no reliance on external Reported FUM represents our total investment with employee compensation heavily weighted leverage.
Looking more broadly, we will retain exposure investment equity, notional exposure towards share ownership, our interests are access to funding because the size of our principally in the futures markets and external strongly aligned with those of our shareholders.
operations makes us relevant to our funding leverage which meant that a steep reduction We remain focused on generating long-term providers, whose relationships with us extend occurred when external leverage was removed value by taking the right actions to protect and beyond product funding into distribution, and product content including managed futures grow our franchise.
provision of guarantees and corporate was re-balanced to preserve product mandates.
Last but not least, the strength Q.
Is your current dividend of our franchise in Japan demonstrates the It was testament to Mans infrastructure that sustainable?
attractiveness of our products in a low interest we were able to achieve the fide-risk in such an rate environment.
orderly fashion under extreme market conditions.
The Board took the decision to maintain the current years dividend at 44 cents per share based on Mans earnings generation and PAGE 22 PAGE 31 business performance in the year, and the Japan case study MGS strength of our balance sheet.
Do you worry about over reliance with earnings outlook, will remain the criteria on AHL?
Institutional business by which future dividend decisions are made.
The liquidity, transparency and uncorrelated Q.
What impact has your returns provided by AHL and the managed involvement in the Madoff fraud People futures style continue to be extremely popular had on your business?
with investors, and we see plenty of new Q.
How do you intend to retain and potential for generating returns.
Man had a $360 million indirect exposure to motivate your staff in an are comfortable with the strategy of focusing Madoff through its predominantly institutional environment of lay-offs and product launches in the short-term around fund of funds business, RMF.
We worked hard reduced bonus payments?
Our long-term objective remains to offer to communicate the extent, implications and a broad range of investment styles to attract actions taken as a result of this exposure to A.
Man is essentially a people business, a higher proportion of investor assets.
Further, as part of our ongoing and our employees have shown extraordinary commitment continually to enhance and refine commitment and professionalism through a our due diligence procedures either as a challenging year.
In March, we took the difficult PAGE 32 consequence of market events or evolving decision to reduce headcount by 15% to reflect AHL best practice we have made a number of the reduction in funds under management.
improvements to our underlying processes Nevertheless, Man remains an attractive and procedures.
and stimulating company to work for, with competitive remuneration, a strong reputation and a long-standing commitment to corporate PAGE 28 responsibility, which our employees value.
The RMF launch of our new hedge fund management Q.
Is the fund of funds model business will stimulate further change in our sustainable?
business, and I am delighted with the way the teams involved are responding to this A.
There will be continued demand for latest challenge.
fund of funds that provide diversification benefits through strong due diligence, manager selection PAGE 36 and combination, and risk management.
