PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 18 Chief Executives review On course to achieve our long-term objectives.
Jim Ryan Introduction Chief Executive Offi cer The Group delivered a robust performance over the past year and made good progress against the three-year plan that was introduced in September 2008.
We have weathered what can be described as a perfect storm of volatile currency movements, the fi financial crisis and an unlevel playing fi eld in poker and the Group remains on course to achieve its long-term strategic objectives.
That is not to say we were immune to the impact of such challenges both revenues and Clean EBITDA declined versus the prior year, albeit by 6%.
Its never pleasant to report that your top line has gone backwards, however our performance over the past year demonstrates the resilience of our business model that continues to generate large amounts of operating cashfl ow.
This is encouraging as it ensures we can continue to position the business to take full advantage of the many exciting opportunities before us.
Harnessing just one or two of these will put us well on our way to achieving our objective of becoming the worlds largest online gaming company by market capitalisation.
We have continued to invest across the business, even when there was strong pressure to sit tight.
Examples include the acquisitions of Cashcade and the World Poker Tour WPT, our continued drive to attract the very best talent in the industry, the launch of our new VIP and loyalty programmes as well as the addition of 80 new games to our platform.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Overview 19 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Our robust performance in 2009 and the solid Delivering the strategy start made during the fi first few months of 2010 The online gaming market is undergoing is due to the eff ective implementation of our substantial structural and regulatory change.
More than ever, it is essential that we continue to focus on operational excellence, challenge Strategy convention and search for new, more eff ective Our focus on profi table growth, aft er taking and effi cient processes to achieve our results.
into account the competitive and regulatory We also need to test established relationships landscape, drives our business strategy, the core between risk and reward as these too are elements of which remain as follows: evolving.
One example of this is our approach Grow the player base: to chargebacks, where a customer refutes a Localise the customer off er: payment transaction.
Whilst always possible to Broaden the product base: and minimise these costs to the business, doing so Act responsibly.
would signifi cantly reduce new player sign-ups and deposit volumes.
Our preferred route is to Throughout this report we have sought optimise the balance between customer volume to provide examples of the strategy in action, and chargeback expense in order to maximise demonstrating why each element is key to our Clean EBITDA.
Our revenue model Revenue is driven by the number of players Revenue and how much they spend.
This diagram highlights the key drivers of our revenue model.
of active Multiply per active players player Existing Player New player Mix of Frequency Player active attrition sign-ups games of play mix players PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 20 Chief Executives review Testing the risk:reward ratio does not mean we Despite the shift ing landscape over the past are prepared to compromise our reputation for 12 months, each of the four elements of our quality, standards of excellence or management strategy outlined above are as relevant today as of regulatory compliance, all of which underpin they were when fi first introduced in 2006.
We have the continued success of our business model.
also identifi ed four key drivers that we strongly Our position as one of the worlds leading online believe improve our chances of success and gaming companies, providing business-towe have sought to apply each of them across consumer B2C, business-to-business B2B and all of our tactical plans.
 B2G services, is about Operational excellence focus on our core striking the right balance between long-term operations, ensuring all aspects of our business profi table growth and appropriate standards are optimised and delivering the desired results.
of governance and business ethics.
Delight the customer by creating the most Our success to-date demonstrates that we are enjoyable player experience, through a getting this balance right, despite the challenges balanced mix of innovation, technology and posed by a rapidly changing business and customer care, we believe that our customer regulatory environment.
appeal and customer retention rates will Such balance is achieved through management increase, delivering higher returns on investment.
In addition to bi-weekly executive meetings to monitor current business performance and trends, twice each year the Groups most senior executives spend the best part of a week away from the business to interrogate all aspects of our strategy and tactics, to test the business strategy and ensure we remain on course.
The tactical outputs from these meetings are then assumed by one or more members of the executive team who then prepare detailed plans that combine to shape the Groups rolling three-year strategic plan.
The teams wealth of online gaming and general business management expertise means that this process is a highly eff ective way to both test the business strategy and identify new opportunities.
It is also used to identify and implement appropriate structures and procedures to manage the ever-changing Big hand landscape of risks that might undermine the A touch of self-congratulation, but were proud so say achievement of our long-term objectives.
that PartyPoker was royally fl ushed by being voted the Poker Operator of the Year at the 2009 eGaming Awards.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Overview 21 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Leverage our own assets compared with Measuring our success many other listed companies, the Group has a For every employee, from members of the Board relatively high proportion of intangible assets such to our most junior members of staff, we all agree as our brands, extensive customer lists, years that success means generating substantial and of international online gaming experience, sustainable cashfl ow through profi table growth.
technical know-how and expertise and, the jewel This in turn requires both revenue growth and in the crown: our multi-product, multi-currency careful management of costs, all within a welland multi-lingual technology platform.
All of these defi ned and fl exible risk-management framework.
assets are important for our business-to-consumer Revenue growth off er and are also now being put to good use by As shown on our revenue model on page 19, others through B2B deals to generate incremental there are essentially two key drivers of revenue: revenue streams for the Group.
the number of active players we have and the Leverage the assets of others owning the vast amount of revenue generated each time they majority of our content has historically been a play.
We have continued to drive large numbers key diff erentiator between PartyGaming and of new players to our system, adding 802,800 several of our main competitors.
However, we new player sign-ups in 2009 versus 629,900 in 2008 recognise that we dont have all the best ideas, an increase of 27% over the prior year.
products and brands and that there are thirdOur marketing prowess and the quality of party assets that we can draw upon to improve our product are core elements driving these our product off er and enhance the customer important metrics.
However, as illustrated in experience.
2009, so too are external factors such as Each of these four success factors was also tested competition, currency movements and the as part of our strategy review and the conclusion macroeconomic climate.
was that they remain key to achieving our longterm objectives.
But what should stakeholders look for to assess whether or not we are on the right path towards achieving our strategic goal?
New player sign-ups Our new player sign-ups increased by 27% in 2009.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 22 Chief Executives review Through a combination of product innovation Managing costs and regulatory compliance and development as well as marketing expertise When exogenous events impact revenues, in both existing and new markets, we aim to managing the cost base becomes critical if mitigate the downward pressure on player yields the Group is to remain on course to meet its that arises through the inevitable increase in the strategic objectives.
Despite the challenges casual nature of the player base as we sign-up over the past 18 months, the Groups Clean more players.
While sharp shift s in the product mix EBITDA margins remain strong, due in part or regulatory framework in prime territories can to the following factors: result in a signifi cant step-change in yield, over First, the operational leverage embedded within time the movement in player yields can then be the Groups business model means that when expected to revert to the steady downward revenues decline this would normally result in trend outlined above.
profi ts falling even faster.
However, one of the With new geographic markets opening and the major factors behind the decline in revenue in fact that online gaming still represents a fraction 2009 was currency: the fact that most of our of the total gaming market, we continue to costs are in non-US$ currencies meant that believe that the prospects for revenue growth the strengthening of the dollar was benefi cial, remain signifi cant.
thereby lessening the impact on Clean EBITDA.
Second, whilst we have continued to invest Consolidated yield per active player day $ across the business, we have also improved effi ciency and retained a tight rein on costs.
30 One example is our deployment of complex 25 algorithms that select the right promotion 20 for each customer based on individual player behaviour.
This has had a positive impact on 15 player retention but importantly it has also 10 improved the fi financial returns from our 5 retention spend.
0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Finally, we adapt quickly in response to changing 2006 2007 2008 2009 circumstances.
In the second half of 2008 we streamlined the organisation by approximately 10% and this helped to reduce our cost base in 2009.
A similar exercise during the fourth quarter of 2009 meant we were able to reduce our headcount by a further 6%, all without compromising the achievement of our strategic plan.
Our eff ective management of the cost base will be a key factor behind our continued success.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Overview 23 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Cutting costs does not mean cutting corners, Managing our people particularly in risk management and regulatory Management is about getting the best from compliance that are core competencies your team nothing more, nothing less.
Instilling customer At PartyGaming we have always sought confi dence is a pre-requisite for success and to encourage our employees to assume we can ill-aff ord to take undue risks that might responsibility and use their initiative to help us damage our reputation.
The nature, breadth and achieve our strategic objectives.
This requires us scope of the risks we face are constantly shift ing to recruit well, communicate well and pay well, and our assessment and procedures to tackle rewarding those who really make a diff erence.
such risks need to be dynamic.
Regular external Recruitment and management audits by regulators and compliance bodies Our recruitment process is multi-layered: it has complement our own review processes that to be given the dynamics of this fast-moving together ensure we continue to maximise industry.
Academic and professional qualifi cations profi ts whilst maintaining high standards are just a starting point: we have developed a acting responsibly remains a core element series of ace behaviours that we look for in all of our strategy.
candidates including attributes like innovation, So when asked how we like to be measured, fl exibility, drive and teamwork.
We seek to foster my answer is simple: by our results.
We are these behaviours through a detailed and highly focused on increasing both revenue and transparent appraisal process that recognises Clean EBITDA within a risk-managed framework talent and also fi lters out sub-standard designed to maximise the long-term value of our performance.
Employees are appraised twice main assets our brands, customer database, a year against pre-determined objectives.
intellectual property and our people.
This process is geared towards ensuring our staff perform for the Company and also for their own professional development.
Communications A clear, unifi ed vision and understanding about our objectives is a pre-requisite for long-term success.
Besides the regular editions of our internal newsletters, we hold regular town hall meetings in our offi ces where a member of the executive team updates employees about market developments and our progress as a business.
Following the offsite strategy meetings outlined earlier, members of the senior team then Think tank visit each of our offi ces to update employees Having a clear view of our business strategy means our about our business plans.
A clear view of our employees are better able to innovate and add value.
strategic direction has spawned a wealth of ideas from employees that can and indeed have already been implemented to create value.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 24 Chief Executives review Rewards Regulatory developments The online gaming industry is dynamic, The breadth of our international customer base demanding and highly competitive.
Recruiting means that a detailed review of the regulatory and retaining the best people is vital and the environment would equate to a book in its rewards for those who are prepared to go the own right.
In the following paragraphs I have extra mile can be signifi cant.
All employees total attempted to summarise the main developments remuneration is geared to the Groups fi financial as we see them and how they may have performance with senior executives being the a bearing on our business.
United States Linking employees total remuneration package The US remains the worlds largest online gaming in any year to the profi t performance of the market.
As stated in last years Annual Report, business ensures we remain focused on delivering resolving any uncertainty with regard to the sustainable value for investors.
Groups legal status in the US was a top priority for 2009.
We achieved this aim on 6 April 2009 Prime objectives for 2010 when the United States Attorneys Offi ce for the We are now mid-way through our original Southern District of New York USAO agreed three-year plan and are on course to achieve not to prosecute the Group for providing internet our objectives, but much remains to be done.
gaming services to customers in the US prior to Continuing to execute our plan, integrating the the enactment of the UIGEA in October 2006. acquisitions completed in 2009 and capitalising on several regulatory, strategic and operational In spite of the law change in 2006, certain online developments are all part of our roadmap.
gaming businesses continue to off er real money games to customers in the US and this remains a Having already experienced enormous structural signifi cant competitive threat.
Not only do such and regulatory shift s over the past decade, sites benefi t from the huge pool of US player there is nothing that leads me to believe 2010 liquidity that attracts European players, they also will be any diff erent.
There is plenty to do with the generate large profi ts that can be deployed in expected opening of a number of new markets markets where we also compete.
While there has and an associated expansion of B2B and B2G been a six-month delay to the implementation opportunities: an ever-changing competitive of the UIGEA provisions until June 2010, we landscape and industry consolidation widely believe the US authorities will enforce their laws predicted: as well as a raft of operational changes and that this could provide a major stimulus for that are designed to drive the business forward.
PartyGaming and other publicly listed online gaming companies that no longer accept players located in the US.
Question time How will we return poker to growth?
How will we expand our B2B and B2G franchise?
How can M&A transform our business?
For answers to each of these key questions See page 29 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Overview 25 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Recent regulatory developments in the US fall At a state level, proposals are being under either a federal or state-level heading.
contemplated to regulate and license intra-state online poker in several states, including California At a federal level, The Internet Gambling, and New Jersey.
A state-sponsored study into the Regulation Consumer Protection and implications of a similar regime was presented to Enforcement Act sponsored by Barney Frank, the Floridas Senate Regulated Industries Committee Chair of the US House of Representatives Financial in January 2010.
While these are encouraging Services Committee, and its companion Internet developments, the prospects for any of these Gambling Tax Act, sponsored by Jim McDermott, federal or state measures becoming law continue to gain support in Washington, albeit remains uncertain.
Mr Frank has already held one hearing in his Committee and more are expected in 2010.
Europe Separately, while the Internet Poker and Games In Brussels, a newly elected European Parliament Of Skill Regulation, Consumer Protection, And and also a newly appointed European Enforcement Act of 2009 that was introduced Commission under President Jos Manuel Barroso into the Senate by Robert Menendez, has yet are now in place.
A particular area of focus in to make any progress, in February 2010, Senators 2010 is likely to be how Michel Barnier, the new Wyden and Gregg introduced the Bipartisan Tax Internal Market Commissioner, intends to tackle Fairness and Simplifi cation Act.
This bill contains the ten Member States facing alleged breaches provisions to license, regulate and tax online of EU law relating to their restrictions imposed on gaming along the lines proposed by congressmen legitimate EU-licensed online gaming companies.
Some of these date from 2004 with little progress yet to be made.
A key driver behind Mr Franks and Mr McDermotts Bills is that if introduced they would, according At the European Court of Justice ECJ, the to the Joint Committee on Taxation, generate long-awaited case involving the Portuguese incremental tax revenues of approximately monopoly, Santa Casa da Misericrdia fide $42 billion over ten years and this is at a time Lisboa and Bwin, an online gaming company, when US government fi nances are under concluded that the centuries-old Portuguese signifi cant strain.
monopoly may be justifi ed under EU law if certain conditions are met and the ECJ has now asked the domestic court to decide whether or not this is the case.
Seen as a victory by monopolies across Europe, the charitable and almost unique status of Santa Casa has prompted many to comment that any wider implications for other gaming monopolies in Europe should not be A pizza the action taken for granted.
This was a view shared by In 2009 we launched our Italian p poker network Commissioner Barnier in response to questions which now w i incl nclu ud fide es s I INT NTR RA AL LO OT T a an nd d F Fu ue ep ps s.. from members of the European Parliament, shortly aft er he took offi ce.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 26 Chief Executives review Good progress has been made in liberalising Elsewhere, new laws that aff ect online gaming gaming laws in other countries, including Italy have also been introduced in Belgium, Estonia, where the government announced its intention Poland, Romania and Slovenia but concerns from to launch cash game poker, casino and bingo the European Commission mean that we must games in 2010.
France is also expected to wait to see how these unfold.
liberalise in 2010 with proposals to license and In summary, whilst objections still remain in parts of regulate online poker and sports betting.
While Europe and other markets, the fi financial crisis and we wait to see the exact shape and timing for the need to raise tax receipts may prove to be the French legislation, this is likely to prove an an invaluable catalyst in forcing governments to exciting development for us.
recognise that online gaming is here to stay and The Danish online gaming market is expected has the potential to generate substantial tax to open in early 2011 and again we feel we revenue.
As well as helping to mitigate budgetary are well-positioned, assuming the requisite challenges, there is a need to ensure their citizens legislation is passed.
Recent developments can enjoy a safe and secure online gaming in Spain would indicate that it may well follow environment, one that also protects children and a similar model in 2011. the vulnerable.
Whilst we believe that eff ective regulation can tick all these boxes, we also believe Not all countries are looking to open their that a uniform framework across Europe is unlikely markets.
The Netherlands is continuing to press to become a reality in the short-term.
ahead with legal action against two UK online sports betting companies for alleged breaches Strategic developments of its domestic gaming laws, even though these During 2009 we continued to build our B2B laws themselves appear to be in breach of EU franchise as well as complete two strategically law.
In Germany, certain Lnder regional states important M&A deals.
We plan more of the same are keen to enforce Germanys State Lottery in 2010.
Treaty, despite the fact that the European B2B and B2G Commission has already commented that such Having launched online gaming services through law appears to be inconsistent with EU law.
fi five commercial alliances in 2009, we aim to However, at the same time, other Lnder have secure another fi five deals in 2010 but only those announced their intention to reject the State that fulfi l our criteria i. e. have the potential to Lottery Treaty in favour of their own state-level make a meaningful diff erence to our bottom-line licensing system for private operators.
and can help to enhance our reputation.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Overview 27 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information M&A Whilst we continue to look for suitable bolt-on We completed two acquisitions in 2009 deals for all of our product segments, in August Cashcade and WPT.
The acquisition of Cashcade 2009 I made clear that completing an acquisition was completed on 23 July 2009.
With a marketto put us in a market-leading position in sports leading position in the $1.7 billion online bingo betting was a strategic objective.
Assuming issues market, a purchase price of between fi five and six of valuation, risk, culture and technology can be times EBITDA and the potential to deliver substantial overcome, the operational leverage embedded cost and revenue synergies, Cashcade met all within online gaming businesses means that the of our acquisition criteria.
potential fi financial benefi ts from business combinations in our industry can be signifi cant.
Our purchase in November 2009 of the business and substantially all of the assets of WPT, a proven Operational developments marketing channel for PartyPoker over many Operationally, 2009 has been one of our busiest years, represents our fi first acquisition in the US.
years yet with a raft of initiatives across all of our Based in Los Angeles, WPT is synonymous with business segments with a focus on delighting the poker around the world but particularly so in customer.
For 2010 we plan more of the same the US.
Besides being an international platform by improving every element of the customer for PartyPoker, we plan to leverage its strong experience, continuing to hone our operational presence through land-based tournaments as procedures and reduce costs, where practicable well as through its subscription poker business to do so.
to increase brand awareness of PartyPoker, Given the opportunities before us, we plan ahead of any regulation of the US online to reinvest the majority of any cost savings made.
Three areas of investment are likely to be: marketing both offl ine, but especially online where we believe that there is an opportunity to make further gains: technology preparing our systems for the opening of new markets such as Italy cash game poker, casino and bingo, France poker and sports betting, Denmark poker, casino and sports betting, as well as the possibility that we could see a return to the US at some point and: fi nally, we will continue to invest in each of our four core products: World Poker Tour WPT hosts land-based tournaments in the US, Canada and Europe that are aired in over 200 countries around the world.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 28 Chief Executives review Poker we will expand our B2C presence Outlook internationally and will build new partnerships The Group has made a good start to 2010 and, through B2B and B2G, leveraging the WPT while there remains a long way to go until the platform and increased localisation.
The evolution end of the year, the seeds already sown and of our product will also continue in 2010 with those we continue to sow mean that we new game variants and additional features are well-placed to make further progress.
to enhance the overall player experience.
The fundamentals of the online gaming sector Combined with attractive promotions and our remain sound with an increasing proportion enhanced VIP and loyalty programmes, our of the global gaming market moving online.
objective is to drive up both player numbers As our performance in 2009 demonstrates, our and revenues.
business model is both robust and fl exible we can and will adjust the shape and direction of Casino we will continue to reduce our reliance our course to achieve our long-term objective.
on the cross-sell from poker and increase the number of dedicated casino players on our We have a clear strategy and roadmap for 2010 sites.
Extending average player values through and beyond.
Our brands and overall market automated retention campaigns, enhanced position are strong and we have a healthy customer relationship management techniques balance sheet and the management expertise and the addition of at least 50 new games are to exploit these to our advantage.
The online also planned for 2010.
Unique and cutting-edge gaming market is ripe for consolidation and content will be sourced from both our in-house we are determined to remain an active team and third-party suppliers.
participant, building on our previous acquisitions.
The foundations are set and I remain confi dent Bingo completing the successful integration of about the Groups long-term prospects.
We also plan to improve retention and loyalty measures as well as build the market share of its fl agship Foxy Bingo brand in 2010.
We believe major opportunities exist to grow our brands into international markets and we plan to grab these opportunities with both hands.
Sports betting we remain focused on improving our gross win margin through the deployment of additional mathematical live trading models and the recruitment of experienced live traders whilst ensuring that top-line growth also remains on track with targeted marketing campaigns for key territories.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Overview 29 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information The big growth question How will we increase revenue in 2010?
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 30 Sowing the seeds Reaping the rewards of our investments in poker through... PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Overview 31 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 32... being best in breed Voted eGaming Reviews Poker Operator of the Year in 2009, we have continued to evolve our poker product and enhance our management expertise to keep ahead of changing customer demands.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Overview 33 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information... better yield management Our VIP and loyalty programmes were revitalised in 2009, resulting in improved player reactivation and retention in the second half of the year.... and opening new markets Having launched our Italian poker tournament network in the summer of 2009, we are now planning for further expansion in Italy, France and Denmark.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 34 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Overview 35 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information The perfect mix By building a meaningful B2B and B2G platform founded upon... PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 36... hundreds and thousands Player liquidity across each of our four product verticals is a key draw for corporate customers.... a great range of products We cater for all tastes by off ering poker, casino, bingo and sports betting in multiple languages and currencies, giving us a broad international reach.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Overview 37 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information... and excellent delivery Our unique and highly scalable technology platform is the bedrock of our business, providing customers with a single sign-on and a single wallet across all of our products.
This is a key diff erentiator versus many of our competitors.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 38 Land of plenty Mergers and acquisitions are helping transform our business by... PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Overview 39 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 40... extracting value Operational gearing means that signifi cant cost and revenue synergies are available from the right business combinations.... capturing new talent Our targets bring valuable, complementary skills and expertise that can be deployed throughout our business.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Overview 41 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information... and feeding our growth Acquisitions can help grow the player base, localise the customer off er and broaden the product base: key elements of our strategy for growth.
