09 CWI Chief Executives review Tony Rice Cable & Wireless Panama has maintained its leading Chief Executive market position and grown revenue and profits CWI despite the entry of two new mobile competitors.
This is testament to how well prepared we were for the new entrants we will continue to be as vigilant as the new financial year progresses.
In Macau, a slowdown in the local economy due to the restriction of tourist visitors from China and continuing Cable & Wireless International, now rebadged competition has not prevented CTM from once again as CWI Group, enters the new financial year as delivering good margins.
I am delighted that we have a business in strong shape with a clear vision agreed an extension of our concession agreement, for the future.
Over the past eighteen months we have arranged And finally, across the diverse portfolio of our Monaco CWI into four distinct regional operations & Islands operation, we have seen strong local financial Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco & Islands.
performance, particularly from Monaco domestic This structure has enabled us to empower the and Seychelles, as the regional management team local management teams, with the centre acting has got to grips with the intricacies of a diverse as a portfolio manager focused on delivering the geographic portfolio.
best value for our shareholders.
Each business has All four regional operations are also responding to developed a strategy tailored to its local marketplace my challenge of identifying future growth opportunities.
and from the centre we aim to provide the businesses While the current economic climate poses issues to all with the tools and support they need to achieve marketplaces in some way, the opportunities in each of their goals.
I am very pleased to report that all four our businesses significantly outweigh these challenges.
operations have embraced this approach.
This is Each business is examining initiatives to reduce costs evident in our results with an 11% increase in EBITDA, further and extend their existing services and products.
A recent example has been the mobile broadband In the Caribbean, the progress we have made service developed by our Macau business, successfully since launching our One Caribbean transformation exploiting our 3G network in the territory.
In bringing 13 individual In all, as the new Chief Executive of CWI, I am pleased businesses together under one management to be leading a business in strong shape into the new structure, the programme has delivered reductions financial year.
in operating costs and complexity as well as, more recently, service improvements.
Over the coming year, the programme is focused on further performance improvements.
A business in strong shape 13% EBITDA at constant currency Business review
