16 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Sir Bill Gammell Chief Executive Following 20 years of building a material South Asian business, we are reaching a defining moment in Cairns history.
The phased Rajasthan development is set to produce 125,000 bopd later this year with multiple buyers now lining up to take crude through the pipeline.
The basin resource base continues to grow and has the potential to take production up to 240,000 bopd.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 17 The growth in India has enabled the Company to position itself as an early entrant in frontier acreage in Greenland.
By creating substantial strategic positions in two undrilled basins 1,500 km apart in Greenland, Cairn continues to offer shareholders exposure to transformational upside through high risk exploration.
Cairn has a straightforward business model based on RAJASTHAN, INDIA its entrepreneurial exploration and development skills.
Cairn continues to improve its understanding of the Barmer The Companys aim is to differentiate itself by focusing basin and a comprehensive review of the resource potential on materiality and hidden value and through the creation in the block has been carried out.
The discovered gross mean of a clear strategic business edge in its activities in place resource base has increased from 3.7 billion barrels and relationships.
of oil equivalent boe to 4 billion boe.
A 20 year vision to grow a substantial exploration and Following evaluation the exploration potential has increased production business in South Asia has been delivered and the prospective resource is now estimated to be a risked through the exploration and development successes of 2.5 billion boe in place.
The current total block potential Sangu in Bangladesh, the Ravva complex of fields off the resource is now 6.5 billion boe.
east coast of India, the Lakshmi, Gauri and other Gujarat fields on the west coast of India and the discovery and The MBA fields and the smaller Raageshwari and Saraswati phased development of the Rajasthan fields.
fields all have approved Field Development Plans FDPs which carry a combined proven plus probable 2P gross reserves Rajasthan oil production commenced in August 2009 and and best estimate contingent resources 2C resources of over will continue to ramp up in 2010.
The phase one Mangala 700 million barrels of oil equivalent mmboe.
In addition, the plateau production of 125,000 bopd will be reached in the MBA fields have an estimated EOR contingent resource of over second half of this year, before increasing to an approved 300 mmbbls: these resources are expected to be transferred plateau of 175,000 bopd in 2011 with the addition of to reserves once the EOR field trial results are known.
There is a further estimated 1.9 billion boe in place contained At the current peak plateau production level, Rajasthan crude within the Barmer Hill Formation and the 20 other fields.
will account for more than 20% of Indias overall domestic Evaluation work is still ongoing for these discoveries and this oil production.
The full potential of the Rajasthan project to year will include a pilot fraccing and horizontal well programme Cairn and to the economy of India will only be realised once on the Barmer Hill.
The reserve potential for these fields is the resource base is fully developed.
As more and more fields currently estimated to range between 50 and 450 mmbbls.
and plays such as Bhagyam, Aishwariya and the Barmer Hill are brought onto production, Cairn envisages plateau In addition to the existing discoveries, the remaining risked production of up to 240,000 bopd.
prospective resource potential within the basin is currently estimated to be 2.5 billion barrels bbls in 35 main prospects, In addition to the Rajasthan growth story, Cairn is now set and over 70 leads for which the associated risked prospective to embark on an exciting three year multi-well programme resource is estimated to range between 150 and 450 mmbbls.
as the Company starts to explore the high risk frontier basins of Greenland.
Substantial progress has been made on the Rajasthan integrated development in the last year.
Production started last August at the MPT, the largest of its kind in India, with evacuation by trucking.
The crude will shortly be transported through the worlds longest continuously heated and insulated pipeline to key refineries in north west India.
18 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 1.
Ilulissat, Greenland CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 2.
Formal opening of the Administration building Continued at the MPT 3.
One of the two purpose-built rigs for drilling and completing the wells in Rajasthan Processing Train 1 was completed in 2009 and by the middle We have a strong balance sheet of 2010, Trains 2 and 3 at the MPT will be operational, providing a production capacity of 130,000 bopd.
When Train 4 is installed and funding in place to: in 2011 the currently approved production of 175,000 bopd can be reached.
t $PNQMFUF UIF 3BKBTUIBO MBA development Sales arrangements are now in place for 143,000 bopd with four refineries, namely Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals t $BSSZ PVU B IJHI JNQBDU ESJMMJOH MRPL and Indian Oil Corporation IOC in the public sector and Reliance and Essar in the private sector.
Discussions are ongoing campaign in Greenland with regard to further sales to refiners in special economic zones and potentially overseas, subject to GoI approval.
Well results from the ongoing development drilling campaign in the Mangala field confirm the excellent reservoir quality of the Fatehgarh Formation, which indicates the potential to increase production to 150,000 bopd, subject to GoI approval and facility upgrades.
GREENLAND It is Cairns belief that Greenland, as part of the North Atlantic geological province, has hydrocarbons present in its offshore basins: however, it will take stamina, skill and indeed luck to find them.
Only six exploration wells have been drilled offshore Greenland to date, five of which were drilled in the 1970s and one in 2000.
These wells were all located in the west Greenland basin to the south of the undrilled Baffin Bay basin.
In none of these instances were the operators able to benefit from a more sustained campaign.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 19 1 2 3 Subject to the necessary government approvals, Cairn will FINANCIAL REVIEW commence drilling activities in the west Disko blocks within During 2009, following the deterioration of conditions in the undrilled Baffin Bay basin later this year.
By using two worldwide financial markets, the Group took prompt action state-of-the-art drilling rigs Cairn is able to plan a safe multito strengthen its balance sheet.
This allowed Cairn to well campaign.
As part of the approval process, Cairn, along continue with the programme of investment and to wait with its partner Nunaoil and the Government of Greenland, for credit markets to stabilise before expanding the loan has embarked on a Public Consultation Process PCP which facilities in India from $850m to $1.6bn.
involves engaging with a number of coastal communities in the Disko Bay area.
The purpose of this process is to discuss The year closed with two significant transactions one with the EIA SIA reports for the project plan and well locations.
PETRONAS and one with Dyas.
The Group has consequently entered 2010 with a stronger balance sheet and a capital The proposed four well summer 2010 exploration programme structure fit for the extensive operational activities.
targets 1.6 billion of risked gross mean oil in place and 385 mmbbls of risked resources, 16 billion of unrisked oil in place At 31 December 2009, Group net cash balances, gross of and 4.1 billion bbls unrisked resources and has been designed prepaid finance costs offset against debt under International to allow operational flexibility dependent on results.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, were approximately $500m.
CIL had net debt of $96m and undrawn loan facilities As the Baffin Bay basin is undrilled, it does not have a of $923m.
The net cash balances of the rest of the Group confirmed active petroleum system: however, results from were $596m.
the 2009 surveys have given positive indications that suggest one may be present.
The main perceived risk is the presence The Board continues to focus the Groups capital resources of thick and continuous source rocks offshore.
Currently the to maximise shareholder value and maintain financial and estimated chance of success for the four prospects ranges operational flexibility.
Resources in India continue to be targeted on delivering the Geophysical surveys are also planned across the southern Rajasthan project where initial cash flows will be reinvested Greenland basins in the summer of 2010 in advance of a in the block.
further exploration drilling campaign of up to four wells in 2011, subject to necessary approvals.
The enhanced financial strength of the Group has also enabled Cairn to accelerate the programme in Greenland The Baffin Bay bid round also takes place this year with bids to where a successful exploration campaign this summer be submitted by 1 May 2010 and awards expected in August.
It is anticipated that this will be a very competitive round and Cairn plans to participate.
Sir Bill Gammell Chief Executive, 6 April 2010
