MANAGEMENT STATEMENTS GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Our improved operating results for 2009 reflect better market conditions in the second half as well as our aggressive expense management as part of our drive to improve business performance.
In the fourth quarter we saw especially good sales growth, with the strongest Long-Term Savings LTS quarterly sales performance for two years.
Julian Roberts Group Chief Executive Review of Operations Introduction Our operating results for 2009 are ahead of the previous year despite the highly volatile markets over the period.
This is largely due to the improvement in market conditions during the second half, which resulted in greater demand for equity-based products from our clients and our drive to improve business performance, including the aggressive expense management programme completed in the US.
We had especially good sales growth during the fourth quarter, the strongest quarterly sales performance for the LTS business for at least two years.
During 2009 our priority was to address the issues facing the Group, exacerbated by the global financial crisis.
The turnaround in US Life is complete, the business in Bermuda is in run-off, we have built a strong capital and liquidity base and implemented strong central governance and controls.
Despite previously announced expectations, we did not need to make any further capital injection in US Life in the early part of this year and do not anticipate any capital injection will be required during 2010.
10 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 100m Group-wide cost savings in the next three years We have made good progress in the process of WE EXPEcT bUSINESSES IN OUR PORTFOLIO TO: simplifying our portfolio of businesses and improving operational performance, with a particular focus on Operate within capital and risk requirements our long-term savings, protection and investment businesses.
These represent the heart of the Group Be capable of achieving 15% ROE and building them is central to our future strategy, which is set out in my Strategy Update below.
We are Add value to another part of the Group confident that by leveraging our core capabilities and applying them consistently across the Group we will Have growth potential in their markets deliver sustainable long-term value for all our stakeholders.
Have a clear plan to deliver profitable, sustainable growth One of the strategic priorities announced in March last year was to strengthen and maintain our capital and Create shareholder value into the future.
I am pleased to report that we now have good balance sheet stability, as demonstrated by In Latin America, profits were up 133% in very difficult an increase in our FGD surplus to 1.5 billion as at 31 market conditions and we have developed a new retail December 2009, from 0.7 billion at the end of 2008, mass product in Mexico which will be launched this and total liquidity of 1.2 billion.
With the Group now in year.
In India, sales were down by 19%, which was good financial health, we are able to turn our attention better than the industry average and in China, sales to the future.
Drawing on our South African expertise, Long-Term Savings LTS we are developing several new products which we Our LTS division delivered strong results for the year believe are highly suitable for these markets, some with operating profits up 52% from 2008, largely of which we have already begun selling in India.
driven by the turnaround in US Life.
Sales were down Despite South Africa emerging from recession in just 6% for the year and were up 5% in the second the third quarter, consumer confidence remains low.
half compared to the same period in 2008.
Margins However, the outlook for the Long-Term Savings, improved, and net client cash flows and funds under protection and investment environment is positive management grew considerably during the year.
given South Africas low dependence on credit, Two further strategic priorities that were announced prudent economic policies, growing emerging black in March last year were to leverage scale in our middle class and affluent markets, and improving Long-Term Savings businesses and to streamline our regulatory frameworks and transparency of financial portfolio of businesses.
During the year we integrated products.
During 2010 we will continue our transition our Long-Term Savings businesses into a single from a traditional life insurer to a modern savings, division under Paul Hanratty, Chief Executive Officer of protection and investment business, while focusing LTS.
The division was restructured around geographic on growing distribution, improving investment and customer-related market segments, with a focus performance and service levels, and reducing cost.
on identifying where we could extract costs and LTS: Nordic generate profitable organic growth through enhancing Life APE sales were up 8% on 2008 as our retail the customer value proposition.
market continued to demonstrate resilience to the We sold a number of businesses and exited a number adverse economic environment, partly buoyed by of markets where we lacked scale and where the cost increased direct sales of certain products through of building scale would not deliver sufficient returns, Skandiabanken.
The recession did have an adverse including Australia, Portugal, Hungary, the Czech impact on occupational pension sales in the corporate Republic and Chile.
We also sold Bankhall in the UK sector although we saw lower outflows from maturities and closed our Asia Pacific regional office and our and surrenders.
Mutual fund sales were strong, up ELAM head office as part of the restructuring.
47% on 2008 in line with wider market trends.
LTS: Emerging Markets All of this contributed to very strong positive net In South Africa, we have shown good resilience with client cash flows representing 13% of opening funds strong profitability and a continuing high return on under management.
Along with the improvement equity in very difficult economic conditions.
Like-for-like in equity markets, this helped to boost overall funds sales on an APE basis were up marginally compared to under management by 38% to a record level from the the prior year.
We continued to invest in our distribution position at the end of 2008.
Skandia Link in Sweden capability and, as a result, we grew market share in our generated excellent investment returns during 2009 as core product ranges and are well positioned to benefit customers risk appetite improved, as demonstrated from the recovery in consumer confidence.
by their increased weighting in equities.
Our relationship Old Mutual plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read mANAGEmENT STATEmENTS GROUP cHIEF EXEcUTIvES STATEmENT cONTINUED with Skandia Liv is improving, although normalising LTS: Wealth Management the corporate and economic linkages will take time to Again, the volatile markets during 2009 had a come to fruition.
considerable impact on customer confidence, although sentiment improved in the second half which helped We are focused on protecting our improving margins to grow sales, net client cash inflows and assets under through continued expense management, further management.
Despite the tough first half, net client growth in sales and new product development, cash inflows for the year were up 25% and funds under including products designed for direct distribution.
management were up 21% as at 31 December 2009.
We are increasingly focused on our customers needs and business profitability, while our strong brand, In the UK, the transition to our platform-enabled broad product mix and good market position give us model was evidenced by the 22% increase in nonexcellent competitive advantage.
Although the financial covered mutual fund business over 2008 versus a 6% markets continue to be volatile, the outlook for the decline in covered business, as clients investment Nordic markets is favourable.
preferences shifted from more traditional life products into mutual funds.
On the back of our strong distributor LTS: Retail Europe relationships, APE sales in Italy increased significantly The difficult economic environment had a much more as we grew our share of the unit-linked market marked impact in our Retail Europe countries.
Unitfrom 4% to 12%, while in France sales remained linked markets were considerably weaker as demand steady with good growth in the fourth quarter.
Total for guarantee products increased, resulting in lower Wealth Management APE sales for the fourth quarter than anticipated new business in the second half.
Life increased 38% over the previous quarter.
APE sales were down 34% compared to the prior year, and IFRS profit was adversely affected by a substantial We remain the leading UK platform provider with a one-off charge in respect of policyholder profit sharing market share of 33% of total assets as at the end agreement with the regulatory authorities in Germany of 2009.
We have launched a significant operational between 2005 and 2007.
The performance of the efficiency drive as well as seeking to enhance our business improved dramatically in the fourth quarter, new product offerings using the skill base in South with sales up 57% compared to the previous three Africa, where we develop our own technology.
This is months, driven particularly by the German and a distinct advantage over our competitors and when Polish markets.
We are well positioned to capture the strong anticipated inflows as a result Overall net client cash flows for the year remained of increased customer demand for low cost and strong compared to 2008, remaining flat against transparent products, and as they look to exit maturing 2008 levels and representing 15% of opening funds traditional products such as with-profits bonds and under management, driven by improved surrender endowments.
Funds under management were up 27% on the 2008 year-end position, supported by our asset LTS: US Life mix and improved client investment appetite during the 2009 was a transformation year for US Life.
reduced the product profile, scaled back distribution and reduced the overhead base by 33%, the business After the change in structure in LTS, we focused on returned to profitability on an AOP basis.
As planned, laying the foundations for business improvement and Life APE sales were down 57% but despite this growth.
We are developing single-premium products decrease in sales volume, we maintained strong in line with growing customer demand and through relationships with the top-tier producing agents through improved distribution of regular-premium products whom we are now selling more profitable, capital light have good prospects for over two-thirds of anticipated products.
Margins for the year were strong at 20%.
With further product expansion out of South Africa, from which lower cost administration will The business did not need additional capital from the also be provided for the business, we will now seek to Group in the early part of this year and we believe grow market share and sustainable profitability.
we will not need to inject any further capital during During 2010 we will continue our transition from a traditional life insurer to a modern savings, protection and investment business 12 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 2010.
The business is now self-sustaining and is well central distribution structure, and strengthened our positioned to deliver improved returns during 2010 on shared services offer to our affiliates and key aspects higher sales levels and a lower cost base, with new of our successful multi-boutique model.
We reduced FIA and Universal Life products due to be introduced operating expenses by 22% and carried out a in the second quarter.
reorganisation of Old Mutual Capital, our retail mutual fund business, which will deliver $15 million to $20 Bermuda million of annual expense savings from 2010.
Our Bermuda business is now closed to new business, is in run-off and is treated as non-core.
During 2009 Our track record of investment performance has the focus has been on fide-risking, maintaining a stable positioned us well relative to competitors, and our operating environment, reducing costs, and managing diversified asset mix between equities, fixed income capital and liquidity.
We have continued to improve and alternatives helped us weather market volatility.
our understanding of the liabilities, with all positions While net client cash flows were down, they were monitored and marked to market on a daily basis.
broadly in line with the average of our peer group for Most guarantees remain 'in the money' and the level the year.
This partially offset a 16% rise in asset values of redemptions has remained low.
However, if markets resulting in funds under management for the year continue to rise and the value of customers contracts increasing by 9% to $261 billion.
move above the guarantee level, we anticipate a Non-US clients already represent 25% of total funds pronounced increase in the level of redemptions, which under management as at the end of the period, and a will accelerate the run-off.
key objective is to grow and diversify by expanding our Nedbank international distribution capability.
Prior to the recent The South African banking industry experienced an market turmoil, clients were migrating asset allocation exceptionally tough and volatile year in 2009.
Demand decisions toward international, global and alternative for credit grew at historically low rates and retail strategies.
We believe these trends will continue in impairments increased dramatically as consumers 2010, and our track record of investment performance came under severe pressure from falling income, job and global business focus positions us well to capture losses, declining asset prices and record high debt these asset flows.
Churn of underperforming managers burdens.
Despite the negative economic trends, in traditional domestic equity and fixed income mandates underlying trading conditions showed early signs of will also present opportunities to win new mandates.
improvement from the third quarter, when South Africa Dividend emerged from recession.
The Board has carefully considered the position in Nedbanks net interest income grew 0.8% to R16.3 respect of a final ordinary dividend for 2009, and is billion and non-interest revenue, including the recommending the payment of a final 2009 dividend consolidation of the Bancassurance & Wealth joint of 1.5p per share or its equivalent in other currencies.
ventures, grew by 11% to R11.9 billion.
However, in The Board intends to pursue a dividend policy line with expectations and with the other South African consistent with our strategy, and having regard to banks, earnings were impacted by rising bad debts.
overall capital requirements, liquidity and profitability, Although Nedbanks credit loss ratio declined to 1.47% and targeting dividend cover of at least 2.5 times for 2009, its liquidity position remains sound and its IFRS AOP earnings over time.
capital ratios remain above target levels.
The Tier 1 capital adequacy ratio improved from 9.6% at the end Strategy Update of 2008 to 11.5% at the year-end, and the total capital During 2009 our priority was to stabilise the business adequacy ratio increased from 12.4% to 14.9%.
by addressing the issues in US Life and Bermuda and restoring the capital and liquidity positions of the The rebound in the South African economy is likely Group, whilst at the same time implementing more to be slower than in previous cycles given weak effective governance and controls.
With substantial consumer and business confidence and tighter lending improvements in place, we also started the process of criteria.
However, retail trading conditions are expected simplifying our portfolio of businesses and improving to improve and interest rates are likely to remain steady our operational performance, while further examining at current levels, leading to lower impairments.
The the Group to determine its optimal future shape.
We strength of Nedbanks balance sheet positions it well to now have a clear strategy to build a cohesive long-term capitalise on growth opportunities and to benefit from savings, protection and investment group by leveraging the expected turnaround in economic conditions.
the strength of our capabilities in South Africa and US Asset Management around the world.
Although market conditions in 2009 were challenging, The strategy is designed to focus, drive and optimise we took a number of actions to drive more profitable our businesses to enhance value for both our growth in this business.
We have reorganised our Old Mutual plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read mANAGEmENT STATEmENTS GROUP cHIEF EXEcUTIvES STATEmENT cONTINUED customers and shareholders.
It will increase our good return on equity, such as Retail Europe and, international cash earnings and overall return on equity.
within Emerging Markets, India and China.
It will result in a rationalisation of our activities over time, We have set targets to deliver cost savings of 75 reducing substantially the complexity of the Group, and million per annum and to improve overall return on optimise our structure as we manage our businesses equity from 14.9% excluding US Life and reflecting with a disciplined approach to risk management, the LTIR rate for Emerging Markets for 2010 as at governance and allocation of capital.
31 December 2009 to between 16%-18%, both by We will reduce our exposure to the US by exploring the end of 2012.
To achieve this, we have set specific the disposal of US Life.
We anticipate the listing of a return on equity and cost savings targets for each of minority shareholding in US Asset Management.
will continue to sell or exit markets where we do not Over and above this, we have identified opportunities have scale, have no prospect of achieving satisfactory for further cost and revenue synergies in three principal returns or where the operations are outside of our areas: in IT, by extending outsourcing to a global risk tolerance.
We expect the proceeds from this level, rationalising technology platforms and sharing rationalisation and from retained earnings will be used applications: in administration by taking advantage to reduce debt by at least 1.5 billion and improve the of the efficient cost base in South Africa: and in quality of the Groups balance sheet.
product development, through sharing products and We will retain businesses which meet our capital and investment funds across our businesses.
risk requirements, can achieve a 15% return on equity, In Emerging Markets, we are already distributing add value to other parts of the Group, have scope for products designed in South Africa into India and sustainable future growth and are capable of creating expect to do the same into the other large and underfuture shareholder value.
We will be ruthless in our penetrated markets such as China and Mexico.
South application of these criteria and our businesses will Africa has a well regulated long-term savings industry be subject to continual review.
By leveraging our core and a growing middle income and affluent market, capabilities and maximising available synergies, we which we are penetrating through our strong brand will deliver a good blend of profit growth, improved and powerful distribution platforms.
We are therefore cash returns and generation of long-term embedded co-ordinating our Emerging Markets business, which value.
We will transfer technology and intellectual includes our Africa operations, from OMSA.
Having capital through shared skills and infrastructure, based acquired the minorities in Mutual & Federal, we are also on utilising our strong capabilities in South Africa developing Old Mutual branded short-term insurance and around the world to drive revenue and cost products for the South African middle income market.
We have set a cost reduction target for Emerging We will focus on developing our customer proposition Markets of 5 million per annum and a return on equity which is relevant to their needs, backed up by good target of between 20%-25% by the end of 2012. distribution, support and service.
We aim to deliver In Sweden, we already have a strong market share and high performance in each of our businesses by are now broadening our product and service offering to driving profitable growth and operational efficiency, the direct market through Skandiabanken, the regions optimising risk and return and aligning reward schemes most successful internet bank.
For example, through to activities that deliver value, with strengthened Skandia Investment Group SIG we have exported the governance and control from the centre.
highly successful Spectrum concept of risk-targeted We have set specific targets of reducing costs by funds from the UK to Sweden, and Skandia Nordic 100 million by the end of 2012, including 15 has developed its own supporting web-based advisory million of Group-wide corporate cost savings as the tools for its direct customers.
For the Nordic business Group structure evolves.
We have also set specific we have set a cost reduction target of 10 million per performance targets for our individual LTS businesses annum and a return on equity target of between 12%- and for LTS as a whole, as set out below.
Long-Term Savings In Retail Europe, we are already making good progress Our LTS businesses can be categorised into three in transferring IT and back office functions to South groups: those in mature markets which have scale and Africa, which will significantly improve margins.
We deliver high cash returns, such as Old Mutual South will also broaden its product set, including introducing Africa OMSA within Emerging Markets: those that protection products.
We have set a cost reduction are established and growing but where profitability target for Retail Europe of 15 million per annum and can be improved, such as Wealth Management and return on equity target of 15%-18% by the end of 2012.
Nordic: and those that are sub-scale but have strong prospects for growing embedded value and delivering 14 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 We have commenced an expense reduction exercise 10 million per annum and margin target of 25%-30% in Wealth Management which is intended to deliver by the end of 2012. cost savings across the business of 45 million per We believe this will position the business well for annum by 2012, with associated one-off restructuring a future listing and anticipate a partial IPO for the costs at approximately the same level.
The bulk of this business within the next three years.
The timing is in Skandia UK, which is aiming to reduce its cost is dependent on margin progression, investment base in order to operate profitably and sustainably in performance and market conditions.
The IPO will the new low-margin environment.
We already have allow it to benefit from an enhanced market profile and an excellent platform capability and will be developing more visible valuation.
It will provide access to capital increased functionality and new products, sourced markets and a mechanism for growth, and allow us to in South Africa, which are capital-light but provide continue to improve the alignment of management.
We have also set a Wealth Banking Management return on equity target of between 12%- In line with the South African banking industry, 15% by the end of 2012.
Nedbanks result was affected by the cyclical credit We have made a number of new appointments in stress in the domestic economy.
Despite the increased LTS to help ensure delivery against these targets.
We level of retail impairments, Nedbank has continued to have appointed a new head of product development strengthen its capital base.
The sophisticated and well from within OMSA, and expanded the roles of other regulated South African banking system has ensured senior OMSA executives to enhance operational that the banks in South Africa were well insulated efficiency and distribution across our LTS businesses.
from the worst of the global financial crisis, while We are also in the process of appointing a new head Nedbanks strong management team has continued of IT.
They will all report directly to Paul Hanratty, Chief to drive world-class risk management practices and Executive Officer of LTS.
outstanding performance in nearly all areas of the Following the completion of the expense management business.
Despite the negative economic trends in programme in US Life, the business is now profitable 2009, underlying trading conditions showed early on an AOP basis and is able to grow without further signs of improvement around the third quarter.
However, it lacks scale, has I am pleased to welcome the new Nedbank Chief little overlap with the rest of our LTS businesses and, Executive, Mike Brown and look forward to his given its capital intensive nature, the risk-adjusted contributions to our Group Executive Committee.
return on further investment does not meet our hurdle As Mike and his team develop their future banking rate.
As a result, with market conditions improving, strategy, I look forward to discussing any changes we are exploring the disposal of US Life to allow Mike would like to make to the Nedbank strategy to the business to achieve its potential under different continue its growth.
We thank Tom Boardman for his ownership.
We remain firmly committed to supporting tremendous success in the rehabilitation of Nedbank the business at an RBC ratio of 300%.
after we led its refinancing in 2004.
Asset Management Outlook We have excellent, well established asset management We are determined that over the medium to long-term businesses which are highly profitable and generate these measured and fully-funded actions will provide good cash flow.
In South Africa, we are already the considerable value for shareholders.
Together with market leader and with investment performance further growth in assets under management as market improving we are confident of driving future net client conditions continue to improve, these actions will have inflows.
In Europe, we expect guided architecture to a significantly positive impact on underlying operating complement our open-architecture platform, allowing profitability and return on equity.
Accordingly, the Board us to capture significant inflows within SIG, our has every confidence in the Groups prospects, as manager-of-managers business.
reflected by the resumption of a dividend.
In the US, there are considerable opportunities for growing the business and expanding our existing Julian Roberts franchises into international markets.
We have already Group Chief Executive completed an expense management programme 11 March 2010 which reduced costs by 22%.
The resulting margin improvement, together with anticipated growth in performance fees in line with the recovery in markets, will drive strong profitability and cash flows to the centre.
We have also set a new cost reduction target of Old Mutual plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read
