Directors report: Business review Chief Executives review A straightforward approach delivering solid results Peter Crook Chief Executive Directors report: Business review Chief Executives review 15 continued In our last two annual reports I explained why I thought we would remain relatively unaffected by the economic turbulence of recent times.
I am pleased to report that in a year when many financial services companies have experienced major difficulties, that forecast has largely been borne out.
In 2009, we were again able to continue 3.
We are not spread throughout the to supply our customers with the small world with all the extra risks that brings.
5.4% sums of credit they need to smooth out We trade solely in the UK and Ireland the peaks and troughs of their expenditure.
a market we know well, having operated Increase in group customer However, our home credit business has in the UK since 1880. numbers been affected by a reduction in demand as customers manage down their debt to 4.
We borrow and lend in the most a level they are comfortable with in the prudent way by borrowing long current economic downturn.
In addition, and lending short.
we were affected by the adverse weather 45% conditions in December which fell in our 5.
We have an effective management team key trading weeks before Christmas.
So, in place throughout the group, capable Group return on equity despite growing home credit customer of intervening to take action in response numbers by a further 5.1% during 2009, we to events and able to anticipate further saw the amount of credit we issued remain changes in the market and the economy.
Our straightforward approach continues The underlying features which make our to be the right formula for us in these business less susceptible to the current turbulent times.
In 2009, we delivered turbulent economy and credit constrained profit before taxation and exceptional conditions still apply going forward.
These are: This rate of growth is lower than we would have expected but the increasingly 1.
We do not have the type of complex cautious behaviour exhibited by our home financial products that are difficult, even credit customers in the final quarter of Our straightforward for those in the industry, to understand: 2009 shows that they have been affected rather, we lend very small amounts to by the tough economic conditions we are approach continues to ordinary people.
We are confident that the actions taken in 2009 will stand us be the right formula for us 2.
Impairment in our loan book may be in good stead as the economy recovers.
higher than those lending in the prime credit market but it is less volatile and so easier to price for the risk it presents.
Our strategy The groups objective is to be the leading performance, it should be stressed that non-standard lender of choice in the UK they are not exhaustive and that many and Ireland and a clear strategy has been additional performance measures are developed to achieve this.
also used to monitor performance and progress against objectives.
In order to assess performance against its strategic objectives, the group uses a The groups strategic aims, together with number of key performance indicators the KPIs used to assess performance, are KPIs.
These comprise both financial and set out overleaf.
Whilst these KPIs are helpful in measuring the groups Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report: Business review 16 Chief Executives review continued Delivering our strategy and KPIs Strategic aim Our strategy KPI and description Performance in 2009 Plans for 2010 Customer numbers Grow and modernise our home Group customer numbers up by 5.4% to 2.28m 2008: 2.17m.
Continue to grow customers in home credit at a rate consistent with Growth of higher return credit business.
The number of active customers within each business.
maintaining an appropriate balance between growth, credit quality businesses in the UK and Bring Vanquis Bank up to full Return on equity Consumer Credit Division: and operational capacity to build returns.
Ireland non-standard operational scale, generating Home credit customer growth of 5.1% to 1.842m 2008: 1.753m.
Against difficult market conditions, including subdued demand for Profit after tax, excluding the impact of exceptional costs, divided market significant returns.
Effective management through economic downturn by tight controls credit, continue the focus on maintaining credit quality and by average equity.
Equity is stated after deducting the groups Extend our product offerings to over issue of credit and investment in field-based collections capacity.
pension asset and the fair value of derivative financial instruments, cover more of our chosen market.
Introduced a new, modern home credit voucher product, Love2Shop, Direct repayment product to be sold as a product extension within both net of deferred tax, and the proposed final dividend.
accepted by a wider choice of retailers.
the home credit business following completion of the market test.
Fourth quarter demand in core home credit business affected by Continue to grow Vanquis Bank towards its new medium-term relatively weak customer demand and adverse weather conditions in objective to grow receivables to 450m by the end of 2012 whilst December.
maintaining a post-tax return on equity of 30% and a cautious Home credit full year profits of 128.9m 2008: 128.8m.
Real Personal Finance market test concluded incurring a loss of 7.7m 2008: loss of 2.7m.
Further tightening of underwriting and careful management of revenue yield mitigated pressure from credit losses and maintained risk-adjusted margin of 30%.
Total Shareholder Return TSR Generate sustainable growth in TSR 16.9% since demerger compared with 15.9% for the FTSE 250 Continue the commitment made at the time of demerger to at least Generating profits and dividends generating The increase in the value of the groups shares together with any over the same period.
maintain the dividend per share at 63.5p.
shareholder returns returns in excess of the groups dividend returns made to shareholders.
TSR is measured over a Adjusted EPS of 71.4p, 0.7% higher than 2008 2008: 70.9p.
weighted average cost of capital.
cumulative period since demerger to a maximum cumulative Dividend per share maintained at 63.5p 2008: 63.5p.
Adjusted earnings per share Profit after tax, excluding the impact of exceptional costs, divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue, excluding own shares held.
Dividend per share Total dividends for the year, including the interim dividend paid and the proposed final dividend, divided by the number of shares in issue, excluding own shares held.
Gearing Maintain sufficient equity and Gearing stable at 3.3 times 2008: 3.2 times compared with a Aim to maintain committed borrowing facilities which provide Maintaining a secure borrowing facilities to sustain the Borrowings based on contracted rates of exchange divided by banking covenant of 6.0 times in 2009, reducing to 5.0 times in 2010. funding headroom for at least the following 12 months.
funding and groups operations and fund growth equity.
Equity is stated after deducting the groups pension asset Headroom on committed borrowing facilities of 331m 2008: 251m Maintain capital and gearing at prudent levels.
capital structure over at least the next 12 months.
and the fair value of derivative financial instruments, both net of as at 31 December 2009.
Continue to consider further opportunities to diversify Continue to diversify sources of deferred tax, in line with the groups banking covenants.
Debut issue of 10-year senior public bonds to raise new funds of funding sources.
156m, repurchase 94m of subordinated loan notes and further Borrowings headroom diversify funding sources.
Total committed borrowing facilities less actual borrowings.
Extension of bank facilities maturing in March 2010 by one year in February 2009.
Maintained a Fitch rating of BBB.
Surplus equity capital of approximately 50m and regulatory capital comfortably in excess of FSA requirements.
Customer satisfaction Earn high levels of customer Customer satisfaction of 94% for home credit 2008: 95% and 86% Maintain or improve customer satisfaction levels.
The percentage of customers surveyed who are satisfied with the for Vanquis Bank 2008: 86%.
Increase the groups investment in the communities we serve our relationships with Invest in the communities in which service they have been offered.
Invested 1,329,000 in various programmes during 2009 to benefit through the Good Neighbour initiative.
customers and making a our customers and agents live and in the communities we serve 2008: 797,000.
Measure the progress made against embedding the groups core Investment in the community positive contribution to which our staff work.
Introduced Good Neighbour, a major new strand in the groups community values into the organisation.
The amount of money invested in support of community the communities served Maintain a system to manage programme, comprising substantial funding for supporting: i projects programmes based on the London Benchmarking Groups by the groups businesses corporate responsibility.
within the communities we serve: ii employee volunteering schemes: and guidelines and donated for charitable purposes.
Meet or exceed regulatory iii employee matched giving.
requirements on fairness and Continued to embed the groups core values into the behaviour of the responsible lending.
organisation and our people through changes to HR, performance Follow our corporate values in the management and other processes.
Progress now being measured through treatment of our stakeholders.
inclusion of value statements in customer, employee and agent surveys.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report: Business review Chief Executives review 17 continued Strategic aim Our strategy KPI and description Performance in 2009 Plans for 2010 Customer numbers Grow and modernise our home Group customer numbers up by 5.4% to 2.28m 2008: 2.17m.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report: Business review 18 Chief Executives review continued The economic environment will change At the beginning of 2010, following a again in 2010 with a General Election review of the market test for Real Personal 16.9% in the UK and the start of the process of Finance, a direct repayment loan product, cutting public spending and repaying the we decided to restrict our direct Total Shareholder Return vast sums the Government has injected repayment loans to customers with whom TSR since demerger into the economy to reduce the effects we already have a good relationship and to of the recession.
These continue to be market the loans under the Provident uncharted and concerning times but Direct and Greenwood Direct brands.
I still believe we are as well placed as is 1.3m possible to ride out the next stage We made yet further progress in bringing of the economic troubles.
We will continue Vanquis Bank firmly into profit and up to Investment in community to monitor impairment closely and to operational scale and customer numbers programmes price our products competitively to make and receivables stood at 426,000 and an appropriate return and so continue 255.5m respectively at the end of 2009. to meet the needs of our customers.
We are making good progress towards our new, medium-term targets for this business I am pleased to report that Provident of growing receivables to 450m by the Financial has made a positive Total end of 2012 whilst maintaining a post-tax Shareholder Return of 16.9% since return on equity of 30%.
demerger compared with a fall in the TSR of the FTSE 250 of 15.9%.
This These are significant achievements in the demonstrates the strength of the current economic climate and, when business in these turbulent times.
combined with prudent financial management and our commitment to Our strategy corporate responsibility, the group is in a We aim to be the leading non-standard strong position entering 2010.
A more lender in the UK and Ireland, meeting the detailed report on our progress against our demand for credit from our customers.
strategy can be found in the reports on the We will achieve this by generating good individual businesses.
returns to reward shareholders and to fund our planned growth.
We still believe the In conclusion, our objective is to be the UK We made yet further and Irelands leading lender in the 10 best returns will come from organic million-strong non-standard credit market.
growth of our existing businesses which is progress in bringing This means having strong market positions where we will continue to apply our focus.
Vanquis Bank firmly in each of our businesses, operating in a sustainable fashion, being a highly Our strategy to achieve growth is to into profit and up to regarded corporate citizen, and expand and modernise our home credit operational scale.
maintaining high customer satisfaction business, to scale up our credit card ratings.
We are well placed to achieve business to achieve significant profitability, those ambitions.
and to develop new products in the non-standard credit market to extend our reach.
Peter Crook Chief Executive We will maintain the prudent approach 2 March 2010 to the financial management and funding of the business which has served us well.
Progress in 2009 We continued to make good progress against our strategy in 2009.
We increased the number of customers served by our home credit business by 5.1% in 2009 and when demand for credit returns to more normal levels this will allow us to further increase the amount of credit we issue.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009
