Group Chief Executives report GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT For further information please visit Tidjane Thiam Group Chief Executive www.
com 2009ar 6 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 OVERVIEW I am pleased to report that Prudential delivered an outstanding performance in 2009, generating significantly higher profits while consuming less capital.
Our discipline in allocating capital to the most profitable products and channels, combined with our proactive management of the Groups balance sheet, has allowed us to completely transform our capital position, which is now one of the strongest in the industry.
We have delivered excellent results against a backdrop of unprecedented market turbulence.
After the severe difficulties encountered by the world economy and financial markets in the second half of 2008, we entered 2009 with a deliberately defensive position.
We recognised early on the implications of the new economic climate and focused our strategy on capital conservation and cash generation.
We prioritised value over volume and allocated capital strictly to the products and channels with the highest rates of return and shortest payback periods.
This led us to significantly reduce our volumes of wholesale business, allowing us to grow our relatively more profitable retail sales by 11 per cent in a year when many companies saw a contraction or stagnation of sales.
This highly disciplined approach meant that, as conditions started to improve, our capital strength allowed us to capture a more than proportionate share of our target markets.
We have consistently said our strategy is a formula for outperformance, and these results demonstrate that we have been able to execute it with discipline and effectiveness.
Total EEV operating profit before tax 8% 3,090m 2009 2008 2,865m IFRS operating profit before tax 10% 2009 1,405m 2008 1,283m As Group Chief Executive, my overriding objective is to deliver sustainable increases in shareholder value.
I am pleased to report that we achieved this once again in 2009, outperforming the sector in our chosen markets and in total returns for shareholders.
Going forward, I believe we have the right strategy, products, geographic presence, brands, management and capital strength to sustain this outperformance into the future.
On 1 March 2010 we announced our agreement with AIG for the combination of Prudential and AIA Group Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of AIG.
The strength of AIAs business, its market-leading positions in South-East Asia and the potential for accelerated growth of the combined business in the future present a compelling and unique opportunity for Prudential.
7 Group Chief Executives report continued Group performance We continue to manage cash flows across the Group with a view to achieving a balance between ensuring sufficient net Turning to our performance in 2009, our total Group operating profit before tax from continuing operations, on the European remittances from the business to cover the progressive dividend after corporate costs : and maximising value for shareholders Embedded Value EEV basis, rose to 3,090 million, an increase of 8 per cent.
Our EEV new business profit increased by through the reinvestment of the free surplus generated at business unit level in the particularly profitable opportunities 407 million, or 34 per cent to 1,607 million.
Margins improved across the Group rising from 42 per cent to 56 per cent, an available to the Group, given its established positions in key life insurance markets.
On this basis, the holding company cash flow exceptional level of performance given the market conditions prevailing in 2009.
We achieved our objective of increased at an operating level should generally balance to close to zero before exceptional items.
Our cash flow position remained profitability while consuming less capital, through investing our free surplus in those markets and products which deliver strong during the year.
In 2008 we achieved our target of being operating cash flow positive at the holding company level, and the highest returns within our new business strain targets.
In 2009 our investment in new business was 16 per cent we maintained this position in 2009, with a cash surplus after dividend of 38 million.
Given the Groups outstanding financial performance in EEV new business profit 2009 and increasingly robust financial position, the Board has recommended a final dividend of 13.56 pence per share, bringing 34% the full-year dividend to 19.85 pence per share, an increase of 1,607m 2009 5 per cent.
The dividend is covered 2.2 times by post-tax IFRS 1,200m operating profit based on longer-term investment returns.
2008 Our strategy On the statutory International Financial Reporting Standards Our strategy is to profitably meet our customers changing IFRS basis, operating profit based on longer-term investment needs for savings, income and protection in our chosen markets.
returns increased by 10 per cent to 1,405 million.
IFRS operating By maintaining our focus and discipline in the implementation profit increased across all three life operations: in Asia it increased of this strategy, and by allocating capital to the most attractive 62 per cent to 416 million: in the US it increased 13 per cent opportunities, we believe we are able to generate sustainable to 459 million: and in the UK it increased 11 per cent to and differentiated value for our shareholders.
Over the last 606 million, a very strong performance.
Operating profit at M&G year our strategy has proven its worth under the most testing decreased 17 per cent to 238 million, reflecting the impact of the conditions, delivering a significant outperformance in Total volatility in equity and property markets during the year, while our Shareholder Return TSR in 2009. asset management business in Asia increased operating profits by 6 per cent to 55 million.
We saw a change in other income Through our international, selective and disciplined approach and expenditure to negative 395 million 2008: negative we maintain a diverse portfolio of businesses, which embrace 260 million, as a result of lower returns on central funds and countries at different stages of economic development, but an increase in interest payable on core structural borrowings.
which all share one key attribute: the opportunity for us to build a market-leading operation with prospects for sustainable, longNet inflows increased strongly in our asset management term, profitable growth and a superior rate of return on capital.
businesses, as our sustained investment outperformance attracted investors.
M&G recorded 13,478 million of net Our financial strength is fundamental to our strategy and as a inflows, 296 per cent higher than in 2008, and our asset result of our disciplined risk management approach and targeted management business in Asia recorded 1,999 million Group-wide actions to grow and protect our capital, we are of net inflows, 134 per cent higher than in 2008. emerging stronger from the global economic downturn.
This capital strength has been instrumental in our ability to invest Importantly, we also succeeded in significantly strengthening in profitable growth opportunities in 2009, especially in our our Group capital position, making us one of the best-capitalised chosen markets in Asia and the US.
insurers and underpinning our ability to exploit growth opportunities.
Using the regulatory measure of the Insurance The main engine of our growth strategy is our unique presence Groups Directive IGD, the Groups capital surplus was estimated in Asia, which includes 28 businesses, spread over 13 countries.
at 3.4 billion at the 2009 year-end, more than double its level Asia offers us the highly attractive combination of strong growth of 1.5 billion at the end of 2008, with a solvency ratio of and high margins.
In 2006 we made an external commitment to 270 per cent, or 2.7 times our regulatory requirement.
double our 2005 new business profit in Asia by 2009 and I am very pleased to announce that we have met this target.
This achievement was important to me, and is particularly remarkable given the economic conditions prevailing in the second half of that four-year period.
8 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 OVERVIEW Asia is complex, dynamic and exciting, and its economies Product and distribution strategy differ significantly, with varying levels of economic development, Our operating model enables each of our business units to stay from the OECD members, Japan and Korea, to the fast-growing close to its customers, allowing them to be flexible in identifying markets of South-East Asia, such as Indonesia and Malaysia.
Our and developing the specific product and distribution mix that is approach to the region is highly sophisticated and discriminating right for each market.
in terms of product offering, distribution and branding.
Given Looking at our products, our consistent aim in all our markets is our strong presence in this fast-growing region, where savings to have a suite of savings, income and protection products that ratios tend to be higher than in the west, and the agreement we delivers good value, and meets customers needs in a profitable announced on 1 March 2010 concerning AIA, we believe we are and capital efficient manner.
We use every opportunity, from uniquely placed to continue to deliver sustained profitable growth product design to channel management, to reduce the exposure for many years to come.
of the Group and our capital position to downturns in the In the US, which remains the worlds largest retirement market, economic cycle.
The experience of the past two years has we continued to focus on building our share of the expanding demonstrated that this strategy is the right one, generating and cash-generative annuities market.
We have emerged from highly resilient revenue streams.
This is supported by our the crisis with a significantly stronger position in the variable ability to respond flexibly to customers changing product annuities market, a key product for baby boomers as they reach and investment needs.
We have continued to grow our share of the fixed In Asia, a challenging economic climate in the first half of 2009 index annuities market, while limiting our appetite for fixed gave way to more positive conditions in the second half of the annuities in order to conserve capital and maximise profits.
While we saw our single premium volumes decline as In the UK our strategy remained to rigorously focus on a result of economic uncertainty, our regular premium and balancing new business with cash and capital preservation, higher-margin protection business remained resilient, ensuring while maintaining margins.
This approach delivered the sales we outperformed the competition, while remaining protected, performance we wanted, combined with improved margins.
especially in the second half.
This strategy allows us to generate surplus capital for investment Our distribution in Asia is unique.
We have developed both the Group-wide at significantly higher returns than in the UK.
largest regional network of tied agents, over 410,000, as well as Our business in the UK provides the foundation and fuel strong partnerships with banks across the region.
A significant for the Groups strategy.
development in our Asian distribution capabilities is our new Our asset management businesses in the UK and Asia continue long-term strategic bancassurance distribution partnership to capitalise on our strong investment track record and trusted with United Overseas Bank Limited UOB.
Asset management is a core competence of Prudential announced on 6 January 2010, will mean our life insurance and is a key component of our strategy, providing a reliable products will be distributed through UOBs 414 bank branches source of cash and high quality profits.
Asset management across Singapore, Indonesia and Thailand.
This alliance, which remains a unique, differentiating feature of the Group in complements our long-standing successful partnerships with our sector.
Standard Chartered and other banks across the region, offers us significant new profitable growth opportunities.
We believe that our strategy, and the consistency In the US, the volatility in US equity markets in 2009 saw and discipline with which we execute it, is what customers seek safer, but lower, returns by buying fixed annuities, differentiates us.
fixed index annuities or variable annuities with guaranteed living benefits.
Jackson responded quickly and was able to capitalise on As a Group we have a portfolio of highly trusted brands including this shift in demand across all its annuity product lines.
Supported Prudential, M&G and Jackson and we remain committed to this by our core skills in product manufacturing and distribution, our successful multi-brand strategy.
This approach gives us the purposeful focus on variable annuities and maintaining capital flexibility to tailor our brands to our different businesses and the strength enabled us to gain significant market share while customers these businesses serve.
We believe the strength of our achieving a strong rise in margins and profitability.
brands was a significant differentiator in 2009, as many customers looked for companies with a heritage and history that they knew and trusted, as safe havens for their assets amid the widespread financial uncertainty.
We believe that our strategy, and the consistency and discipline with which we execute it, is what differentiates us.
In 2010 we intend to continue our disciplined execution of this strategy, amplifying and accelerating it to deliver continued profitable growth and increased shareholder value.
9 Group Chief Executives report continued 2009 priorities Going forward, we aim to build on our progress in the GROUP US in 2009 by maintaining our focus on value over volume Balancing growth with cash and capital conservation and continuing to target the most profitable business.
Effectively manage the Groups risk profile Our highly successful distribution model focuses on our Deliver growing dividend, determined after taking industry-leading wholesaler teams, who offer genuine into account the Groups financial flexibility and added-value to the independent financial advisor channel opportunities to invest in areas of business offering while also distributing products through regional brokerattractive returns dealers and banks.
We will also look to diversify our earnings Targeting 2 times cover over time growth and capitalise on our scaleable platform by making bolt-on acquisitions of closed books when suitable opportunities emerge.
PRUDENTIAL CORPORATION ASIA In the UK we continued to focus on the retail market, with Expand the agency force and continue to improve an emphasis on our market-leading with-profits and annuities productivity products.
We restricted our appetite for the capital intensive Maximise the potential from non-agency distribution bulk annuity market and ceased to offer lifetime mortgages.
and add new partners These decisions reflect our focus on higher margin products, Further develop direct marketing channels and with shorter payback periods.
In the UK, we have a diverse up-sell and cross-sell multi-channel approach including direct sales, financial Increase focus on retirement services and health advisers and partnerships.
We continue to use our strong products foundation, brand heritage and customer franchise to support our business.
In asset management we had another excellent year in a challenging market environment.
Both M&G and our Asia asset management businesses continued to capitalise on JACKSON NATIONAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY their strong track records in investment performance to Capitalise on market dislocation to advance deliver strong rises in inflows.
M&G benefited from its high Jackson market position levels of trust and brand loyalty among investors, achieving Write profitable business and conserve IGD capital record net fund inflows, at a time when many other asset Grow existing retail distribution through organic managers suffered net redemptions.
growth of National Planning Holdings NPH, In Asia, where savers are increasingly becoming investors, Jacksons independent broker-dealer network our asset management business put in a resilient performance, while focusing on maintaining profitability across our internal life and third-party clients.
In terms of distribution, our asset management businesses achieved flexibility through a multi-channel, multi-geography distribution approach in both the retail and institutional marketplaces.
PRUDENTIAL UK Build on our strengths in the retirement market and risk products Make the most of our core capabilities and assets including our longevity experience, multi-asset investment expertise, brand, financial strength and large customer base Strengthen our distribution capabilities Deliver improvement in operational performance and customer service whilst preserving our focus on costs Selectively participate in the wholesale market M&G Maintain superior investment performance for both internal and external funds Continue growth in third-party retail and institutional businesses 10 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 OVERVIEW 2009 achievements 2010 priorities Through prudent and proactive management we Accelerate execution of our strategy and enhanced the strength and flexibility of our capital operational delivery base, increasing our Insurance Groups Directive Prudent but dynamic management of capital capital surplus to an estimated 3.4 billion Deliver growing dividend, determined after Full Year dividend increased by five per cent taking into account the Groups financial Dividend cover of 2.2 times flexibility and opportunities to invest in areas of business offering attractive returns Targeting dividend cover of 2 times over time Record results across a number of metrics Expand the agency force and continue to in challenging markets improve productivity Maintained agency channel momentum Maximise the potential from non-agency Improved proportion of Health and distribution and add new partners Protection products Further develop direct marketing channels Successful disposal of capital intensive and up-sell and cross-sell Taiwan agency back book Increase focus on retirement services and Increased new business profit margins health products Excellent investment performance Retail sales set a record of 8.9 billion 28 per cent Continue to innovate around our key variable increase year-on-year.
Jackson benefited from annuity product Flight to Quality as many competitors were Continue to focus on improving efficiency downgraded of operation Total annuity market share grew from 2.3 per cent Expand retail distribution in 2001 to 5.9 per cent in 2009, and Jackson climbed from 17th to 4th in the annuity sales rankings Jackson had the largest increase in VA market share in the industry from 2001 to 2009, growing from 1 per cent in 2001 to 8 per cent during 2009 New business was written at an aggregate after-tax IRR of more than 20 per cent on fully allocated AA capital Continued to deploy cash, capital and resources Compete selectively in areas of the retirement effectively across the UK business income and savings market where we can play Focused on core strengths including annuities, to our core strengths and generate attractive pensions and investment products, where we returns on capital employed can maximise the advantage we have in offering Maintain a disciplined approach to pricing and with-profits and other multi-asset investment funds capital usage Launched a new Income Choice Annuity product Continue to build our distribution capabilities The With-Profits Fund has consistently Deliver further improvements to operational outperformed the market for our long-term performance and customer service whilst investors maintaining our strict focus on costs Gained over 50 new panel positions across 24 key Maximise the opportunities arising from our accounts, meaning our products are more widely significant competitive advantages including available to intermediaries our financial strength, significant longevity Won two Five-Star awards at the Financial Adviser experience, multi-asset investment capabilities, Service Awards as well as the award for best strong investment track record, brand and annuity provider at the Professional Adviser large customer base Awards 2010 Over the three years to December 2009, Maintain superior investment performance 38 per cent of M&Gs retail funds delivered for both internal and external funds top-quartile investment performance Continue growth in third-party retail and M&G had a very strong year in 2009 posting institutional businesses record external gross fund inflows of 24.9 billion, an increase of 54 per cent on 2008 External net inflows of 13.5 billion Ranked number 2 based on retail FUM in the UK 11 Group Chief Executives report continued Risk and capital management Outlook Our strong and sustained financial performance is the result As we go into 2010 we will continue to capitalise on our of disciplined and rigorous management.
In no aspect of our competitive differentiators to amplify and accelerate the business is this discipline more evident than in our approach execution of our strategy.
The agreement we announced on to risk and capital.
As a result of our unwavering focus on 1 March 2010 with AIG represents a compelling and unique increasing our financial resilience, our capital position has opportunity to transform our position in Asia, giving us marketbeen dramatically enhanced despite significant market shocks.
leading positions in all of the critical growth markets in the Our free surplus generation and proactive and innovative region.
In the US we continue to write high-margin, capital capital management underpin an extremely strong solvency efficient variable annuities and in the UK we will focus on our ratio.
Furthermore, we lead the sector in disclosure, strong positioning, brand and products to continue to generate reporting a combination of IFRS, cash and EEV.
Having clearly cash and capital for the Group.
In asset management we will demonstrated our defensive capabilities and transparency optimise both M&G and our asset management business in in the downturn, we believe we are now well positioned to Asia as a core capability of the Group.
As we go into 2010 we will continue to capitalise on In late 2008 and early 2009, the balance sheets and capital our competitive differentiators to amplify and accelerate positions of all insurance companies were under close scrutiny.
the execution of our strategy.
With this in mind, we began 2009 by taking a disciplined and defensive stance, focusing on building our capital base and Going forward, we are increasingly positive on the outlook for strengthening our IGD surplus.
Despite our defensive position, Asia and this is reflected in our announcement concerning AIA.
we remained alert to growth opportunities, and as these We remain cautious on the major Western economies, because emerged in the second half of the year, our greater capital of a number of imbalances threatening their return to higher strength enabled us to seize them aggressively.
growth, including high levels of consumer and government During the course of the year we enhanced the strength debt, budget deficits and unemployment.
In Asia we enjoy a and flexibility of our capital base, increasing our IGD capital unique combination of market-leading positions in the fastest surplus from 1.5 billion at year-end 2008 to 3.4 billion at growing, most profitable markets: strong brands: unrivalled 31 December 2009, equivalent to approximately 270 per cent multi-channel distribution and well-designed products.
Asia, cover of the required capital.
This increase resulted from a with its GDP growth rates, saving habits and low penetration, series of measures that clearly demonstrated our disciplined remains the primary focus of our growth and investment.
This is the most attractive opportunity in our industry today and the agreement we announced on 1 March 2010 In addition to internal capital generation of 1.1 billion, we demonstrates that I have every intention of ensuring that transferred the assets and liabilities of our agency distribution the Group makes the most of it, while also capitalising on business in Taiwan to China Life of Taiwan, which boosted our our strong presence in the US, the UK and our market leading IGD capital surplus by approximately 0.8 billion.
0.9 billion was contributed by issues of subordinated and hybrid debt, and 0.9 billion by financial restructuring and I end my first annual review as Group Chief Executive proud of what our teams have accomplished in delivering our internal reorganisation of Group capital.
These gains of some 3.7 billion, were partially offset by about 0.4 billion of credit highest ever margins, profits and capital surplus, a fantastic achievement in a hugely challenging environment.
impacts in Jackson, 0.6 billion of debt interest and other central costs, 0.3 billion of dividends net of scrip, 0.2 billion I am committed to managing the Group with discipline and from regulatory changes and 0.3 billion of foreign exchange a relentless focus on execution and operational delivery.
I am confident that the quality of our teams, coupled with Our prudent but dynamic management of our capital will our culture of discipline and focus, will position us well to remain a key differentiator of our business going forward.
continue to outperform our industry, not only through the current economic cycle but also through those yet to come.
Tidjane Thiam Group Chief Executive 12 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 OVERVIEW THERES MORE TO PRUDENTIAL In 2009, we delivered an outstanding performance generating significantly higher profits while consuming less capital.
This performance demonstrates the success of our strategy to focus on the most profitable growth opportunities in our chosen markets around the world.
In 2010, we intend to continue our disciplined execution of our strategy, amplifying and accelerating it to deliver further profitable growth and increased shareholder value.
13 Group Chief Executives report continued 14 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 OVERVIEW ACCELERATING The main engine of our growth strategy is our unique presence in Asia, which includes 28 businesses, spread over 13 countries.
We have top three positions in the fast-growing markets of Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and Vietnam.
We will accelerate Read more: our investment in the region to capture future growth, fuelled by our unrivalled distribution, products, Asia business review customer service and brands.
Pages46-49 15 Group Chief Executives report continued STRENGTHENING With 78 million baby boomers approaching retirement age, the US is the worlds largest retirement savings and annuity market.
We emerged from the global financial crisis as a clear winner in variable annuities, and are continuing to gain market share.
Going forward, we will strengthen our US business still further by writing high-margin, capital-efficient annuities and seizing growth opportunities.
16 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 OVERVIEW Read more: US business review Pages50-53 17 Group Chief Executives report continued 18 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 OVERVIEW FOCUSING In the UK, our strategy remains to focus rigorously on balancing writing new business with cash and capital preservation, while generating attractive returns on capital employed.
We continue to prioritise value over volume by leveraging our unique positioning, brand and products.
Read more: Our business in the UK provides the foundation and UK business review Pages54-57 fuel for the Groups strategy.
19 Group Chief Executives report continued OPTIMISING Our asset management businesses in the UK, Europe and Asia are continuing to deliver outstanding results by capitalising on their strong investment track records and trusted brands.
The excellent investment performance of our asset management businesses is a differentiating feature of the Group in our sector.
Asset management in both regions remains a core capability for the Group.
20 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 OVERVIEW Read more: Asset management business review Pages58-62 21 Group Chief Executives report continued For further information please visit www.
com 2009ar 22 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW 24 Chief Financial Officers overview 40 Risk and capital management 46 Business unit review: Insurance operations: Asia, US, UK Asset management: M&G, Asia, US 63 Other corporate information 69 Corporate responsibility review 23
