Chief executives statement Key highlights dividend of 42.0p per share is 1.1 times covered, reflecting our confidence in Given a background of a FTSE 100 Index the business.
at 4434 at the start of 2009 and the considerable uncertainty regarding the future Financial performance of the UK economy, our full year profit from continuing operations of 29.5 million is of Net operating income fell to 116.8 million great credit to the hard work of all our staff.
Fees in the second half recovered from a very Importantly in these difficult times we difficult first half and commission levels were have continued to grow our business in line with 2008.
The most noticeable income both organically and through a reasonably shortfall was on interest margin.
Following the substantial transaction with Lloyds Banking dramatic fall in interest rates in 2008 it is no Group towards the end of the year.
We first surprise that the interest margin in 2009 was considered this transaction back in 2008, considerably lower than in previous years.
Net which gives some indication of just how long interest income fell to 18.5 million in 2009 it can be before some growth opportunities from 31.0 million in 2008 with only 5.7 come to fruition.
The transaction demonstrates million earned in the second half of the year.
our ability to make acquisitions that fit This reflects the full impact of exceptionally with our overall strategy and allow us to low interest rates which have continued into spread operational and regulatory costs 2010.
We have also continued to be very across a larger business.
cautious about where we have placed our cash We have continued to watch our cost base very as we have not wanted to take inappropriate closely, and for the second year running we counterparty risks.
By definition, this limits have limited overall pay inflation such that our our ability to achieve high interest rates on 2010 payroll will increase by less than 2.0% the client money that is held by us as banker annualised compared to 2009.
We believe it and placed by us in the money markets.
is important to maintain our focus on costs and Operating expenses fell 1.8% from to reward people through awards linked to 88.9 million in 2008 to 87.3 million in profit and growth.
2009, but excluding intangible asset Andy Pomfret We continue to invest in the business so that amortisation, Financial Services Compensation Chief executive we are better placed to take advantage of Scheme levies and Lloyds Banking Group growth opportunities as they arise.
Early in transaction costs, other operating expenses 2010, we opened a new office in Aberdeen, were down 2.2%.
and this, coupled with the significant increase Rathbone Unit Trust Management Limited has in the size of our Edinburgh office as a result continued to experience net outflows of funds, of the Lloyds Banking Group transaction, will albeit mostly in the first half of 2009 following substantially enlarge our presence in Scotland.
Towards the The Edinburgh office is now our second end of 2009 we have seen some signs of largest office as measured by funds under improvement, although it will take a while to management and we anticipate moving rebuild momentum.
Mike Webb joined us in to larger premises in Edinburgh during 2010.
February 2010 and will be taking over as In addition to the ever-increasing cost of chief executive of Rathbone Unit Trust regulation, we also continue to invest in Management with effect from 1 April 2010. improving our systems and greatly improving We look forward to working with him to develop our online offering to Independent this important part of Rathbones.
Our overall financial performance has also Although corporate acquisitions tend to make been impacted by a number of specific the headlines, we have continued quietly to items.
Government borrowing costs, which recruit individual investment managers and largely drive levies payable to the Financial their clients.
What we call net acquired growth Services Compensation Scheme, have been either from new investment managers or lower than expected, so the profit and loss acquisitions was 546 million in 2009.
This, charge for 2009 of 0.2 million is much more together with net organic growth where our favourable than the 1.4 million charged in existing investment managers attract additional 2008.
Operating expenses in 2009 include client funds of 631 million, represents a total 0.8 million of costs arising from the Lloyds growth rate of over 12%.
Intangible asset With profit attributable to equity holders of amortisation was 2.0 million in 2009 19.6 million 2008: 19.0 million the compared with 1.3 million in 2008.
Key highlights Financial performance Marketing and business development Corporate activity Treasury and financing Investing in our business Regulation Outlook Rathbone Brothers Plc 3 Chief executives statement Report and accounts 2009 Marketing and business development green issues, so I expect the business to continue to grow.
For four years we have invested selectively in In addition to our practitioner-led investment background advertising in the national press committee structure, we continue to dedicate to increase awareness of Rathbones nationally.
a small central team to researching both fund We will continue to use advertising in this of hedge funds and structured products to way not least where we make acquisitions.
ensure that those products that we approve Existing clients remain our best source of for investment are suitable for our clients.
As referrals and the number of clients for whom products become more complex, this becomes we now act has increased by some 8% an increasingly challenging role and one to over the year to just below 34,000 at which additional resources will need to be 31 December 2009. devoted in the future.
As indicated last year, the Retail Distribution Review is causing many IFAs to review their Corporate activity arrangements for discretionary investment management, and we have arrangements In October 2009 we acquired some business in place with a number of the larger and from Lloyds Banking Group through a more sophisticated IFAs, the most visible transaction consisting of three elements.
This relationship alone has added over 90 million to our funds under The Portfolio Management Service PMS management, and we are keen to see more of the Bank of Scotland had been through relationships develop as the implementation considerable change over the last few years, of the RDR moves closer.
as the merger of Halifax and Bank of Scotland to form HBOS was soon followed by the We have endeavoured to increase the appeal takeover of HBOS by Lloyds TSB late in 2008. of our products and our service for IFAs, The business had some 800 million of funds and launched two unitised multi asset funds under management, and over 2,500 former a strategic growth portfolio fund targeting clients have now consented to transfer their inflation 5%, and a total return fund targeting portfolios to Rathbones, representing some LIBOR 2% accessed through a discretionary 65% of the total number and nearly mandate with Rathbone Investment 500 million of funds under management.
In line with our aim Of these funds, 381 million are included to be a one-stop-shop for IFAs looking to in reported funds under management at outsource the investment management 31 December 2009.
We expect to employ of private client portfolios, we have launched at least 12 individuals from the 50 or so who new marketing literature for IFAs which worked at PMS to help provide our new outlines the more structured approach we clients with stability and a high quality offer to selected firms.
In the coming year investment service.
we will be running more IFA seminars we held nine during 2009 as we believe this The second part of the transaction was to approach has and will bring us business acquire two legacy books of Lloyds clients that we might otherwise not have seen.
seeking an investment portfolio with a direct investment in securities, something Lloyds Our charities team continues to grow, with no longer wish to provide to clients with less funds under management increasing to than 2 million invested.
These two books of nearly 1.4 billion at 31 December 2009 business will migrate to us over the coming 2008: 1.1 billion, reflecting a combination year, but no staff will transfer from Lloyds of good investment performance, energetic with them.
This gives us an opportunity to marketing and continued high standards add funds under management to a number of client service.
The charities team won its of our offices.
second Charity Times award and plans to hold its first symposium for existing clients at the Finally, Lloyds have agreed to refer to us all Royal Society in London in September 2010. of their clients who do not wish to subscribe to their unitised service.
Initially, this Our ethical investment service, Rathbone arrangement has a five year term and we Greenbank Investments, has had a particularly are looking forward to developing this good year, growing funds under management relationship with Lloyds.
from 0.32 billion to 0.38 billion in the year.
It held some successful events in 2009, and For all three parts of this acquisition, we will sponsored the Schumacher lecture in Bristol only be paying for clients that sign up to to enhance its local profile.
Investors continue Rathbone standard terms, subject to some to become increasingly aware of ethical and minimum consideration levels in respect of Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2009 4 Chief executives statement Key highlights Financial performance Marketing and business development Corporate activity Treasury and financing Investing in our business Regulation Outlook the Lloyds legacy business.
Our teams have to further our underlying desire to increase worked hard to ensure that the client migration staff shareholding in the business.
The investment in We continue to invest in staff training.
systems, people and infrastructure that we As the business has grown, we continue have made over several years has been to upgrade and improve the premises we validated by the speed with which we have occupy property being our second largest been able to move clients on to our systems.
During 2009 we moved to a Other corporate activity involved the completion new office in Chichester and in early 2010 of the sales of our offshore trust operations in we opened in Aberdeen.
We anticipate Geneva, Singapore and the BVI each to their moving to a new office in Edinburgh to management teams.
We are currently finalising accommodate expansion in 2010. the return of the BVI banking licence which Capital expenditure of 2.3 million on was used to facilitate transactions for a small software, property, plant and equipment number of offshore trust clients.
When that was 54% down on the 5.0 million spent happens early in 2010 we will have completed in 2008 largely as a result of cost focus all disposals relating to our former offshore and project prioritisation in 2009 combined trust division.
The sale of these businesses with some 1.0 million of Liverpool office has proved timely as the continued regulatory refurbishment costs in 2008.
We would pressure on offshore jurisdictions would expect the level of investment to revert to have made it more difficult for these more normal levels in 2010 and beyond.
businesses to thrive under our ownership.
I am pleased that we have been able to Regulation expand the UK trust business as part of our overall strategy to develop a family office We work hard to maintain good relationships service for a number of wealthy families.
The burden of regulation This business continues to provide a means is increasing and we are very much aware that to strengthen our relationships with a number we may face additional regulations that are of investment management clients.
aimed at much larger banks.
Over the year we have worked on a number of Treasury and financing Treating Clients Fairly projects most notably undertaking a survey of our existing clients.
The acquisition from Lloyds will be funded Overall, the feedback received was positive from our own internal resources.
As noted last but there will be a number of lessons that we year, we held significant amounts of surplus can learn so that we are able to improve our regulatory capital following the sale of our services in the future.
Jersey-based trust business and it is helpful from an earnings perspective to put this to good use.
Our level of external borrowings Outlook was 6.2 million at 31 December 2009 2008: 9.2 million.
Overall 2009 was a challenging year for the business, albeit ending on a rather more Our treasury team has continued to invest positive note.
Markets in 2010 may well be as very cautiously, selecting counterparties that volatile and unpredictable.
have an A rating or above from Fitch.
Client liquidity has reduced from 1.1 billion to The business is well capitalised, we have approximately 0.8 billion at 31 December demonstrated we can make acquisitions, and 2009 as investment managers have our organic growth continues.
We are well reinvested funds.
I take this opportunity to thank all our staff who have worked so hard in very difficult Investing in our business circumstances.
I also thank our clients who have remained very supportive throughout Staff remain our most important asset: they the year.
present the face of Rathbones to our clients.
Notwithstanding our pay restraint over the past Andy Pomfret two years, our staff turnover rate remains low.
Chief executive We operate a Share Incentive Plan into which 23 February 2010 over 84% of our staff contribute on a monthly basis.
We have recently introduced a tax efficient Save As You Earn scheme.
This helps Key highlights Financial performance Marketing and business development Corporate activity Treasury and financing Investing in our business Regulation Outlook Rathbone Brothers Plc 5 Review Report and accounts 2009
