Group Chief Executives review Stephen Hester, Group Chief Executive Goals Put simply, we have three overriding objectives: Watch or listen to d to serve our customers well: Stephen Hester at www.
com annualreport2009 For biographies M to restore the Bank to undoubted standalone strength: and see pages 8-11 to rebuild sustainable value for all shareholders and in so doing to enable the UK Government to sell its shareholding profitably over time.
The riskiest part of RBSs journey is now behind us.
There are four years left of our recovery plan.
Each year we expect to report strong, measurable progress.
Strategy Our strategy is simple and its concepts are well tested in this and other industries.
Its implementation, however, constitutes one of the largest and most far-reaching company restructurings yet seen globally.
We aim to remake RBS as one of the worlds most admired, valuable and stable universal banks.
Driven by market-leading businesses in large customer-driven markets, RBS targets 15% sustainable returns on equity from a stable AA category risk profile and balance sheet.
We are concentrating RBS around the competitive strengths we enjoy in each of our Core business Divisions.
We are focusing on what we are RBS is being restructured and run to serve good at and making it better.
At the same time we are reducing our balance sheet, risk and funding exposures through massive customers well, to be safe and stable and to restructuring and are reducing both scale and scope in areas where we restore sustainable shareholder value for all.
We are re-engineering cost structures and have embarked on overdue business investment.
Cross-cutting management Everyone at RBS is conscious of the and cultural change has also been comprehensive.
responsibilities that lie with us to ensure Results and progress recovery of the support the Bank has received.
2009 saw pleasing progress toward our three main goals.
In that context it is pleasing to be able to report On every published measure the Group is ahead of our Strategic Plan some big steps on our recovery path, which at this stage.
However, the challenges of the starting point mean it I outline in this review.
will take until the end of our Plan period for overall profitability to meet our aspirations.
Customers In 2009, our Core businesses sustained their market positions, with customer numbers steady or growing across the Groups major retail and corporate business lines, thereby confirming the essential health and value that underpins RBSs businesses.
This is also a testimony to the efforts and endurance of our people.
We can and must do better still, however.
The new RBS will be known for its unswerving focus on customers.
Risk We have also made substantial progress in restoring strength and improved risk management to RBS both under our own steam and thanks to government support and improving markets.
Our overall balance sheet is already 696 billion below its peak and the funded balance sheet is 351 billion lower, in constant currency terms: 70% of our targeted reduction is behind us.
Our funding and liquidity resilience has dramatically improved.
Our loan to deposit ratio is down from its 154% 4 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Essential reading Group Chief Executives review peak to 135%, and in our Core business is just 104% compared with Secondly, prospective regulatory change, about which more our 2013 target of c. 100%.
Our Core Tier 1 capital ratio is a robust below, is likely to be significantly shaped in 2010 with the timing of 11.0%, which we expect to be enough to meet the further challenges implementation also clearer.
This will affect customer activity and we anticipate in 2010 before the expected recovery takes stronger hold pricing as well as capital structure and shareholder returns.
in 2011, and to take account of the direction of regulatory change.
Thirdly, as the prospect of share sales becomes more realistic, RBS UK Government support has enabled our capital improvement.
can transition from financial problem to opportunity.
This will also This support also encompasses the Asset Protection Scheme APS help underpin the message to staff, shareholders and customers that and related Contingent Capital Line finalised in December, and RBS is being run commercially on behalf of all shareholders.
accompanied by European Union sign-off, subject to agreed remedies.
We do not expect to receive any net payment under the APS or to have Finally, while the riskiest part of the recovery plan is behind us, to convert contingent capital into equity, and we target an exit from 2010 will be a year of hard slog, with limited visibility of our end the arrangements by 2012 13, subject to regulatory approval.
Though Non-Core impairments and write-downs are expected however, provide valuable tail risk protection whilst we exit the to improve, they are likely to remain high and will once again continue remaining excess risk exposures and until economic recovery is to weigh against our strong Core operating profits.
Our plans carry completely established.
execution risk, and there is a further risk of sheer change fatigue.
We must make sure that we stay on top of these risks.
Profits Goal number three, restoration of sustainable shareholder value, will People take the longest, though its prospect is becoming clearer.
To achieve There are several necessary ingredients on the journey from failed this goal we need to make sure that our Core business improvement institution to recovery story, and in the end to market leader.
Perhaps measures succeed and to complete the Non-Core exit: we also need the most crucial of these ingredients is people.
Nevertheless, progress in 2009 was encouraging.
Our Core business posted operating profit of 8.3 billion up 89% on We needed to make comprehensive changes at the top and throughout 2008.
5.7 billion of these profits came from Global Banking & Markets our organisation, and we have implemented these changes decisively.
GBM, our investment banking arm, which successfully took advantage On-going challenges from efficiency measures and business reduction of buoyant markets despite the handicaps of its own radical restructuring.
Finally, the sheer magnitude and intensity of institutional While we expect this level of core profits to decrease in 2010 as GBMs change, the pressure on morale of backward-looking commentary and markets normalise, our retail and commercial businesses, which we customer uncertainty, the dents to pride and personal savings all take a believe reached their cyclical trough in 2009, should bounce back in the toll.
Our people face significant headwinds.
Yet good, motivated, wellcoming years, eventually constituting a stable two-thirds of Group profits.
managed people are a vital necessity for achieving each of our three overriding goals.
In our Non-Core Division, rapid progress on divestments, asset run-off and sales reduced total third party assets by 36% in 2009, RBSs recovery is a work in progress.
Managements greatest task is ahead of Plan, to 221 billion, including derivatives.
Doing so human renewal and motivation.
We have experienced damaging losses crystallised losses, and further losses are likely to occur in coming of skilled people and will continue to do so.
But to date the overall years, albeit steadily declining.
In the second half of 2009, Non-Core signs are positive.
The transition we need to make is ahead of schedule.
losses reduced 44% from the first half, providing encouragement about Our people, new and old, are doing their jobs, and doing them well.
After some one-off gains, RBS Group had net attributable Compliments are due to them for this.
Regulation Outlook Change is needed and is happening.
As a large, diversified, systemic We see the outlook as cautiously encouraging for RBS and the bank, and as a poster child for what needed reforming, RBS is both economies we serve, although with clear risks.
It looks as if loan affected and constructively engaged.
Three strands of change are impairments may have peaked in 2009 and our net interest margin, discernible.
The changes in process around the Basel rules on quality despite the continued squeeze on liability margins and higher liquidity and quantity of capital, on risk weighting and on liquidity are generally costs, has now shown two quarters of improvement.
Our progress in well conceived and appropriate.
However, their combination needs 2009 gives increased comfort in our ability to execute the restructuring careful calibration to ensure the right balance between effectiveness challenges that remain.
and jeopardising economic growth and industry stability.
Similarly, a measured timetable for implementation is vital.
Done properly, we Nonetheless, there are important areas of uncertainty today that should welcome the direction of change: it fits our own self-administered change become clearer over the course of 2010.
How these resolve will make and should be accommodated within our plans for the coming years.
the value case for RBS more certain.
The Basel changes are designed to reduce the probability of default in Firstly, much depends on the shape and pace of economic recovery financial services.
That leaves another critical strand of work around and the way it feeds through to business activity, interest rates and what happens in the case of default, even if much less likely to happen credit impairments.
We must make sure that our industry does not need the RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 5
