GRA 4 Governance 09 207-238. qxp:GRA 4 Governance 09 15 3 10 09:29 Page 229 Governance Group Chief Executive Stephen Hester Non-executive directors Stephen Hester received certain share awards on appointment as The level of remuneration for non-executive directors reflects the Group Chief Executive and share awards to replace bonus and share responsibility and time commitment of directors and the level of fees awards he forfeited on leaving The British Land Company PLC.
He was paid to non-executive directors of comparable major UK companies.
granted conditional share awards over a total of 10,407,081 shares.
Non-executive directors do not participate in any incentive or Subject to their terms, the majority of these awards vest between performance plan.
Non-executive director fees are reviewed regularly.
February 2009 and the third anniversary of his appointment as Group There was no change in fees during 2009.
Total shareholder return performance In 2009, Stephen Hester received an award over 4,800,000 shares The performance graphs below illustrate the performance of the under the MPP and options over 9,550,000 shares under the ESOP.
The company over the past five years in terms of total shareholder return performance conditions attached to the vesting of these awards are compared with that of the companies comprising the FTSE 100 Index.
based on absolute and relative Total Shareholder Return metrics as This Index has been selected because it represents a cross-section of described on page 235.
Before the Remuneration Committee will permit leading UK companies.
The total shareholder return for FTSE banks for any of Stephen Hesters shares to vest, it will consider underlying the same period has been added for comparison.
The total shareholder financial performance of the Group and whether this performance is return for the company and the indices have been rebased to 100 for delivered in a way which is consistent with effective risk management.
Stephen Hester has voluntarily agreed to retain any shares that he Total shareholder return receives under the MPP in 2009 for a further two years past the vesting date.
This reflects his personal commitment to driving the Groups performance over the longer term.
Group Finance Director Bruce Van Saun On joining the Group, Bruce Van Saun was made a conditional share award of 1,810,611 shares under the MPP and options over 905,306 shares under the ESOP.
Both awards will vest on 8 September 2012, the third anniversary of him joining the Group, and are subject to performance conditions.
The ESOP and MPP awards made to Bruce Van Saun are subject to the same absolute and relative TSR targets that apply to Stephen Hesters awards, including the performance underpin allowing the Remuneration Committee to adjust awards if the vesting outcome does not reflect the Total shareholder return daily Groups underlying performance and management of risk.
UK-based executive directors remuneration balance Executive director including Chief Executive pay mix The chart above shows the make up of remuneration opportunity for ontarget annual performance, and with long term incentive awards shown at their fair value at the date of grant.
Short term incentive payments earned in relation to 2010 performance will be deferred and will vest, subject to satisfactory performance.
The actual value of the long term incentive awards will depend on performance over the period 2010 to 2012 and the share price at the time the awards vest.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 229
