06 | rSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GrouP ceoS revIew contInued deLIvery 2009 was a good year for the Significant fide-risking of pension schemes, and compared to 16.4% in 2008. net asset value delivering sustainable profitable performance.
per share was up by 5% excluding the pension group in challenging conditions.
fund and was 99p including the pension fund.
We delivered another strong A StronG FInAncIAL PerForMAnce performance and have driven the in 2009, we increased premiums by 4% to reGIonAL overvIew group forward through targeted 6.7bn, reflecting the impact of the economic organic growth and acquisitions in downturn offset by our actions on targeted InternAtIonAL emerging markets and international.
international, our largest region, again delivered an outstanding performance and continued to Weve continued to take the right the combined operating ratio coR for drive the group forward.
premiums increased action on rate and expenses and the group was excellent at 94.6% and the by 8% to 3.2bn in line with 2008 at constant delivered a positive underwriting underwriting result increased by 1% to 386m.
exchange, reflecting continued action on rate, result in all regions.
our capital targeted growth and the benefit of new deals position remains strong.
the total investment result was 523m and offsetting the economic downturn.
the coR income was in line with guidance at 595m.
was an excellent 91.7% with the underwriting We are confident of our ability to continue total gains were slightly ahead at 28m due result increasing by 8% to 282m.
We have a great to commercial property, which was up by portfolio of businesses with strong market 24m in the fourth quarter.
in Scandinavia, 2009 was another great year.
positions and remain committed to driving premiums increased by 4% to 1.7bn down top and bottom line growth.
the operating result was 777m, while profit 2% at constant exchange, reflecting a strong before tax of 554m was after the expected performance in personal, offset by a 7% 2009 deLIvery AGAInSt StrAteGIc reorganisation costs for the uK cost reduction reduction in commercial, due to the impact obJectIveS programme announced in february 2009. of the downturn and reduced exposure.
driving the group forward through targeted growth and acquisitions the underlying return on opening equity was in personal lines, we delivered good growth continued action on rate 12.7%, down from 18.5%, with the movement in Swedish personal Accident, increasing on track to meet uK cost savings target on the prior year due to the expected lower premiums by 8%.
We continued to push maintaining tight operational grip and strong investment returns and the impact of foreign rate across all lines of business and retention financial management exchange on opening assets.
the underlying remained strong at 81%.
in norway, we Strong capital and financial position return on average equity was 13.4% increased premiums by over 25%, driven by Underlying return on average equity % Regulatory capital surplus bn NAV per share, excl.
pension p 1.7 1.7 19.3 106 101 1.5 16.4 88 13.4 13.4% 2.4X 106p ROE THE REQUIREMENT NAV 2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009 IntroductIon IntroductIon Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | rSA | 07 2009 WAS A good YeAR foR the gRoup in on 25 June, we will be hosting rSA day as part of our 300 year birthday celebrations.
We hAVe deliVeRed employees across the Group will AnotheR StRong peRfoRmAnce.
AS We moVe into participate in fundraising and volunteering 2010, economic unceRtAintieS RemAin, hoWeVeR, activities focusing on three key areas We continue to puSh hARd foR pRofitABle gRoWth.
climate, community and crime reduction in support of our cr strategy, to increase Andy Haste employee engagement, build pride and group ceo demonstrate rSAs contribution to society.
growth in Affinity and our agent network.
m 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 in denmark, bancassurance again performed well and premiums increased by 10%.
net written premiums 6,737 6,462 5,837 5,484 5,300 We drove a significant increase in the underwriting result 386 384 278 310 263 underwriting result, up by over 25% to 242m, and the coR was 86.2% due to personal operating result 777 867 814 780 743 motor, personal Accident and marine.
this was an excellent result and was well ahead of the combined operating ratio 94.6% 94.5% 94.9% 93.3% 94.1% assumptions used at the time of the codan underlying return on minority buyout in 2007.
13.4% 16.4% 19.3% 19.7% 19.5% average equity in canada, once again we delivered strong growth, with premiums increasing by 15% to in other europe, premiums increased by 9% half of the year we continued to take action on over 1bn 5% at constant exchange, achieved to 559m down 2% at constant exchange, the motor portfolio.
We expect to start seeing through positive rate increases across all lines with a coR of 105%.
in ireland, premium the benefit of these actions in the underwriting of business, a retention level of over 87% and growth of 5% at constant exchange was driven result going forward.
five acquisitions in the year.
by rate, significant new Affinity wins and the benefit of prior year acquisitions.
the coR in commercial, we built on our expertise in of 91% was a tremendous result and was after Risk Solutions, increasing premiums by 28% a 10m charge for the november floods, and and we also saw 4% growth in mid-market.
reflected our early action on rate, our disciplined in personal lines, Johnson again delivered approach to underwriting and our prudent another excellent performance with premiums reinsurance programme.
increasing by 8% and retention of 90%.
We saw a contrasting performance in italy, the underwriting result increased by 11% to where im proud of our response to the 63m and the coR was 93.5%.
these are great lAquila earthquake.
the new management results against the backdrop of severe weather team dealt with the move to direct conditions and significant industry losses.
indemnification and during the second Employee engagement Survey Rise in participation % engagement Score out of 5 92 3.99 86 3.80 6% 5% IMPROVEMENT IMPROVEMENT 2008 2009 2008 2009 08 | rSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GrouP ceoS revIew contInued our continued focus on rate and risk selection in personal, we increased rate by 7% in motor eMerGInG MArKetS ensured that we remain one of the most and by 3% in household.
in emerging markets, premiums increased profitable insurers in Scandinavia, canada and by 13% to 833m 2% at constant exchange.
We are confident that the international We also continued to push rate on motor new including associates, total premiums were portfolio will continue to deliver good top line business and achieved double digit increases in 954m.
growth and sustained bottom line profitability.
in latin America, the top line increased by uK the underwriting result was 75m and the 2%, driven by good growth in Affinity where the uK remains a tough market and premiums coR was 98%.
we signed 13 new deals, including citibank in were stable at 2.6bn.
We maintained our colombia, claro in Argentina and Santander focus on underwriting discipline, withdrawing on claims, we continue to review lead and in mexico.
capacity where we could not achieve our performance indicators and while there are returns and targeting growth in Specialty lines.
pockets where we have taken action, we are in Asia and the middle east, premiums increased still not seeing any systemic trends relating to by 24%, due to contract wins in construction personal lines premiums were flat on 2008, the economic downturn.
While in our associate in india, with lower household premiums offset by 5% personal motor grew by 14%, driven by new growth in motor, driven by growth in Broker on costs, we achieved run rate savings of car sales.
pet also performed well 64m and we will deliver the full 70m by the and premiums increased by 17%.
end of the first quarter, ahead of our mid 2010 in central and eastern europe, conditions target.
this has been achieved at a cost of remained tough in the Baltics.
however, we in commercial, premiums decreased by 5%, 75m, against the expected 80m for the maintained our market leading position, while with the impact of the downturn mitigated complete programme.
on headcount, we have intouch has continued to grow.
by our actions on targeted growth and rate.
already achieved the planned reduction of growth in european Risk Solutions of 47% and 1,200 announced in february 2009. the emerging markets underwriting result in marine of 21% has offset capacity withdrawals of 29m increased by 26%, reflecting the early in commercial motor and property.
As we move into 2010, the uK remains actions we took to protect profitability, competitive but we have made a good start including headcount reductions of around We continued to take action on rate, achieving to the year with european Risk Solutions up by 600 across central and eastern europe and renewal increases in commercial of 6% in 10% and marine up by 5%.
in personal we have Asia and the middle east.
motor, 3% in property and 8% in liability.
won deals with homeServe and the West Bromwich Building Society.
Net written premiums m Underwriting result m Combined operating ratio % INTERNATIONAL INTERNATIONAL INTERNATIONAL 3,249m 91.7% 282m UK UK UK 2,632m 98.0% 75m EMERGING EMERGING EMERGING 833m 95.1% MARKETS 29m MARKETS MARKETS IntroductIon Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | rSA | 09 emerging markets remains an attractive place to do business.
in the short term, conditions InduStry overvIew will remain tough, particularly in the Baltics, finAnciAl SeRViceS WeRe undeR intenSe ScRutinY but emerging markets have huge potential.
Being ABle to diStinguiSh ouRSelVeS they will return to double digit growth and AS A puRe-plAY geneRAl inSuReR, With A cleAR we will continue to invest in the region.
StRAtegY And A RecoRd of StRong deliVeRY WAS StronG FInAncIAL PoSItIon A KeY diffeRentiAtoR.
the group maintains a strong financial position with a regulatory capital surplus of 1.7bn, representing 2.4 times the requirement.
At our half Year results we talked about continued to take the right action on rate how declining economic activity was leading and expenses to mitigate the impact of We also continue to benefit from our low to a reduction in exposures and premiums.
We also continue to pursue risk investment strategy, with 87% of the mortgage lending and car sales were down, our high quality, low risk investment strategy.
total investment portfolio invested in high therefore new business was lower.
Wage quality fixed income and cash assets.
99% rolls were shrinking, so liability risk decreased.
our capital position remains strong and of the bond portfolio is investment grade Businesses were selling less, so they needed we have taken further action to fide-risk our and the bond holdings are well diversified, with less business interruption cover and with pension schemes in the uK and ireland.
73% invested in currencies other than Sterling less cargo being shipped, marine exposures and 54% invested in non government bonds.
from a legislative perspective, we welcome the adoption of the Solvency ii directive, We have a track record, built over many years, Although conditions had improved by which encourages the industry to better of fide-risking our defined benefit pension the year end, the position remains fragile, align capital requirements with the risks schemes.
in July 2009, we announced that we particularly for economies such as the they take on their balance sheets.
We look had protected around one third of the uK uK and ireland, where the fundamental forward to working with the regulators schemes liabilities against longevity, interest imbalances behind much of the recent to ensure that the implementation is rate and inflation risk.
this was achieved at no turbulence, such as personal debt and trade consistent across eu member States additional cost to the group.
in 2010 we have imbalances, have not been fully resolved.
and does not lead to unnecessary continued to take action in both ireland and A combination of consumers seeking to capital requirements.
the uK to further protect the groups results rebuild personal balance sheet strength and by reducing volatility in the pension schemes.
governments needing to repair their finances As we move into 2010, the group is will weigh upon the growth outlook.
it is well placed, with a strong financial position tecHnIcAL cAPAbILItIeS likely that we will see further periods of and a clear strategy.
We remain confident A sustainable business needs to attract, develop weakness on the path to recovery.
of our ability to deliver sustainable and reward talented people, as well as making profitable performance.
them accountable for their actions.
We economies that have not had these types continue to focus on developing employees.
of imbalances have been far more robust.
in china and india, growth has recovered the RSA technical Academy, which we quickly after only a relatively modest slowdown.
launched in 2006, now has over 10,000 canada has also been a relative outperformer.
members across the group and im delighted that our marketing Academy, which we given this outlook, we continue to closely launched this year, was the winner of the monitor economic trends and other indicators insurance times training programme of and their impact on the group.
10 | rSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GrouP ceoS revIew contInued our executive development programme is RSA 97 out of 109, the highest score of all in the first two months of 2010, we have entering its sixth year, bringing together leaders general insurers.
announced the acquisition of Sveland in from across the group to work collaboratively Sweden and Al Ahlia, making us the number on critical strategic issues and, in 2009, our Broker satisfaction is also important to us one insurer in oman by net written premiums.
graduate and fasttrack programmes provided and, in trygg-hansa in Sweden, we received structured support and career paths for 42 top ratings in an independent survey of on 27 february 2010, an earthquake new starters and high potential individuals.
brokers perceptions of insurance companies measuring 8.8 on the Richter scale hit chile, and their products.
We mobilised our over the last year, we also made great crisis response team and are supporting our progress on employee engagement, with a product innovation is key to our success and local teams with group specialists on the ground.
5% improvement across the group, which with the reinsurer munich Re, we launched We are thankful to report that all our staff are is considered significant.
92% of employees insurance4renewable, a global service that safe and the majority of our network was up participated in our employee Survey and we offers standard and customised insurance and running within hours, despite a lack of will continue to use the insights to generate products and services for renewable energy power in some branch offices.
ideas and clear action plans to make further products in developing countries.
in targeting profitable growth, we will maintain our progress in 2009 was recognised by our focus on underwriting discipline and corPorAte reSPonSIbILIty goldman Sachs who named RSA as one of continue to take action on rate and expenses.
We are committed to doing the Right thing, the top five global insurers in their gS: Sustain As it stands today, we expect to deliver a both as individuals and as a company and report, an upgrade from Bronze to Silver in combined operating ratio in 2010 of around 95%.
continue to support three key communitythe dow Jones Sustainability index, moving based themes: road safety, social inclusion and from gold to platinum in the times top 100 We will also continue to take action to mitigate the environment.
companies and winning the corpcomms Best the impact on the investment result of lower corporate Responsibility Strategy award.
in 2010, we expect investment this year, we launched a road safety reflective income to be around 540m and as it stands programme for over 2,000 children in estonia conFIdent outLooK today, we expect total gains to be in line with and a new youth-focused crime prevention 2009 was a good year for the group.
We also supported a great businesses with strong market positions number of environmental projects, including and once again, we delivered excellent results We remain confident about the outlook for cleaning up polluted beaches in the middle east.
the group and our ability to continue to deliver excellent results.
We officially launched our partnership with We will continue to drive the top line and we the WWf, focusing on the insurance risks expect to see: of environmental change.
over the next three years, RSA will be supporting conservation mid-single digit growth in international projects relevant to our business including a the uK moving to positive territory, and Andy Haste marine protection project in canada to help double digit growth returning to emerging group ceo safeguard the long-term future of the fishing markets over time.
industry, a renewable energy project in china and a flood defence project in the uK.
this growth will continue to be supported by acquisitions.
Since 2003, we have completed We remain committed to our customers and and integrated around 30 transactions and the our success in improving our levels of services pipeline remains strong.
was recognised in the 2009 survey by the Association of British insurers which awarded
