Our performance Chairmans statement By the year end, cost savings from integrating the Carillion I am delighted to report that and Alfred McAlpine businesses had reached a run rate of Carillion achieved its objective of 50 million per annum, in line with our expectations, and this made a signifi cant contribution to margin and earnings growth.
delivering materially enhanced Revenue including joint ventures increased by four per cent to earnings in 2009, despite 1 5.4 billion 2008: 5.2 billion and underlying profi t before tax increased by 16 per cent to 182.2 million 2008: 157.5 million.
2 Underlying earnings per share increased by 14 per cent to 39.0 pence 2008: 34.3 pence.
This strong performance refl ects the resilience of the Groups business mix, the strength of the management team and the The Groups profi t was again strongly cash-backed, with skills and commitment of Carillions people.
On behalf of the underlying cash fl ow from operations of 268.2 million Board, I should like to thank all our employees for the 2008:198.3 million substantially ahead of underlying contribution they have made to Carillions success in 2009. profi t from operations of 196.8 million 2008: 165.2 million.
This, together with proceeds from the sale of equity investments In line with the Groups strategy, support services continues to in PPP projects and from the disposal of non-core businesses, has make the largest contribution to earnings.
This was supported enabled the Group to achieve a net cash position of 24.9 million by a good performance in Public Private Partnership PPP projects, at 31 December 2009 2008: net borrowing of 226.7 million.
which more than offset the expected decline in UK construction revenue, and substantial growth in Middle East and Canada The Group continues to have a substantial high-quality forward construction services.
order book that was worth approximately 17.7 billion at the year end 2008: 20.4 billion, with the reduction since December 2008 primarily due to the sale of equity in PPP projects and the disposal of non-core businesses.
Beyond that we have a strong pipeline of probable orders and contract opportunities, particularly in support services where we have our largest ever pipeline.
Philip Rogerson Compound annual growth rates Chairman 2005-2009 Dividend 14% Underlying 2 earnings per share 15% 1 After Joint Ventures taxation of 6.5 million 2008: 10.7 million and before intangible amortisation, impairment of other investments, non-recurring operating items and non-operating items 2 Before intangible amortisation, impairment of other investments, non-recurring operating items and non-operating items.
In December 2009, the executive responsibilities for the Groups UK Building, Private Finance and Middle East businesses were combined to streamline Board responsibilities and refl ect the strategic development and needs of these businesses, which share common skill sets.
Richard Howson who has been Managing Director of the Middle East businesses since July 2007, was appointed to the Board on 10December 2009 as the Executive Director responsible for those businesses and for our UK Building and Private Finance businesses.
Richard brings to the Board 05 06 07 08 09 05 06 07 08 09 considerable knowledge and experience that will enable him to 2 Underlying earnings per share Reported earnings per share make a signifi cant contribution to the Groups future development.
p p David Hurcomb, the Executive Director responsible for UK Building 1 1 and Private Finance, decided to step down from the Board on 14% 18% 8December 2009.
David left the Group with the Boards best wishes and grateful thanks for the contribution he has made to Carillion and to the development of our UK Building business in particular.
In view of the wider economic environment we continue to expect market conditions to remain challenging in 2010.
However, our performance has demonstrated that the Group has a resilient business mix, including strong international businesses, a substantial high-quality order book, a good pipeline of contract opportunities, good cash fl ow and a strong balance sheet.
Consequently, the Group continues to be well positioned and the Board believes that it will make further progress in 2010.
05 06 07 08 09 05 06 07 08 09 3 Underlying profi t before tax Reported profi t before tax m m 1 1 Philip Rogerson 16% 27% Chairman 3 March 2010 05 06 07 08 09 05 06 07 08 09 1 Growth on 2008 2 Before intangible amortisation, impairment of other investments, non-recurring operating items and non-operating items 3 After Joint Ventures taxation of 6.5 million 2008: 10.7 million and before intangible amortisation, impairment of other investments, non-recurring operating items and non-operating items.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 13 Our performance Group Chief Executives review Our ability to perform strongly in current market conditions refl ects A seventh successive year of the benefi ts of implementing a consistent and successful strategy substantial growth in earnings for sustainable profi table growth, supported by a commitment to behaving in accordance with our core values and applying rigorous per share and dividend is an risk management policies and processes.
outstanding achievement, Our strategy Growing support services and Public Private Partnership PPP especially in the current economic projects climate, which has made market Developing and marketing integrated solutions tailored to the needs of customers, including project fi finance, design and conditions very challenging.
construction, maintenance and lifetime asset management Maintaining a strong and selective construction capability focused on higher added-value contracts for long-term customers, especially the delivery of PPP projects and integrated solutions for support services customers.
The effects of our strategy The success of our strategy is clearly evident in our track record, having transformed Carillion from being primarily a UK construction company into a leading UK support services business delivered seven successive years of signifi cant earnings and dividend growth, with underlying earnings per share and our dividend increasing over the last fi five years at compound annual growth rates of 15 per cent and 14 per cent, respectively consistently achieved or exceeded our fi financial and strategic objectives created a resilient business mix with strong market positions, both in the UK and internationally.
The transformation of Carillions business away from a heavy dependence on UK construction into one of the UKs leading support services companies, with a large portfolio of PPP projects J Joh ohn n McDon McDono oug ugh h and a strong and selective construction capability, has given us the G Gro rou up p C Ch hiie ef f E Ex xe ec cu ut tive resilience to perform strongly in 2009 and the platform to make further progress in 2010.
A resilient business mix In 2009, 66 per cent of underlying operating profi t came from long-term contracts for support services and PPP projects, which are more resilient in cyclical downturns.
The remaining 34 per cent of underlying operating profi t came from construction services, where earnings have also become more resilient, due to contract selectivity and geographical diversifi cation, which have greatly reduced our dependence on the UK and increased the contributions from our international businesses, notably in the Middle East.
In 2009, Middle East construction services accounted for 21 per cent of underlying operating profi t, with construction services excluding the Middle East accounting for 13 per cent.
Carillion plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 03 Our performance We have been a leader in Public Private Partnership PPP projects 1 Underlying operating profi t by reporting segment since the inception of the UKs Private Finance Initiative in the early 1990s.
Since then, we have won over 50 PPP contracts in the UK and Canada, for hospitals, schools, prisons, military accommodation, roads and railways.
We also led the way in developing the secondary market for PPP equity and to date we have sold 28 equity investments, generating proceeds of some 2008 279.9 million and a pre-tax profi t of 105.6 million.
206.5m In the Middle East, where we have had Joint Venture construction businesses for nearly 40 years, we have built an outstanding reputation for quality and reliability through delivering many of the regions most prestigious projects, including Dubai Festival City, the Grand Mosque in Oman and more recently the Yas Hotel, Support services which forms the centrepiece of Abu Dhabis new Formula 1 117.7m 2008: 113.5m Grand Prix circuit.
Public Private Partnership projects 2009 32.2m 2008: 29.8m In construction services excluding the Middle East our Middle East construction services 227.8m experience spans almost two centuries, as Carillion brings 47.0m 2008: 34.5m together the heritage of Tarmac, Mowlem and Alfred McAlpine.
Construction services excluding the Middle East Our highly selective approach has focused our construction skills 30.9m 2008: 28.7m on fewer higher value-added projects for long-term customers, particularly PPP projects for which our ability to provide fully integrated solutions helps to differentiate us from our competitors.
For example, our portfolio includes the UK Government Strong market positions Communications Headquarters in Cheltenham, 20 major hospitals In transforming our business mix, we have also developed strong and other healthcare facilities, over 140 new schools, several positions in new market sectors, while selectively capitalising on prisons and numerous motorway, trunk road and rail projects.
Our values In support services, through organic growth and acquisitions, Openness Professional delivery notably Mowlem and Alfred McAlpine, we have built a UK Collaboration Sustainable profi table growth business that has the skills and resources to provide customers with Mutual dependency Innovation nationwide services to manage, maintain and operate property and infrastructure.
Our ability to combine our skills and resources Applying our core values to everything we do is creating a culture and use leading-edge technology to deliver fully integrated services focused on understanding the needs of customers and using the for large, complex property estates and infrastructure networks, is Groups wide range of skills and resources to create high-quality, one of our key strengths.
For example, we provide facilities value-for-money solutions to meet those needs.
management and other support services for hundreds of thousands of buildings, including an estate of around 43,000 houses for military personnel in the UK and some 7,000 properties for BT.
We also provide management and maintenance services for over 17,000 kilometres of roads in the UK and Canada and for extensive sections of the UKs rail and public utilities networks.
1 Before Group eliminations and unallocated items of 10.5 million 2008: 12.4 million, share of jointly controlled entitlies net fi financial expense and taxation and non-recurring operating items.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 15 Our performance Group Chief Executives review continued Operational risk management The principal risks facing the Group are summarised in the table The application of rigorous risk management policies and below, together with the measures we have in place to mitigate processes also plays an essential role in our success.
These policies and manage these risks.
and processes are fi rmly embedded in our culture and designed to identify, mitigate and manage strategic risks and those specifi c Business disposals to individual business and contracts, including economic, social, In 2009, we disposed of two non-core businesses, Carillion IT environmental and ethical risks.
These processes are described in Services and Enviros, an environmental consultancy business, more detail in the Corporate Governance report on page 45. generating total gross proceeds of 62.4 million.
In line with our policy of selling equity investments in Public Private Partnership The Group Head of Risk is responsible for advising on strategic projects once they have moved successfully into the operational risk issues across the Group and for oversight of risk training.
phase and reinvesting the proceeds in new projects, we sold The Group Head of Risk is also responsible for carrying out investments in a further four mature projects during 2009, independent appraisals of all projects before these are submitted to generating total proceeds of 100.7 million.
the Major Projects Committee, which is a committee of the Board that sanctions all major commitments and transactions, including Group key performance indicators in 2009 capital expenditure, major contracts and business acquisitions and The Board set six Group key performance indicators for disposals.
The Committee has delegated authority up to specifi ed 2009, in respect of which the Group has performed strongly, levels of risk, beyond which Board approval is required.
We apply our risk management processes to every aspect of our 1.
To continue to attract, develop and retain excellent operations, from choosing our market sectors and the contracts people by being an employer of choice.
for which we bid, to the selection of our customers, partners and Delivering the high-quality services that our customers expect and suppliers.
We also apply them to every stage of a contract, from upon which the reputation of Carillion and that of its customers its inception to completion, in order to deliver high-quality services depend, requires excellent people at all levels throughout the for our customers and the cash-backed profi t we expect.
The services we provide are often critical to the success Operational risk management Risk Mitigation Managing our pension schemes to ensure that scheme The Groups main defi ned benefi t schemes have been closed to liabilities are within a range appropriate to our capital base future accruals and been replaced with defi ned contribution schemes.
Investment policies are reviewed regularly to ensure that employee and company contributions, together with scheme benefi ts, remain appropriate Continuing to win orders in markets that are more competitive We maintain a fi rm focus on cost reduction and effi ciency to remain competitive.
We are committed to living our values in everything we do to ensure we listen to, and understand the needs of, our customers and offer solutions tailored to meet their needs The impact of the current global economic downturn on the We apply rigorous selectivity criteria to the choice of customers, fi financial stability of our customers, partners and suppliers projects, partners and suppliers, in relation to their fi financial stability, the security of project funding and contractual terms and conditions Managing major contracts to ensure they are delivered on time, We apply rigorous selectivity criteria to ensure that we take on to budget and to the required standards contracts only where we understand the risks involved and can manage them.
We apply equally rigorous policies and processes to monitor and manage contract performance Maintaining fi financial discipline We apply strong cash management policies and processes to deliver cash-backed profi t Carillion plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 03 Our performance of the public and private sector organisations for which we work In 2009, the Groups Accident Frequency Rate AFR was 0.13 and for whom Carillion employees are frequently the public face.
reportable accidents per 100,000 man hours worked 2008 Consequently, our ability to attract, develop and retain excellent AFR: 0.14, with four out of fi five operational sites, worldwide, people by being an employer of choice remains our top priority.
The improvement we achieved in 2009, on an already relatively low accident rate in 2008, refl ected our In 2009, we continued to develop and implement our bespoke continuing and rigorous focus on reducing reportable accidents leadership, personal development and employee engagement to zero.
It is particularly pleasing to note that in 2009 the accident programmes, which are designed to help all our people achieve rates in our construction businesses in the UK and the Middle East their full potential.
reduced by around 40 per cent.
We strongly believe in the power of engaging with, and In 2009, we continued to submit information on the Health and empowering, our employees to play a full role in improving service Safety performances of all our business units to the Corporate delivery and the overall development of our business, through Health and Safety Performance Index, which is sponsored by the creating a culture of trust and open communication.
Our managers Health and Safety Executive and covers all aspects of Health and and supervisors seek to engage with all our people through regular Safety management and performance.
A wide range of industries one-to-one meetings, individual performance and development participates in the Index and this enables us to benchmark our reviews and monthly team talks, supported by newsletters and performance beyond our own industry sector.
In 2009, our our national award winning company newspaper, Spectrum.
Index score of 8.3 2008: 8.0 continued to show year-on-year Successful employee engagement depends on listening to what improvement.
This score compares very favourably with the our people tell us and acting upon it.
Therefore, in addition to average Index score of 6.7 and places Carillion in equal 16th one-to-one meetings and team talks, we also conduct regular place out of the 127 organisations that chose to take part in employee surveys to help us monitor and measure our progress.
For example, every year we conduct The Great Debate, a major interactive survey in which our people, selected randomly from We deeply regret that in 2009 there was one fatal accident in across the Group, share their views on a wide range of issues that which Kenneth Campbell, a Carillion employee at a quarry in are important to their personal development and satisfaction and Scotland, was fatally injured when the vehicle he was driving to the success of Carillion.
In 2009, 3,867 people took part in The overturned on the quarry haul road.
No other vehicle was Great Debate, the results of which showed that we made very involved.
Every accident is a personal tragedy and our thoughts good progress across the Group, with improved responses in 21 are very much with the family and friends of Mr Campbell.
out of 23 areas tested and signifi cant improvements in key areas Two prosecutions of Carillion companies by the Health and relating to the satisfaction of our people, such as the extent to Safety Executive were completed in 2009.
One of these related which they feel valued at work and feel proud to work for Carillion.
to an accident that occurred in the former Alfred McAlpine business, before it was acquired by Carillion.
Be a recognised leader in the delivery of safety and sustainability in the sectors in which we operate.
Being a leader in delivering sustainable solutions for our customers The health and safety of our people and everyone who works with continues to help differentiate Carillion from its peers.
In 2009, us or is affected by our operations is paramount.
Our corporate Carillion was included in the Top 20 UK companies in the Sunday objective, known as Target Zero, is to eliminate all reportable Times Best Green Companies.
We also continued to improve our accidents.
This demanding objective requires the constant vigilance ranking in Business in the Communitys BITC Corporate and the commitment of everyone in Carillion in order to ensure Responsibility Index, moving from a Gold to a Platinum ranking, that everyone consistently adopts safe working practices.
with a score of 96.5 per cent, which topped the support services sector.
The Corporate Responsibility Index involves a detailed, We support the achievement of Target Zero with a wide range of independent third-party assessment of company strategy, tools including training, audits, our hazard reporting programme management processes and performance.
The average score of Dont Walk By, Safety Action Groups, strong visible leadership, participating companies was 87.5 per cent, which demonstrates such as regular Directors Safety Tours and employee engagement that Carillion not only continues to be a leader in the support activities.
Carillions behaviour standard, Behaving Safely, services sector, but that our performance ranks favourably with which was launched in 2008, was widely embedded across that of all participating companies.
Carillion also continues to be a our businesses during 2009 and we have started to measure member of the FTSE4Good Index.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 17
