3183415 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Chief Executives Statement At the end of my 2008 statement I said 2009 will be another challenging year and we will continue to demonstrate just how resilient this business is.
2009 was most certainly a challenging year.
It is a tribute to the quality of our fund performance and the relationships our Partners have with their clients that we continued to attract new business and record levels of new funds under management.
We grew the Partnership at the fastest rate for ten years, whilst at the same time reducing our establishment expenses and thereby increasing profits.
DaVID BEllaMY CHIEF ExECUTIVE Business Review Annual Report and Accounts 2009 St. Jamess Place plc.
3183415 09 Given the market conditions, I believe 2009 will come to be Investment Management viewed as one of our most robust performances.
The worlds stock markets initially started 2009 on a % positive footing, but soon went into decline as global 9 New Business economic worries and concerns about the banking sector After a difficult first six months, where we reported an resurfaced.
Consequently, the FTSE 100 fell 20% by SIzE OF 8% fall in new business on an Annual Premium Equivalent March.
Since that low point, markets recovered somewhat PARTNERSHIP APE basis, we returned to growth in the second half with the FTSE 100 ending the year up 22%.
With that as of the year with an increase of 20%.
As a result, new the backdrop, we were delighted to see our funds under business for the year was up 5% and at a record level a management increase by 31% to 21.4 billion by the end of significant achievement given the economic backdrop.
The the year, their highest ever level.
fourth quarter in isolation saw new business up 38% on the corresponding period in 2008.
The growth in funds under management was fuelled by a % 95 combination of new investments and the performance of Total new funds invested, including pension business, grew our funds, with the positive growth achieved by the markets by 11% to 3.46 billion and, as in the last two years, we during 2009 reflected in the return on our funds, enabling FUND RETENTION retained over 95% of existing clients funds during the year.
them to recover some of the losses seen in 2008.
Looking at RATE We believe these are sector leading retention numbers.
The the long-term performance, in every rolling five year period combination of these two factors resulted in a net inflow of since 2002, over 70% of our clients money has performed funds under management of 2.3 billion, some 600 million above the average of their respective peer group.
We continued to evolve our fund range and during the bn The St. Jamess Place Partnership year we launched an Investment Grade Corporate Bond 2.
3 The size of the Partnership grew by 9% in 2009.
This fund managed by Paul Reed and Paul Causer of Invesco NET INFLOW represents the fourth year of strong growth and is the Perpetual and in September we announced some changes OF FUNDS highest annual growth in the Partnership for ten years, to our existing range.
John Wood of JO Hambro Capital bringing the total to 1,464 at the end of the year.
Management, and Peg McGetrick of Liberty Square Asset Management were appointed as managers of our UK and As well as recruiting quality businesses to the St. Jamess Place General Progressive Unit Trust, whilst Stuart Mitchell of Partnership, of equal importance is the retention of existing SW Mitchell Capital and Kenneth Broekaert of Burgundy Partners and we have once again retained over 90% of those Asset Management were appointed as managers of our Partners who were with us at the start of the year.
Greater European Progressive Unit Trust.
Whilst productivity per Partner for the whole year dipped Towards the end of the year we appointed our own Chief a little compared to the previous year, we saw strong Investment Officer, Chris Ralph, and increased the productivity gains in the final quarter giving us confidence membership and experience of the Investment Committee that we can expect further improvements as markets recover.
with the appointment of Vivian Bazalgette and Peter Dunscombe.
I would like to take this opportunity to Our academy initiative progresses well with 20 individuals welcome all three of them to our community.
graduating to join the Partnership during the current year.
While we will continue to develop this initiative and expect Looking forward, and to complement our existing fund a further intake during 2010, we intend to utilise some range, in April we will be launching some new funds of the existing training resource to meet the professional including an Emerging Market fund and an International qualification requirements of the Retail Distribution Bond fund.
Further new investment funds are being Review RDR.
developed to be added to the range later in the year.
We continue to see a very active marketplace for good our Clients advisers and expect St. Jamess Place to continue to attract As I have said in previous statements, we strive to build longthe highest quality advisers who are seeking a strong and term relationships with clients through the St. Jamess Place stable home.
We do this by providing them with ongoing face-to-face advice, delivering above average investment performance over the medium term and maintaining regular contact with them.
3183415 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Chief Executives Statement continued Successfully maintaining these relationships and building Retail Distribution Review on them is crucial to the success of this business.
We In our Interim Statement in 2009 we reported that the bn measure this in two ways: firstly by looking at our retention Financial Services Authority had published a consultation 21.
4 rates, which as I mentioned earlier, are amongst the best paper on proposed regulatory changes, commonly referred within our peer group.
Secondly, from the feedback we to as the Retail Distribution Review RDR.
FUNDS receive from clients and here again were pleased with the UNDER results from our regular surveys which show high levels Whilst the final details of the proposals, due to take effect MANAGEMENT of satisfaction.
in 2013, will not be known until later this year, we do know that changes affecting the whole of the industry In addition to survey results, it is always pleasing to receive are inevitable.
In anticipation of this, we have begun to external recognition and we were delighted to be awarded embrace some aspects of the proposals, particularly those m the wealth Manager of the Year for the second year linked to the further demonstration of the Partnerships 2.
6 running from the Financial Times Investors Chronicle.
professionalism, and the Partnership is now working We also received the award for Best wealth Manager towards achieving the new qualification levels expected of for Inheritance Tax and Succession Planning and them.
We will keep shareholders abreast of our progress and FUNDS RAISED FOR the Best wealth Manager for Investments.
These are of any changes resulting from the RDR once we know more.
SJP FOUNDATION awards voted for by clients.
outlook Alongside these, the highly respected Management Today The current economic climate remains uncertain, and the issued their annual league table of Britains Most recovery is fragile, but we begin 2010 with a little more admired Companies towards the end of the year and optimism and confidence than last year.
St. Jamess Place was ranked 51st Most admired Company in Britain up from 67th in 2008.
Having said that, we can all expect to see further tax changes some of which have already been announced, Foundation and Community will also experience a General Election, and anticipate Raising funds for our Foundation and supporting those who some further changes to the regulatory regime as are less fortunate remains an important ethos within the mentioned above.
Clearly, we cannot predict the outcome of these changes, Despite the economic climate, 2009 was another but we do know from our results in 2009 that our business exceptional year for the Foundation with our community has proved resilient and is in really good shape to capitalise raising, including the matching by the Company, in excess on better times, whenever they arrive.
In the meantime, the of 2.6 million.
This brings the total raised over the last significant increase in Partner numbers over the last four 18 years to 18.0 million.
years provides a solid foundation for the further growth of our business.
The funds raised have enabled the Foundation to continue to support hundreds of grants to smaller charities and also to commit to larger projects.
In 2009 a new hydrotherapy pool for the Childrens Trust David Bellamy at Tadworth, which we committed to fund last year, was 23 February 2010 completed.
This will benefit children with severe brain disorders for many years to come.
Our most recent donation to Hope and Homes has been to commit nearly 1 million to build the St. Jamess Place Ray of Hope centre in the Ukraine.
The centre will be a focal point for children, giving them and young mothers community support when they need it, whilst at the same time showing the local authorities an alternative to the institutions so common in the old eastern block.
On behalf of the trustees I would like to thank all members of the St. Jamess Place community and those suppliers who have generously supported the Foundation during 2009. Business Review Annual Report and Accounts 2009 St. Jamess Place plc.
