Chief Executives statement 8 The overriding priority for 2009 has been Shareholders funds million to maintain and improve the strength Excluding the value of SVG Advisers of SVG Capitals balance sheet.
This was 700 595 56 109 6 34 620 to ensure the Company is underpinned 600 by a robust financing structure and business platform from which it can grow.
With the 500 28m net cost of financing 53m increase in investment portfolio after other activities restructuring of the balance sheet completed 400 in the first half of the year, we were able to focus on the renewal of the revolving 300 credit facility, and we have recently agreed 200 terms with our banking syndicate for a two year extension until January 2013 100 and amendment to our facility.
0 Adjusted shareholder Investment losses Investment gains FX gain on Financing costs and Net assets funds December 2008 FX movement valuation financing and cash other movements December 2009 Much of the future value of SVG Capital will be driven by the returns generated by Adjusted for the effects of the rights issue and placing 3 Includes investment income Permira IV 41% of the investment portfolio.
SVG Advisers valuation excluded from the analysis To this end, we have spent a significant The unaudited Directors valuation of SVGA has increased from 56.4 million to 77.2 million amount of time with the team at Permira getting more visibility on their actions to A clear priority has been the fide-risking of This was partially a result of the early response protect and recover value in the latest fund.
the capital structures of underlying portfolio to the downturn but also Permiras ability to It has been encouraging to see that the quick companies.
Action was taken in 2009 to secure the continuing support of the senior and decisive action taken is beginning to bear reduce the Permira Funds portfolio debt by lenders.
We anticipate calls to accelerate fruit and the value of investment portfolio over 4.5 billion, including 2.5 billion of during the course of 2010 with potential has increased by 22.5% since June and 6.1% debt from Permira IV portfolio companies.
follow-on investments expected in some over the year.
In constant currencies, these Taking SVG Capitals top 20 companies, of the portfolio companies.
4 attributable debt is down by 18% over the year and whilst the gearing risk on the Commitments Investment portfolio portfolio has been reduced, further fide-risking In the strategy update in April, we stated In line with our stated investment policy of the portfolio remains a key focus.
that in the near to medium-term the Board the vast majority of our investment portfolio Improving market conditions may also will seek to maximise shareholder value by is made up of funds managed or advised provide opportunities for Permira to realise focusing on maintaining and improving the by Permira.
some of the more mature investments within strength of the balance sheet.
Furthermore, Permira reacted early to the downturn the portfolio and we expect distributions to until the Company is in a position to offer by working with the portfolio company slowly pick up over the next 1224 months.
a return of capital to shareholders, no new management teams to implement appropriate In the short to medium-term returns from commitments to third-party managers will be cost structures and promote operational the portfolio will be driven by investments in made.
In this period, any new commitments improvements in an effort to mitigate the Permira Europe II and III.
However, over the will be minimal and limited to existing funds impact of earnings declines.
As our results longer term we believe the re-rating and to protect or enhance shareholder value, and show, the majority of the portfolio is well realisation of SVG Capitals investments in commitments to new SVG Advisers funds, positioned to capitalise on a recovery.
Permira IV will be a key driver.
which will be capped at amounts required as a General Partner or manager of such funds.
Whilst distributions from the portfolio were limited during the year, the pace of calls was also significantly slower than we originally expected 12 months ago, with a number of follow-on investments not materialising.
Lynn Fordham Chief Executive 4 March 2010 9 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information In line with this strategy, the Company made SVGA is a scalable business with good In the private equity sector confidence a follow-on investment in an existing fund, potential for growth and we will be investing appears to be lifting, although uncertainty P25, a feeder vehicle into Permira Europe III significantly in it during the course of 2010 remains around the sustainability of a full and Permira IV.
SVG Capital has a 48% equity and 2011.
We do not expect to see the full recovery in the economy.
However, a year holding in P25 and made a 40.0 million benefits of this investment until 2012 and on, we certainly feel we are moving into 35.5 million investment in the subordinated therefore have been prudent in the unaudited more positive territory: the credit markets loan notes of the fund.
These notes are valuation of 77.2 million 24.7p per share appear to be more receptive to new issues subordinated to the senior borrowings, have for the business at December 2009. and despite the recent postponement of a a priority return of 30% p. a. and a term of number of IPOs, exit windows are opening.
Investors attitude to risk and sentiment 3.5 years with the potential for extension or towards private equity appears to be We believe that private equity will have a key early redemption.
In a recent survey conducted role to play in the recovery of the global with over 100 institutional investors, over economy.
The turmoil of the last few years Share price performance 90% confirmed that they would be will bring change to the way the industry committing either more or the same amount operates and, like other major asset classes, In the same strategy update we also of capital to private equity funds in 2010. the private equity model will evolve and reiterated our commitment to shareholders Funds like the ones that SVGA manage play adapt.
We believe this evolving environment to improve the Companys share price an important role for smaller to medium will play to the strengths of those managers, performance and liquidity.
The shares have sized institutions in broadening their like Permira, with the ability and experience appreciated by 43% in 2009 and 5% year to investment options, and we hope to see an to influence the strategy and operating date in 2010.
For much of the Companys uptick in the pace of fundraising generally performance of companies and help them history the share price has traded at a premium over the course of the next 12 months.
take advantage of the economic recovery.
to NAV and one of my priorities as CEO is to However, for the time being the fundraising narrow the discount on the share price.
The The longer term nature of private equity environment remains relatively quiet.
majority of the investment performance that and its corporate governance model provides will help drive a re-rating of the shares will Over the nine years since SVGA was the asset class with a competitive advantage come from the performance of the Permira established, its funds and commitments and puts it in an ideal position to play a Funds.
However, we are also investing a under management have grown to significant role in shaping the companies significant amount of time in widening the 4.0 billion, investing in 180 funds managed of the future.
In this effort, we have been 6 by 96 private equity fund managers.
working closely with our brokers, JP Morgan The last year has been one of transition for This investment platform is a key source Cazenove and Numis and more recently we the Group and as a Board we have been of intellectual capital from which the Group have appointed Execution Noble as a broker focused on stabilising the business.
With can leverage value for our shareholders.
the balance sheet now in a much stronger position we can concentrate on the Outlook Companys longer term investment strategy.
SVG Advisers Turning to 2010 we are confident that For our fund management and advisory we have taken the appropriate steps business SVG Advisers SVGA, 2009 was also to strengthen the balance sheet and a year of transition and stabilisation, with the the performance of the majority of our departure of some senior members of the investment portfolio has stabilised and team in the first half and the appointment in many instances is improving.
of Tony Dalwood as CEO in May.
5 Preqin Research Report Private equity Investor Survey February 2010.
With the balance sheet now in a much stronger position we can concentrate on the Companys longer term investment strategy.
A clear priority for Permira has been the fide-risking of the capital structures of underlying portfolio companies.
Action was taken in 2009 to reduce the Permira Funds portfolio debt by 4.5 billion.
