Directors Report Business Review Chief Executive Officers Review For 20 years now we have developed our business with long-term shareholder value in mind.
This is now more important than ever.
Charles Dunstone, Chief Executive Officer It seems hard to believe that it is a year opening the stores one day in two or an attractive opportunity and see since the last annual report.
I note from three years time and finding that we just Carphone as a great vehicle through my review last year that I flagged the werent relevant to customers any more.
which to launch Big Box consumer poor economic climate and inflationary electronics stores.
It is a huge market pressures as reasons for caution in my We believe our core skill is in making and the existing customer experience outlook statement.
I was half-right: world complex technologies simple for can be indifferent.
By joining together economies have been at best, poor: at customers.
As a result, we have been with them, shareholders in Carphone can worst, terrible: but it is a reflection of how busy over the last two years ever access what is potentially an enormous fast the macro environment can change since I first mentioned it in the 2007 new growth opportunity.
and make fools of us all that we have annual report developing our retail been worrying for the last six months proposition to deliver the Connected Finally, the years of investment in building about the spectre of deflation rather World to customers.
A range of laptops up a valuable telecoms business had than inflation.
is now available across most of our taken its toll on our balance sheet, and stores, and we are now rolling out our levels of debt were uncomfortable Companies have to constantly adapt and mid-sized stores to offer a much wider given the gathering clouds of the change to survive.
This is the difficult range of connected devices.
The consideration from message I have had to give to Best Buy enabled us to pay off the large shareholders this year.
Our own major We could have continued to go it alone majority of our underlying borrowings change this year the deal with Best Buy with this strategy, but during our work and we are now in a strong financial which saw them become 50% owners with Best Buy helping them re-engineer position where many others are of our retail business was not generally their US mobile retailing operations, we struggling in this very tight credit market.
well received, and did in part contribute discovered how much the two businesses to the share price decline.
However, have in common, and in particular that So in summary, we have brought in a I am convinced it was absolutely the we have a shared vision of the future of peerless retailing partner to drive forward right thing to do and the right time to technology for customers.
Iabsolutely our strategy, given our shareholders do it.
believe that in partnership with Best Buy, access to a new growth opportunity, and we can deliver the connected world to achieved renewed financial strength.
Carphone has thrived for 20 years now customers much better and faster than Ifeel that over the long term, these on offering customers simple, impartial we could on our own.
benefits more than outweigh the issue advice over their choice of handset, of near-term earnings dilution.
Increasingly though, Secondly, Best Buy is without doubt the customers dont need our advice for leading consumer electronics retailer in buying mobile phones: they have done it the world.
They have conquered their before and they understand how it works.
home market, where consumers are very So if we were to carry on selling just demanding and the competition was mobile phone contracts, we would risk strong.
They have long eyed Europe as 4 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Key goals for the Growing and diversifying coming year the business over the long term Growth: we remain focused Through organic growth and business, we now have significant retail on growing our businesses acquisitions, the Group has delivered operations across continental Europe in strategically important a high rate of compound growth in and a highly visible recurring revenue areas.
The opening of our revenues and profitability over the last base from our UK residential telecoms first Best Buy Big Box stores 10 years.
From a business that used to operations, creating a much broader and in the UK, the continued be predominantly reliant on its UK retail better diversified business.
expansion of our US interests through Best Buy Mobile, and further growth in our UK broadband base will be Aggregated divisional central to our plans.
revenue Including 100% of Best Buy Europe Cash: we have set ourselves ambitious targets for the year 2000 Revenue 2000 ahead to generate operating UK retail and distribution 533m free cash flow of over 150m, Non-UK retail and distribution 698m 165m after all investment in the Big Box business.
2009 Operational efficiency: UK retail and distribution 1,706m we have undertaken a Non-UK retail and distribution 1,857m reorganisation programme TalkTalk Group 1,385m covering all aspects of our business.
Our goal is to reduce our operating cost base within Best Buy Europe and TalkTalk Group by around 50m and 10m respectively, without compromising on the customer experience.
Transparency: we are enhancing our financial disclosure and simplifying our KPI reporting to allow investors to compare our businesses more easily with peer group companies.
Revenue 2009 4,948m Short-term difficulties in macro-economic conditions should not distract from the scale of opportunity.
Operating free cash flow is defined Charles Dunstone as EBITDA, adjusted for working 2009 capital movements and non-cash items, less capital expenditure.
com 5 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Business Review Chief Executive Officers Review continued Two of the innovative handsets that allow Accessing the internet via customers to access the internet, almost anywhere mobile phone is still a relatively and at anytime.
under used and limited activity.
How will customer expectations drive innovation?
Q&A Charles Dunstone, Chief Executive Officer Our conversations with investors proposition, we are growing our market We are now past the peak of investment generally revolve around just a few share.
There is a cost to us in margin, in our broadband network: capex has key questions.
These change over time but as markets recover, our increased fallen sharply this year and will fall a little as our strategy and the marketplace market power will help us to rebuild further next year, to a sustainably low evolve, but currently these are the that over time.
At the same time, broadband main discussions we are having.
gross adds and churn are lower than In the broadband business, TalkTalk they have been historically, reducing the Q How are you responding to the is the clear value proposition in the overall cost of recruiting new customers.
marketplace, focusing on simple, transparent tariffs where customers On working capital, the way we earn A While the economy has entered only pay for what they want.
There are commission from networks automatically what is for most of us uncharted territory, signs of building momentum within this creates a lag between payment to I view it as much as an opportunity as business thanks to its outstanding value handset suppliers and receipts from a threat.
I take the view that in buoyant and improving service and innovation.
This is well markets, anyone can do well, and understood by investors.
However, innovators are easily copied.
When Finally, all businesses need to protect our terms vary between networks, times are tougher, imaginative and their bottom line.
We have had to make with the working capital of certain well-financed businesses can put clear some difficult decisions as part of our partners being greater than others: water between themselves and their cost reduction exercise, and our goal so our business mix over the last year competitors.
So the business remains has been to offset further deterioration accentuated this trend.
We expect a committed to its growth avenues in gross margin through a matching more normal mix going forward, resulting through the evolution of the existing reduction in operating costs.
in a continued working capital outflow retail proposition, the launch of Big Box but at a much reduced rate.
consumer electronics stores, and the Q How are you going to improve expansion of our US franchise.
Finally, we have closed out our Swiss Franc hedging position, leaving our A At the same time, you have to remember We have been disappointed by our currency exposure now just to the Euro, that customers have two choices: firstly, cash generation over the last couple where we hedge our Euro-denominated whether to spend their money or not: of years.
There have been three main trading assets.
This should result in and secondly, who to spend it with.
As reasons: an overspend on capex and much reduced volatility in our net a retailer, you have to give customers subscriber acquisition costs a couple of debt figures.
a reason to part with their money, and years ago: working capital outflow within by offering outstanding value, exclusive the retail business: and foreign currency products and a unique new customer exposure in a weak Sterling environment.
6 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 2009 likely to be limited.
At the same time, premium for content that customers Q Your competitors and suppliers are the achievement of higher speeds either dont want or could find generally larger and better capitalised through the enhancement of the copper somewhere else for free anyway?
than you: isnt this a long-term infrastructure, and the rapid development disadvantage?
of compression technologies which Q How do you compete with the would allow much more effective data mobile networks direct distribution A It is true that we are a relatively strategies?
transmission at prevailing broadband small business in industries generally speeds, could dampen demand for populated with major multinationals, but A The mobile networks have long been fibre-based products.
this has been the case throughout the competitors on the high street as well Groups life.
We have thrived on being as partners, and we have thrived within Finally, we all look to Virgin Media, the nimble, allowing us to minimise the time cable-based broadband operator with its this market dynamic for many years.
between spotting opportunities and Customers are not all the same: for every own network, to see how their customers mobilising to address them.
Our ability are responding to their new, higher customer who is happy to stay with the to come from nowhere to become the same network and deal with them direct, speed products.
If demand for 50Mbps number three in the UK residential services picks up rapidly, then rapid fibre there is another who wants to shop telecoms market is clear evidence of this.
around, try a wider range of handsets deployment with fair wholesale prices will be the natural market response.
Thats why We have also stayed focused and Carphone Warehouse exists.
stayed close to the customer.
In both Q Wont increasing customer usage our businesses, the first thing we ask erode margins in the broadband Q Isnt consumer electronics retailing ourselves is What can we do better for business?
This may not result in immediate profit maximisation, but it A Customer usage increased, on A Not at all.
It is estimated to be a does create a sustainable business average, 60% year-on-year this year, 30bn market in the UK alone.
We that makes fair margins over time and which was in line with our expectations.
all love the technology we have in our creates barriers to entry through scale We are designing our network for homes music, home theatre, gaming, and low pricing.
continued strong traffic growth as even coffee machines and fridge freezers customers find more to do on the internet but generally we dont love going to Q How does fibre deployment affect and will, over time, value reliability and buy it or having to make it work.
consistency from their ISP as much as analysis of the UK market suggests out-and-out speed.
that competition is focused around A The regulator OFCOM has recently price rather than service, and while announced that it plans not to impose Over the last two years we have been most technology products arent any wholesale price regime on BT for increasing backhaul capacity into our commoditised, they are sold that way.
the resale of fibre-based connectivity exchanges by up to ten times.
Fibre networks facilitate economies of this process are very Our goal is to open large stores with much higher broadband speeds than healthy, with the operating cost to us deep ranges, well-informed staff, and existing copper networks.
In theory, of running a gigabit circuit only being a high level of in-store interactivity this could allow BT to set a very high twice that of running a 100 megabit and after-sales service.
We want it to wholesale price for fibre, thus preventing circuit.
This means that our capacitybe a pleasure to come shopping for users of its network such as us and Sky related operating costs are effectively technology, not a chore.
The economics from reselling fibre profitably and giving capped for the medium term.
of running 30,000 square foot stores BT the opportunity to gain significant are much more attractive than stores market share through marketing its own I believe that, as customers use half the size, which our competitors superfast broadband product without broadband for an ever-wider array of typically run, and the current property meaningful competition.
services, metering will be an inevitable market is providing us with some next step in the marketplace, with compelling opportunities.
There are several flaws to this theoretical customers learning to pay for what they argument.
Firstly, BT has a low retail use rather than having flat rate tariffs.
market share for an incumbent.
This means that it will be difficult to get a Q Dont you need content as part good return on an expensive fibre of your broadband offer?
deployment on a go it alone strategy because they dont have the density A The way customers are accessing of customers: they would need wholesale content is rapidly fragmenting.
Although customers to help defray the capital Pay TV is a significant part of the market, outlay.
We expect to work closely with an increasing amount of content is freely Openreach, the infrastructure arm of available on the internet and this is only BT, on the development of wholesale going to grow over time.
telecoms businesses make good media businesses, so we will continue to focus Secondly, demand for raw speed, while on providing the best value and most growing, is still relatively low.
BTs ability reliable network allowing our customers to take significant retail market share to access content of their choice on the simply through a higher speed product, web.
How could we justify charging a with no compelling exclusive content, is www.
com 7 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Business Review Chief Executive Officers Review continued In November last year we announced plans to conduct a structural review of the Group.
This process was a natural consequence of the Best Buy deal and reflected discussions with investors through the summer over our future plans for the Group.
The review covered a broad range of for shareholders to assess more clearly The Group functions that remain are the considerations, the most significant the value of the Groups businesses and Board, Group Finance, Treasury, Investor of which are set out below, with our that each business will continue to thrive Relations and Company Secretariat.
summarised views on each issue.
In with its distinct management strategy, conclusion, the Board decided that a investment characteristics, financing We now see the Group as a holding demerger was the right course to pursue, arrangements and potential.
company managing four assets our allowing the two businesses clearer 100% holding in TalkTalk Group, the autonomy and investors clearer choices.
Meanwhile, the two businesses are 50% stake in Best Buy Europe, the already effectively run as separate 48.5% stake in Virgin Mobile France, We expect to achieve the demerger entities, with a very limited shared central and the Groups freehold properties.
by July 2010, at which time we expect function.
This was a process begun The key elements of each and our TalkTalk Group and our investment ahead of the Best Buy transaction last strategy for them are set out here.
in Best Buy Europe to be listed as year, and taken further in early 2009 with independent publicly-quoted companies.
the devolution of most remaining central We are confident this will make it easier functions down to the divisional level.
Key considerations for the structural review Consideration Conclusion Do the two businesses complement each other Yes, but not materially.
The Carphone Warehouse stores are still commercially?
an important distribution channel for TalkTalk broadband sales but now account for only 20% of gross sales, down from around 50% at launch.
Most new customers are now switchers rather than new to broadband and use other channels to switch providers.
Commercial terms are already at arms length.
Does one business have a financial reliance Not any more.
The growth of the broadband business was on the other?
historically financed by the cash generated by the retail business.
Both businesses are now expected to be self-financing.
Do the businesses have different investor profiles?
The TalkTalk Group is becoming a highly cash generative business with a utility-like profile: Best Buy Europe is entering a growth and investment phase with a major market opportunity in front of it.
Are the businesses easily separable from a Yes.
We pushed the majority of shared resource down into the management and administrative viewpoint?
divisions in May last year, and have gone through a further restructuring process early in 2009.
Are there any material financing implications of Yes.
The demerger will require us to put in place separate facilities a demerger?
However, we are making good progress on this and do not see it as an obstacle to demerger.
8 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Group Structure and Assets The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC 100% 50% 48.5% 100% TalkTalk Best Buy Virgin Mobile Freehold 100% 100% Group Europe France property Best TalkTalk Group Best Buy Europe Virgin Mobile France Freehold property Key assets 2.8m broadband Nearly 2,500 stores 1.1m mobile customers.
across nine European Widest MVNO properties in London 1.1m voice-only and markets.
Strong supplier Relationship with 65m book value: 72m Only fully-unbundled relationships and Orange.
Strategy Maintain or grow Evolve retail proposition Continue to grow Maximise value through broadband market to embrace a broader customer base to development and share.
array of connectivity reinforce position as potential sale.
Focus on value and services.
Grow mobile market Aim to be profitable and Continue to improve share profitably.
cash generative within network performance Launch multi-channel two years.
consumer electronics Target strong cash business.
com 9 Directors Report Business Review
