Chief Executives review These results demonstrate the benefit of the rapid action we took to address the current economic conditions and highlight the benefits of our geographic diversity.
Vittorio Colao contribution margins remained stable.
Operating free cash flow before Chief Executive licence and spectrum payments was strong at 7.6 billion.
In Africa and Central Europe, organic revenue grew by 3.9%, with double digit revenue growth at Vodacom being offset by weakness in Turkey.
After the year end, we completed our transaction with Telkom in South Africa and increased our ownership of Vodacom to 65%.
EBITDA margins declined by around three percentage points, driven substantially by lower profitability in Turkey where, having appointed new management in early 2009, we will continue to implement our turnaround plan with a primary focus on network quality, distribution and competitive offers.
In Asia Pacific and Middle East, revenue increased by 19% on a pro forma basis, reflecting a strong contribution from India where revenue grew by 33% on a pro forma basis.
During the 2009 financial year we added 24.6 million customers in India and ended the year with the highest rate of net additions in the market.
In Egypt, revenue increased by 11.9% at constant exchange rates and EBITDA margins remained Financial review of the year broadly flat.
The EBITDA margin in the region declined by 3.7 percentage These financial results reflect the benefits of the actions we took to points, reflecting lower margins in India caused by the pricing adjust to the deteriorating economic environment, in particular with environment, the impact of our IT outsourcing agreement and respect to costs.
We achieved results in line with all of the guidance investment in new circles.
ranges we issued in November 2008 and also generated free cash flow in line with the initial guidance range we established in May 2008, Verizon Wireless posted another set of strong results.
Organic service before the extent of the downturn became apparent.
revenue growth was 10.5%, driven by increased customer penetration and data.
In January 2009, Verizon Wireless completed its acquisition During the year, Group revenue increased by 15.6% to 41.0 billion and of Alltel which is expected to generate cost synergies with a net by 1.3% on a pro forma basis, including India, which was acquired in present value of over US$9 billion and makes Verizon Wireless the May 2007.
The Groups EBITDA margin declined by 1.8 percentage largest US mobile company with 87 million customers.
During the points, in line with the first half and our expectations, one third of year, we have deepened our commercial relationship with Verizon which was due to the impact of acquisitions and disposals, foreign Wireless, which now contributes 30% of our adjusted operating profit, exchange and business mix.
Group adjusted operating profit increased with joint initiatives around LTE technology, enterprise customers and by 16.7% to 11.8 billion, with a growing contribution from Verizon BlackBerry devices.
Wireless and foreign currency benefits offsetting weaker performance in Europe.
At year end, Vodafone had 303 million proportionate mobile The Group invested 5.9 billion in capital expenditure, including customers worldwide.
1.4 billion in India to drive growth.
Capital intensity in Europe was slightly above our 10% target as we took advantage of our strong cash Cash generation remained robust, with free cash flow of 5.7 billion generation to accelerate investment in broadband and higher speed before licence and spectrum payments, up around 3%, with foreign capability on our networks in order to continue to support our strategy currency benefits being offset by the deferral of a 0.2 billion dividend and improve our customers experience.
from Verizon Wireless, which was received in April 2009.
The Group incurred impairment charges of 5.9 billion in the financial The economic downturn is affecting Vodafone in several ways.
In our year, the majority of which related to Spain.
more mature European and Central European operations, voice and messaging revenue has declined, primarily driven by lower growth in Adjusted earnings per share increased by 37.4% to 17.17 pence, usage and continued double digit price declines.
Roaming revenue fell benefiting from a favourable foreign exchange environment and a one Dividends per share pence due to lower business and leisure travel.
Enterprise revenue growth off tax benefit.
Excluding these factors, adjusted earnings per share slowed as our business customers reduced activity and headcount.
Double digit data revenue growth continued, as we actively market 7.77 7.51 increasingly attractive network speeds, handsets and services into an In line with the Groups progressive dividend policy, dividends per 6.76 under penetrated market.
In contrast to Europe, results in Africa and share have increased by 3.5% to 7.77 pence, reflecting the underlying India remained robust driven by continued but lower GDP growth and earnings and cash performance of the Group.
Strategy In Europe, organic service revenue declined by 1.7% reflecting the We have made good progress in implementing the strategy announced economy and a strongly competitive environment.
Ongoing price in November 2008. pressures and lower volume growth in our core voice products are still being substantially offset by good growth in data.
Europe EBITDA Drive operational performance margins, including Common Functions, which substantially support To enhance commercial value, we are developing and launching services our European operations, declined by 1.1 percentage points, driven by which deliver more value in return for a wider commitment from 2007 2008 2009 an increasing contribution from lower margin fixed broadband.
In Germany, we have extended our SuperFlat tariff family to 6 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 Executive summary 87% of free cash include bundled mobile data and fixed broadband options.
SuperFlat net Group acquired 70.0% of Ghana Telecommunications, an integrated additions have remained strong at 404,000 in the last quarter.
Similar mobile and fixed line telecommunications operator, which has since flow before licence concepts of value enhancement products have been launched in most been rebranded to Vodafone.
and spectrum European markets, including Italy, Spain, the UK and Ireland.
payments returned Whilst emerging markets are of interest to us, we remain cautious and to shareholders We have accelerated our 1 billion cost reduction programme, which selective on future expansion.
Our primary focus will remain on driving will help us to offset the pressures of cost inflation and the competitive results from our existing assets.
environment and invest in revenue growth opportunities.
In the 2009 financial year, we achieved approximately 200 million of cost savings, Strengthen capital discipline which were partially offset by restructuring charges.
We now intend to During the year we returned approximately 87% of free cash flow deliver at least 65% of the total programme in the 2010 financial year, before licence and spectrum payments to shareholders in the form of ahead of plan.
The benefits of the programme are visible in our results.
dividends and share buy backs.
Net debt has increased to 34 billion, In the 2009 financial year, despite significant increases in mobile voice primarily as a result of foreign currency movements.
The Group has minutes and data usage, Europes operating expenses remained retained a low single A credit rating in line with its target.
broadly flat and mobile contribution margins were stable.
In February 2009, consistent with our active stance on in-market Since November 2008: we have established the Vodafone Roaming consolidation, we agreed to merge Vodafone Australia with Hutchison Services business unit, which will manage international wholesale 3G Australia to create a new jointly owned company which will operate roaming activities across the Group: we have outsourced our field under the Vodafone brand.
This transaction, which is subject to network maintenance operations in the UK: and we have executed regulatory approval, is expected to generate cost synergies with a network sharing arrangements across Germany, Ireland, Spain and present value of AUS$2 billion and will release capital to Vodafone the UK.
through a AUS$0.5 billion deferred payment.
Customers in Australia will benefit from the enlarged entitys scale.
We are reviewing our programme to identify further ways in which the Group can benefit from its regional scale and further reduce costs Prospects for the year ahead in order to offset external pressures and competitor action and invest In Europe and Central Europe, operating conditions will be challenging in in growth.
IMF forecasts indicate a GDP decline of 4% in 2009 across the Vodafone footprint within Europe and Central Europe and that Pursue growth opportunities in total communications unemployment could increase significantly.
In these markets, we expect Data revenue grew by 25.9% on an organic basis and is now over that voice and messaging revenue trends will continue as a result of 3 billion.
We continue to push penetration of handheld business ongoing pricing pressures and slowing usage.
However, we expect further and PC connectivity devices.
In April, Verizon Wireless joined the growth in data revenue.
In Turkey, where we will focus on our turnaround Joint Innovation Lab JIL established by Vodafone, China Mobile and plan, we expect that the 2010 financial year will be challenging.
The JIL is creating a single platform for developers to create growth in other emerging markets, in particular India and Africa, is mobile widgets and applications on multiple operating systems and expected to continue as we drive penetration in these markets.
We expect access the partners combined 1.1 billion customer base.
Vodafone another year of good performance at Verizon Wireless.
will also provide access to third parties to billing, location and other platforms, to enhance user experience and create a favourable Adjusted operating profit is expected to be in the range of 11.0 billion to environment for all.
We have widened our outlook for adjusted operating profit this year to reflect current economic uncertainty.
Performance will be In fixed broadband, we have continued to grow our customer base in determined by actual economic trends, our success in closing the Italy and Spain, and in Germany, returned to revenue growth in the performance gaps we have identified in certain markets and the extent fourth quarter.
We now have 4.6 million customers, an increase of to which we decide to reinvest cost savings into total communications around 1 million during the year, of which 0.6 million arose in the growth opportunities.
Underlying EBITDA margins, before the impact of second half.
The addition of appropriate quality fixed broadband acquisitions and disposals, foreign exchange and business mix, are capability is increasing the range of products we can offer to expected to decline by a similar amount to the 2009 financial year.
This customers, in particular in enterprise, and providing us with the ability trend reflects the benefit of the acceleration of the Groups cost savings to compete with integrated competitors.
programme in a weaker revenue environment.
Overall Group EBITDA margin is expected to decline at a slightly slower rate.
Europes enterprise revenue grew by 1.2% during the year, ahead of overall business trends, demonstrating the progress we are making to Free cash flow before licence and spectrum payments is expected to be address the enterprise opportunity.
Vodafone Global Enterprise, which in the range of 6.0 billion to 6.5 billion, ahead of our medium term serves our larger enterprise customers on a Group-wide basis, target to deliver between 5.0 and 6.0 billion annual free cash flow.
We delivered revenue growth of around 9%, demonstrating the appeal of intend to maintain European capital intensity at around 10% of revenue Vodafone to multinational corporations.
and to continue to invest significantly in India.
Capital expenditure is expected to be similar to last year after adjusting for foreign currency.
Execute in emerging markets We have continued to drive penetration in India, generating strong Summary revenue growth from our brand and commercial offers and a substantial Overall, these results reflect the benefits of Vodafones exposure to a investment in network coverage.
Indus Towers, our infrastructure joint diverse range of economies, our successful exploitation of data services venture with Bharti and Idea, began operating during the financial year.
and the opportunities derived from our regional approach, as well as the We expect Indus Towers will enable Vodafone to increase its capital initial impact of our accelerated 1 billion cost savings programme.
efficiency in India and also to benefit from revenue generated from selling capacity to other operators.
Growth at Vodacom, which has We are confident that our strategy is appropriate for the current strengthened its total communications offering through the acquisition operating environment.
of Gateway, has been strong.
Our performance in Turkey, where we remain focused on our turnaround plan, has been disappointing.
We will continue to invest throughout the 2010 financial year to relaunch the company.
In Qatar, the Group commenced operations after the end of the financial year, having been awarded the second licence with its Vittorio Colao partner, the Qatar Foundation, during the year.
In August 2008, the Chief Executive Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 7
