6 Business overview Review by the Chief Executive The Group continued to perform strongly throughout the year with revenue from continued operations increasing substantially by 42% to a record 503.9 million.
With over thirty HMDS units now deployed Group results Operational highlights on counter-IED operations, NIITEK has made The Group continued to perform Excellent contribution from an impressive contribution to the Group.
strongly throughout the year, in spite NIITEK following its acquisition in of concerns about reduced spending on Our Countermeasures division also December 2008 defence following the global credit crisis.
performed well, achieving a 17% increase Continued strong growth at Simmel Revenue from continuing operations in revenue to 183.5 million, in spite of the increased substantially by 42% to a record substantial delays in placement of contracts Record production at Chemring 503.9 million.
Almost half of this growth by the US Department of Defense that has Countermeasures and Alloy Surfaces was achieved by our existing businesses, just particularly affected Kilgore.
Strong growth Commencement of building of under a quarter from the full year trading of was, however, achieved at our UK subsidiary, new production facilities in the UK acquisitions made in 2008, and the balance Chemring Countermeasures, driven by and Australia from the NIITEK acquisition, which was demand from NATO forces operating in completed in 2009.
The Groups business Afghanistan and the growing requirement Acquisition of Hi-Shear completed in continues to be second half weighted, with for flares for the Typhoon, in line with the November 2009 270.4 million of revenue 54% generated continued build-up of aircraft deliveries to Key information in the second six months of the year.
European and Middle Eastern nations.
Year end order book The Groups order intake during the year Underlying operating margins for the increased by 55% to a new record of Group were 23%.
This was slightly lower 627.6 million.
Our Energetics division than last years 24% but this variation 559.0m received orders valued at 345.9 million, really only reflects the increased proportion 39% higher than last year.
This reflects 63% of revenue contributed by the 37% the strong growth in orders in our Energetics division, which generally has Revenue explosive ordnance disposal EOD and lower levels of margins.
Operating margins munitions business segments, as a result in the Energetics division remained of the growing success of our NIITEK and 503.9m steady at 23%, whilst those in the Simmel Difesa businesses respectively.
Countermeasures division remained at Our Countermeasures division achieved an 42% 29%.
Overall underlying operating profit order intake of 281.7 million, 81% higher rose by 35% to 114.7 million.
We remain Number of employees than last year, reflecting strong order capture confident that this performance should be performances from both Alloy Surfaces sustainable into the future.
At the year end, 3,349 The operating cash inflow during the year the order book for the Group had reached was very good at 106.7 million, equivalent 559.0 million, an increase of 37% on the 1% to a cash conversion rate of 93% from previous year end, and this provides a solid Before goodwill adjustment arising from underlying operating profit.
Our operating foundation for further growth in the future.
recognition of tax losses, intangible amortisation cash inflow in the second half was arising from business combinations and Our Energetics division had another particularly strong, with an equivalent cash gain loss on fair value movements on derivatives of 6.8 million 2008: 16.5 million.
excellent year, achieving a 63% increase in conversion of 110%.
revenue to a record level of 320.4 million, in spite of numerous delays in the receipt of Health and safety orders caused by the budgetary constraints The Board recognises that the health and safety of the Groups employees is of some of our customers.
Simmel Difesa, our Italian subsidiary, had an outstanding an important priority.
We believe that all injuries are preventable, and we have year, increasing its revenue by 54%, driven by demand from NATO forces for 81mm adopted a long term strategy to ensure illumination mortar rounds to support that the Group continually improves its performance and reduces risk.
Our most recent US acquisition, NIITEK, also had an excellent During the year, we continued with our year, successfully delivering its first contract implementation of formal management for thirty Husky Mounted Detection Systems systems across the Group, and fourteen out HMDS in September 2009 to the US Army of seventeen of our sites have now been and subsequently receiving a follow-on validated as compliant with the health and contract for a further fifty systems.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 7 Our lost time incident rate calculated Revenue from sales to other European promising areas.
We have also established using the US OSHA rules showed a modest countries also increased to 75.0 million several collaborative programmes in the improvement from 1.20 to 1.13 incidents per during the year, bringing the total USA, although we have been unable to find 100 employees.
Six of our sites reported proportion of revenue from sales to NATO a single academic establishment to cover no lost work days in the year, which is an countries to 87%, a slight increase on the full range of our technical interests.
Sales to Middle East countries Capital investment all incidents seriously, we pay particular did, however, decline to 20.4 million, as Capital investment during the year grew attention to those where employees are several multi-year supply contracts came 12% to 38.2 million, with substantial hurt due to an energetic event.
We did to an end early in the year and follow-on investment in new production facilities to have, unfortunately, four lost time events contracts were delayed due to extended support both our Countermeasures and following unexpected initiations during the national budget timetables.
The two largest year: two at Chemring Energetic Devices in to Australia and the Far East increased investments are in new countermeasures the USA, and one each at Chemring Defence substantially 72% to 39.1 million, facilities at Salisbury, UK and at Lara, in Germany and Chemring Australia.
reflecting the first year of deliveries under Australia, which will provide fully automated These events were fully investigated and the new long term framework agreement flow line manufacture of the full range of engineering controls implemented to with the Australian Government.
Research and development date, has been good, with the two main UK Revenue analysis Our strategy for future growth is facility buildings nearing completion.
The Our Countermeasures division grew its dependent on maintaining technology design of the automation has taken longer revenue by 17% to 183.5 million, and leadership and rapidly developing key than originally envisaged but both facilities represents the largest business segment products to displace our competitors.
should be completed before the end of at 37% of the total Group revenue.
The total cost of the facilities will be Revenue from the pyrotechnics businesses and the capability of our engineering teams around 24 million, of which 11 million has increased by 81% to 173.2 million, and are all vital components in achieving this been incurred to date.
this now represents our second largest goal.
Our total expenditure more than Expenditure on production facilities for our business segment at 34% of the total Group doubled to 18.9 million during the year, Energetics businesses has also increased, revenue.
The high growth in this business although this still only represents 3.8% of with significant investment in automated, was generated by sales of illumination the total Group revenue.
Internally-funded safer facilities for the manufacture of mortar rounds and 40mm pyrotechnic research and development increased by primary explosives, such as lead azide, rounds, as well as signal and screening 56% to 9.2 million, more accurately in both the UK and the USA.
Both facilities grenades used by infantry.
The second area reflecting the strategic emphasis we place will be in operation during 2010, and of high growth was in our EOD business on product innovation.
represent important strategic assets as segment, which increased its revenue by The largest proportion of our they will become a vital source of supply 304% to 61.2 million, principally due to internal funding remains targeted on for our two largest customer communities.
the rapid expansion of NIITEK as its HMDS maintaining technology leadership in the We have also started construction of a new counter-IED product entered production.
countermeasures market, with development high explosives pressing and assembly Revenue in the munitions segment, programmes for new covert decoys, plant at Ardeer in Scotland.
This will provide on the other hand, remained constant improved spectral and kinematic flare the UK with an important facility for the at 86.0 million, with a number of US types, and a number of 130mm naval decoy manufacture of demolition stores and programmes suffering from delayed order rounds.
The largest proportion of customer munitions with insensitive characteristics.
intake and extended entry into production.
funded investment is at NIITEK, which We are also nearing completion of the Revenue from sales to US customers continues to receive substantial research construction of our first demilitarisation increased by 66% during the year to funding from the US Department of Defense plant at Anagni in Italy.
This facility is 235.4 million, which represents 47% of for a wide range of technologies associated expected to become operational in 2010, and the total Group revenue.
This aligns closely with their vehicle-mounted HMDS products will be used for the destruction and recycling with one of our core strategies to maintain and their robot-mounted equivalents.
of a wide range of munitions, including about half of our business focused on the We continue to place considerable emphasis grenades, ammunition and missiles.
Revenue on our partnerships with academic from UK customers also increased by 45% institutions.
Our long term partnership with to 125.2 million, and now contributes 25% Cranfield University is making good progress of the total Group revenue.
with seventeen targeted programmes, and has achieved early success in a number of Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009 8 Business overview Review by the Chief Executive continued I would like to extend my personal thanks to all members of staff for their dedication and hard work in delivering the 2009 results.
Demand for our standard Demand for our 81mm mortar variants has Staff and employees Typhoon flares is growing rapidly, and we continued to grow and we have adapted the At the end of 2009, the Group employed a have started development of spectral and payload for 60mm and 120mm mortars.
total of 3,349 people, just 1% higher than kinematic variants to maintain our market We have received the first orders for 60mm the previous year end in spite of the 42% leading position.
During 2009, the BOL IR variants and we expect demand for these growth in revenue.
Revenue per employee special material decoy system was qualified products to increase.
increased, therefore, to 150,000, on the Typhoon and we expect growing compared to 107,000 in 2008.
54% of Signalling and screening smokes are used interest from other nations looking to the staff are US-based and 34% are based regularly during operational duties and use its pre-emptive capabilities.
in the UK, which is a higher percentage training exercises.
There is growing interest than the national breakdown suggested by In the USA, the introduction of the F-35 in multi-spectral screen payloads, especially our geographic revenue profile.
The vast joint strike fighter will also have a major for the replacement of white phosphorous majority 75% of our staff are involved in impact on the countermeasures market.
technology, which has a significant incendiary our manufacturing operations.
Although low rate initial production has problem.
Many of our customers are also been delayed until 2011, the US Government interested in lighter smoke grenades to I would like to extend my personal thanks to has committed to building five hundred and minimise the weight problem for the soldier.
all members of staff for their dedication and twelve F-35s over the next five years and will A number of important US and European hard work in delivering the 2009 results.
need to rapidly build-up a stock of decoys contracts will be placed in 2010, which will if they are to become operational.
There is increase production volumes in the future.
Future prospects Countermeasures also growing interest in fitting the BOL IR Production of 40mm pyrotechnic grenades The market outlook for our expendable system to the F-18, F-15 and CV-22 aircraft, for the US Army has grown significantly in order to provide pre-emptive capabilities countermeasures business continues to over the last few years.
Chemring Ordnance be positive, although there are now clear and to increase mission endurance.
It is is currently bidding for the next five years likely that the BOL product will become our indications that the rate of market growth production.
However, there is growing is slowing.
Although the US defence highest volume decoy in the future.
concern about the use of a pyrotechnic budget appears to be robust, there is The order book for the Countermeasures payload in 40mm training grenades growing evidence from the UK and other division is 81% higher than last year, because of the risk of creating a bush fire NATO countries that defence spending with Alloy Surfaces up 32% and Kilgore in the dry environment of many training will be reduced over the next five years.
Our US subsidiaries now have grounds.
Alloy Surfaces has therefore This will have an impact on the timing of multi-year contracts for M206, M211 and developed a special material product that countermeasures orders, with a consequent M212 helicopter flares, MJU-50, MJU-51 and matches the signature requirements and reduction in the growth rate of that market.
MJU-53 transport flares, MJU-7 and MJU-10 qualification should start in 2010.
In Afghanistan, the US Government has combat aircraft flares, and most recently, In November 2009, the Group completed for F-22 aircraft flares.
Our recent delivery committed to increasing the number of the acquisition of Hi-Shear Technology troops deployed by 30,000, which will performance, our continued investment in Corporation, a leading manufacturer take the NATO deployment above 110,000. leading-edge technology, and the visibility of high reliability energetic devices and of our order book gives us confidence that The US also intends to double its troop sub-systems that perform critical functions transportation capability by adding a further the future outlook remains positive.
in key US space and defence programmes, two hundred and fifty helicopters.
The UK Energetics including satellites, space launch vehicles, has also announced a 900 million package Pyrotechnics missile defence and aircrew egress.
to support operations in Afghanistan, The global market for pyrotechnics is Its products include low shock pyrotechnic including twenty two new Chinook estimated at 1.2 billion, with growth satellite separation systems, space-qualified helicopters, although these will only be remaining steady at below 10% per annum.
initiators, electronic missile safe arm devices delivered in 2012 at the earliest.
The higher The market remains fragmented with a and acoustic initiators for underwater numbers of helicopters and aircraft large number of small players, many of explosive ordnance disposal applications.
committed to the mission will inevitably whom are nationally focused and with The acquisition of Hi-Shear significantly lead to greater demand for our products.
With the acquisition enhances our market position in the space Over the next five years, the of Hi-Shear, our current market share is sector, giving us the lead US position in about 14%, a significant increase on last year.
space and satellite separation, which we entry-into-service of the Typhoon aircraft will have a significant impact on the can use to access the European satellite There is strong interest in illuminating market.
Large numbers of aircraft will start market and provide a route-to-market for our payloads for use in peacekeeping operations other energetic technologies, such as linear operations within Europe and the and to satisfy training requirements.
explosives for cutting and stage separation.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 9 The Group has a strong order book, which at the end of the year stood at 559.0 million.
This, combined with a healthy cash flow and a strong balance sheet gives the Board confidence that the prospects for the Group in 2010 continue to be excellent.
Explosive ordnance disposal The development of fuzing technology Our addressable global EOD market is continues to be a significant priority for the estimated to be 800 million and is currently Group.
In addition to the products under growing rapidly at about 20% per annum.
development for our naval ammunition, The market is fragmented with most the Group has just completed development customers looking for tailor made solutions of a simple mechanical fuze for US 20mm and world class technology.
The constant ammunition and a time fuze for mortar evolution of the threat demands that rapid applications.
Considerable interest has upgrades of our products are required, in been shown in both these products and order to deliver best-of-class technology and substantial contracts are expected once maintenance of a strong market position.
Our HMDS ground penetrating radar The acquisition of Hi-Shear also provides has been a great success in counter-IED us with Electronic Safe Arm Fuze ESAF operations in Afghanistan.
The US Army technology for ballistic missile defence is looking to place a contract in the next applications.
Hi-Shear manufactures the few months for another fifty plus systems ESAF for the Patriot PAC-3 missile, which under an urgent operational requirement.
provides the short-range ballistic missile It would also like to fit the HMDS radar to all defence for the US and its allies.
There is of its planned fleet of Husky mine protected growing interest in the deployment of vehicles, and is considering placing a Patriot missiles by Japan, South Korea, competitive five year contract that will have Taiwan, India, UAE, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, a substantial value.
A second new production Germany, Italy and Turkey.
This is expected facility will have to be commissioned by to provide substantial growth in the NIITEK in order to meet the production Hi-Shear business in the future.
volumes that are likely to be required.
Outlook Many of our EOD customers are expressing Overall, the future outlook remains growing interest in demolition products encouraging with many excellent with insensitive characteristics that will opportunities for growth.
The Group has a not explode on impact from a bullet or strong order book, which at the end of the in the presence of a fire.
The Group is year stood at 559.0 million, up 37% on the currently qualifying a number of such previous year.
This large order book, healthy products for the UK Government, and cash flow and a strong balance sheet gives expects orders from several of its other the Board confidence that the prospects for customers, when qualification has been the Group in 2010 continue to be excellent.
Munitions The global market for munitions remains relatively stable at about 10 billion per annum and is not expected to change D J Price significantly over the next three years.
Chief Executive The Group operates as a niche prime 19 January 2010 contractor, with strong market positions in naval ammunition and 40mm grenades.
Simmel continues to maintain its position as a global leader in naval ammunition, and has won a number of significant orders from Europe, South America and the Far East.
Simmel has developed a new 76mm round with a multi-function microwave proximity fuze and an insensitive munition IM warhead.
There is considerable interest in this round and a number of contracts are likely once qualification is completed in 2010.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
