8 Chief Executives Report The British Land Company PLC I am delighted to be reporting to you as Chief Executive of British Chief Executives Report Land.
The smooth transition of Chief Executive responsibilities from Stephen Hester, through Chris Gibson-Smiths leadership and my joining is reflective of the strengths of the Company and its Board.
Our priorities are the enduring The well established management team is purposeful and fundamentals of activist real estate disciplined, clearly focused and active in the market.
British Land is one of the worlds premier Real Estate Investment Trusts with specialised market leadership in the prime Central London Office and out-of-town Retail sectors.
The Companys strong cash flow from long leases to a good spread of tenants and our financing structure are significant advantages in these difficult market conditions.
Our asset management is concentrated actively on providing the right accommodation to meet occupiers requirements in order to best maintain that cash flow.
We expect market distress will create circumstances in which strong players can benefit.
While we face significant ongoing market challenges, I am enthusiastic about the opportunities they will provide for us.
British Land has deep expertise in its sectors and we will examine each prospective action in a careful and disciplined manner.
Rights Issue The equity issue completed in March 2009 raised 740 million net of expenses.
It combined the two principal aims of strengthening the balance sheet, to see through and emerge from the market dislocation in good shape, and enabling British Land to have the financial flexibility to exploit buying opportunities: though we cannot predict exactly their timing or nature we are confident they will arise.
The support of our shareholders was hugely encouraging, recognising the underlying strengths of the Company, its prime assets, debt structure and management team.
Chief Executives Report The British Land Company PLC 9 Our markets Like-for-like rental income growth of 2.7% has been achieved The ongoing stress and disruption in the financial sectors has this year for the portfolio, ahead of IPD at 2.1%, reflecting our resulted in a shocking year for most markets.
The steep decline in proactive asset management approach, where we focus heavily global economic activity has resulted in considerable damage to on new lettings as well as rent reviews.
Further details of these results are set out later in the The IPD Benchmark for property has seen its largest ever annual Business Review.
capital value decline of some 30%, taking the fall from the peak at June 2007 for the sector to 40%.
While the fall in capital value for Priorities the Benchmark over the most recent quarter the first three The management actions taken by the British Land team in the months of 2009 has been at a slower rate of 8.7%, we must expect last three years have mitigated the impact of the current market some further decline over the course of the year.
Some 6.6 billion of assets gross have been sold, that the Benchmark now shows an average net equivalent yield of capturing values at the peak and against a falling market, while 8.8%, which represents an attractive premium of 530 basis points continuing to refine the composition of the portfolio.
Included in above the 10 year gilt, and we are already seeing a small measure this has been the joint venture opportunity concluded in February of increased activity in the property investment market.
Almost all 2009 in respect of the Meadowhall Shopping Centre.
transaction activity is in prime assets, as investors are becoming fully aware of the risks associated with secondary property.
The team has also taken decisive action continually to improve and update the property assets, ensuring ongoing appeal to Currently in the UK real economy there are somewhat conflicting tenants and optimising values.
The development programme has indicators: for example, house prices appear to be stabilising and been rescheduled and exposure reduced.
On the liabilities side, consumer spending is holding up better than might have been we have continued to fine tune our debt structure and, after receipt expected.
These factors cannot be relied upon to continue if, as of the equity issue proceeds, have significant undrawn bank expected unemployment continues to rise lagging other trends as facilities available on relatively favourable terms.
For retailers the challenge remains to concentrate efforts on store locations where they can trade most profitably.
Our priorities going forward continue to focus on the enduring fundamentals of activist real estate investment and management.
In Central London Offices the effects of the economic and financial We must buy, manage and sell well if we are to perform optimally market dislocations are resulting in a lack of clarity on business over the cycle and we do expect real buying opportunities to emerge models going forward and impeding decisions on requirements for in the coming months.
We will also seek to utilise complementary accommodation.
Nonetheless, in this sector again it will be the best disciplines from other industries in order to boost our performance.
located, specified and flexible offices that attract occupier demand.
Examples include an intense focus on hold periods and exit strategies for each asset, and a regular examination of how we The occupational effects of the difficulties being experienced by expect each market sub-sector to perform over time.
businesses are in early stages and we expect to see downward pressure on market rents in a number of segments.
While prime We have the capacity and intention to take on the new challenges property will not be immune from this effect, it is much better that will arise and seize opportunities where we see value.
As the market continues to adjust and reflect relative risk, and more transactions are seen, the investment view of what constitutes prime property is narrowing and the gap in yields for prime versus secondary property should widen further.
In each of the sectors of our specialisation, out-of-town Retail and Central London Offices, our investments are concentrated in Chris Grigg those prime properties that best meet occupiers requirements.
Chief Executive We expect better relative investment performance within our 20 May 2009 portfolio over time as a result.
Results 2008 9 Reflecting the impacts of global markets and broadly in line with IPD, the property portfolio valuation has declined by 28.2% over the financial year to 31 March 2009, together with the Rights Issue translating into a reduction in EPRA Net Assets per share of 64%, to 398 pence.
Underlying pre tax profits at 268 million and underlying earnings per share at 41 pence were both maintained at the levels of the prior year to March 2008, when excluding the non-recurring dividend from our investment in Songbird Estates plc received in that year.
Poised for action There are commercial opportunities in all economic climates the skill is to anticipate them and have the resources in place to make your move.
