CHief eXeCutives Q&A David Atkins answers some of the questions which are frequently posed by shareholders.
AC: What is your strategy, and where are the areas of focus?
Interview by Andrea Cockram, Corporate Communications Manager DA: I want Hammerson to be the best owner-manager and developer of retail and office property in the UK and France.
We concentrate on AC: You became Chief Executive on 1 October 2009, after first running prime regional shopping centres and out-of-town retail, whilst exploiting UK Retail and then becoming MD of the UK business.
What was your opportunities in offices.
In terms of focus, there are really three things.
First, we are thinking much DA: Ive been in property all my working life, joining DTZ straight after more about the needs of our customers.
Second, were undertaking more university in the late 1980s.
I was there for ten years, originally working rigorous analysis of each individual asset to ensure it is meeting our on investment and development in central London.
expectations we are not in the business of accumulating assets just for the sake of size.
Third, weve put in place a prudent financial and At Hammerson I originally worked in a special projects role.
It was an operational framework, but within that we will be entrepreneurial and interesting job, focusing on group strategy, research and valuation work opportunistic.
People often ask if we are in buying or selling mode, and with an international remit.
The great thing about this period was that it the truth is that its both: we should be looking to divest if we believe there was very varied.
I got to know a lot of people in the business, both here are opportunities to acquire assets with better prospects.
and abroad, and importantly got to see and understand all of our property assets in the various territories.
8 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2009 Overview AC: What do you plan to do differently?
AC: So will you focus more on the earnings profile or net asset value?
DA: For many years weve prided ourselves on the quality of our DA: As a REIT, I believe there has to be a balance between net asset relationships with our joint venture partners, local authorities, and value growth and income growth.
The reality is that, outside the sphere shareholders.
A good example of this is the way in which we work with of development and asset management, the NAV can be more heavily local communities: our schemes are designed to be environmentally influenced by external factors, whereas we can work to protect and grow sustainable, we prefer to employ local people, and we aim to support income.
The prime nature of our assets and our retail expertise allows local charities and initiatives.
us to create thriving destinations which encompass dining and leisure activities.
This attracts shoppers, which of course makes the location However, I also want us to become passionate about our customers, more profitable for retailers.
We work hard at refreshing the tenant the occupiers.
I started a piece of work early last year to find out what line-up in our centres to ensure that they stay up to date, and we also our customers thought of us and how we could improve.
Most of maximise other sources of revenue such as advertising.
the feedback was positive but there were some surprises.
I reached the conclusion that we could gain a lot of ground by restructuring the business in the UK to more closely align with our customers.
That process is currently underway, and should deliver real I want us to become improvements.
We hope to make leasing and renewals happen faster.
Thats got to be good for the retailer as it will save money and passionate about our take out some of the frustration.
In summary, I want Hammerson to develop a reputation as an owner-manager which matches that customers, the occupiers.
which we have as a developer.
AC: Hammerson has been well-known in the past for its flagship retail developments.
What role will development play going forward?
DA: Development is one of our core strengths and has a fundamental place within Hammersons strategy, indeed we expect to start two developments in France this year.
What we need to examine is the way in which we bring development forward and the overall amount of development at any one time.
Developments should be lower as a proportion of gross asset value than the 15%-20% that they have been in the past.
Thats not to say well do fewer projects, but we will be more disciplined about which ones we progress, and will identify potential exit routes at the outset.
The prime nature of our assets and our retail expertise allows us to create thriving destinations which encompass dining and leisure activities.
David Atkins Chief executive Hammerson plc Annual Report 2009 9 CHief eXeCutives Q&A continued AC: Retailers have had a very difficult year, and prospects for 2010 look AC: How do you run the business on a day-to-day basis?
DA: Alongside my two fellow Executive Directors, I have a great senior DA: Of course the economic backdrop is not easy, but I am a firm believer management team, led by our three managing directors: Lawrence in the strength of European retail.
Despite the recession, our assets have Hutchings for UK Retail, Martin Jepson for London and Jean-Philippe generated very solid income over the last two years.
Mouton who runs our French operations.
They report directly to me which is a change from the past and means that I have a direct link with the The truth is that there has been something of a polarisation of formats, property teams.
with strong retailers doing quite well.
We are always on the lookout for new and innovative retailers, and time and time again weve managed In terms of staff, we have some of the very best people in the industry to get the first UK shopping centre store for an international retailer, and I want to ensure that they perform to their optimum.
There are including, most recently, Apple, Hollister and Banana Republic.
By doing two ways that we can help them do that.
One is to ensure that they that we will ensure that Hammerson centres continue to attract customers.
understand the authority they have in the business.
The other and we cant do enough of this is for us to build better communications within the business.
Thats something that Im working very hard on, and AC: Will the property market change in response to the events of the last I believe that people work more effectively as a result.
DA: There will be some structural changes, as it is now clear that there AC: Finally, what do you want to get out of your first year as Chief Executive?
was simply too much debt financing property which caused the bubble in values.
I believe that well managed REITs are actually an ideal tax DA: I took the view that in my first year I need to build on relationships transparent vehicle for investors to gain exposure to property and youll with shareholders, banks, bondholders and other financial stakeholders.
see more IPOs and private vehicles moving to public ownership over the This I have been doing.
However, I also think that a CEO in this industry next few years.
needs to keep an excellent feel for property and to be driving the business day-to-day.
In order to generate the best returns for From our perspective well be running the business in such a way shareholders I need to ensure that we are providing the best trading that ensures we can cope better with the worst of the market cycles.
environments for our occupiers, continually evaluating our portfolio In practice that means continuous benchmarking and assessment and critically assessing development and acquisition opportunities.
of properties to ensure that we have sufficient liquidity in the portfolio.
So, going forwards, I want to stay very close to our property teams, It also means managing the amount of debt that we have in the business our properties and our customers.
to make sure we are not caught out by significant movements in market values.
I therefore anticipate that going forward well have lower average gearing than we have recently.
We provide environments for businesses to thrive.
We encourage our people to maximise their potential and we treat our tenants as customers, responding to their needs.
We rigorously evaluate the projected financial performance of each of our properties, to shape investment decisions and drive future returns.
David Atkins Chief executive 10 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2009
