12 Chief Executives report A clear and decisive line Francis Salway, Chief Executive, reports This year the UK commercial property sector saw the sharpest fall in capital values on record.
Occupiers and Francis Salway property investors were affected by wider economic, financial and commercial dynamics, and this impacted Chief Executive property values profoundly.
We have not been immune to these exceptional conditions, experiencing a writedown on the valuation of our investment properties of 34.2% which created a very substantial pre-tax loss.
The reduction in property values was driven largely by yield repricing.
However, as the economy moved into recession in the second half of the year, we also saw weaker demand from occupiers and pressure on rental values.
Rental values were down 9.3% across our portfolio, ranging from a reduction of 3.8% on our retail assets to 19.8% on our London offices.
Our portfolio underperformed our benchmark, the IPD Quarterly Universe, in terms of ungeared total property returns -29.7% versus -25.5% Table 8.
However, some four-fifths of this underperformance was attributable to our portfolio mix, as shopping centres, retail warehouses and London offices have been the weakest performing segments of the UK market.
Our relative performance was also affected by our development projects Watch Franciss overview at: and pre-development sites which have been hardest hit by the downturn.
com annualreport2009 Our response to the downturn was guided by two clear priorities to protect shareholder value today while ensuring we are well positioned to compete and thrive tomorrow.
Our actions were decisive and pragmatic.
We made an early decision to defer key developments.
We continued to make disposals, achieving over 500m of O ur response to the downturn property sales in a deteriorating market.
And we moved quickly to reduce the Companys administrative cost base was guided by two clear priorities by some 10%.
We were not afraid to stop our proposed demerger and we made the tough but correct decision to sell Trillium.
At the same time, we used our exceptional asset management skills to maintain revenue, we to protect shareholder value successfully opened two major retail developments and we laid the foundations for future opportunities as the today while ensuring we are economy recovers.
well positioned to compete and The tough decisions that we have taken over the year have strengthened our balance sheet and created resilience in a difficult and deteriorating environment.
As in previous downturns, the Company sought to navigate thrive tomorrow.
Our actions a clear and decisive line through the turbulence and we are in sound shape as a result.
Francis Salway Rapidly evolving market We had anticipated some degree of slowdown in the commercial property market in spring 2007 and, in response, sold 1.56bn of assets in the year to March 2008.
These sales assisted us as conditions weakened further in 2008.
In September 2008 we saw an extraordinary acceleration of the decline in the property market and in the economy, and this brought our earlier actions into sharp focus.
We recognised that we needed to respond further and we did.
First, we continued to make sales despite fewer buyers and anxiety around pricing.
These disposals helped to strengthen our balance sheet.
Long-term success in our market requires a steady nerve through all points of the cycle, but particularly when selling in a downturn.
We will continue to make disposals and recycle our capital effectively, both to maintain balance sheet strength and to ensure that our portfolio is positioned for growth as the market turns and recovers.
In January we also sold Trillium for a cash consideration of 444m, to generate total income and capital receipts from this business since April 2008 of 750m including the buyers assumption of Trilliums debt.
Trillium has played a tremendous role in the evolution of Land Securities over recent years, but it was clear that the capital we could realise from the disposal of this specialist business would prove invaluable in current conditions.
Relatively few disposals of property businesses went through during the year, so this successful transaction again underlines our ability to complete sales in a challenging environment.
Under our management Trillium produced a return on capital materially better than conventional investment property, and I would like to thank the employees of Trillium for their dedication and contribution.
Successful Rights Issue Early in 2009 we made the decision to strengthen our financial position further through a Rights Issue.
Our effective actions during the year meant we were able to minimise our call on shareholders resources, and the issue closed on 24 March 2009 having raised the targeted 756m.
This fresh capital has helped to restore the balance of our equity and debt capital, and it will help mitigate the effect on shareholders funds of any further falls in property values.
It will also ensure we are ready and able to react quickly when we identify opportunities beneficial to shareholders.
Given the Rights Issue, the sale of Trillium and the challenging market conditions facing the Group, the Board took the decision to reset the dividend and the final quarterly dividend has been proposed at 7.0p per share.
This was done to ensure that our dividend remains realistic and sustainable in light of the factors which will affect our future earnings.
We believe the new level will provide a secure platform from which we can work to deliver future growth in dividends over time.
Land Securities Annual Report 2009 Repo Repor rt t o of f t th he D e Di irecto rector rs s P P01 018 80 0 Financial statements P81130 Investor resource P131144 Chief Executives report 13 Spreading risk through a diverse tenant mix The long-term nature of our contracts with customers provides us with resilience of income even at a time when rental values are falling.
This is reflected in our revenue profit for the year of 314.9m, which is up 10.6% with broadly stable income and lower interest payments.
It is always regrettable when retailers go out of business and this year proved extremely demanding for many.
Like other property owners, we have suffered from retailer insolvencies but, across the Group as a whole, only 3.8% of our total income is in administration.
We have been proactive in response, working hard to support our tenants and protect our own position.
We have continuing income from approximately 15% of the units currently in administration.
For some time we have mitigated risk by developing a diverse mix of customers.
Our largest retail customer, Arcadia Group, represents just 1.7% of our total investment portfolio income.
Our only substantial exposure to a single occupier is to the counterparty of choice, Central Government, who account for 9.5% of our total portfolio income.
By maintaining close relationships with this diverse mix of tenants we kept the increase in underlying voids across our like-for-like investment portfolio to just 1.1% from 3.5% to 4.6% another strong relative performance.
Pragmatic timing on development In line with our medium-term planning, we entered the year with a significantly lower level of developments due Table 8 for completion than at the peak of the market cycle in 2007.
However, it was vital to achieve lettings success on the two principal developments completed in the year the shopping centres in Bristol and Livingston.
Here we Total property returns % achieved occupancy levels of 91% and 80% respectively at year-end, which confirms the attractive qualities of Land the two schemes.
Quality was again recognised when Cabot Circus won The British Council of Shopping Centres Securities IPD Supreme Gold Award and was named Best Shopping Centre of the Year in the MAPIC EG Retail Awards.
2008 -3.2 -9.1 Leasing prospects for the developments coming through now Dashwood House in the City and our 2009 -29.7 -25.5 St Davids 2 joint venture with Liberty International in Cardiff have proved more challenging.
These were Source: IPD respectively 9% and 47% let or in solicitors hands at year-end.
It is helpful to put this in context.
The projected income on unlet space at Dashwood House represents just 2.1% of our total London office portfolio income.
And our share of the projected income on the remaining vacant space at St Davids 2 represents 2.3% of the Retail Portfolios total income.
The pace of lettings at St Davids 2 is increasing as we move towards opening in the autumn.
Our history shows that we are not afraid to take tough development decisions.
In summer 2002, for example, we deferred New Street Square by 12 to 18 months and this proved enormously beneficial in terms of the total returns on the project.
This year we again took bold decisions on timing, opting to defer the start dates for our schemes such as 20 Fenchurch Street, EC3, Trinity Quarter, Leeds and Ebbsfleet Valley in Kent.
We remain ready to take further similar decisions as appropriate, despite their potential impact on earnings in the short term.
While we are cautious on timing today, we continue to create excellent opportunities for tomorrow Chart 9 Chart 9.
This year we secured planning consent for substantial schemes in the West End, including the landmark Victoria Transport Interchange plan VTI2, together with Selborne House and Wellington House in Victoria, SW1.
Timing of completion of The short-term outlook for the London office market remains challenging, but we expect tight development development programme supply constraints in the West End to drive a resumption of growth in the medium term.
The success of our office total development cost m and retail development at Cardinal Place, SW1 confirms our ability to understand and lead the Victoria office market transformation.
1,600 1,400 Adding value for customers Throughout the year we worked proactively to support our tenants and ensure our products are designed to meet 1,200 the changing needs of businesses.
To assist this, we moved our property management teams into the London and Retail Portfolios so they could work in closer partnership with customers and colleagues.
1,000 In London, we helped existing and prospective tenants respond to tough market conditions by offering flexible lease terms, addressing service charge costs, engaging in discussions on rate levels and offering some 800 short-term cost-effective space opportunities.
In Retail, we were one of the first organisations to propose a basis 600 for switching to monthly rents for retailers and we worked in partnership with tenants to reduce service charges.
Retail Portfolio development completions Retail Portfolio development programme Retail Portfolio development pipeline London Portfolio development completions London Portfolio development programme London Portfolio development pipeline Land Securities Annual Report 2009 Exeter Peterborough BankNew St Square One Wood Street side Bristol Livingston Dash- 10 Eastbourne Terrace wood Cardiff 30 Eastbourne Terrace One New Change Trinity Leeds Arundel Selborne Park House 20 Fenchurch Street Great Court House 14 Chief Executives report Of course, we want to do even more, and we continue to focus on removing unnecessary cost for tenants to help them in the current climate.
I am pleased that all our efforts on customer service were recognised when we were named Retail Landlord of the Year 2008 in the Property Managers Association awards.
Recent independent customer satisfaction surveys have confirmed our standing, with one measure recording a 97% willingness 1 to recommend Land Securities as a shopping centre landlord.
Sustainability remains a priority We see no conflict between sustainability and profitability.
Good practice makes us a stronger business.
By combining a long-term view with innovative action today we are able to meet the changing needs and expectations of tenants, local authorities, our employees and the general public.
This approach produces clear commercial benefits: helping us gain permission for new developments, reducing property running costs, attracting new tenants and mitigating risks around future environmental legislation.
Our work has earned widespread recognition.
We have been included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index each year since its launch in 2000 and are now the global leader for sustainability in the Real Estate sector.
This year Cabot Circus became the first major shopping centre to be awarded an Excellent rating in the BREEAM environmental assessment scheme, and The Elements in Livingston was the first enclosed shopping centre in the UK to achieve this accolade.
We believe the groundbreaking work on energy generation and distribution planned for our new developments, such as the Victoria Transport Interchange plan, will underline our position as a leader on sustainability.
Outlook We expect property market conditions to remain challenging, with vacancy rates rising as businesses fail or contract and, as a result, rental values weaken.
These trends will put downward pressure on our rental income.
Occupational markets will display the full impact of economic conditions relatively late in the cycle, so we expect the period of recovery in our sector to be extended.
Investment property pricing may reach a turning point ahead Chart 10 of the rental markets, and the yield gap between property yields Chart 10 and gilts or cash on deposit can be expected to stimulate some buying interest.
Indeed, this is just beginning to become apparent for well-let prime Property yield pricing relative properties.
Whether the market cycle changes quickly or slowly, we will remain patient, making well-timed to gilt yields % transactions that fit with our strategy, skills and strengths.
In the meantime, we will continue to take a positive and pragmatic approach to managing through 14 12 the downturn acting decisively, protecting value and planning for the future.
We will respond to changing 10 conditions quickly.
We will take difficult decisions as and when required.
And we will use our strengthened 8 balance sheet to address future growth opportunities at the right point in the cycle.
6 This has been an exceptionally turbulent period in our market, but our experience tells us that out of 4 2 adversity comes opportunity, and that the companies who manage successfully through the downturn emerge 0 even stronger in the upturn.
I believe Land Securities ability to react to the challenges of today while maintaining -2 a long-term perspective on value generation for tomorrow stands us in good stead.
-4 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 Property equivalent yield 10 year gilt yield Difference between above yields Francis Salway Chief Executive 1 Kingsley Lipsey Morgan Retailer Satisfaction Study 2008.
The 2008 figure represents an increase of 3% on 2007.
Land Securities Annual Report 2009 15 Act decisively Corporate transaction, City of London Trillium sale 1.
We are completing Completed on 12 January 2009 We have not been afraid to sell key assets to protect our We retained Accor hotel portfolio sales to strengthen long-term financial position.
Take the sale of Trillium.
Trillium produced a stronger return We acquired the business in 2000 and it prospered as part on capital under our ownership than our balance sheet of Land Securities, generating value for shareholders.
conventional investment property We concluded that Trillium would not be part of the Group in the long term and the sale proceeds strengthened our balance sheet at a critical point in the cycle.
Land Securities Annual Report 2009 16 Act decisively Trinity Quarter scheme, Leeds Trinity Quarter will: 2.
We are taking Timing the delivery of a major new scheme is Address strong demand in one of the tough, pragmatic challenging at the best of times.
In a volatile market UKs largest cities its even tougher.
But that hasnt stopped us taking Create a premier shopping centre decisions early a pragmatic approach to pipeline developments, in Leeds including Trinity Quarter in Leeds.
Originally planned Integrate with remodelled Leeds for 2011, we now aim to open this retail development for Shopping Plaza in the heart of Leeds Christmas 2012.
That means we can take advantage of city centre a competitive construction market while preparing to Rejuvenate historic thoroughfares open in better economic conditions with an exciting mix of retailers.
To mitigate risk we are seeking to secure lettings before we start construction.
Land Securities Annual Report 2009 17 Act decisively Gunwharf Quays, Portsmouth Customer Satisfaction 3.
We are responding The toughest market conditions on record have inspired us Communication Overall quickly to changing to pioneer new forms of collaboration.
In Retail this helped performance 17% us deliver just under 300 new lettings.
We also improved 18% conditions tenant satisfaction levels this year, despite the impact of Understanding recession.
Our approach meant we were one of the first retailers needs organisations to introduce a basis for monthly rent options.
5% Weve worked closely with retailers to reduce service charges and simplify lease agreements.
And our teams have Source: Retail Property Directors Customer Satisfaction helped tenants maximise performance through innovative Study 2009.
Independent survey by Real Service.
Comparison marketing, promotions and flexible formats.
