Chief Executives statement Reported revenue has grown by 17.5% in the year, or 1.3% on a constant currency basis.
Adjusting for the impact of acquisitions and disposals, organic revenue growth was flat.
Very encouragingly, the Group has continued to win high levels of good quality new business, at levels consistent with last year.
As expected, in the more cyclical Business & Industry and Sports & Leisure sectors, like for like volumes continue to be impacted by lower headcounts on site and reduced spend on event catering and corporate hospitality.
Like for like volumes in the Education, Healthcare and Defence, Offshore & Remote site sectors have remained solid throughout the year.
The continued application of the MAP framework and our ability to manage our largely variable cost base have enabled us to quickly flex costs in line with changes in demand and to deliver significant underlying profit growth of 34% 13% on a constant currency basis with an improvement in our underlying operating margin of 70 basis points 60 basis points on a constant currency basis.
Excellent operational management through MAP has this year delivered 100 million of constant currency operating profit growth as follows: 27 million of net new business growth The continuous investment in our offer and our sales organisation has once again enabled us to secure revenue growth of 8.5% from new business.
In addition to the strong growth in foodservice, we have won significant new multi service business.
We continue to win new international clients as well as to extend our relationships with existing clients.
The pipeline of new business looks encouraging.
While core retention has remained stable, we have had a one percentage point impact from the tougher economy, mainly from a slightly higher level of business and site closures and, as a result, overall retention Performing was 93%.
30 million of base estate profit growth We have continued to generate sustainable growth in our base estate.
Across the business we have achieved a sensible level of price consistently increases given the input cost inflation we experienced.
Like for like growth This year we delivered an excellent Flat organic revenue has primarily been driven by the reduction in like for like volume, from an increase of 1% in 2008 to a decrease of 3% performance in a challenging in 2009.
The rate of like for like volume decline evolved quickly over the environment, driving a step change year, moving from an increase of 1% in the first quarter to a decrease of 5% in the third quarter.
However, the volume decline of 6% in the in operating efficiency.
fourth quarter seems to indicate that the pace of decline has slowed significantly and this trend has continued into the new financial year.
We have made good progress with MAP 2 Consumer Sales and Marketing.
Our Core Concepts range of menus has been successful in bringing greater choice and consistency to the food offer, whilst targeted promotions, loyalty schemes and our value range have been growing in popularity in a cost conscious consumer environment.
Innovations in technology, such as cashless payment systems and Richard Cousins desktop ordering, are delivering the speed and convenience increasingly demanded by consumers.
Group Chief Executive Cost efficiencies We have delivered unit productivity and efficiency savings estimated at 130 million, 60 million from food cost and 70 million from unit overheads.
Over the past four years, despite periods of significant food cost inflation, our focus on MAP 3 Cost of Food has enabled us to deliver a 60 basis point improvement in the gross margin, and there are still considerable opportunities to drive further improvements across all countries.
Within the 1.8 billion of unit overheads, we have also started to make some real savings, but this is just the start of a journey.
14 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 MAP 31 million of above unit cost savings We continue to make excellent progress in MAP 5 Above Unit Costs, MAP is fundamental to driving consistent driven mainly by streamlining back office procedures and processes.
performance across the Group and the This has allowed us to redeploy resources away from administration discipline it brings to the way we manage and more towards investing in operations and growing the business.
We have reduced our above unit costs by a further 31 million in the the business puts us in a strong position year.
Our aspiration is to contain the above unit cost and perhaps even to meet the challenges in the year ahead.
reduce it further, whilst continuing to grow the revenue.
9 million from acquisitions net of disposals MAP 1 This relates mainly to the incremental operating profit from the Client sales and marketing acquisitions of Medi-Dyn and Kimco in the USA, Plural in Germany, the remaining 50% of the shares in GR SA in Brazil and a number MAP 2 of McColls retail outlets in the UK.
Consumer sales and marketing Strategy Our core strategy is to focus on foodservice and to build on the fast MAP 3 growth in our support services business.
Our scale within countries Cost of food enables us to drive efficiencies: our global reach and capability allows us to take advantage of the significant outsourcing opportunities around the world and to serve multinational clients.
Sectorisation MAP 4 is a fundamental part of our strategy and we have built big businesses Unit costs in all of the key market sectors.
MAP 5 Our primary focus is organic revenue growth.
Over recent years, the Group has had a consistent track record of around 6% organic revenue Above unit overheads growth and it is envisaged that, over time, as economic conditions recover, there should be a return to this trend.
The foodservice opportunity is significant, with outsource penetration rates of under 50% and our share of the total market estimated at just 7%.
The soft Over the past three years we have delivered 200 basis points of margin support services market is larger and less penetrated.
Combining the two suggests an available global self-operated market of well over growth across all five MAP components.
We believe we have significant further potential from the continued application of best practice across 200 billion and we will continue to capitalise on this vast opportunity.
Innovation in our consumer offer should position us to benefit from the business.
Whilst we have made good progress to date, there is still much more to go for.
a cyclical upswing in demand and drive increased participation and spend.
The roll-out of best practice in retention should result in further Outlook improvement in this area.
The Groups core strategy remains focused on food and, increasingly, support services.
Whilst in 2010, the prevailing economic conditions Support services are becoming an ever more important part of our business.
The delivery of multi services, that is bundled food and are expected to lead to broadly flat organic revenue growth, we are very encouraged by the pipeline of new business.
In the mediumsupport services, now accounts for 18% of Group revenues comprising 5% foodservice and 13% support services.
Our support services offer, term, the Group is set to enjoy the combination of structural growth in outsourcing and, as the global economies recover, a cyclical upswing which originated in the Defence, Offshore & Remote site sector, has now extended to the Healthcare sector and, increasingly, to the in demand.
In parallel, the continuing management of the flexible cost base and the ongoing focus on MAP should deliver further cost Business & Industry sector where the outsourcing of support services is growing quickly.
In 2009, we signed over 200 million of new multi efficiencies and margin progression.
In addition to this, the strength of the cash flow and balance sheet is enabling us to continue to service Business & Industry contracts, more than half coming from cross-selling to existing clients.
For example, earlier in the year, we reward shareholders and to accelerate growth through value creating infill acquisitions.
extended our international contract with Royal Dutch Shell plc Shell across Europe and we have now further extended our contract to Richard Cousins include the Americas.
Furthermore, we were delighted that in June, jointly with Shell, we won the Partners Across Borders category of the Group Chief Executive 25 November 2009 prestigious European FM Awards.
The Compass Service Framework, our platform to deliver support services across all our major countries, is widely acclaimed by our clients.
Continuous investment in developing this platform, both organically and through selected acquisitions, should deliver significant future growth.
MAP has brought real discipline to the way we evaluate infill acquisitions.
We have a very rigorous process that covers strategic, financial and management criteria.
Our recent acquisitions: Professional Services and Medi-Dyn, two healthcare support services businesses in the USA: Kimco, a support services business within Business & Industry in the USA: a number of McColls retail outlets in the UK: and Plural, a support services business in Germany, have been successfully integrated and have delivered or are on target to deliver against the Groups strict criteria.
We now have increasing financial headroom to acquire both food and support service businesses in our core countries as well as continuing to build on our existing presence in emerging markets.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 15 Innovatively 16 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Innovation is what makes us a market leader.
We relentlessly pursue delivering the highest quality in the most efficient way.
We are constantly looking to find better ways to deliver value to our clients and to satisfy the needs of our consumers and, by doing so, to develop our markets further.
This is embodied by PUUR, a high quality consumer A new restaurant layout design provides a modern, and client offer delivered through more standardised atmospheric environment, far removed from the processes and programmes.
Developed by our team traditional style cafeteria.
in the Netherlands, this concept is revolutionising the Because of the efficient and structured back of house Business & Industry market.
operation and modular format, we can deliver this high The PUUR offer includes hot meals, sandwiches, soups, quality service with significantly greater efficiency and fresh salads made with authentic fresh food, as well as consistency across multiple client sites.
At the same grab and go items.
Dishes are prepared on the spot, time, this frees up our people to spend more time with to order, using standard recipes and menus which are our consumers delivering a superior service experience.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 17
