Directors report chief executives review transformational thinking Despite the extraordinary market conditions experienced in 2009, we have achieved our objectives of buying smart, adding value and selling well.
i am verY pleaseD to Be aBle to report gooD progress maDe against all of the priorities we set out to achieve at the start of the Year.
Ian Coull, Chief Executive 8 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2009 strategY SEGROs business is the provision of flexible business commitment to sustainaBilitY space, principally industrial and warehouse facilities, to Sustainability has become increasingly important to a wide variety of customers operating in many different the way in which we do business and, in keeping with industries.
We serve ten countries, but our activities are our core values of respect, partnership, energy and concentrated in and around major business centres and responsibility, it provides a means for us to differentiate transportation hubs such as ports, airports and motorway ourselves from the competition.
Our objective is to create shareholder value developed targets for resource efficiency, regeneration by focusing on our core markets, by applying our business and accessibility, against which we will report annually.
model and by using an efficient capital structure.
Our targets were established by a review of customer and peergroup targets, as well as by consideration The essence of our business model is captured by the of current and future regulations.
phrase buy smart, add value, sell well.
In practice, this means finding opportunities to invest in or acquire assets where we can add value, undertaking development or p55 asset management activities to improve the value of the asset and then seeking to sell part or all of an asset as and Further information about our sustainability strategy, targets when value has been optimised, enabling redeployment and performance can be found on page 55 of this Report, on our website and in our 2009 Sustainability Report.
of the funds into new opportunities.
Despite the extraordinary market conditions experienced in 2009, we have achieved our objectives of buying smart, We completed the rights issue at the start of the second adding value and selling well in a number of different quarter and, soon thereafter, it became clear that Brixton, ways in 2009, examples of which are described in the our long term UK competitor, was in financial difficulty.
Having carefully considered the situation as well as the potential difficulty in approaching our shareholders for overview of 2009 equity for a second time within four months, we concluded Faced with the twin headwinds of rapidly falling asset prices this was an opportunity too good to allow to pass by.
and a weakening global economy at the start of 2009, with Accordingly, we approached the Brixton board in May the support of our shareholders, we weathered the storm and, after considerable due diligence, we launched our and completed the transformational acquisition of Brixton.
formal offer to buy the company on 9 July 2009.
However, rather than being a game of two halves, During these first two quarters the general economic 2009 was, in fact, a year comprised of four very environment continued to decline and we saw asset different and distinct quarters.
Our portfolio declined in value The first quarter was characterised by concerns over by 13.7 per cent in the UK making a peak to trough the wider economy causing customers to freeze any fall of 43 per cent and by 7.2 per cent in Continental plans they previously had for taking on new space and, Europe.
However, our operating teams remained focused wherever possible, occupiers reduced or consolidated their on their key priorities and we were able to report a very space commitments.
Meanwhile the investment market good operating performance for the first half of the year.
continued the free fall which commenced after the collapse Achieving a sale of almost any asset was extremely difficult of Lehman Brothers in September 2008 with the IPD with so few buyers willing to invest, but we nonetheless property derivatives market suggesting that further falls managed to dispose of properties for net proceeds of in asset prices of 30 per cent could be seen in 2009.
SEGRO and, indeed, most companies in the sector, our priority became to ensure the Group was able to withstand whatever the downturn threw at us.
We completed a renegotiation of our banking covenants in February to provide further headroom against such valuation falls, and this involved discussions with over 20 different banks and syndicate members.
At the beginning of March, having consulted major shareholders, we launched a fullyunderwritten rights issue in order to raise 500 million net of new equity and so provide the protection against what we felt was a worst case scenario.
com 9 Directors report: BUSINESS REVIEW Directors report chief executives review CONTINUED excluding the Brixton assets and our Continental European portfolio, where the market has been lagging the UK, reported a decline of just 3.1 per cent which was smaller than we had anticipated.
The trigger for the turnaround in the investment market appears to have been the aggressive monetary policy stimulus put in place by UK, US and Eurozone monetary authorities in the early part of the year which, in turn, contributed to a stabilisation of economic indicators and a sharp bounce back in world equity markets.
This led to an improvement in the relative attractiveness of property and a growing belief that, despite higher vacancy rates and downward pressure on rental values, commercial property values had fallen too far, at least for prime stock.
Although The third quarter saw the Group complete the Brixton the availability of debt finance has remained limited, acquisition, along with an equity placing and open offer demand for property has been boosted by exceptionally which raised net proceeds of 242 million and which low short term interest rates which have led investors to allowed the enlarged Group to maintain the same increasingly switch out of cash and into property to take balance sheet strength as had been the case immediately advantage of higher yields.
With the Brixton acquisition, we With the improved investment market conditions, acquired a high quality, well located portfolio in some of we continued to press ahead with our plans to dispose our core markets, completed at the bottom of the UK ofassets that no longer offered us significant upside.
We were also able to strengthen completed 161 million of sales including Great Western significantly the overall team by integrating SEGRO and Industrial Estate out of the Brixton portfolio and our 50 per Brixton employees.
By the end of the third quarter, we cent share of the shopping centre joint venture we had had integrated the two companies and introduced a new with Tesco for net proceeds of 25 million.
Meanwhile organisational structure resulting in a lower UK headcount occupier markets remained challenging during the fourth than SEGRO alone had prior to the acquisition.
Through quarter, particularly in the UK where we saw increased this carefully planned and well executed integration takebacks.
However, more encouragingly, evidence that process, we secured the cost synergies announced at the some of the main European economies have already pulled time of the offer to acquire Brixton.
I am convinced this themselves out of recession, was supported by a good acquisition represents a rare, transformational opportunity lettings quarter in our Continental European business.
for our business which, in time, will show tremendous benefits for our shareholders.
2009 performance  priorities Whilst the general economy and occupier market In the context of this difficult economic backdrop and conditions remained weak throughout the third quarter, somewhat volatile investment market, I am very pleased we continued to focus on our customers and delivered to be able to report progress made against the priorities satisfactory leasing results, albeit below the equivalent we set out to achieve at the start of the year.
Meanwhile, somewhat earlier than we had to stay close to our customers, to continue recycling capital anticipated, the investment market showed the first signs by selling mature and noncore assets, to manage the of a recovery, with the UK IPD monthly index registering a Groups financial position and to capitalise on the economic 1.1 per cent increase for September, the first improvement environment.
Following the acquisition of Brixton, we in the index since June 2007.
We took advantage of these can report good progress on the additional priorities improving investment market conditions by completing of integrating the two businesses and delivering the 158 million of asset disposals in the quarter.
The final quarter of the year saw a continuation of the recovery in the investment market, with the UK IPD quarterly index reporting an 8.1 per cent surge in property values 6.7 per cent for industrial assets, one of the best quarters since IPDs records began.
Our own UK portfolio which is valued every six months showed a 9.8 per cent improvement over the second half of the year 10 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2009 Staying close to our customers following the acQuisition Staying close to our customers and delivering high levels of Brixton, we can report gooD of customer service is critical to our retention rates at lease progress on the aDDitional priorities expiry or break option and to our leasing success: it also of integrating the two Businesses anD helps us to manage situations where customers are facing Delivering the promiseD sYnergies.
Despite reduced enquiry levels and a much reduced development programme, we have achieved robust letting figures for the year, delivering 29.6 million of annualised rental income in 2009, from the letting up of 465,000 Ian Coull, sq m 2008: 38.2 million of annualised rental income Chief Executive in 2008 from letting up of 522,000 sq m. Whilst the economic environment meant that many customers have been looking to reduce their costs and consolidate space, our overall income retention rates for the UK held up Annualised rental income from lettings 1 relatively well at 52 per cent compared with 64 per cent in lesstakebacks m 2008.
Takebacks over the year amounted to 309,000 sq m in total 2008: 300,000 sq m representing 20.6 million 40 38.2 of annualised rental income 2008: 20.6 million.
Note: 21.3 all these amounts exclude the Brixton portfolio which is 35 7.8 31.7 discussed separately below.
29.6 30 7.8 14.8 Within the takeback figures, customer insolvencies have 25 been lower than we expected at the start of the year.
20.6 20.6 23.9 20 Although the loss of 49 customers and 5.9 million of 8.7 4.5 15.3 annualised rental income representing 1.6 per cent of 15 16.9 16.1 2.8 14.8 the total rent roll is an increase compared to recent years, 10 12.5 11.9 most of this is attributable to a small number of cases where the amounts involved were relatively large see 5 UK and Continental European reviews for further details.
0 07 07 08 08 09 09 06 Lettings Take Lettings Take Lettings Take backs backs backs At year end, our vacancy rate by rental value for the Group UK was 13.5 per cent compared to 10.9 per cent at 30 June Europe 2009 and 9.5 per cent at December 2008.
Excluding the Brixton portfolio the underlying group vacancy rate was 1 Excludes Brixton Portfolio.
In the UK, the existing portfolio excluding Brixton has seen the vacancy rate increase from 10.3 per cent as at 30 June 2009 to 10.8per cent, mainly as a result of disposals 1.1 per cent impact and takebacks.
In Continental Europe, the vacancy rate has decreased from 12.1 per cent at 30 June 2009 to10.7 per cent as aresult of lettings successes particularly in Belgium, Czech Republic and Poland.
The biggest impact on our overall vacancy rate has been the addition of the Brixton assets which had a vacancy rate of 20.6 per cent as at 30 June 2009, which has increased to 22.1 per cent as at 31 December 2009.
This increase is mainly due to the impact of the sale of Great Western Industrial Estate and to net takebacks equivalent to annualised rental income of 2.9 million.
Excluding the Brixton portfolio the underlying Group vacancy rate was 10.7 per cent at year end.
com 11 Directors report: BUSINESS REVIEW Directors report chief executives review CONTINUED We have made good progress since the start of the new year applying SEGROs approach to the Brixton portfolio 1 SEGROs vacancy rate % and achieving a number of letting successes.
Given the high quality and location of the assets and the more pragmatic approach now being taken by our leasing 16 teams, we are confident that we will reduce the vacancy 10.6 13.8 14 Impact 13.5 rate in the Brixton portfolio to 15 per cent within three of Brixton years of the acquisition.
12 11.0 11.0 Capital recycling 9.7 10 9.5 10.7 10.6 9.0 As described earlier, throughout the year we continued 8 to recycle capital from mature or noncore assets.
In total, the Group generated net sales proceeds of 395 million 6 from the disposal of investment properties, at an average 4 net initial yield of 8.3 per cent.
In addition, we generated 10 million of proceeds from land sales, 7 million of 2 proceeds from trading sales and 25 million net, from 0 05 06 07 08 08 09 09 05 06 07 the sale of the Groups joint venture interest with Tesco.
Vacancy by space investment properties only Financial and risk management 2 Vacancy by rental income Maintaining the Groups balance sheet strength has 1 Includes trading properties and joint ventures.
been a key priority, particularly in light of the declining 2 This statistic was not collected before 2007. market conditions in the first half of the year and the forecasts from several sources which suggested a further substantial deterioration over the balance of 2009 and 2010.
Accordingly, we strengthened our position by renegotiating our banking covenants, completing a 500 million rights issue, raising further equity of 242 million net to underpin the Brixton acquisition, negotiating 100 million of new bank facilities, extending 270 million of Capital recycling m existing bank facilities, and cancelling 550 million of 16% of 38% of 45% of short term facilities.
Finally, in November, we became the opening opening opening portfolio portolio portfolio first real estate company to reenter the corporate bond value value value 2,000 market, with the issuance of a 300 million, and a 12 year 1,600 unsecured bond, further details of which can be found 1 1,194 1,200 in the Financial Review.
498 800 In addition to generating liquidity from the disposals 141 400 referred to above, we significantly reduced our exposure 0 367 323 192 to speculative development.
Development activity was -400 and continues to be focused on prelets with no new -343 speculative developments started during 2009.
Our total -800 -437 development expenditure in the year amounted to 192 -1,200 million, which compares to 323 million in 2008 and -1,600 367 million in 2007 and our remaining commitments -2,000 at 31 December 2009 amount to 28 million including -1,768 7million of commitments relating to land purchases.
07 08 09 Acquisitions Disposals Development expenditure 1 Includes 1,144 million of Brixton investment properties acquired in exchange for SEGRO shares.
12 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2009 Capitalising on the current economic environment on the fiscal and monetary policies of the main European At the start of the year, we indicated that we would look governments.
It has to be noted that whilst some of the for opportunities presented by the market environment, main Western European economies already appeared although we did not expect to be making any significant to be out of recession by the start of the fourth quarter, investments until the latter part of the year at the earliest.
the recovery appears fragile and there are threats to the However, the opportunity to acquire Brixton represented stability of the Euro zone economies posed by the fiscal a unique opportunity to transform and strengthen our deficits of some of the Southern European countries.
UK business and, accordingly, we moved swiftly to Meanwhile the UK barely grew in the fourth quarter of consider and, ultimately, complete the acquisition.
2009 and our expectation is that it will continue to lag much of the Continent, at least for the balance of this year.
Brixton integration Following the acquisition, we added a new business During 2010, we expect most of the countries in which we priority of integrating the two businesses and delivering operate to continue their slow recovery, but with substantial the promised synergy savings.
As reported in the UK amounts of industrial vacancy, particularly amongst the Operating Review, we have delivered the integration larger logistics warehouses, it is likely to be some time ahead of expectations at the time of the acquisition.
before we see overall demand for space outstripping supply.
Whilst industrial rents have remained relatively outlook anD future potential resilient to date, we expect to see modest falls continuing As we look ahead into 2010 and beyond, the key across most of the UK and Europe in the first part of 2010. questions we and many of our shareholders are asking are Regarding property values, IPD Industrial yields in the UK first, whether the recovery in property investment markets have already compressed by some 70 basis points since in the UK will be sustained and whether it will be replicated the trough in the market last summer and it seems unlikely on the Continent: and second, what the prospects are for they will contract much further unless supported by a pick a recovery in occupancy markets and for industrial rents.
Indeed, faced with potentially rising interest I believe the answers to these questions depend largely on rates, there must be some scope for yields to expand the speed of recovery of the underlying economies and at some stage over the next year.
com 13 IQ Farnborough, UK Directors report: BUSINESS REVIEW
