Chief Executives review A key feature of the Croda business model is the ability to Mike Humphrey Group Chief Executive sell thousands of different products to thousands of different customers all over the world.
Our relentless focus on innovation in specialities has given us the ability to get true value for our products.
In 2009, in Over the last decade, in good times and In Industrial Specialities, sales were down bad times, Croda has achieved pre-tax by 9.0% to 448.5m due to the severe the worst profit growth every year.
In 2009, in downturn in demand in many markets.
the worst recession in living memory, There were healthy signs of recovery Croda delivered a record pre-tax profit later in 2009 and operating profits were a recession of 106.4m, up 10.5% 2008: 96.3m.
respectable 15.0m for the full year.
This performance followed a significant In addition to the outstanding pre-tax increase in pre-tax profit in 2008 and is a profit outcome, we had an impressive in living testament to the rigorous adherence to cash flow which resulted in debt our strategy and the execution ability of reduction of 109.6m to 288.5m, our high quality team around the world.
memory, including currency translation benefits.
We continued to reshape the business This was a notable performance in during the year and maintain our strict tough conditions and in a year where policy of quality of business over volume.
Croda we invested 39.8m in new plant and In the first half of the year, demand in equipment.
some industrial markets was down over 50% but, as a result of our value added Performance and Prospects delivered a strategy, the full year increase in pre-tax Consumer Care profit was delivered.
There are three main business areas record During the year we closed our losswithin the Consumer Care segment: making commodity oleochemical factory Personal Care, Health Care and Crop at Bromborough.
In 2009, sales increased by 11.8% to pre-tax production at our Wilton site following 467.7m 2008: 418.4m and operating Dows decision to close a vital raw profits increased 17.2% to 104.9m material site in the UK.
profit Wiltons output has been transferred The macro trends in Personal Care to other Croda sites around the world.
fit very well with Crodas innovation We would like to thank the departing platform - natural, renewable raw workforces of these sites for their hard materials, vanity and an ageing, but work and professionalism during what has increasingly affluent, population.
Croda been a very difficult time for both them is recognised as the world leader in and their families.
speciality ingredients for Personal Care.
In Consumer Care, we increased our The total market for ingredients is over margins to 22.4%, increased sales by 4.5 billion and is extremely fragmented, 11.8% and improved operating profits with hundreds of suppliers.
In a time of deep grows at about one and a half to two global recession, we increased sales to times global gross domestic product all of our key global accounts in Personal GDP, with higher growth in the rapidly Care.
developing markets such as Asia and Latin America.
4 4 TM TM Essenskin & Dynalift are used in Dr. Brandts time arrest v-zone neck cream to help firm and tighten the neck and dcolletage.
5 5 Herbs of Gold in Australia use Crodas Incromega oils in their Omega 3 products.
The value to human health of Omega 3 supplements is now accepted by the worldwide medical profession.
6 6 Chief Executives review Normally, we supply a very small the planting cycle and reduced demand percentage of the total raw material in for all agrochemicals.
The mega trend of any formulation.
It may be a small part, a rapidly growing global population and a but it is often the vital part that makes need for a parallel increase in crop yields, the product work and supports the combined with a desire to constantly essential marketing claims.
The output reduce environmental impact, gives of new products from our innovation us every confidence that high growth centres across the world continues to rates will return to this market in 2010 increase to meet the ever changing and subsequent years.
Croda produces demands of this fast moving, vibrant adjuvants, vehicles and seed coating industry.
We remain confident of ingredients, which are used by a growing continued progress in this exciting market.
number of companies in many countries.
In 2009, strong growth was seen in South Industrial Specialities America and Asia, boosting more modest There are five main business areas uplifts in North America and Europe.
in our Industrial Specialities segment: Health Care is one of our fastest growing Polymer Additives, Lubricant Additives, business areas.
Crodas essential fatty Home Care, Coatings and Polymers and acids EFAs and excipients are designed Geo Tech.
Overall, these markets were to meet the markets growing appetite severely hit by the recession in the first for natural, self-medication and an ageing six months of 2009, with appreciable populations desire for extended health recovery in the second half.
This market continued to down by 9.0% to 448.5m 2008: grow rapidly in 2009 and we expect high 492.7m and continuing operating profit levels of growth to continue.
EFAs market is growing at 15 to 25% In the second half, year on year profits per year and the excipients market grows were up 120.3% on a sales increase of at approximately 4% a year.
Lower commodity prices and the world leader in the production of super absence of the previous years 8.2m high purity essential fatty acids such as windfall glycerine profit, combined with Omega 3s, which are finding increasing the lack of demand in ultimate consumer use in the treatment of a number of markets led to the overall decline in inflammatory conditions and also in profits.
Lower overall GDP figures had heart disease medication.
Our focus on are valuable vehicles which carry active growing the speciality portfolio and ingredients used in topical treatments.
reducing our dependence on commodity Like high purity lanolin in wound fatty acids and glycerine leads us to be treatment creams, they can often have confident of future profit growth in this a synergistic and beneficial effect on the area.
efficacy of the active ingredient.
Strong growth was seen in this sector in both 2008 and 2009.
Since 2006, Crop Care has also been one of our fastest growing businesses.
Our target market is worth over 500m a year.
After a strong 2008 and first quarter of 2009, sales in the rest of the year were down compared to 2008.
This was due to adverse climatic conditions in a number of geographies, which disrupted 7 7 Chief Executives review Progress on transforming our Coatings and Polymers business from one that relies on commodities to a more dynamic, focused speciality portfolio was slowed by the recession.
Sales were down and customer development on our exciting new products to reduce Volatile Organic Compounds and mitigate environmental impact also slowed.
We are seeing good signs of a turnaround as end market demand returns to a more normal level.
Geo Tech is a new business area, formed to take advantage of our technology advantage in mining chemicals, oil field chemicals and water treatment.
These are rapidly growing markets driven by the need to maximise resource extraction and provide clean water for a growing population.
In all our business areas, we have sales of commodity products such as fatty In Polymer Additives, Croda is the Atmer 7325, Crodas easy to use acids and glycerine, where we have no global market leader in slip additives for additive concentrate containing a real pricing power.
The margins are low polyolefins and is very strong in a number synergistic mixture of anti-static compared to our speciality products, of additives such as anti-static agents for agents, is used in plastic shampoo though in some cases we sell low a range of other plastics.
It reduces static on the value products which are produced recession, sales in this sector were at the surface of the bottles which in as by-products when we make other same level as the previous year.
turn reduces the amount of dust higher value chemicals.
We continue to pick-up, giving more aesthetically reduce the impact of commodities on The Lubricant Additives business area is pleasing products on store our business.
We have sold businesses ultimately exposed to the automotive shelves.
Chicago and Klang, restructured the and engineering sectors, which virtually closure of Bromborough and walked stopped in the first half of 2009.
Sales away from unprofitable product streams.
were well down year on year, but recent Continuing turnover of commodities months have shown increasing demand in 2009 was 135.8m compared to for our environmentally benign additives.
We cannot move out of The desire for less harmful lubricants and commodity products completely, but we reduced fuel consumption are trends that will continue to explore ways of reducing match our innovation programme and our exposure to them.
we expect that the market will have an increasing demand for greener products.
Sales in Home Care were slightly ahead of 2008, as the market increased its appetite for our more environmentally friendly ingredients.
8 8 Perfad fuel additives, based on renewable sustainable raw materials, are used in Ultra Low Sulphur Diesel across Europe and North America to reduce friction and prolong fuel pump life.
9 9 Croda offers an innovative solution for the enhancement of sugar cane production.
Atlox Semkote is a polymer range that enables cost-effective seed coating.
10 10 Chief Executives review Strategy Our operating companies are set sales, profit growth and operating margin Croda is a The core principles of Crodas strategy targets that form the basis of our budgets have remained valid since 1999.
We test and strategic plans.
We report annually them every year and every year we have truly global on our progress against five key financial found them to be a solid framework performance indicators: for successful growth.
Our aim is to be a leading, independent, global speciality n Return on sales company chemical company.
We will only invest in n EPS growth businesses, current and future, that can: n Post tax ROIC n Net debt to EBITDA n be truly global n EBITDA to interest cover.
n create profitable innovation n operate in end markets that have long Summary term growth well above global GDP Croda is a truly global company with n realistically sustain high operating less than 7% of its sales in the UK.
customer focused business model has Our focus on markets and market drivers been the basis of our success for many means we are well aligned with the years.
We will continue to increase this mega trends which will shape the future focus to create our future success.
Trends like an ageing population, health and well-being, sustainability and the correct use of renewable resources present great challenges and even greater opportunities.
Crodas culture of pragmatic innovation Mike Humphrey in every aspect of the business, not just Group Chief Executive in product development, means we are well-placed to be a truly leading speciality chemicals company.
We have offices and technical facilities in 36 countries and operate 19 state of the art factories across Europe, Asia and the Americas.
Through this network we are able to match and, in many instances, exceed our customers rapid globalisation.
