DIRECTORS REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Chief Executives review Despite the considerable macro challenges of technology.
All these technologies can ultimately 2009, CSR made strong strategic, operational co-exist alongside each other.
and commercial progress during the year.
This has strengthened our business, delivered The acquisition of SiRF has complemented CSRs significant shareholder value over the year and existing software GPS technology, materially positioned us for our next phase of growth.
expanded our GPS product offerings and has turned our company into a leader in location technology.
In the first half of last year, the management actions we had put in place at the end of 2008 meant we Building on our strength in the Connectivity Centre, were in a much stronger position to withstand the the combined company has successfully expanded impacts of the global recession.
We also took the our product portfolio and offer connectivity, location opportunity for a value-creating acquisition of SiRF and audio platforms.
which we completed at the end of June.
CSR and SiRF: natural partners We predicted that the first half of 2009 would prove Opportunity is an integral aspect of crisis and when difficult and our results reflected this with revenue we saw the opportunity to acquire SiRF we moved down for that period at $193.5 million in 2009 against quickly.
Coming as it did at the economic and market $349.3 million in 2008.
In the second half, largely as a nadir, this required courage and commitment from result of the ending of fide-stocking in our customer both management teams, boards and shareholders.
channels, and the successful integration of SiRF, we were able to increase revenues against the equivalent With the two companies coming together, it was period in 2008, saw a return to profitability and important that the integration was carried out substantially strengthened our balance sheet.
SiRF smoothly and at speed.
I am proud to report that we contributed approximately $130.0 million of revenue in fully integrated the two entities within three months, the second half, resulting in revenues for that period and ahead of schedule.
As an example of the speed being $407.9 million compared with $345.6 million in with which we integrated, the new, combined sales 2008. force was fully operational within just two days, keeping any disruption at the customer level to an Throughout the year, we launched an entire new absolute minimum.
generation of connectivity, audio and location products.
Commercially, our design win traction has The new strengths brought into the enlarged been excellent.
This is illustrated by the fact that we company prompted an evolution in the way we work won more Bluetooth design wins in 2009 than all of with our market places during 2009.
We are now our competition put together.
organised into three Business Units: Handsets HBU, Automotive & PNDs APBU and Audio and Consumer 2010 will not be plain sailing for anyone: but the Electronics ACBU.
HBU accounts for around half of achievements of last year have significantly widened our revenue, with the balance shared roughly equally and deepened our pool of talent, product portfolio across the other two units.
Coupled with our strong financial position, all this equips us to grow and create shareholder value.
2009 a platform for 2010 and beyond Throughout 2009, the company has stayed focused on the Connectivity Centre.
The Connectivity Centre brings together many aspects of wireless connectivity products: Bluetooth, FM radio, Wi-Fi, high quality audio for music, Bluetooth low energy, Near Field Communications and GPS location-finding CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 5 DIRECTORS REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued A new generation of platforms and products Seizing the opportunities presented by connectivity, Throughout 2009 we launched an entire new location and audio platforms generation of connectivity, audio and location With this new generation of products in our platforms and products, these included: Connectivity Centre portfolio, we are a well-balanced company in an excellent position to exploit the opportunities available in 2010.
The BC7000 family, which combines Bluetooth with FM Transmit, FM Receive, Bluetooth low energy and GPS capability.
This brand new, Our research, which is derived from our proprietary high performance product is now designed-in information as well as an analysis of data from with multiple Tier One customers.
research firms, indicates that the total global market for connectivity location and audio platforms in 2008 was around $3.5 billion.
Depending on the UniFi6000, our third generation embedded macroeconomic picture, we expect this market to Wi-Fi product, offers the smallest chip size increase in value by between 15% and 30% per year together with low cost.
Announced in Q4, we and to be worth between $5 billion and $7 billion by are currently ramping into mass production with 2012.
Connectivity, location and audio are some of three customers, including with our launch the few areas in the semi-conductor industry showing customer a leading Japanese mobile phone this degree of value growth.
manufacturer, who are all taking UniFi6000 as part of our CSR9000 module.
There is also significant interest from other customers.
The growth opportunity mirrors our three Business Units.
In handsets, growth is being driven by the market penetration of smart phones and their CSR9000, our Bluetooth, FM radio and Wi-Fi Bluetooth, GPS and audio and Wi-Fi capabilities.
combination module, is in mass production.
In There is significant momentum behind smart phones.
November, we learned that this product had Nokia and RIM and other seasoned performers in this been certified under Chinas Wireless LAN sector are being joined by relative newcomers such as Authentication and Privacy Infrastructure WAPI Palm, Dell, Google and HTC to enable more and more qualification, making it an ideal option for consumers to take the internet with them, wherever Chinas many OEMs developing leading they go.
wireless technologies for the rapidly growing Chinese market.
We are now seeing similar trends in the automotive sector.
Many vehicles already feature Bluetooth and The SiRFstarIVe and IVt next generation GPS GPS, and Wi-Fi is the next logical step.
Consumer products both achieved successful launches in electronics are on a similar journey.
A digital camera the summer, to considerable customer acclaim.
can sync with a PC via Bluetooth to create a back-up SiRFstarIVe is optimised for consumer of a photo while using GPS to ascertain location.
electronic devices such as digital cameras, while the SiRFstarIVt is optimised for mobile phones.
We are delighted that we started mass Operational excellence production in the fourth quarter of 2009 with Our reputation is built on technical and commercial SiRFstarIV, following a design-win with a innovation, supported by a continuous focus on leading North American smartphone operational excellence for delivering integrated circuits manufacturer.
to our customers utilising the strong relationships with our fabrication and test partners.
This continued during 2009, as with the integration of SiRF, we Also in 2009, prior to the acquisition, SiRF added additional partners to our supply chain.
launched two SOC system on chip products, SiRFatlasIV and SiRFprima.
These SOCs are complete personal navigation devices on a We place significant emphasis on the working single piece of silicon, and bring new standards relationships with our suppliers.
As a key part of the of performance to both the high and the low planning for the acquisition and the execution of our ends of the PND marketplace.
integration plan, our senior executives met with each CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 6 of our suppliers to discuss the acquisition and outline We expect the market for connectivity audio and our objectives, to ensure continuity of supply with our location platforms to increase in value by between customers.
Also during 2009, the strength of 15% and 30% per year.
Our strong strategic, partnership between CSR and TSMC enabled operational and commercial progress puts us in an significant progress in the development of the 40nm excellent position to make use of this opportunity.
RF CMOS technology for the companys next generation product families.
CSR also continued to For 2010, we naturally have caution about the global enhance and expand its capacity for advanced economic outlook, but we believe that the market for WLCSP technology addressing all segments of the connectivity audio and location platforms will show merged companys wireless product portfolio, which significant growth by value this year and, indeed, provides us with technological advantage and beyond.
Our achievements of last year have provides real benefits in reducing our manufacturing significantly widened and deepened our capacity and costs.
capabilities and, coupled with our strong financial position, this positions us to take advantage of the And of course we continued our long standing opportunities and build growth and further tradition of industry leading customer service.
Confidence in the future Outlook At CSR we have not only survived a difficult period, The global economy and our marketplace ended but we have strengthened our position in many ways.
2009 in significantly better health than they started, As a leading pure-play connectivity company, we have and this improved tone has continued into 2010.
We a broad customer base, an extensive product portfolio will maintain caution about the strength of the and a talented team committed to delivering excellent economic recovery, but we nevertheless expect customer service and an enhanced consumer demand for our products to continue to grow, with experience.
2010 seeing significantly increased penetration of connectivity, audio and location technologies.
Consumer demand for smartphones and other We are a leading player in the market for wireless connectivity devices has gathered pace, and connectivity and location: a fast growing segment in Bluetooth, GPS and Wi-Fi are becoming important the semiconductor market.
We are not dependent on features not just in handsets, but in an increasingly a technology inflexion point or for an infant market to wide array of electronic consumer devices and the show signs of growth.
The Connectivity Centre is automotive industry.
established as the real value centre: the opportunity is here, and it is here now.
Our business is performing well.
We expect to ramp several of our new product lines in 2010 BC7000, This has been a very harsh recession and our industry CSR9000 and SiRFstarIV are all ramping in line with is certainly not in full recovery mode.
Our early success with these new Chairman of the Global Semi-conductor Alliance, I am products gives us confidence in our ability to gain aware of the mood of our peers and recognise that market share in a growing market.
there remains work to be done.
Joep van Beurden Chief Executive Officer CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 7
