The year in brief Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009 Chief Executives review 7 Making progress in difficult times Overview February 2009 and the decline rate has Business highlights and Dairy Crest has made significant progress started to improve.
recent developments: in a number of areas during the year.
It is not just consumer markets that Dairy Crest has made signi cant Our brands have again delivered good became tougher during the year.
World progress in a number of areas growth and we have continued to reduce dairy commodity prices fell dramatically as this year: costs and improve efficiencies.
We have increased production outpaced demand.
Maintained strong brand growth made progress on our plans to move from Inevitably this had an adverse effect on the Reduced net debt by 59 million commodity processor to added value food profitability of our Ingredients business.
Heightened focus on cost control manufacturer by disposing of our Stilton Dairy commodity returns remain low as we and speciality cheese business and the enter 2009 10 and we have taken steps to Greater emphasis on advertising sale of our 49% stake in Yoplait Dairy Crest reduce the amount of milk balanced into and promoting key brands to Limited allows us to focus more strongly on skimmed milk powder as well as reducing underpin brand growth core brands we own outright.
However, we have also had to meet Innovation delivering results: the challenge of a global recession and the Financial results Lighter brand extensions have most difficult dairy commodity markets that The Groups turnover increased to 1,648 grown sales many in the industry have ever witnessed.
This 5% New cheese packing facility will Against this backdrop our financial increase reflects good volume growth provide a great platform for performance in the year has been sound.
across our key brands and higher prices cheese innovation This year we have made a material achieved across the range of our products.
Full roll out of milk&more planned reduction in our net debt, our brands are in Group profit before tax was up 56% at for summer 2009 good shape and our profits are in line with 103.2 million 2008: 66.0 million.
After Head of ce restructure, investment our November 2008 forecast.
adjusting for 26.4 million of exceptional in Regional Distribution Centres, profit 2008: 21.1 million cost, 6.9 million dairy closure and depot closures Market environment pension interest credit 2008: 10.1 million drive down costs Consumers are at the heart of our business and 9.6 million of acquired intangible and we have worked with our major amortisation costs 2008: 9.0 million Increased focus following disposal retail customers to offset the difficulties adjusted profit before tax was down 8% at of Stilton and speciality cheese consumers have faced from the recession.
Basic business and 49% stake in Yoplait By advertising, and importantly, promoting earnings per share were 56.8 pence 2008: Dairy Crest our brands more in both the UK and on 40.2 pence.
Adjusted basic earnings per the Continent we have delivered good share decreased by 13% to 45.0 pence Pension Fund fide cit payments brand growth in the year.
to resume from October 2009 at with this strategy into 2009 10.
We are Group net debt at 31 March 2009 20 million per annum convinced that this investment is in the was 415.8 million, 59 million lower than best interest of shareholders in the medium at 31 March 2008 when the debt was Dividend rebased: final dividend and longer term.
This reflects the proceeds 13.0 pence per share Our doorstep business, which had from the sale of the 49% stake in Yoplait consistently improved decline rates over a Dairy Crest, which was sold during the number of years, was adversely impacted year.
Although our Euro denominated by the recession and by the need to pass debt increased as sterling weakened in on higher raw milk prices in the early part the middle of the year we offset this by of the year.
This has been addressed: milk increased focus on cash management.
prices have fallen by around 10% since As an example we reduced our year end DC AR09 FC-p25 28-5-09. indd DC AR09 FC-p25 28-5-09. indd 7 7 1 6 09 1 6 09 16:13:46 16:13:46 Mark Allen Overview Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009 8 Chief Executives review continued Core brand Market Market Brand growth growth UK Cheese Media expenditure 13% 22% on five key brands UK dairy up 40% spreads 17% 33% year on year UK spreadable 8% 48% butter debtors by 48 million this year.
During In France, our Spreads business, customers is a key part of our strategy December 2008 and January 2009 we St Hubert, has delivered in line with going forward.
swapped 225 million of Euro denominated expectations and has made a significant Our investment in a new cheese packing debt into sterling to reduce the effect of contribution to the profitability of the Group facility at Nuneaton is progressing well.
This future currency movements on the Groups as a whole.
gives us the opportunity to develop new and net debt and banking covenants.
This year St Hubert has strengthened innovative packaging formats as it becomes its leading market positions in France and operational this year.
In France, St Hubert Omega 3 is the We are accelerating our investment Our brands have made good progress leading health spread and has increased in our new doorstep internet proposition, this year.
We felt it essential to continue its market share to 21%, an all time high.
This will increase sales of to promote our brands in order to provide In Italy, St Huberts subsidiary, Vall Italia, products to doorstep customers.
It offers hard-pressed consumers with the value remains the clear market leader with a them an innovative solution, allowing them they were looking for and to reassure market share of 55%.
Having extensively them, through advertising, of the quality our trialled this service this year and invested in brands deliver.
This strategy created strong Innovating now and for the future a new website, we will roll milk&more out growth in the year and leaves our brands A key element of our strategy is innovation across around 120 depots this summer.
well placed to continue to deliver during to ensure that we can continue to meet We have completed our investment in the downturn.
two new Regional Distribution Centres for Cathedral City remains by far the Innovation is not restricted to developing our Dairies division, this will reduce costs UKs most popular cheddar brand and is new products, where we have been and free up valuable capacity in our dairies.
now the 21st largest UK food and drink successful: it is also about finding new brand as measured by The Grocer trade ways of carrying out business that can Cutting costs magazine.
It has annual retail sales in reduce costs and increase efficiencies In times of recession controlling costs excess of 190 million.
The brand has and capacities.
and improving operational efficiencies are grown market share and remains larger Our lighter brand extensions have seen even more important.
Early in the year we than the next three cheddar brands strong sales growth during the year.
As identified the need to improve our value combined.
We are particularly proud of the well as promoting the good things in dairy offer to consumers.
One of the ways to do progress we have made with Cathedral products we also recognise that we need to this was to make sure our cost base was City since we bought the brand in 1995 offer our consumers choice.
when annual sales were less than 20 pleased with the progress we have made We carried out a review of our central million.
By investing in product quality, in developing lower fat alternatives that do and support functions and as a result television advertising and innovative not compromise on taste.
Our reduced implemented a head office restructure in packaging we have grown sales to their fat cheese, Cathedral City Mature Lighter, September 2008.
This reduced headcount current level.
has 30% less fat than standard cheddar by around 100 people and positioned us Our two key UK spreads brands: and now accounts for over 10% of total better for the rapidly changing market.
Clover and Country Life have also grown Cathedral City sales.
Together our three Controlling our Dairies divisions strongly over the year.
Clover is up 29% lighter brands had combined retail sales costs is vitally important.
We have made by volume and 33% by value and Country of more than 40 million in the year, over particularly encouraging progress in this Life is up 29% by volume and 24% by double those of 2008. respect, especially in the reduction of value.
Both have benefited from increased Product innovation has not been solely waste in our dairies.
Following on from expenditure on television advertising.
We have worked the closure of Totnes in September 2007 particular highlight has been the success with Sainsburys and Morrisons to develop we shut the Nottingham dairy in February of the Country Life Great British Butter and supply milk with only 1% fat.
We have also closed 15 household advertising campaign, featuring John Lydon.
development of new products for our retail depots over the year.
These reductions DC AR09 FC-p25 28-5-09. indd DC AR09 FC-p25 28-5-09. indd 8 8 29 5 09 29 5 09 16:48:16 16:48:16 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009 9 Core brand Market Market Brand growth growth French non butter 1% 9% spreads Flavoured milk 6% 23% Source: AC Nielsen or IRI or TNS 26 week MAT value growth to March 2009 Dairy Crest sales growth by value enable us to deliver competitive prices for by 6%.
We have also implemented a We have delivered our customers and consumers without comprehensive new induction programme compromising on service or quality.
They for new employees and introduced a valuegood growth in also mean that over time we can improve based leadership training programme.
the returns for our shareholders.
We continue to work with our brands, achieved customers and suppliers to build Focussing the business responsible supply chains.
All four of a material reduction Our long-term plan remains to reduce our major liquid milk customers have exposure to commodity markets and focus established milk groups, linking them in net debt, on brands which we own outright.
These groups benefit reduced costs decisions to make two significant disposals customer and supplier and help give much are in line with this.
In August 2008 we sold needed stability.
and improved our Stilton and speciality cheese business and in March 2009 we sold our 49% stake Outlook our operating in Yoplait Dairy Crest.
These sales allow The market downturn is well documented.
greater focus on the ongoing parts of our Against this difficult background we have efficiencies business and reduce our exposure to delivered a sound performance and external influences.
taken a number of actions to position the business now and for the future.
Our plans Looking after our people and the for 2009 10 are to maintain our focus on community as we grow cash management and to continue the Dairy Crest is a responsible business.
development of our key brands.
In 2009 we have continued with our plans We are a broadly based dairy business.
to reduce our impact on the environment.
The benefits of this will be demonstrated In particular we have developed innovative during 2009 10 as stock profits in our new packaging, which gives consumers cheese business unwind and those in our the ability to buy their milk in bags rather Dairies division increase to compensate.
This reduces material Trading at the start of the year is in line usage and makes recycling easier.
Our with expectations and we believe that our factories have cut down on water usage: business is in good shape to deliver in for example at Davidstow the water used the year ahead.
In addition we are well to clean the factory is condensed as part of placed to benefit when the external the whey handling process.
with our dairy farmer suppliers we have developed an on-farm environmental scorecard.
This project will help to reduce the carbon footprint of the milk we buy.
We continue to train and empower Mark Allen Chief Executive our people so that every employee can 18 May 2009 maximise their individual potential and take responsibility for their actions.
We have repeated our staff survey, first carried out in 2007.
Results are encouraging with the overall engagement score improving DC AR09 FC-p25 28-5-09. indd DC AR09 FC-p25 28-5-09. indd 9 9 29 5 09 29 5 09 16:48:17 16:48:17 Overview
