Business Review Chief Executives Review 4 Chief Executives Review Our strategy for future success lies in three key areas.
G rowing our Business to Business divisions 2.
S upporting our newspapers and investing in digital consumer media 3.
T urning DMGT into a global growth company Martin Morgan to be a successful business model in the Introduction Chief Executive media and information industry.
It is this This Business Review is addressed to the ownership structure that affords us a members of the Company.
Its purpose is longer term perspective and that is at the to help them assess how the Directors heart of our philosophy.
have performed in their duty to promote the success of the Company.
It is framed You will appreciate that we are intent on by the principles and guidelines for remaining diversified across both our Operating and Financial Reviews business to business B2B and consumer published by the UK Accounting Standards media sectors in order to give us a Board in 2006.
It outlines the main breadth of opportunities and to spread operational and financial factors risk.
At present, our B2B arm is made up underpinning the development, of Risk Management Solutions RMS, dmg performance and position of the Group as information dmgi, dmg world media and well as those likely to affect performance Euromoney Institutional Investor.
Our over the coming year, illustrating this with consumer media division consists of A&N key performance indicators.
Media which includes Mail Newspapers, Associated Northcliffe Digital AND, the This Chief Executives Review will start by free newspaper division and Northcliffe setting out the nature, objectives and Media and dmg radio australia where we strategy of the Group.
A business review have announced the creation of a 50:50 of the development and performance of joint venture with an Australian company each of our operating divisions will follow called Illyria, the private investment on pages 15 27.
A Financial and Treasury vehicle of Mr Lachlan Murdoch.
Review is on pages 28 to 32 and the principal risks and uncertainties the Group faces are set out in the Directors Strategy Report on pages 38 to 40.
The overarching strategy for the Group is to remain the owner of high-quality, sustainable, market-leading media and DMGTs philosophy information assets across both the B2B DMGT is a multi media and information and consumer sectors and to improve company providing essential news, DMGTs overall share rating.
entertainment and information services on both B2B and consumer platforms.
We Over the last year we have experienced a operate in many different markets, in very challenging economic environment.
many countries, each with their own Our strategic focus was therefore competitive and regulatory requirements.
preoccupied with managing the Group through its short term challenges with the As I am sure you all know, it has been aim of minimising the long term negative DMGTs philosophy for many years to take implications.
We used this time as an advantage of its shareholding structure opportunity to reassess our portfolio of and to invest with a long term perspective businesses and ensure that they still to generate value.
Our particular operated within the framework of our ownership structure, with control investment criteria.
We made every effort maintained by the founding family, has not to lose sight of our long term strategic proved itself throughout our long history objectives and so continued to invest in new products and services.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2009 Business Review Chief Executives Review 5 My long-term strategic objective remains At Northcliffe Media, which has faced the high margin, cash generative and produce to turn DMGT into a truly global growth most difficult of market conditions, we a high return on capital.
We are also company with sustainable earnings and have re-appraised our publishing portfolio focused on capturing and retaining dividend growth.
In order to achieve this and carried out a complete overhaul of entrepreneurial management, and we give goal, we must build on the solid and operations.
This has rebased the business preference to businesses which can diversified platform that we have on a much lower cost operating model, benefit from DMGTs long term established.
We will do this by continuing which will see substantial benefits when perspective.
to invest in organic growth, in internal the economy recovers.
growth projects that will drive long term We have started to narrow the overall revenue generation, and by ensuring that Simultaneously, we have continued to breadth of DMGT and to focus hard on all our divisions are adopting the invest in our B2B operations, particularly businesses which have strong profit and investment criteria I laid out at our at RMS, dmg information and Euromoney, growth potential.
As evidence of this Investor Day in March, both in the which can be proud of their performance.
policy you can look to our refocusing of acquisition of new businesses and in the In addition, we have reorganised and the exhibition division away from management of currently owned restructured our exhibition division, dmg consumer to B2B, the disposal of the businesses.
Evening Standard, the pending closure of all but the Freeview holiday and It has long been a policy of mine that The result of this deliberate deployment of commercial service offerings of Teletext superior performance can only be capital is that an increased percentage of television service, the merger of our Metro achieved by superior people.
In order to the Groups revenue is generated from Ireland with Herald AM, the recent closure realise our long term strategic objectives, streams other than advertising: of London Lite and the announcement of it is imperative that we continue to carry principally from subscription based the sale of 50% of our interest in dmg out our talent agenda.
radio, which, following our exit from UK radio a number of years ago, had become I see the three pillars of my leadership A significant part of our operations are less of a core asset.
being diversification, adaptability and now outside the UK and the Groups innovation.
exposure to regulation has been greatly During the year we restricted our reduced as a result so that in 2009 more acquisition programme and only than 70% of its operating profits were completed on a small number of limited Allocation of capital derived outside newspaper publishing, scale deals which could be rolled into our DMGT has always been a first-mover in compared to 14% in 1996.
Indeed, 73% of best performance companies.
the media and information industry.
The this years operating profit was far sighted decision, made many years ago generated from the Groups B2B In future, when we start making to diversify our portfolio and move away operations, up from 60% last year.
US acquisitions again, we will continue our from a dependence on UK newspapers dollar derived operating profit accounted policy of not betting the farm on very large was a critical factor in enabling us to for approximately 60% of the Groups individual transactions, but instead on a perform as well as we did this year.
programme of selective smaller scale we still hold a very strong market leading deals which we can develop and which can position in our national paper division, but As I mentioned before, our ambition to see benefit from our longer term perspective.
can now boast a strong portfolio within DMGT become a growth company relies We will continue to divest on a periodic the B2B sector as well.
on us continuing to adopt a growth basis, and our track record over the last criterion not only for new investments and few years is generally good on this count.
Our national papers have done acquisitions but also for our currently tremendously well within an admittedly owned businesses.
Every new investment weak marketplace.
Indeed, Associateds and every existing business is reviewed operating profit fell only 15% this year, against these criteria and capital will be which is an outstanding achievement in allocated accordingly.
We are focused on this climate.
They are faring much better having businesses which operate in than others and the Daily Mail remains attractive growth markets.
Over the last year we businesses should have products or have continued to invest in our consumer services that are highly innovative and sector in order to ensure the realisation of highly valued, brands which people value, our ambitions both in the traditional media ones which customers repeat buy.
We sphere newspapers and radio and in have a strong bias towards market their online initiatives.
Businesses with these characteristics will not only grow but be www.
com 2009 Business Review Chief Executives Review 6 Chief Executives Review Continued We took the precaution to model even decision support for risk management in DMGT operational model deeper recessionary scenarios and their the insurance industry and by launching You will hopefully have noticed that implications.
From this information we new models dealing with new categories DMGTs approach to managing the were able to develop a strategy that would of risk.
Groups divisions and divisional strategies have enabled us to achieve an acceptable has not changed during these turbulent level of performance to meet our financial economic times: we continue to adopt a dmg information commitments.
Fortunately, we have not decentralised structure.
We take a Understandably, the overall division was had to implement such a plan.
considerable amount of comfort in the affected by the impact of significant fact that we know all our businesses are cyclical declines in property transaction During these times of increased capital run by chief executives with expert volumes.
Nevertheless, with two of its constraints, we have focused on nurturing knowledge of their companies and the companies achieving double digit revenue our existing businesses rather than on markets in which they operate and our growth and operating profit growth of making new acquisitions, maintaining operational structure has reflected this.
over 20%, dmgi made another record revenue investment where we have Over the last year, we have continued to operating profit in sterling terms and growth opportunities.
We have continued allow relative divisional autonomy with maintained its profits growth from a our disciplined disposal programme, strong incentives based on performance: standing start in 1998, illustrated on page particularly in the non-core consumer yet we continued to retain central control 18. division of dmg world media, but also with over surplus capital and its reinvestment.
the sale by dmgi of Property & Portfolio dmgis ambition to invest in must-have, Research in July.
Maintaining this approach is of upmost high-growth, innovative business importance to me.
The benefits are information companies remains We have continued to innovate, for numerous and made us highly resilient in unchanged, as does its remit is to example the launch of new hyperlocal withstanding the economic storm.
At diversify DMGT by sector, by business news and information services, the DMGT we realise that if you want to model and by geography.
development by Environmental Data survive in this sector, you must be able to Resources of a professional social react quickly and efficiently to the rapidly dmg world media networking site for environmental changing media world in which we exist.
If dmg world media continued its strategy of professionals, the launch of AR, a print divisional management teams are able to divesting its non-core B2C businesses, and online offering by Euromoney.
exercise relative autonomy, they are able resulting in a streamlined operation with Through such entrepreneurially minded to keep the decision making as close to market-leading exhibitions and initiatives, we are building growth for the their customer as possible.
As a consequence of this and future.
agree that real innovation comes from the actions taken in the year on cost having a customer focus our initiatives, it will have significantly lower decentralised model provides a fertile Business to Business summary revenues in 2009 10, but we expect with environment for innovative people and, in I am pleased to report that our B2B higher margins.
The division now intends turn, a perfect breeding ground for operations demonstrated their resilience to expand its portfolio globally, whilst innovative ideas.
this year, growing their profits, despite completing its withdrawal from the less the negative impact of our property lucrative consumer market and its businesses, and can boast combined Short-term considerations disposal of non-core B2B exhibitions.
revenues of 859 million and with a I have already mentioned how last year, in healthy operating margin of 24%.
order to preserve our strategy, we had to Euromoney Institutional Investor focus hard on cost reduction and cash The benefits of Euromoneys strategy over generative initiatives, given the downward Risk Management Solutions recent years to build a more resilient and pressure on revenues.
RMS continued to grow despite better focused businesses by increasing challenging market conditions worldwide, the proportion of revenues derived from I am pleased to say that the decisive which curtailed clients desire to purchase subscription products, now 47% of total action we took to defend profitability in the news products and caused some to revenues, and transforming a first half of the year, along with the reassess their overall range of purchases predominantly publishing driven business continued management of our cost base, over the year.
There were a number of to one with significant activities in offset much of the impact of the difficult large industry mergers, which impacted electronic information and database and unpredictable trading conditions.
I am RMSs net bookings figures.
Whilst services, were again demonstrated by the also pleased to say that having initially prudent cost controls were taken in results produced.
targeted revenue and cost initiatives to response to a slower growth rate in improve profitability by 100 million, we revenues, it managed to maintain its were able to raise that to 150 million by investment programme for future growth.
Nevertheless, RMS achieved another record operating profit.
It will continue its programme of worldwide growth by deepening its involvement in information Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2009 Business Review Chief Executives Review 7 The Board regards Euromoney as a core Despite a negative long term outlook for Associated Newspapers business and a major plank in our global the printed paper industry, I am happy to I can assure you all that the longer term growth ambitions.
Our objective at DMGT report that the Daily Mail remains robust outlook for Associated remains robust.
is that our diluted holding should not fall in a downward trending market.
We Quality of content has been at the heart of below 60% again, as it did in 2006 after the continue to work to create a viable our success at Associated and we acquisition of Metal Bulletin plc.
DMGT strategy to monetise better the Daily continue to invest in editorial quality.
took its share of dividends from Mails readership through database Although the graph you will see on page Euromoney in the year in the form of a marketing and Associated is growing its 24 shows that the circulation of both the scrip.
This enabled us to offset the dilutive enterprise revenue, selling goods and Daily Mail and The Mail on Sunday fell effect of the vesting of the second tranche services to readers and capitalising on marginally more than the market, we have of Euromoneys capital appreciation plan, each interaction.
already implemented a number of thereby maintaining our equity interest at measures to ensure that we recruit more just under 67%.
It is the Boards current Naturally, the cost base of our national long term loyal purchasers through a intention also to take Euromoneys newspapers continues to adjust to a lower sustained direct marketing campaign.
As forthcoming final dividend in the form of a level of revenue growth due not only to the a consequence you will notice that scrip.
recession but also to the migration online.
circulation has stabilised in recent Our objective remains to meet the months and our market share is rising challenges of the digital age without Consumer once again.
losing the powerful advertising response As I am sure you are all aware of, the from an engaged readership.
consumer media industry is witnessing a In addition to the profit enhancement time of unprecedented change.
Whilst programme, over the past year we have ANDs portfolio of core digital classified technology is undoubtedly an enabler, taken further measures to defend portals, in jobs, property and motors, allowing us to extend our reach to our Associateds profitability and to improve continued to build their brands in difficult chosen audiences over a multitude of on its margins.
In February, we took economic conditions.
During the year platforms, it has had a significant decisive action in selling a 75.1% Jobsite became the recruitment partner deflationary effect on advertising yields controlling interest in the Evening to Johnston Press, sitting behind their and newspaper copy sales.
We remain as a minority extensive range of newspapers and environment forces us to remain even shareholder but with no involvement in its websites.
AND remains one of the UKs more focused and orientated around the management.
In July, we announced the leading digital media companies and is needs of our customers and on the planned closure of the majority of actively seeking to apply its expertise to strength of our brands.
Teletexts television business by early expand.
Its objective is to be the number 2010.
The remaining businesses, which one or two business in each chosen The availability of online news content in are profitable and show good profit market.
conjunction with the current economic growth potential, have been transferred to climate has created less than ideal Associated Northcliffe Digital AND and trading conditions for our printed paper will focus around the companys online Northcliffe Media businesses.
Yet we remain positive in our travel activities.
Northcliffe Media was badly hit by very outlook for both our national and local weak advertising.
London Lite traded in line with last year, but particularly jobs, property and but, following the decision of the Evening motors.
The business anticipated this and We were forced to take decisive action in Standard to go free in October 2009, it was moved very fast to reorganise.
This the first half of the year which had positive closed on 13th November after included the closure of some print titles, repercussions in the second half.
At consultation with its employees.
the closure of three print plants, the Associated Newspapers, this was driven consolidation of sub-editing and preby the strength of the Daily Mail which Our free morning newspaper, Metro, press centres, new call centres for maintained its profitability.
At Northcliffe, remains profitable and is well established recruitment and private advertising, an improving profits trend since the and traded strongly towards the year end.
outsourcing of national sales and more spring was aided by stabilisation of efficient distribution channels.
Massive absolute weekly levels of advertising Mail Digital continued to make progress costs were taken out of the business, revenue as well as deep cost cutting and this year.
Despite the adverse trading whilst the sales performance, in many reorganisation measures.
conditions, it recorded a 22% areas, was significantly better when improvement in revenue, and traffic to its compared to others in the sector.
dmg radio australia increased its profits primary website, MailOnline, increased by Northcliffe remains profitable.
Indeed, by cutting costs and performing better 68% to 30 million unique users in with revenues having stabilised, than the radio advertising market as a September, making it one of the UKs Northcliffe is now seeing its profits whole.
We continue increasing year on year.
com 2009 Business Review Chief Executives Review 8 Chief Executives Review Continued Northcliffe also extracted additional quality earnings potential.
Furthermore, consumer national media franchises and benefits by working more closely with there continue to be opportunities for the operationally geared nature of much ANDs leading digital businesses in job, organic growth right across the group.
of our revenues has led to us outproperty and motors.
performing our peers again this year.
Within our consumer operations, we will Volatility in our share price has been Central and Eastern European operations continue to generate value from the Mail increased by stock lending of DMGTs felt the full force of the economic brand, becoming closer to its readers in shares continuing at unprecedented downturn later than the UK, with the Modern Mid Britain, capitalising on a levels, rising from 16% to 23% at the end second half proving considerably weaker broader range of consumer interactions of the year, compared to the previous than the first.
Our Hungarian newspapers, and taking full advantage of its growing normal level of below 5%.
which are sold on subscription, have held strength relative to its competitors.
up relatively well, but advertising markets Capital structure in both print and digital fell substantially.
AND will continue to exploit the leading The Company has not made a capital call positions of its existing portfolio whilst it on its shareholders since 1933.
Capital These adverse economic conditions are seeks out new investment opportunities in growth is funded by long-term debt and by compounding the underlying structural the consumer digital market place.
Since the late 1980s, challenges caused by the migration of our strategy has been to seek to raise the readers and advertisers to the internet.
At Northcliffe, we will continue to dividend in real terms.
Since 2002, the We can expect a cyclical bounce back of transform the business with the three Boards policy has been to target a real some of the advertising revenue when the building blocks at the core of this vision rate of growth in the dividend in the region markets recover.
The cyclical nature of being a closer relationship with its of 5% to 7% on the basis of the Directors the downturn in job advertising, in audiences, better local relationships with confidence in the Groups long term particular, is underlined by a similar and solutions for its advertising financial health.
The strategic customers and a sustainable operating objective is to continue to transform model.
Last November, the Board met following Northcliffe into a new multi platform local the onset of the full blown global financial media information business.
We do not dmg radio remains devoted to exploiting crisis, with the UK economy having expect to make further significant its highly successful national Nova deteriorated significantly and DMGT acquisitions in UK local print media.
network in Australia and bringing its two looking to conserve cash in order to Vega stations into profitability, and will reduce its net debt.
As a consequence, the now benefit from the involvement of our dmg radio australia Board declared an unchanged final new Australian partner.
dmg radios national metropolitan FM dividend.
This year, it decided to keep the broadcasting Nova network traded well in total dividend unchanged, pending greater the year especially in outperforming the Share price performance visibility on the economic outlook, whilst radio advertising market which was weak.
Our share performance remains maintaining its policy of seeking to Profitability improved in the year as important to us as it is an indicator as to increase the dividend in real terms over explained on page 27. whether our strategy is being understood the economic cycle.
As shown on page 9, and approved of by investors.
the compound dividend growth over the last twenty one years is 10% in nominal Summary The value of our share price has been terms, which is an increase of 7% in real We may have experienced the worst somewhat turbulent this year, reflecting terms.
recession in 70 years, but its not all the movements of the markets at large.
During 2009, our strategy of The price of our widely traded A shares The Company utilised 10,184,237 A creating a diversified international started the financial year at 3.24 and fell Ordinary Non-Voting shares out of portfolio of market-leading businesses in as low as 2.11 in mid-March.
The shares treasury in order to meet obligations to both business and consumer markets rallied at the start of May, along with the provide shares under various incentive protected our profitability.
I feel positive wider market, reaching 3.60, before plans valued at 29 million.
It also that we are well positioned to deliver falling back to 2.67 in June.
In August, acquired 1,626,058 such shares in long-term growth and to capitalise on DMGTs A shares were caught up in a treasury for 5.6 million.
We have sharp rise of cyclical stocks, increasing performed well in a turbulent market.
back above 4.60, before closing the year Our B2B group is already substantial in at 4.39.
The share price increased 65% scale and produces healthy margins.
The from the middle of June to our year end.
DMGT will always 99 99 September 2008 and by having long-term suitably in line with shareholders invest in its people in order to grow.
During the year, Joe McCollum, 01 01 refinancing to contemplate until 2013. our Human Resources Director, rolled out Relationships with stakeholders, 02 02 Furthermore, it is our intent to reduce our our new talent review and development other than shareholders 03 03 debt via improved trading performance programme.
We also held our first ever Across the Group we take our corporate 04 04 and disposals.
This vision 05 05 permeates our approach to everything We made several further key 06 06 Resources and influences our outlook on the appointments in order to populate the 07 The Groups main resources are its 07 environment, our employees and on local Group with new superior talent, talent of a brands, reputation, the market-leading 08 08 community issues where we operate.
new era, of a digital age, coming from position of its major businesses and above 09 09 within and from outside the Group.
It is my strong belief that it is 02040 60 80 100 120 140 As one significant example of how our CR 02040 60 80 100 120 140 A&N Media, these included the the obligation of a Chief Executive to leave agenda can have a very beneficial appointment of Richard Titus, who joined a company in a better shape than he found implication for a community RMS has us from the BBC, as chief executive of it in and I realise that the skills required of developed an earthquake risk model AND: from EMAP, Marcus Rich as deputy leaders in our industry ten years ago are 00 which, in the event of an earthquake, 00 managing director of Mail Newspapers: not the same today.
We cannot capitalise assesses the likely number of injuries and 01 01 from News International, Roland Agambar on the future unless we invest in the talent displaced households, the potential 02 02 as chief marketing officer: and from of today, in the leaders of tomorrow.
We fatalities, and the total economic loss.
The 03 03 Alliance & Leicester, Jo Hart as director of understand that superior business humanitarian implications of this are 04 04 shared services.
RMS appointed Philippe performance starts with superior people, immeasurable and while RMSs models 05 05 Stephan as chief technology officer and and it is my overriding priority to ensure are a source of considerable revenue 06 06 generation for its core business, RMS is 07 07 committed to our CR agenda, and to this 08 08 end they are providing, at no cost, advice 09 09 on mitigation programs in six South 05 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 American and Latin American cities 05 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 Performance of DMGT A and FTSE All-Share index regarding engineering and housing relative to values at 30th September 1988 construction in an attempt to minimise the 20 20 damage human and property caused by 18 18 earthquakes in these poorer communities.
16 16 14 14 12 This is just one example of how DMGT 12 10 10 companies are combining innovation and 8 8 their business knowledge to drive their 6 6 commitment to corporate responsibility.
It 4 4 is an attitude that I hope will permeate the 2 2 group at large over the next few years.
0 0 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 For more detailed information on our CR agenda, please see the CR Report on DMGT A FT All-Share Index pages 33 to 36 which makes reference to the policies the Board has adopted in this area, including the Code of Conduct, DMGT dividend history for the period 1988 2009 pence which was introduced in July this year.
We revenue CO m Revenue 2 16% in the year, including the job losses recognise that our businesses have an from the closure of the three regional impact on the environment, be that 06 printing plants.
through our printing operations, offices, 07 transport or other activities.
We are truly 08 DMGT has been operating defined benefit committed to ensuring that, where 09 pension schemes, primarily in its possible, our impact on the environment is 0102030405060 newspaper businesses, for a long time minimised.
and has a reputation for the quality of pension provision for its employees.
The greatest impact we make arises from However, the cost of providing this benefit our printing operations.
Here, I am continues to rise as people are expected pleased to say that we have been diligent to live longer and, more recently, as in measuring and reducing waste in our turmoil in financial markets has reduced usage of materials, and, through our returns expected from investments.
analysis of our carbon footprint, monitoring and improving our efficiency in Given the size of the Companys pension the use of energy.
commitments compared to the size of the Group itself, this cost needs to be We started to measure our footprint in controlled to ensure the financial health 2006 and the graph shown opposite both of the Company and of the pension illustrates that the Groups emissions scheme.
Accordingly, the Board decided have fallen steadily since then.
this year to keep its defined benefit final salary scheme open for current We recently embarked on an energy employees, but to close it to new management and abatement programme, employees with effect from 30th commissioning specialist consultants to September.
The Company also plans to conduct an energy efficiency exercise at introduce a series of measures designed DMGTs head office and an audit of energy to help secure the financial health of this consumption in our five UK print plants.
From 1st October, The objective of the audit was to identify 2009, new employees of A&N Media have potential opportunities for saving energy, been offered a defined contribution plan.
thereby reducing the Groups This is consistent with our other newer environmental impact.
As a result of this and more international divisions where we audit, Head Office carbon emissions have have long believed defined contribution been reduced by 18% annually.
In addition, pension plans to be more appropriate.
energy saving measures and further investment at our print plants, in conjunction with the closure of older more Social and community issues inefficient production units, will, when the Whilst the Group does not have formal project is complete, provide a 40% saving policies in this area, community against our original carbon output.
If this involvement is integral to our business, as initiative proves successful, we hope, well as to the personal motivation of our where financially viable, to implement employees.
We donate money, time and similar projects across the Group.
in-kind donations such as radio airtime and advertising space, and staff actively give time in their communities to a huge DMGT and our employees range of activities, including fundraising, Whilst continuing to invest in talent, the organising events and acting as trustees necessary focus on cost reduction meant to charitable initiatives.
that, regrettably, the number of employees fell by 2,760 from 17,524 at the beginning of the year to 14,764 at the year end, a reduction of 16%.
This is not something we undertook lightly.
The largest components of this arose within Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2009 1994 95 1995 96 1996 97 1997 98 1998 99 1999 2000 2000 01 2001 02 2002 03 2003 04 2004 05 2005 06 2006 07 2007 08 2008 09 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Business Review Chief Executives Review 11 At dmg world media, in general we expect At dmg radio australia, the radio market Information about persons exhibitor demand to be weak with a in Australia is expected to improve with whom the company recovery more likely to be later in 2010 marginally over the next six months with a has contractual or other and into 2011.
Our streamlined operating return to growth mid 2010.
Given the arrangements essential structure and remaining portfolio of robust performance of Nova and the to the companys business.
market-leading exhibitions and restructuring of the Vega stations, dmgra Group companies undertake business conferences will allow the business to expects to capitalise on this improved with a range of customers and suppliers.
maximise its profit and to capitalise outlook.
There is no dependence on any particular quickly on any recovery.
contractual arrangement, other than I firmly believe that we have weathered those disclosed in Note 38 to the Accounts Euromoneys current trading is in line with the storm of this recession in the most as regards ink and printing, where its expectations.
The first quarter of the effective way possible with more of our arrangements are in place until 2015 and new financial year is expected to be the businesses being more geared towards 2022 respectively to obtain competitive toughest: it expects a decline in year-onthe upturn than ever before.
prices and to secure supplies.
year revenues to continue and profits to fall despite the benefit of cost savings Our focus will remain on cash generation As regards the Groups principal implemented in 2009 and favourable and debt reduction, based on an commodity, newsprint, arrangements are exchange rates.
From the second quarter, assumption of no meaningful short term made annually with a range of suppliers to the year-on-year revenue comparatives improvement in the UK economy.
At the ensure the security of supply at the best should become easier, but the point at same time, we will continue to drive available prices, having regard to the need which revenues start to grow again is organic growth through new product for the necessary quality.
Particularly in dependent entirely on the timing and scale development and investments to increase the light of its strategy to create a of any recovery.
The focus on maintaining market share.
diversified international portfolio of media margins will therefore be continued, businesses, the Group is not dependent on although Euromoney has also stepped up We are a leaner and more focused any suppliers of other commodities, nor its investment in new products and company that is well positioned to benefit for its revenue on any particular customer.
electronic publishing to take advantage of from any upturn in the economy and to Distribution arrangements are in place to the recovery when it comes.
ensure the delivery of newspapers to retail outlets.
Within A&N Media, national advertising revenue at Associated in the first eight weeks was down 8% on last year, a much Trends and factors likely better picture than seen in 2008 9.
It is Martin Morgan to affect the outlook still difficult to predict future revenue Chief Executive Given the signs of stabilisation in our trends, but we will benefit from the full markets, I remain positive about the year year effect of the cost and efficiency ahead.
The new financial year has started improvements made during 2008 09 and with trading conditions remaining elimination of loss-making entities.
However, we are leave Associated well placed to capitalise encouraged by the levels of growth and on the eventual recovery in the economy.
opportunities within our B2B operations together with continued signs of At Northcliffe, advertising revenues seem stabilisation within A&N Media.
to have stabilised with a much more consistent weekly run rate.
Cost reduction RMS has already booked a number of will continue to be a focus and further contracts in the insurance linked savings will be made in 2010 as the securities market which is a sign of programme of transformation continues.
improving health of capital markets.
It is As with Associated, Northcliffe will benefit looking to resume the achievement of low from the full year impact of the cost and double digit growth this year.
Our newspaper businesses will also At dmgi, there is some cautious optimism benefit from lower newsprint costs.
of the early signs of a gradual recovery in UK property markets.
We expect our education, energy and financial information businesses to continue to grow strongly.
