Diageo Annual Report 2009 10 Chief executives review 2009 net sales by category 1 11 10 9 8 7 6 2 5 4 3 1 26% Scotch 2009 operating profit before 2 22% Beer exceptional items by region 3 11% Vodka 1 4 4 8% Ready to drink 5 7% Whiskey 6 6% Rum 7 5% Liqueur 8 5% Wine 2009 net sales 9 3% Gin 3 by region 10 3% Tequila 1 11 4% Other 4 2 1 1,156m North America 2 856m Europe 3 645m International 4 164m Asia Pacific 3 2 1 3,290m North America 2 2,750m Europe Excluding Corporate 3 2,286m International Net sales 75m: 4 910m Asia Pacific costs 208m Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Chief executives review 11 While the economic downturn has aff ected all markets, the response of customers and consumers has not been uniform.
Therefore the impact on our business has been varied.
By region, International, North America and Asia Pacifi c have been stronger than Europe.
Of our core global priority brands, Smirnoff, Captain Morgan, Jos Cuervo and Guinness each grew organic net sales.
Those eff orts were supported by a strong year for innovation.
Similarly, two of our largest local priority brands, Buchanans and Windsor, and category brands, Croc, Cacique and Harp all also grew organic net sales.
Conversely, Johnnie Walker faced a tougher market environment.
It sits at a relatively higher Our performance price point and has seen more impact from fide-stocking.
The consumer downturn in demonstrates the Spain, and fide-stocking in a number of resilience of the business markets also aff ected the performance of Baileys.
This has been a very tough year, yet it is In this most diffi cult year I am particularly one from which Diageo emerges with pleased that we have driven value from considerable credit.
Most importantly, we brand additions.
Ketel One vodka, Zacapa were alert to the impact the economic rum and Rosenblum Cellars wine have all environment had on our consumers and performed strongly.
Each off ers an example customers.
The gradual consumer slowdown of Diageos ability to develop relationships with of the early part of the fi scal year became those who have grown the brands sometimes much more pronounced from the Autumn over long periods and deploy Diageo of 2008 onwards.
We moved quickly to expertise to advantage and grow the brands.
review our business and the way in which These additions strengthen our business.
We took action quickly I am proud of the speed at which the to maximise the benefi t of our brand range, organisation dealt with the new realities.
reduce our cost base and refocus marketing We moved quickly to create a business spend as consumer trends changed.
The which is well positioned to manage through changes we put in place were far-reaching these unpredictable times.
The months to and had signifi cant consequences for some of come will continue to be very challenging.
It is right that I should pay tribute But the considerable strengths demonstrated to those aff ected for the way they have throughout this report give me great conducted themselves and continued to confi dence.
I believe that Diageo will continue serve our business well, even in the most to be resilient and that our business will diffi cult of circumstances.
emerge from the downturn still stronger.
In addition to changing our organisation we also made major changes to our marketing activities.
We benefi ted from the decline in media rates to secure better value from the money we spend.
Yet we continued to put resources behind our brands.
The resilience of our performance is, in part, the result of that consistent investment.
It underpins our brand and market positions and has helped us build Paul S Walsh their depth and breadth.
