05 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Chief Executives overview This growth can be directly linked to the continued success of our long-standing strategy.
Mike McCollum, Chief Executive Delivering profitable growth and building value Developing, managing or acquiring additional for shareholders crematoria where possible Our performance in 2009 has been strong with underlying 2009 has seen a number of developments in this area.
operating profits increasing 8 per cent.
This reflects steady At the beginning of the year, we acquired five new crematoria.
growth in funeral operations and strong growth in In addition, we have completed the refurbishment works at crematoria and pre-arranged funeral plans.
Rotherham where we have taken over the operation of the location from the council.
We have also started building a This growth can be directly linked to the continued success new crematorium in Cambridgeshire and since the end of of our long-standing strategy.
the year, started to build a new crematorium in Somerset.
Continued commitment to client service excellence Valuing our people Once again, our survey results indicate that 98 per cent I am very appreciative of the staff that work at Dignity.
of families we serve would either definitely or probably Each of them is involved in a different way, in serving recommend our services.
This continues to be an excellent families at a time of great need with the utmost care, result and is a clear indication of our commitment to client dedication and professionalism.
I am delighted that as a result of our operating performance, Continuing to control our operating costs we have been able to recognise their personal contributions As a Group, whilst revenues have increased 5 per cent, cost again this year with discretionary payments totalling 1.5 of sales and administrative expenses have increased by million, an increase of 15 per cent over last year.
At the heart of our local communities The Groups continued focus on cost control is no better Each of our 546 funeral locations and 30 crematoria demonstrated than in funeral operations this year.
Whilst provide a service that places them at the heart of their revenues have only grown 1 per cent, operating expenses local community.
Our staff and our infrastructure allow have essentially remained flat year on year.
This is an each business to help people through one of the most excellent performance given the business has relatively difficult times in their lives, with compassion, respect, high operational leverage.
Selective acquisitions of additional funeral locations I am proud that Dignity is the company that so many Seven funeral locations have been acquired during the families know that they can trust at their time of need.
Whilst this is fewer than recent years, the locations continue to add shareholder value from the time of acquisition.
National marketing, principally through affinity partners, of pre-arranged funeral plans I am pleased that our focus on cost efficient marketing has delivered such strong results, with the division adding a net 12,000 plans to the backlog of unfulfilled plans, which now stands at 216,000.
The majority of these plans continue to represent incremental business to the Group.
