Operating and financial review Chief Executive Of cers review Driven to deliver... a pro table business model I am delighted to report another exceptional set of results.
With likefor-like sales growth of 8.4% across 501 mature stores 2008: 10.0% in 450 stores, an increase in system sales of 16.0% to 406.9m 2008: 350.8m, and a record 55 new store openings 2008: 52, we are in a great position as we enter a new decade and our twentyfifth year of operating in the UK.
Chris Moore Chief Executive Of cer We continue to succeed, even in the current harsh economic HIGHLIGHTS conditions, because of our unrelenting focus on the quality of our pizzas, intense devotion to service and by marketing Like-for-like sales to our customers when and where they want to order.
It is this passion that has delivered pro t growth of 27.8% to 29.9m 2008: 23.4m and that will continue to drive our 8.4% business in years to come.
2008: 10.0% Our franchisees businesses are also more pro table than ever.
Average weekly unit sales in our mature stores have New stores opened risen by 8.4% and average pro t by an incredible 23.4%.
It is this win-win relationship that ensures our franchisees are as motivated as we are to push the boundaries of their business.
55 2008: 52 Passionate about winning E-commerce sales We know that if we want to keep our existing customers and attract new ones, we have to be better than we were before.
Every day, every week and every year, our franchisees and their store teams raise their game.
We were delighted 40.4% to see the manager of one of our Irish stores win the 2008: 73.7% International Manager of the Year title in 2009.
This is 4 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 R E N E A K T C A I H L I T F A E T G S U A F P I R T N E C Operating and financial review Take a fresh look: from eld to front room MOZZARELLA CULTURE CLOTTING ENZYME MILK PASTEURISATION STANDARDISATION CURDLING DELIVER TO COMMISSARY PACKING DICING BRINING EXTRUSION VINE-RIPENED TOMATO SAUCE TOMATOES WASHING CRUSHING HEATING REFINING DELIVER TO COMMISSARY POUCH FILLING PASTEURISATION EVAPORATION FRESH DOUGH PART 1 WHEAT CLEANING CONDITIONING GRISTING, MILLING, REDUCTION & SIFTING DELIVER TO COMMISSARY FRESH DOUGH PART 2 DOUGH INGREDIENTS DISTRIBUTE TO FRANCHISEES PACK ALL INGREDIENTS REFRIGERATE DIVIDE & ROUND MIXING COMMISSARIES PIZZA ORDER Dominos FRANCHISEE ORDER TAKEN HAND STRETCH DOUGH SAUCE & TOPPING OVEN BAKE OTD 13.4 MINS DELIVERY Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc 5 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Driven to deliver... because were passionate about winning A WINNING COMBINATION The show has created some real stars and the fervour Our sponsorship of Britains Got Talent created by Susan Boyle had a massive impact with people has proved to be a real inspiration staying at home to watch the tale of this undiscovered Scottish talent unfold.
We had great creative around our for the business, with the 2009 final sponsorship and couldnt be more delighted with a year of being the biggest show on ITV in the the partnership still to come.
Combined with the recession last five years.
The series nale had a and a greater number of people choosing to dine in, the sponsorship was a winner for Dominos on a whole number peak audience of 19.3m viewers.
6 D 6 Doommiinnooss PPiizzzza a U UK K & I & IR RL L plc plc A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t & A & Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 20 200 09 9 Operating and financial review Chief Executive Of cers review continued the third year running that Dominos UK and Ireland has beaten off competition from every corner of the globe to take this award.
This drive for gaining customers has also fuelled our aggressive opening programme.
During 2009, we opened a record number of stores with 55 new branches of Dominos appearing in the UK and the Republic of Ireland 2008: 52, including our first mobile unit.
We have also had phenomenal success in areas with smaller household counts such as Devizes and Glastonbury.
In previous years, these locations might have been seen as too small to warrant a store yet we have seen incredible opening weeks, followed by sustainable, above average, weekly sales.
The combination of newly identi ed smaller locations, a record number of openings in 2009, and the availability of good properties at sensible rents, leads us to make two changes to our store opening targets.
The Company now plans to open 55 new stores every year and we have moved our target number of stores from 1,000 to 1,200 by 2021.
This year has also seen a new tactic in our marketing programme with the launch of a number of short-term, value-led promotions.
We understand the need to offer value in the current economic climate and promotions such as Two for Tuesday have been key drivers, especially in attracting new customers.
This year we delivered to around 3.4m households, an increase of 18.9%.
In addition, our sponsorship of Britains Got Talent took on a whole new dimension with the Susan Boyle phenomenon.
With viewing gures for the show exceeding everyones expectations, the three-year sponsorship proved to be a well-timed decision and still has a year left to run.
Passionate about service Our passion for service is well documented and we continue to focus on the time we take to make, bake and deliver our million custom-made pizzas.
During the year, our stores delivered an extra 5.4m pizzas, yet our average out-the-door OTD time the time taken for a pizza to be ready to leave the store has decreased further to 13.4 minutes 2008: 13.7 minutes and our average delivery time is now an incredible 23.0 minutes 2008: 23.4 minutes.
19.3 peak audience for the Britains Got Talent final D Doommiinnooss PPiizzzza a U UK K & I & IR RL L p pllc c 7 7 A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t & A & Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 20 200 09 9 Driven to deliver... because were passionate about service INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS They seized upon the opportunity to invest their own We might have over 600 stores, money and develop a bespoke mobile food unit capable of but there were still some places where producing 240 pizzas per hour to feed the hungry hoards.
Complete with triple ovens and a cold room, all on an we couldnt get to our customers articulated truck, the unit has already broken the global outdoor music events for example.
But record for sales from a single Dominos mobile unit.
When this was no barrier for Sean Geddes running at capacity, the unit has up to 11 people working at one time and the Dominos spirit means they entertain and Chris Forrester two Scottish the crowd while they wait too.
It is a great example of how franchisees.
Dominoids are passionate about service.
8 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Operating and financial review Chief Executive Of cers review continued We have also continued to develop our online business and during 2009 we celebrated the tenth anniversary of our e-commerce platform with record online sales.
As part of our commitment to e-commerce, we also launched a new application to make it easier for customers with iPhones to get their favourite pizza and we launched the pizza tracker system so web customers can follow the progress of their pizza along the makeline, through the oven and on the road.
E-commerce now accounts for 27.8% of UK delivered sales 2008: 23.2% and in 2009 online orders in the UK and Republic of Ireland increased by 40.4% 2008: 73.7% to 78.5m 55.9m.
During the week in which we celebrated 10 years since launching our e-commerce offering, over a third of all orders were taken online.
In support of this activity, we have increased our online marketing and, both corporately and at store level, have a major presence in the social media eld with Facebook pages, Twitter accounts and our own YouTube channel.
Another great example of the Companys commitment to service is with the development of our first mobile unit.
This was the brainchild of two Scottish franchisees who believed that they could provide a high quality and nancially viable service to large events such as music festivals and sports events.
The result is a mobile unit capable of doing 240 pizzas per hour.
This has raised the bar in terms of branded food at these types of events.
The unit has already broken the world record for weekly sales from a single Dominos mobile unit and expectations are high for future years.
Passionate about quality Without a fanatical commitment to product quality and menu innovation, our great service and excellent marketing would be pointless and this dedication to ensuring we provide the best pizzas, side orders and desserts has been a key driver in our commissary development programme.
During the year, we have completed work in our Penrith commissary with the installation of a new spiral chiller.
This piece of equipment is used to cool the dough to the correct storage temperature and has cut production time as well as producing a better, more consistent dough ball.
Work on the new Milton Keynes commissary at West Ashland continues apace and the capital investment is almost complete.
The new equipment is being installed and we expect it to be fully up and running by the end of the second quarter of 2010 following three months of testing.
240 pizzas per hour Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc 9 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Driven to deliver... because were passionate about quality INVESTING IN THE BEST Part of this commitment has been our commissary You can have great service and investment programme, including the development of our fantastic marketing but if your new commissary at West Ashland, Milton Keynes.
The new centre will support our plans to grow to 1,200 stores by customers dont like the end product, 2021 and will be up and running by the end of the second its all pointless.
With that in mind, we quarter of 2010.
We have also improved our Penrith are constantly looking for delicious new commissary with the addition of a new spiral chiller, which cools the dough to the correct storage temperature in a innovations for our menu and ways to third of the previous time.
ever improve the quality of our pizzas.
10 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Operating and financial review Chief Executive Of cers review continued We have also continued to work with our existing and new suppliers to ensure the quality and consistent supply of raw ingredients, toppings, side orders and desserts.
We have several xed contracts in place to protect us against uctuating food costs and exchange rates and we have challenged our suppliers to look at reducing the saturated fat and salt content of our products in line with our commitment to the Food Standards Agency.
During the year, we launched a new website, www.
co. uk, to focus on the quality and provenance of our food and to provide a source of extensive nutritional and allergen information for customers.
We will continue to develop this site and use it to communicate with our customers around the food agenda.
The Company also continues to focus on quality in store with new and improved training programmes including nationally recognised quali cations.
Over 900 franchisees million and team members went through our training facilities in Milton Keynes and Ireland during 2009, with many more bene tting from in-store and regional training courses.
Our stores have also reaped the rewards of an extensive re t programme and 70 stores were refurbished during the year complete with new fascias, improved customer areas, and more visible food preparation areas.
75 pizza combinations Passionate about relationships Finally, we view our relationships with our franchisees, customers, suppliers, shareholders, employees and every other stakeholder that interacts in some way with Dominos as a key business driver.
We continue to develop our relationship with our franchisees through regular communication and face to face meetings as well as a detailed business review programme.
As a result of our commitment to this win-win relationship, 68 stores in 2009 had a turnover in excess of 1.0m 2008: 47 and all 20 of the Top 20 international stores in terms of sales are located in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
As a result of our franchisees success, interest from potential new franchisees has increased and we recruited 18 new franchisees into the business in 2009.
The franchisees we have recruited are from a variety of backgrounds and have joined the system with a view to owning more than one store in the future.
Many of the new franchisees have bought existing stores from those looking to leave the system and the average number of stores per franchisee now stands at 4.5 2008: 4.2.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc 11 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Driven to deliver... because were passionate about relationships GROWING WITH OUR FRANCHISEES We look to our franchisees to continue to open more We pride ourselves on our relationship stores and we were delighted to have our 600th store, with our franchisees and we continue on Londons High Holborn, opened by one of our longest standing franchisees.
Amir Zarinabad and his business to strive to improve our partnership partner Ajaz Mirza opened the store in December 2009, further.
When they are happy, were bringing their total store count to 13.
Nowhere is the old happy, and thats why we do everything adage that the whole is greater than the sum of its parts more tting than at Dominos.
we can to continue to grow their businesses and their pro tability.
1122 D Doommiinnooss PPiizzzza a U UK K & I & IR RL L plc plc A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t & A & Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 20 200 09 9 Operating and financial review Chief Executive Of cers review continued th 600 We are also passionate about our relationship with our shareholders and, to that end, have been delighted this year store opening to return 18.1m to shareholders through a combination of dividends and share buybacks.
With the capital expenditure on the new commissary now almost complete, we will continue this programme of share buybacks and progressive dividends in the future.
Going forward It is clear that as a company we will continue to be Driven to Deliver, despite the fact that yet again we are up against some incredibly tough comparatives.
Our compound growth over the last five years has been exceptional and we are committed to building on these results to add value to our shareholders, franchisees and employees.
There is a strong desire for expansion by our existing franchisees as well as a signi cant number of new franchisees wishing to enter the system.
This demand, combined with our recent successes in smaller locations and the availability of good properties at sensible rents, has led us to accelerate our store opening plans and move our expectations from 50 to 55 new stores each year.
We have had an exceptional start to 2010, with like-for-like sales for the first six weeks up 11.0%, despite the snow in the early part of the year being a mixed blessing.
While encouraging people to stay at home, which is good for our business, the extent and severity of the conditions caused large numbers of stores to cease deliveries to protect driver safety.
While we are delighted with this early performance, we face some very tough comparatives particularly in the second half and an unpredictable economic environment.
Despite this, we are con dent that we are well-positioned for another year of strong growth.
Chris Moore Chief Executive Of cer D Doommiinnooss PPiizzzza a U UK K & I & IR RL L p pllc c 1 13 3 A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t & A & Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 20 200 09 9
