BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW We have taken action aimed at underpinning the Groups future results in these challenging trading conditions.
In 2008 09, the Groups results were significantly affected by an external environment that worsened as the year progressed.
Adjusted operating profit at 94.0 million was 21.4% lower than in the previous year.
All our business segments felt the impact of lower demand for their products and services as a result of the general contraction in economic activity.
This weakening of demand gathered pace in the second half of our financial year.
Profit before exceptional items and tax was 72.5 million 2007 08: 111.0 million.
As previously advised, the Group has incurred operating profit exceptional charges in the year of 50.6 million 2007 08: SUMMARY OF THE YEAR 1.9 million of which 23.6 million are non-cash impairment charges, principally related to our associate business in Ukraine and our packaging operation in Turkey.
After exceptional items, the Group made a post-tax GROUP loss of 11.2 million.
After exceptional cash costs the Group was cash generative, reflecting our ongoing focus on cash management.
Adjusted profits down: a robust performance given the economic conditions We have taken action aimed at underpinning the Groups future results in these challenging trading conditions.
In December, we announced an Strong cash flow action programme focused on cost reduction and cash generation.
This Significant restructuring under way programme is now well advanced and we are on course to achieve the expected annual benefits of over 26 million per annum.
The programme Full-year dividend reduced has an up-front cash cost of circa 27 million, giving a payback period of just over one year.
The programme includes restructuring activities PACKAGING designed to improve performance in currently underperforming products and territories, together with actions to optimise performance in areas of Successful modification and start-up of our machine producing strength.
We remain committed to exiting non-core businesses and smaller lightweight CCM at Kemsley businesses which consistently underperform.
Weaker demand affected all our markets  2007 08:57.2million reflected the costs of the conversion of New Thames Mill, acquired in UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging results were impacted February 2008, which now forms part of our Kemsley paper manufacturing by the fall in CCM prices operation.
This expenditure is enabling the Group to compete strongly in Strong performance in continental Europe the growing market for lightweight packaging.
In the coming year it is anticipated that net capital expenditure will be held below 50 million.
OFFICE PRODUCTS WHOLESALING The net deficit on our defined benefits pension schemes increased by 83.5 million to 138.0 million, the principal component of which is Slow-down in demand across Europe the UK defined benefit pension scheme.
We are keeping the position UK reinforced position but margins under pressure as regards the deficit of this scheme under review.
It was closed to new members in April 2005.
Continental Europe good performance, particularly in Germany and Italy The Groups adjusted return on average capital employed was lower in 2008 09 at 9.3% 2007 08: 12.9%.
Our returns were affected by both the general business environment and by the inherent cyclicality of parts of ASSOCIATE our business, especially corrugated case material CCM.
Our target is Exceptional charge taken to impair fully the carrying value to exceed the Groups estimated pre-tax weighted average cost of capital of Rubezhansk of 11.8% over the industry cycle.
The actions taken to reduce costs and conserve cash, together with the ongoing development of our strong market positions are aimed at achieving our targeted returns.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 7 BUSINESS REVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED The Group extended its financing facilities in August 2008 with the renewal Our UK box business produced a good result in a market that weakened of its five-year syndicated revolving facility of 287.5 million previously considerably in the second half of the year.
Our emphasis on the FMCG 250 million.
As a consequence, the weighted average maturity of the sector and higher value-added products assisted our performance Groups committed borrowing facilities, as at 30 April 2009, was four significantly, when compared to the UK corrugated industry as a whole.
Continental European Corrugated Packaging Despite lower volumes, sales revenue increased to 363.4 million OPERATING OVERVIEW 2007 08: 346.0 million reflecting the benefit of movements in Our two activities, Packaging and Office Products Wholesaling, are exchange rates.
Operating profits increased to 30.4 million 2007 08: managed through a decentralised structure.
20.3 million, assisted by reduced CCM costs.
In France, our corrugated box business increased its operating profit, thanks to efficiency improvements PACKAGING and our ongoing focus on higher value-added sectors of the market.
Across Europe, packaging demand fell progressively throughout the year.
Despite poor market conditions, our Italian business performed well The current level of market decline is at levels that are unprecedented in primarily as a result of its strong position in the FMCG sector.
Packaging demand in the fast-moving consumer goods FMCG operation performed very strongly as a result of continued sales growth sector has held up better than in the industrial sectors and we have benefited and a good product mix.
Market conditions in Turkey remain particularly from our actions in recent years to focus on this area of the market.
depressed and we have taken an impairment charge of 5.0 million Lower box demand has caused CCM prices to fall significantly.
This is against the assets of our Turkish business.
putting some pressure on box prices.
Profits at our Ukrainian associate business, Rubezhansk, were significantly The cost of our key raw material, waste paper, declined during the course affected by an exchange rate loss incurred as a result of the devaluation of the year, however, this is now rising as a result of renewed demand for of the Ukrainian Hryvnia against the US dollar.
Rubezhansk has a US waste paper from the Far East, especially China.
The current cost of waste dollar denominated loan of $87 million related to its investment project paper is high relative to CCM prices.
Energy costs followed a similar to increase its paper capacity and develop a capability to produce trend, declining during 2008 09 and now moving upwards.
Currency movements on the loan resulted in an exceptional loss of 5.1 million.
Reflecting the issue with the loan, an Profits in our UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging operations declined exceptional charge of 18.1 million has been taken to impair fully the significantly, reflecting not just lower demand but also our high exposure carrying value of our investment in Rubezhansk.
There is no recourse to in the UK to movements in CCM prices.
Results in our Continental European the Group in relation to the loan.
The cumulative net cash cost of our Corrugated Packaging business were very good, with its performance investment in Rubezhansk has been less than 5 million, after taking into being assisted by its status as a net buyer of CCM and by the strength of the euro.
account the acquisition investment less the dividends received.
Rubezhansk continues to trade profitably and to generate cash.
We are continuing to Profits in Plastic Packaging declined as a result of lower demand.
We have work with our partner and the lending banks to resolve the position in a relatively large exposure to the industrial sector in this product area.
UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging Plastic Packaging In 2008 09, the UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging segment, which Including the positive impact of foreign exchange translation, revenue accounted for 37.3% of Group revenue and 54.0% of Group average in Plastic Packaging increased by 6.0% over the year to 236.9 million capital employed, reported a slight increase in revenue to 785.8 million 2007 08: 223.4 million and adjusted operating profit fell to 2007 08: 753.2 million.
Revenue benefited from a tolling contract with 7.0 million 2007 08: 10.7 million.
The returnable transit packaging the previous owner of the New Thames Mill.
This revenue supported the RTP sector experienced lower profitability due to reduced demand.
fixed costs of the site during the period when the mill was being converted RTP volumes were impacted by the decline in economic activity across to produce lightweight CCM.
Operating profit was lower at 36.5 million all our major markets: beverage crates, automotive and construction.
2007 08: 68.5 million, primarily due to reduced sales volumes, the reduction in CCM prices and a weaker paper sales mix during the second The liquid packaging and dispensing LP&D sector saw increased volumes half of the year.
Overall profits were ahead of the prior year but Severnside Recycling, which supplies the waste paper raw material for our prices remained under pressure.
Our US business in this sector performed own recycled paper mills, experienced a small decline in profit on slightly well.
In Europe, further restructuring has taken place, which, will reduce lower sales volumes: this was due to the reduced availability of waste as a the cost base during the current year.
The benefits of this action will consequence of the slow-down in the economy.
Sourcing of the additional augment the benefits that will be derived from the restructuring of our raw material required for the new lightweight CCM production capacity at German bag-in-box operations, which was completed in April 2009.
Severnside is continuing to expand its activities and has secured a number of new retail customers.
OFFICE PRODUCTS WHOLESALING Overall revenue increased by 11.7% to 720.5 million 2007 08: Our UK paper business was significantly affected by the lower demand for 644.9 million, reflecting some sales growth combined with the translation both CCM and plasterboard liner, the latter due to the sharp decline in the benefits of the strong euro.
The trading environment became progressively construction sector.
Margins were also put under pressure by the relatively more difficult as the year progressed: this resulted in fide-stocking and high cost of raw materials.
In general, demand for paper to supply boxes down-trading by both our customers and end-users.
We have increased to the FMCG sector has performed better than that relating to the industrial sales, almost entirely in electronic office supplies EOS, which is a sector.
We have been producing high-quality lightweight CCM at Kemsley since January 2009.
This project was completed on time and with a very growing, but lower margin, sector of the market.
The decline in the favourable customer reaction to the products performance.
non-EOS or traditional products market has continued.
com BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING In Spicers UK, turnover increased but operating profit came under significant and increasing pressure.
This was due to much lower sales of traditional products, as well as the highly competitive nature of this market.
A number of actions based on improving the sales mix and lowering costs are under way to reverse this downward trend.
In the continental European businesses, which account for just over 50% of Spicers total revenue, profit was slightly ahead of the previous year, assisted by the strength of the euro.
Difficult trading conditions for our more established businesses depressed both revenue and operating profit, but results were good relative to their markets.
Our developing German and Italian operations continued to grow both their revenue and profit.
George Adams, who has taken up the role of Chief Executive of Spicers in June 2009, brings with him a wealth of relevant business experience both in the UK and Europe as well as a good understanding of the Spicers business.
The current year will be testing, especially in the UK, but Spicers is well placed to take advantage of improved economic circumstances, due to its strong market positions.
STRATEGY The Group has two distinct activities, Packaging and Office Products Wholesaling.
The Board regularly reviews the structure of the Group.
Each activity has a well-established strategy.
The key elements of these strategies are described in detail on pages 10 and 11.
We believe that progress in the implementation of these strategies has contributed to our robust performance in 2008 09.
In addition, in the current difficult economic environment, we believe our strategies have established a strong base from which we can develop further when activity levels improve.
We will continue to drive for progress in the implementation of our strategies, but given the current outlook for the trading environment, the pace of development is likely to be slower.
OUR PEOPLE The employees of DS Smith have shown themselves to be not only tough but also resilient, in the face of the most difficult trading conditions seen in a generation.
I feel confident in saying that because of their dedication and resourcefulness we have performed at levels above those which might otherwise have been expected.
OUTLOOK Economic indicators continue to show a global economy in recession.
The timing of any recovery remains uncertain.
Although it is early in our financial year, trading is in line with our expectations.
Our consistent strategy to build leadership positions is standing us in good stead in the downturn and we are confident that this, combined with the continued implementation of our action programme, will underpin our results.
We expect to benefit strongly from the upturn when it arrives.
TONY THORNE Group Chief Executive DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 9
