Dunelm Group plc Annual report & accounts 2009 03 Chief Executives review Trading opened three further stores since the I am delighted to report continued year-end in Norwich, Londonderry and successful growth of the Group during the Broadstairs and we are contractually last financial year.
Our overall sales committed to nine more units which are increased by 8.2% over the financial year, or due to open over the next twelve months.
We also have numerous further Like-for-like sales calculated by comparing opportunities under negotiation.
With stores which have traded throughout the little occupier demand for big box retail last two financial years recovered from a warehousing space, we believe that we are decline of 5.6% in the first half to end the well positioned to continue our store year just 0.5% down significantly beating roll-out programme over the next few the overall homewares market.
years whilst maintaining our disciplined and demanding approach to return I firmly believe that Dunelm remains the on investment.
leading multiple homewares specialist in We see an the UK.
We intend to maintain our success Whilst expanding our superstore chain by pursuing the four priorities which have towards our medium-term target of at increasing number constituted our strategy since flotation.
least 150 superstores, we continue to look for opportunities to relocate our older high of opportunities Priority 1 growing the store portfolio street shops.
The superstore opening in We opened six new superstores in the year, Worcester replaced our high street store to grow the at Huddersfield, Newtownabbey, there, leaving us with 12 high street stores.
Plymouth, Worcester, Workington and superstore Llanelli.
We continue to receive very Priority 2 developing the customer offer favourable customer reaction to all of our We know that it is essential for us to portfolio without new openings and are pleased with trading continue improving our retail proposition.
in all of these locations.
Altogether the We are as passionate as ever about giving compromising chain of 82 superstores as at the year-end Simply Value For Money to all our provided 2.4m square feet of selling space.
customers a combination of price, our long-term choice, quality, product availability and We see an increasing number of friendly service.
opportunities to grow the superstore portfolio without compromising our We have introduced a number of long-term financial returns.
We have developments in our offer over the past Annual General Meeting Financial statements Governance Business review Dunelm Group plc Annual report & accounts 2009 04 Chief Executives review continued year.
For example, we have launched an approximately 0.5m per store, with in-store processes more efficient.
We are arts & crafts section in a number of stores, payback anticipated in approximately 35 also seeing improvements to our customer and have grouped together various existing years.
We have received a good response offer directly supported by IT, for example ranges to create a new laundry & cleaning to these refitted stores both from the forthcoming launch of a gift card.
We now also offer add-on services customers and from our store teams.
in many stores for example, we deliver We are taking steps to underpin our products to customers homes and fit them Priority 3 growing Dunelm Direct medium term expansion plans by securing when required.
Dunelm Direct is the name we give to our additional leasehold space at our central multi-channel strategy.
Sales from our warehouse in Stoke, where we have an We have responded to the difficult website www.
com have option over 100,000 square feet of economic environment by increasing the grown well over the last financial year.
We warehousing to supplement the 250,000 proportion of special buys available for expect this to continue in the coming year square feet we currently occupy.
We customers, and have introduced some as we are about to relaunch the site on a anticipate moving operations into this additional space during 2010.
Our capital additional short-term product promotions new technology platform which will expenditure to fit out new warehousing under the banner of Miss It Miss Out.
improve the shopping experience and give space is not expected to exceed 2m.
us a much stronger technological base to In our new and refitted stores, we now build upon.
As our business grows, we will also need include a dedicated Dorma area, following to expand our head office facility.
We are our acquisition of rights to the Dorma brand Also on this new technology platform will investigating the possible purchase of in July 2008 Dorma is a high-end home be a new website for Dorma www.
freehold land in the neighbourhood of textiles brand with strong heritage in bed co. uk which will act as a showcase for the our existing base in Syston, Leicester.
We have successfully Dorma brand, stocking all Dorma products, This is a long-term project and any new retained Dormas royal warrants following whether Dunelm exclusive designs or building is unlikely to be ready for the acquisition, have refined the branding products distributed under licence by our occupation until 2011. and have developed an exciting new range third party partner.
of Dorma bed linen designs exclusive to Outlook Dunelm.
We have also begun to apply the Whilst it is still early days for our Dunelm For the first 10 weeks of our financial Dorma name to other product categories Direct growth strategy we think the year, to 12 September, total sales growth such as bathroom and table linen.
investment we have made over the last has been 26.5% and like-for-like sales financial year will give us a strong and have grown by 16.1%.
Gross margin has We have continued investing to improve scalable platform on which to build.
remained strong, with an increase of the shopping environment in our older 180bps year-on-year.
We completed six refits in the Priority 4 exploiting our infrastructure last financial year and intend to continue We continue to extract further benefits from We are very pleased with the start to our refit programme at the rate of 510 our past investment in IT systems, enabling our new financial year.
We are confident stores per year.
To date the cost has been us to improve stock control and make Focused on growing Dunelm Direct 11,000 Our webstore has been relaunched with over 11,000 products Dunelm Group plc Annual report & accounts 2009 05 that our Simply Value For Money proposition will continue to appeal to customers in the current economic climate.
Our product ranges are suitable for all budgets and tastes.
Our business is not significantly reliant on big-ticket purchases our average basket remains below 30.
In addition, the relatively weak state of the commercial property market gives us good opportunities to roll out our offer to more locations.
Having said all this, we recognise that it will be very challenging to maintain our recent trading performance as like-for-like sales comparatives start to strengthen, and economic factors including the planned increase in VAT and anticipations of public spending reductions and rising unemployment potentially subdue consumer spending.
Nonetheless, the business is in excellent health, we are confident of continuing to grow our market share and we remain excited about our growth prospects in the medium term.
Will Adderley Chief Executive 15 September 2009 Annual General Meeting Financial statements Governance Business review Dunelm Group plc Annual report & accounts 2009 06 Focusing on growing our store portfolio 85 Superstores located throughout the UK
