12 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Q&A with our new CEO Drew Johnson Drew Johnson was appointed Q3 as our new Chief Executive What is the biggest challenge facing you as Chief Executive?
He For any business thats growing as quickly as eaga, answers some questions about its always a priority for us to remember the key success the progress and future of eaga.
factors that have brought us this far as we expand.
Were competing for, and winning, new contracts across the country and the challenge for me is to maintain that customer-focused approach throughout all of our business Q1 units.
As a company weve grown up with a clear set of values, placing our customers at the heart of everything What is your background how long have you we do as we grow and diversify into new areas of business, been with eaga?
its critical that we dont lose sight of those foundations of our success.
Ive been with eaga since 1991, so almost twenty years now.
Prior to coming to eaga, I worked in supply chain logistics at British Coal, where I began my working relationship with John Clough, eagas previous Chief Executive.
John brought me to Q4 eaga, and I worked closely alongside him in the commercial What do you think are your key priorities for the next development and growth of the business.
Over the years, Ive led eagas commercial expansion Weve grown and developed an impressive platform for the strategy, identifying and driving forward opportunities for business both in terms of geographic spread and in terms acquisitive growth, at the same time I have ensured that of the range of products and services were able to deliver.
businesses such as eagaheat, our central heating subsidiary, The challenge for us now is to really drive that platform and have grown organically from a standing start in 2004 to secure additional new work: both in our core markets with a business now turning over more than 70m annually.
our existing customer base and into new markets as we take advantage of the scale and the infrastructure weve built.
Q2 The priority has to be on maintaining our momentum, during our growth by maximising the number of What do you see as eagas main strengths?
opportunities that are out there, whilst at the same time ensuring that we select the right opportunities to go for: One important strength is that we operate in very attractive, ones that will add value to our contract portfolio and sustainable markets the demand for proven outsource strengthen our reputation for delivery with key audiences providers, established national deliverers of heating and as well enhancing as our profitability and sustainability renewables and sources of scalable residential carbon as a business.
eagas infrastructure, customer-focused approach and track record for delivery means that were really well placed to continue growing in these markets.
Our most important asset is our ability to understand and meet the needs of our customers whether thats central or local Government or a major energy supplier, we know what is driving their agenda and can shape and alter the services we provide to meet those needs.
Our Partners bring this ability to life.
Their professionalism, dedication, flexibility and focus on customer service is crucial to our success.
Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 13 Q5 Q6 What sort of company would you like eaga to be in five What makes eaga different?
First, our business is structured in such Its important that we retain some of the key characteristics a way that the interaction between our business segments that have taken us this far remembering that our ability adds real value to the component parts were able to to anticipate, understand and deliver on the needs of our maximise the expertise and the commercial relationships customer base should always take priority.
Their requirements that exist in different parts of eaga to bring value to the and the products and services we deliver on their behalf, whole Group.
Second, our focus on our values-driven will inevitably change as the underlying conditions change approach is important it drives everything that we do.
whats important for us is that were ready to meet those changing priorities ahead of time.
eaga Partners are recruited, developed and retained based on the strength of their ability to live those values, and in turn To do that, its vitally important that we have the right that drives forward excellent service for our customers.
management structure and leadership team in place to deliver: building on the strong unit we have now and Finally, I think were different because we act on the things supplementing it with the right people to capitalise on we stand for.
Our commitment to our communities, to the opportunities that are out there.
sustainability and to the customer group we serve is real: it runs through the heart of the business and it adds real Above all else, Id like the business in five years time value to the commercial proposition we bring.
Our ability to be continuing to maximise the opportunities that to not just keep this alive, but re-energise and refresh it as present themselves by leading the way in its core we grow, is hugely important.
markets driving excellent customer service in the BPO arena: implementing at scale the domestic heating and renewable energy technologies of the future and continuing to provide the innovative residential carbon saving solutions: all of which will drive our growth.
