16 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 q Chief exeCutives statement introduction this is an exceptionally This has been an important year for easyJet.
The business has traded resiliently during a recession and easyJet was one of the few airlines globally to make a resilient performance, which profit this year with an underlying pre-tax profit of 43.7 million.
Revenue grew by 12.9% to 2,666.8 million, this strong performance partially offsetting is a tribute to the strength the 30.5 million reduction in interest income and the 86.1 million increase in unit fuel costs equivalent to 1.63 per seat.
of our business model and We have strengthened the fundamentals of the business, with improvements the quality of our people in network quality, lower cost deals with key suppliers and enhancements to easyJet.
com giving easyJet a great platform for profitable growth in the and our network.
medium-term from which to achieve a 15% return on equity.
The Board has also agreed a fleet plan which will deliver around a 7.5% growth per annum in seats flown over the next five years.
This fleet plan will enable easyJet to grow its share of the European short-haul market from around 7% to 10%.
Our people We have outstanding people, including our front line cabin crew and pilots who are highly trained and professional.
They all make a crucial contribution to our success and help to create an easyJet personality which is an important competitive advantage.
I would like to thank them all for helping to deliver such a resilient performance in very difficult economic circumstances.
We aim to have an open and egalitarian environment where everyone is valued for their contribution to easyJet.
We consider it important to protect and develop this culture as the airline grows into a large pan-European business.
Balancing the imperative for cost efficiency and supporting our culture in a pressurised and uncertain economic climate has been particularly challenging in 2009. marketplace review easyJet operates the leading network in European short-haul aviation, measured by presence on the top 100 routes.
Around 200 carriers compete in the European short-haul market and the top five players, including easyJet, account for around 60% of seats flown with the rest of the market being highly fragmented.
Whilst the average growth of the market over the past 20 years or so has been 4.5% per annum, in the past year overall capacity in the European short-haul market shrank by around 5% as airlines sought to mitigate losses andrew harrison driven by higher fuel costs and falling demand.
easyJet continued its strategy Chief Executive of carefully targeting growth in markets from which weaker competitors are retreating in this period of recession.
Thus easyJet is building strong, defendable market positions that will ensure it is well positioned for profitable growth once the European economy improves.
Consequently, easyJet gained market share in the year and passenger numbers grew by 3.4% to 45.2 million and load factor improved by 1.4 percentage points to 85.5%.
easyJet strengthened its position in a number of valuable markets including Paris, London Gatwick, Milan and Madrid, increasing its slots at constrained airports by over 10% in the year.
Regulatory update In March 2009, the UK Competition Commission confirmed that BAA would be required to sell a number of its airports.
Whilst easyJet welcomes the break-up of BAA and the recently confirmed sale of Gatwick, the London airports will continue to be monopolies, regardless of who owns them, due to the lack of spare capacity in the market.
The sale highlights the need for tough and effective airport regulation to protect airlines and passengers from the new owners exploiting their market power.
easyJet continues to advocate the immediate reform of UK Air Passenger Duty APD, which taxes passengers rather than flights, into an emissionsbased tax, and the phasing out of APD when aviation joins the European Emission Trading Scheme EU ETS in 2012. easyJet was an early advocate of aviations entry into the EU ETS as an international, market-based solution to ensuring aviation addresses its climate change responsibilities.
We now look to 17 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Overview Business review q Governance Accounts Other information Competitive forces substitutes acting on the european High speed train development across Europe has strong political backing airline industry and will continue to replace flights with short sector lengths.
However such development is only economically viable on major trunk routes under 1,000km that do not cross water.
suppliers internal rivalry Buyers Airports are natural monopolies and, Consolidation over the past year has Consolidation of the network airlines despite regulation, have passed on lowered the competitive pressures on and the demise of the business class higher charges to airlines over the last Europes leading airlines.
easyJet and only start-ups has diminished the two years.
Airlines continue to have Ryanair are increasingly dominant on choice for consumers on long-haul.
little control over their fuel costs but short-haul whilst long-haul travel is On short-haul easyJet is now providing use hedging tools to lower volatility.
increasingly dominated by just three consumers with an alternative to the airlines: Air France-KLM, Lufthansa flag carrier at primary airports but the and British Airways.
Transatlantic joint reduction in capacity by the tour ventures between STAR and Skyteam operators and weaker airlines has alliance members are also serving to strengthened Ryanair and easyJets reduce internal rivalry.
new entrants Access to financing has deteriorated substantially over the last year which makes it unlikely that we will see many new entrants in the medium term.
Source: Deutsche Bank the Copenhagen Climate Summit in December to produce a sensible global easyJet continued to actively manage its network by optimising routes.
During agreement on aviation and climate change.
Such a global agreement should the past year, 28 underperforming routes were closed and 70 new routes recognise efficiency standards for aircraft, with the emphasis on planes utilising were launched.
easyJets presence on the top 100 routes increased by six modern, more environmentally friendly technology.
following our entry onto routes such as Rome to Milan and Paris to Barcelona.
Overall, easyJets capacity measured in seats flown grew by 1.8% during the Business performance year, with an increase of 16% in mainland Europe, focused on France up 30%, easyJet delivered a resilient performance in a tough and uncertain macro Italy up 78% and Spain up 16%.
easyJets capacity at Gatwick grew by 12%, economic environment this year by continuing to focus on the four themes partly driven by the full year effect of the GB Airways acquisition on 31 January we outlined in the Interim report: 2008.
Capacity was reduced in weaker performing markets such as Luton and the UK regions.
1 air transport network uK q Focus on margins through driving revenue and managing costs At Gatwick, easyJet is now the leading airline with 39 based aircraft and a 30% q Management of cash, capital expenditure and fleet share of the airports passengers and we continue to leverage that position to absorb competitive pressures.
Longer sector routes are performing well and q Mitigation of risk from volatility of fuel prices and currency rates slots acquired with GB Airways were optimised in the period with business orientated routes being allocated to peak slots and leisure routes moved to Development of europes no.
1 air transport network later in the day.
We are winning the competitive battle on traditional sun easyJets unique differentiator is its network, with a leading presence on the routes with excellent load factors, albeit with weaker market pricing.
easyJet top 100 routes in Europe and positions at primary airports that are attractive has also benefited from legacy competitor withdrawal on key business routes.
easyJets network has appeal across a broad At Belfast, competitors are in retreat and both yields and load factors range of European consumers both leisure and business.
Additionally, half improved towards the latter part of the year.
We had a strong performance of easyJets passengers now originate from outside of the UK.
This balanced at Manchester, where we now have three aircraft based.
In addition, we have revenue base has protected easyJet from the worst effects of recession and proactively reduced capacity at other UK bases which deliver below Company allowed us to win share from higher cost competitors.
18 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 q Chief exeCutives statement COntinueD easyJet has also leveraged its scale and the recession to renegotiate some key northern europe contracts with suppliers.
Overall capacity in the European short-haul market In Germany, we improved the schedule during the year.
Additional additional is shrinking and as one of the few carriers in Europe growing capacity, easyJet capacity has been added on routes to Milan, Copenhagen and Brussels from is well placed to secure better terms at airports.
our Berlin base, which has improved our appeal to business travellers.
We closed the base at Dortmund but profitable routes were retained.
Following a global tendering process, easyJet has selected Zurich-based SR easyJet celebrated its tenth birthday in Switzerland in the past year where Technics for airframe maintenance support of easyJets core Airbus fleet for a we have 12 aircraft based.
easyJets position improved as competitors came period of 11 years.
The agreement, valued at more than $1.6 billion, provides off key routes and we expanded flying between Switzerland and the French easyJet with a reduction in maintenance costs excluding engines of around regions and Scandinavia.
175 million over the life of the contract.
SR Technics will provide a range of services including aircraft maintenance, component repair and overhaul, and southern europe logistics management for easyJets core Airbus fleet.
easyJet has 13 based aircraft at Milan and we continue to outperform the A significant portion of our cost base is determined by governments and competition, with significantly stronger load factors.
easyJet has opened regulatory bodies, in particular, navigation costs and charges at regulated a base at Rome Fiumicino with three aircraft based there operating on both airports.
We have increased our focus on these costs by constructively intra-European and Italian domestic routes.
Madrid delivered improvements engaging the governments and regulators that set them.
Alongside our work in load and profitability in the year as competitors continued to retreat and at Gatwick and Stansted, areas of particular focus have been the regulatory we optimised our schedule.
easyJet now has 14 aircraft based in France and charges at the Paris airports and Amsterdam, UK navigation charges and the is Frances second largest airline with a 10% market share.
France continues to wider European approach to navigation costs.
Looking forward, we will sustain be an attractive market for easyJet as low cost carrier penetration is half the this involvement and seek to further develop our influence across Europe.
European average and the market consequently has structurally higher fares.
management of cash, capital expenditure and fleet focus on margins through driving revenue fleet plan and managing costs easyJet is making good progress towards its goal of operating a common easyJets strategy is growth with margin improvement and therefore the aircraft fleet.
Eliminating the Boeing and GB Airways sub-fleets will take management team continually focuses its efforts on all three drivers of cost out of the business and simplify our operations.
margin, namely yield, ancillaries and costs.
The intention is to exit all aircraft in the two sub-fleets by 2012 to complete Margins in the past two years have been severely impacted by higher fuel the realisation of ownership cost savings of around 40 million per annum.
prices with an aggregate 5.71 1.63 in 2009 increase in unit fuel costs, 12 Boeing 737s and four GB Airways A320s were returned to lessors in the albeit profit per seat has only declined by 3.47 due to the strength of the past year.
The sale of the seven A321s from the GB Airways sub-fleet continues revenue performance.
to progress with three A321s disposed of in the year with an associated profit In the past year, easyJets industry leading revenue performance, has been on disposal of 11 million.
It is anticipated that the remaining A321s will leave driven by proactive aircraft allocation into stronger markets such as Gatwick the fleet by September 2010.
The five A319s previously held for sale have and Milan, and good commercial management especially in pricing, promotion been returned to the fleet and will be used to support our mainland and route selection.
In addition, easyJet is benefiting from its efforts to target the business travel In the past year, easyJet took delivery of 15 A320 aircraft and 20 A319 aircraft market with around 15% of business passengers now originating through under the terms of the Airbus easyJet agreement.
Configured with 180 seats, business orientated distribution channels.
Business customers tend to book the A320 will enable us to increase our capacity at peak times at slot later, paying around 20% more than the average fare for their easyJet flights.
Also, the aircraft operates with a cost per seat that is around 6% lower than the A319.
Ancillary revenue income grew by 38% to 9.77 per seat.
The checked bag charge averaged 4.51 per seat, an increase of 1.73 per seat in the year and The total fleet at 30 September 2009 comprised 181 aircraft.
A further 70 other ancillary revenues grew by 0.97 to 5.26 per seat.
Going forward, easyJet specification aircraft deliveries are currently planned for arrival over the easyJets in-flight revenues will benefit from the introduction of electronic next three years, a net increase of 26 aircraft over this period giving an expected point of sale equipment onboard and food offerings tailored by market and total number of aircraft of 207 by 2012. easyJet has a high degree of flexibility in designed to appeal to a broader range of consumers.
Improvements in its fleet planning arrangements and thus is able to manage the total number of website presentation should also result in improved conversion rates for aircraft in the fleet through a combination of deferrals and lease extensions.
Future deliveries It is vital that easyJet aggressively manages its cost base so that it can continue including Un- 6 to offer competitive fares profitably.
Operating costs excluding fuel, per seat exercised exercised rose 3.9% at constant currency in the year principally due to increased sector Under Under purchase purchase length, the planned lower aircraft utilisation over the winter as we mitigated operating finance Changes in rights rights Owned lease lease Total year note 1 note 2 margin dilution due to higher fuel costs and price increases at Gatwick which have cost around 10 million this year.
easyJet A320 family 103 46 6 155 35 72 88 In the second half of the year, we saw improvements in aircraft ownership and Boeing maintenance costs.
easyJet also delivered improvements in its operations 737-700 17 17 12 information technology infrastructure in the year and key systems to support the crew efficiency programme have now been implemented.
We have now GB Airways reviewed our progress against the 125 million cost savings target identified in A320 family 4 5 9 7 2 2008 and believe there is greater potential to take cost out of the business.
107 68 6 181 16 74 88 Based on the financial results for the year ended 30 September 2009, we have updated our targets and now expect to deliver cost savings of 190 million by Note 1: The 72 future easyJet deliveries are anticipated to be delivered over the next four financial years, 27 in 2010, 22 in 2011, 21 in 2012 and 2 in 2013. the end of financial year 2012.
After inflation and increases in regulated airport Note 2: Purchase rights may be taken on any A320 family aircraft and are valid until 2015. charges this will equate to approximately 1 per seat profit improvement.
19 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Overview Business review q Governance Accounts Other information 3 The total fleet plan over the period to 30 September 2012 is as follows: GB Outlook easyJet Boeing Airways Whilst economic conditions remain challenging for consumer facing A320 737- A320 Total businesses and in particular airlines, easyJets scale, low cost and highly At 30 September: family 700 family aircraft efficient business model and strong financial position will ensure it is 2008 120 29 16 165 able to take advantage of the current recessionary period by: 2009 155 17 9 181 q driving cost out of the business: and 2010 182 8 2 192 q carefully targeting capacity increases and share gains in valuable 2011 194 2 196 markets across Europe ensuring that easyJet is well positioned 2012 207 207 to exploit profitable growth opportunities when economic conditions improve.
Note 3: Assumes assets held for sale are sold in financial year 2010.
4 5 easyJets pre tax result in 2010 at current fuel prices and exchange rates Cash and capital expenditure will benefit by around 100 million from lower fuel prices as higher price easyJets cash and money market deposits as at 30 September 2009 fuel hedges roll-off, slightly offset by a strengthening US dollar.
exceeded 1 billion reflecting continued strong cash flow generation: Capacity, measured in seats flown, for both the first half and the full additionally, easyJet has sufficient resources in place, through a combination of year is expected to increase compared to the prior year by around undrawn committed facilities and surplus cash, to fund future aircraft deliveries 10% as easyJet continues with its strategy of carefully targeting growth.
for at least the next 18 months.
In the year, gearing increased from 29% to The current expectation is that competitor capacity on easyJet routes 38% reflecting increased debt-financed capital expenditure as we continue will be down by low single digits.
the replacement of our Boeing sub-fleet.
Naturally, the impact of unemployment is expected to lead to some yield mitigation of risk from volatility of fuel prices deterioration over the winter.
With over 45% of the available first half seats now booked, total revenue per seat at constant currency in the first half of and currency rates the year is expected to decline by a few percentage points compared to the easyJet operates under a clear set of treasury policies agreed by the Board.
The aim of easyJets hedging policy is to reduce short-term earnings volatility 6 and therefore the Company hedges forward, on a rolling basis, between 50% Total operating costs per seat, excluding fuel, at constant currency are and 80% of the next 12 months anticipated requirements and between 20% expected to be broadly flat for the full year and up low single digits in the and 50% of the following 12 months anticipated requirements.
In the past year, first half of the year compared to the prior period.
Improvements in easyJets fuel hedging caused an adverse variance to market rates of around maintenance, crew and overhead costs will offset the mix impact of 330 million, partially offset by a benefit of around 120 million from its US our continued growth in primary airports.
Details of our current hedging arrangements are shown below: We expect a reduction in interest income of around 10 million compared Fuel US dollar euro to the prior year due to continued lower interest rates, which will mainly  impact the first half result.
Percentage of anticipated requirement hedged ment ment sale 6 months ended 31 March 2010 72% 65% 87% We see a tough winter ahead.
We are focusing our efforts on further cost savings and efficiency programmes, together with optimising route Rate $769 MT $1.78 1.17 profitability and aircraft allocation.
We shall also benefit as our fuel hedges 6 months ended 30 September 2010 61% 38% 76% 4 adjust to market prices.
Putting all this together, at current fuel prices and 5 Rate $732 MT $1.64 1.14 currency rates, we expect easyJet to make substantial profit improvement during 2010.
Year ended 30 September 2011 22% 20% 35% Note 6: Excludes interest income.
Rate $722 MT $1.62 1.08 andrew harrison Chief Executive
