CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW WE HAVE MADE SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS IN IMPLEMENTING THE GROUP'S STRATEGY PARTICULARLY DEVELOPING THE ELECTRONICS AND E-COMMERCE OFFERS Ian Mason Group Chief Executive and improve performance.
A more consistent, streamlined and OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY IMPLEMENTATION cross-regional approach has been introduced.
Headcount has been reduced and resources have been reallocated from sales to marketing The Group is the leading high service distributor to engineers and from off-line to on-line activities, in keeping with the Group strategy.
worldwide, having been the first to globalise its operations.
In addition, the senior management team in Europe has been 65% of sales now come from our markets in Continental Europe, strengthened during the year with the appointment of the North America and Asia Pacic and 40% of the Groups sales are previous UK General Manager to lead the region and the creation via the e-Commerce channel.
The Group distributes the broadest of a European Executive Management team.
In Asia Pacific the range of technologies to electronics engineers and has the leading region, which has doubled its sales since 2003, has been reorganised high service offer for maintenance engineers worldwide.
These to create a more efficient and exible structure to better serve offers are supported by a world class global infrastructure its customers.
While the worsening macroeconomic environment has impacted The Group faced markedly different trading conditions between the results, particularly in the second half of the year, the Board believes first half and the second half of the year.
In the first half the Group that the International business has significant growth potential in all of achieved sales growth, cost leverage and profit growth.
During its three regions: Asia Pacic, Continental Europe and North America.
the second half, general macroeconomic conditions deteriorated signicantly, and this adversely impacted the Groups performance.
Accelerate the development of the Groups electronics As a result of the worsening macroeconomic environment during and maintenance offers the year, we have accelerated the implementation of the strategy The electronics offer to our customers was signicantly enhanced and also focused on maintaining the financial strength of the business.
We successfully launched our electronics production The 281m bank renancing was concluded during the year, robust packaging capability across the UK, Europe and Asia Pacic.
This new financial metrics were maintained and actions taken to reduce costs.
capability is aimed at customers with small batch production needs, allowing them to order the quantity that they need in tubes, trays and The Group aims to build upon its strong foundations and in continuous strips.
The range available now totals 50,000 products.
May 2008, the Board reviewed its strategy and identied four key areas to drive future performance.
The electronics product offer has been expanded with 10,000 new electronics products from leading suppliers being introduced during Focus on International markets the year.
We now offer the broadest stocked range of Panasonic Accelerate the development of the Groups electronics products in Europe of any high service distributor with some 1,700 and maintenance offers new products added to our existing passive components range.
In Exploit the full potential of e-Commerce April 2009, we signicantly increased our European stocked range Leverage the Groups global infrastructure and increase of Texas Instruments products bringing the total range on offer to operating margins 11,000 products, with over 95% of the products available in production During the year we have made significant progress in each of packaging format.
To date sales of both the Texas Instruments and these areas, particularly in the development of the electronics Panasonic ranges have grown strongly.
Further product launches from and e-Commerce offers and in reorganising our Continental Europe leading electronics suppliers are planned for the next financial year and Asia Pacic regions.
across the UK, Continental Europe and Asia Pacic.
A number of actions have been taken to more competitively position Focus on International markets our electronics offer with a significant number of electronics product During the year the Continental Europe and Asia Pacic regions prices being reduced during the year.
have been reorganised in order to implement the strategy faster Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 3 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued THE ELECTRONICS TEAM HAS BEEN STRENGTHENED TO DRIVE THE STRATEGY The electronics division was strengthened during the year with Our focus has been on the three drivers of performance: visitor the appointment of a former senior executive of Memec, the global numbers, visit-to-order conversion and average order value.
There semiconductor distributor, to lead the division.
The central electronics has been a 25% increase in unique visitors to RS sites which has team has been expanded in order to drive the electronics strategy been enabled by the acceleration of our paid search programme.
globally with a consistent and focused approach supported by our Search-to-order conversion has increased by 60% across the UK strategic suppliers.
and Continental Europe due to the improved search and browse capability which was introduced during the year.
Cross selling We continue to improve our offer to maintenance engineers.
This programmes, including new accessory and customer also includes more targeted and effective promotion of specic ranges, viewed links as well as the availability of own brand alternatives, supported by strategic suppliers with combined web activity, joint have increased average order value.
Off-line costs have been reduced sales visits and customer referrals.
Further progress is being made in as the e-Commerce channel has grown and on-line services have strengthening our strategic supplier relationships which are providing been enhanced.
In September 2008 My account functionality our customers with improved product ranges and joint e-Commerce was introduced, which allows customers to track parcels and offers.
During the year, our higher margin own brand range was manage their administrative details.
expanded and sales outperformed the market.
New ranges of low energy and long lasting lighting products have been introduced in New leading edge e-Commerce functionality has been added Europe which combined with successful sales and marketing during the year.
The website is now available to mobile phone users campaigns have seen our lighting range outperform the overall in the UK, Continental Europe, North America and Asia Pacic: a first business.
We have also leveraged our global sourcing capability for a high service distributor.
This provides mobile phone users with to improve product costs.
the ability to place orders, search, view prices, check stock availability and access technical specications and images.
Exploit the full potential of e-Commerce e-Commerce provides our customers with an improved service offer Leverage the Groups infrastructure and increase operating through the provision of more tailored information, rapid introduction margins of new products, the provision of a wider product range and benets We have world class global infrastructure and systems including from the deepening of our supplier relationships.
It also allows the a global e-Commerce platform, integrated systems, centralised business to reduce off-line costs.
purchasing and supplier management and global inventory, logistics and supply chain management.
We have significant e-Commerce capability in the Group with a single web site platform which supports our UK, Continental Europe and While Group operating costs, at constant foreign exchange rates Asia Pacic businesses, and real time links to transactional systems reduced in 2009, the cost reductions principally in the UK and Europe which allow our customers to experience on-line stock visibility were partially reinvested in the strategically important areas of Asia and weekly content updates.
We have built a large on-line customer Pacic and electronics.
base with over 1.5 million unique visits per month to the RS sites.
A significant proportion of the Groups operating cost base is xed We have signicantly enhanced the Groups e-Commerce offer which does not vary directly with sales.
This enables cost leverage in the last year and have made a step change towards becoming to be delivered when sales increase, as was the case in the first half an e-centric business.
Underlying e-Commerce revenue increased by of the financial year.
However, it also requires such cost to be reduced 10% in the year.
The e-Commerce share of Group revenue increased when sales decline.
Therefore actions were taken principally in the from 31% to 36% year on year and exited the year at around 40%.
final quarter of the financial year which will achieve annualised cost In North America e-Commerce revenue grew by around 45% in the year.
savings of 18m, including a net reduction of around 500 employees, 4 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 OUR FOCUS which represents around 8% of the total headcount, as well as other INTERNATIONAL significant measures to reduce costs.
1 MARKETS These actions have been taken across all regions of the business.
They have been enabled by the increasing e-Commerce channel share, strong control of discretionary spend, redistribution of activity between the Groups two UK warehouses and exploiting the benets THE CUSTOMER of our systems infrastructure.
2 OFFER Maintain financial strength In the current difficult macroeconomic environment, the Board is determined to maintain the Groups financial strength.
The business delivered a strong cash ow of 78m, which was 4% higher than MAINTAINING the prior year and represented 118% of profit after tax.
In addition, the Group has robust financial metrics with interest cover of 3 FINANCIAL STRENGTH 13 times and a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.7 times.
This provides us with significant headroom between these financial metrics and the banking covenants.
The headroom between net borrowings and committed bank facilities at 31 March 2009 was 111m and the vast majority of the bank facilities do not mature until September 2012.
Ian Mason Group Chief Executive Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 5
