BUSINESS REVIEW Chief Executives Review The diversity of products, customers and served markets enabled Filtrona to perform well in 2009, reflecting the strength and quality of the businesses.
The impact of the increased Filtrona is a leading international supplier of speciality net finance charge on earnings per share was a reduction of plastic and fibre products with four operating divisions: 1.1p per share.
Protection & Finishing Products, Porous Technologies, Coated & Security Products, and Filter Products.
From its global network During the year, there was a continued intense focus on costs of 29 principal manufacturing facilities, 41 sales & distribution and productivity improvement.
Headcount for continuing operations and six research & development centres, and with operations reduced by 281 in the year to 3,160 with the 3,160 employees, Filtrona focuses on the light manufacture and principal reductions taking place in the Protection & Finishing distribution of high volume, small but essential products to a Products and Filter Products divisions.
On a constant wide range of customers, across diverse geographies within a exchange rate basis, revenue per employee increased by broad, but targeted range of international markets.
The diversity of products, customers and served markets Within Protection & Finishing Products, the manufacturing enabled Filtrona to perform well against the back drop of operations in the Skiffy, Amsterdam facility were successfully the global downturn.
As expected, the recession restricted transferred to the Moss operation near Oxford.
Within Coated the pace of organic development within the Company & Security Products, the Mold ID card operation was closed and given the sensitivity of some of Filtronas businesses to production operations were relocated to Banbury.
In addition, consumer demand and manufacturing activity.
In this context, the small ID card business in Madrid, Spain was closed.
In the achievement of operating profit growth in three of the four Filter Products division, a major downsizing of the facility at operating divisions, at constant exchange rates, demonstrates Jarrow on Tyneside was announced and phased reductions the strength and quality of the businesses within Filtrona.
were progressed through the year and will be completed during the first half of 2010.
The costs of this major restructuring in the The Company was able to make further progress in its year were 5.5m of cash and, with additional non-cash costs strategy of optimising its portfolio of businesses and, to this of 3.4m, totalled 8.9m.
These major restructuring costs are end, the disposal of Filtronas North American Plastic Profile shown separately by virtue of their size and incidence.
& Sheet business was announced in March for a maximum consideration of up to US$115m.
The Company also continued Early signs of recovery have been seen in the Protection & to explore acquisition opportunities in its higher growth Finishing Products division and success with new product and higher margin divisions.
As a result of being outbid at an introductions in the Porous Technologies division is advanced stage of one such opportunity, 1.9m of transaction continuing.
Continued resilience in the Coated & Security costs have been written-off and are presented separately by Products and Filter Products divisions is expected and, while virtue of their size and incidence.
the profile of the global economic recovery is currently unclear, the Board looks forward to Filtronas performance in The Company successfully refinanced its long-term funding 2010 with confidence.
The new facilities comprise threeyear term loans of 84.7m and US$35.9m and a three-year Strategy US$143.7m revolving credit facility.
At the year end, the value Filtronas strategic goal is to continue to grow profitably for of the facilities was 186.5m.
The higher fees and margins the benefit of its shareholders by investing organically in each associated with these new facilities, combined with higher of its divisions and by acquisition within its higher margin, pension interest, led to the 3.2m increase in the net finance higher growth potential businesses.
10 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I BUSINESS cORpORatE FINaNcIaL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNaNcE StatEMENtS Divisional strategic positions Resilient, profitable and Higher return with cash generative recovery upside Porous Technologies Filter Products Protection Coated & Finishing & Security Lower growth and Commodity orientated lower return with recovery Growth potential Size of bubble scaled with 2009 EBITDA During 2009, the Company disposed of the North American Plastic Profile & Sheet business which has released financial resources to assist in the pursuit of this strategic goal.
Filtronas strategic approach is to build on its core competencies and strong international positions through the investment in, and acquisition of, businesses which are engaged in the development, manufacture, sourcing and distribution of high volume, low unit cost, small but essential products for use in consumer, medical and industrial markets.
The Company will seek to acquire in known markets which fall within the existing scope of, or are complementary to, the operations of existing businesses within the Group.
The identification and successful exploitation of markets which offer significant value addition and growth opportunities through product innovation, distribution, service and cost improvements are integral to the future development of Filtrona as the Company seeks to enhance the competitive position of its global businesses.
Filtronas key served markets, as shown in Figure 1 on page 14, represent important industrial and consumer product segments with a bias towards more defensive markets.
Filtronas top ten customers in 2009 represented 41.7% of revenue.
In 2009, the geographical destination of the Companys revenue was as shown in Figure 2 on page 14.
The Rest of World segment includes many of the lower cost manufacturing and higher growth regions such as India, Indonesia and China.
This segment represents 28.4% of revenue in 2009, up from 24.3% of revenue in 2008.
11 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I Return on operating assets BUSINESS REVIEW Chief Executives Review How weve measured up in the delivery of our strategic priorities Grow profitably dELIVERING SUccESS 2009 pROGRESS cOMpaREd WItH 2008 ` The growth in underlying operating profit before tax % provides the key measure of the performance of the 1.1 Company over time ` The analysis of annual revenue demonstrates the Companys ability to grow sales by operating % in selected markets and offering differentiated, 2.8 cost competitive products and services ` Operating margin monitors operating efficiency and % value added 0.5 ` Underlying cash inflow from operating activities reflects the Companys ability to turn profit into cash % through the effective management of working capital 9.2 and capital expenditure Invest organically dELIVERING SUccESS 2009 pROGRESS investments in: ` Strategic decision to maintain levels of marketing investment with Protection & Finishing Products ` Sales & marketing to increase demand and attract new customers ` Cross-selling of foam and fibre technologies within Porous Technologies ` Generation of positive lead indicators for 2010 ` Research & development to secure new and innovative ` Generation of healthy pipeline of innovative new products and services products and services in several key markets ` Continued project development with strategic partners ` Strong sales of new products in Coated & Security Products and Porous Technologies ` Infrastructure to provide the cost competitive delivery ` Skiffy manufacturing transferred to Moss facility in UK of high quality products and services ` Renovation of Porous Technologies Reinbek, Germany facility ` New Payne laboratory at Nottingham, UK ` New development facility for Filter Products in Indonesia 12 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I BUSINESS cORpORatE FINaNcIaL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNaNcE StatEMENtS acquire in selected markets dELIVERING SUccESS 2009 pROGRESS ` Identification of corporate transactions to enable ` Outbid at final stages of significant acquisition further focus on higher margin, higher growth opportunity potential businesses ` Completion of Lendell integration ` Sale of North American Plastic Profile & Sheet business Build on core competencies dELIVERING SUccESS 2009 pROGRESS ` product innovation ` Continued success with the launch of new products and services ` customer service ` Further improvements in quality standards and delivery performance ` Operational efficiency ` Benefits derived from cost reduction and productivity improvements ` International capability ` Further strategic development of flexible infrastructure to strengthen capability to meet customers demands deliver long-term value dELIVERING SUccESS 2009 pROGRESS cOMpaREd WItH 2008 ` Return on average invested capital reflects the success of the Company in achieving superior returns on its 150bps invested capital ` adjusted earnings per share measures the benefits generated for shareholders from the Companys overall % 8.1 performance ` dividend payment for year 7.78p as per prior year ` Share price % 38.2 13 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I BUSINESS REVIEW Chief Executives Review Figure 1 2009 Key served markets Figure 2 Geographical spread of revenue 54.0% Tobacco 48.3% Europe 8.4% General Industrial 28.4% Rest of World 4.7% Writing Instruments 23.3% North America 3.8% Healthcare 2.8% Oil and Gas 2.3% Point of Purchase 2.2% Construction 21.8% Other Adjusted earnings per share fell by 8.1% to 14.8p 2008: 16.1p, Excellent cashflow reflects the as a result of the reduction in operating profit and a 3.2m increase in the net finance charge.
Basic earnings per share fell by 38.5% strength of Filtronas market to 9.1p 2008: 14.8p due to 10.8m of previously announced positions and cash generative charges shown separately, which included major restructuring costs, primarily in the Filter Products division, of 8.9m and 1.9m business model.
Sustained of fees associated with being outbid at an advanced stage of a significant acquisition opportunity.
investment will assist future growth.
Net debt reduced by 75.0m to 107.1m 2008: 182.1m, due primarily to the strong operating cash flow and the 54.0m net cash proceeds from the disposal of the North American performance Plastic Profile & Sheet business which was completed in March At a group level, revenue was up against the prior year by following shareholder approval.
The ratio of net debt to EBITDA 2.8% at 444.0m 2008: 431.7m and down 5.8% at adjusted operating profit before depreciation, share option constant exchange rates.
Adjusted operating profit was down expenses and other non-cash items at the year end reduced 1.1% at 56.2m 2008: 56.8m and down 12.2% at constant to 1.4 from 2.1 at 31 December 2008.
Interest cover was 7.2x, exchange rates.
Adjusted operating margin was a robust compared with 9.6x at the end of 2008.
The delivery of Filtronas strategic priorities is underpinned During 2009, Filtrona delivered operating profit growth, at by focusing on key performance indicators which measure constant exchange rates, in three of its four divisions Porous the Companys progress in the delivery of shareholder value.
Technologies, Coated & Security Products and Filter Products The key financial performance indicators for the Group are set with all three increasing their margins compared to 2008. out on pages 12 and 13.
As well as being used to measure the The one exception was Protection & Finishing Products which performance at Group level, a number of them are also used as experienced tough trading conditions in industrial markets principal quantitive elements in assessing the short-term and generally, and the oil and gas drilling market specifically, long-term performance of the operating businesses.
resulting in a sharp downturn in operating profit and a reduction in margin to 16.7% from 23.3% in 2008.
Given the diversity of Filtronas range of businesses operating across international boundaries, a number of other The robust operating profit performance of the Group, combined performance measures, both financial and non-financial and with improved management of working capital and capital tailored to the individual requirements and characteristics of expenditure significantly below depreciation, led to a strong each business, are monitored and assessed on a regular operating cash flow performance of 72.5m, an increase of basis to evaluate how individual divisions are performing in 28.8% on the prior year.
This represents a conversion ratio response to their key objectives and challenges.
Details of of adjusted operating profit to operating cash of 129%.
key measures for the businesses are detailed in the respective This performance once again reflected the strength of Filtronas divisional reviews.
Working capital as a percentage of Group revenue improved to 13.8% from 14.2% in 2008 at Our responsibility constant exchange rates and net capital expenditure of 10.8m Filtrona continues to operate within a strong corporate was 52% of the depreciation charge of 20.7m.
responsibility framework where activities are managed 14 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I BUSINESS cORpORatE FINaNcIaL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNaNcE StatEMENtS Figure 3 Accident trend injury illness Figure 4 12 months lost time accident trend 3.5 20 3.0 15 2.5 2.0 10 1.5 1.0 5 0.5 Injury illness Near misses stemming from initiatives focused on environmental benefits A responsible culture with and sustainable practices further drive financial performance.
internationally accredited The Company has the ISO14001 environmental accreditation systems.
at all its principal manufacturing facilities and remains a member of both the FTSE4Good Index and the Carbon Trust.
An overview of 2009 is provided in the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 38. to ensure that the Company maintains the high standards which reflect the expectations of the Companys internal and Our people external stakeholders.
Key for delivering long-term value to shareholders is the continued development, skills and commitment of Filtrona The Company manages occupational health by identifying key employees across the world.
This is fundamental to ensuring risk activities, undertaking health assessments and, where the quality and competitiveness of the Companys portfolio appropriate, implementing health surveillance programmes.
The Companys commitment to its The Company has achieved the Occupational Health & Safety employees is reflected in the quality and safety of the working Management Systems standard OHSAS 18001 for all of its environment and the personal development opportunities which principal manufacturing sites, excluding Lendell and Jarrow.
it seeks to provide at each of its locations, without discrimination In accordance with Filtrona policy, Lendell has been given between site or people.
There is a recognition across the Group two years from the date of acquisition to reach the of the potential impact of any business restructuring on affected required standard.
employees and communities and Filtrona handles all headcount reduction programmes with due care and responsibility.
Total accidents and lost time accidents remain two key performance indicators within the Company in recognition of Filtrona strives to maintain the highest ethical standards the primary importance of good health and safety in securing at all times in the conduct of its international operations.
It was particularly pleasing The Companys reputation as an employer is important to that, for the first time, the Filtrona gold standard for health ensure the attraction and retention of suitably motivated, and safety was achieved by no less than seven operations.
The customer and supplier Figures 3 and 4 above demonstrate the improvement in perception of Filtronas values and the standards of conduct Filtronas health and safety performance.
demonstrated by Filtronas employees across a variety of regions and cultures can impact on the development of the Filtrona has developed a responsible, progressive and winning long-term business relationships which the Company has culture.
This culture recognises the role which the Companys maintained and continues to foster.
relationship with all its stakeholders, and its interaction with the environment, has in securing competitive advantage and enhancing business performance across its divisions.
The Mark Harper strengthening of the international reputation of the Filtrona Chief Executive businesses and the quality of their respective brands are 25 February 2010 regarded as real benefits to be derived from the Companys commitment to corporate responsibility.
In addition, cost savings 15 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I 12 monthly moving average Jan 09 Feb 09 Mar 09 Apr 09 May 09 Jun 09 Jul 09 Aug 09 Sep 09 Oct 09 Nov 09 Dec 09 12 monthly moving average Jan 09 Feb 09 Mar 09 Apr 09 May 09 Jun 09 Jul 09 Aug 09 Sep 09 Oct 09 Nov 09 Dec 09
