Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 04 Company Overview Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Review We are pleased to report that Ferrexpo performed extremely well in 2009 in a challenging economic environment.
Overall, demand visibility for iron ore remained poor until the final quarter of the year.
This was exacerbated by a marked decoupling effect with demand from China and other developing regions remaining strong, while demand from developed regions only began a slow recovery in the latter half of the year.
Consequently, no formal settlement of the international benchmark price materialised, exposing us to spot and provisional market prices for much of the year.
Nonetheless, our flexible and responsive marketing strategy, strong customer relationships and access to the seaborne market enabled us to continue to produce and sell at full capacity and to remain profitable throughout the year.
In 2009 Ferrexpo demonstrated its fundamental strength and the resilience of its business model.
Following the collapse in demand for iron ore in Europe in late 2008, a decision was taken to continue to produce at full capacity throughout 2009 to minimise the effect of our fixed cost base on unit costs and to offset this demand weakness in our Traditional Markets with increased sales to China.
This strategy proved highly successful given our access to the seaborne market through our TIS-Ruda joint venture port terminal at Yuzhny Port on the Black Sea and our established marketing presence and good customer relationships in China.
Our mining operations also responded Ferrexpos strong operational performance in 2009 is a well to our strategy for continued high levels of iron ore pellet output, delivering a testament to the Companys fundamental strength and strong production performance both in our successful marketing strategy that has allowed us to terms of absolute output and, in particular, the proportion of higher grade 65% Fe maintain profitability at a time of a worldwide drop in iron pellets produced.
Costs were rigorously ore demand.
controlled by management and our Business Improvement Programme once again achieved notable success in helping In the second half of 2009, there were signs of recovery to reduce unit costs and increase in our key Traditional Markets and we returned to longoperating efficiency.
term contract deliveries which increased margins and Re-stocking by European steel mills in the rebalanced our sales mix.
In 2010, the outlook for iron third quarter of 2009 and a slow recovery ore is positive and we are well placed to capitalise on any in steel demand in the fourth quarter allowed Ferrexpo to rebalance its growth opportunities.
geographic sales mix and to resume supply to its established portfolio of long-term contract customers.
This In the coming year, the Board will focus on resuming marketing flexibility and strong operating development of our growth projects once a recovery has performance during the year delivered a firmly taken hold, while continuing to add capability to solid financial performance enabling the Group to become the only mining project execution and consolidating our strengths in best company with assets primarily in the CIS practice mining and marketing.
to refinance its principal debt facility.
Kostyantin Zhevago, CEO Company Overview Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 05 the depreciation of the Ukrainian hryvnia 2009 Results Our strategy explained and falling oil prices, following which the Revenues for 2009 declined to US$648.7 December 2008 C1 cost was reduced to million compared with the prior year 2008: US$34.7 per tonne.
We were able to US$1,116.9 million.
Earnings before maintain the Groups C1 costs at or below interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation this level for the whole of 2009 as a result EBITDA for the period decreased to of efficiency improvements which offset US$138.1 million 2008: US$503.9 million, cost increases.
Overall, our 2009 and pre-tax profit was lower at US$80.9 1 production and distribution costs ended million 2008: US$375.6 million.
Retain flexibility in the marketing and the year slightly below their 2008 level.
This strict control of our unit costs enabled The price settlement for iron ore pellets production aspects of our operations us to maintain positive margins throughout agreed during the summer of 2009 in order to respond swiftly to 2009 and has provided a strong starting between Vale, the worlds largest pellet changes in the iron ore market point for 2010. producer, and its major customers outside China, reflected a 48.3% decrease in the Cash flow was robust over the year price of pellets compared with the despite the challenging industry 2008 2009 contract settlement.
Net cash flow from operating settlement eventually gained worldwide 2 activities was US$76.9 million.
This was acceptance, although it was not formally after an increase in working capital of recognised by the China Iron and Steel Conserve cash and protect margins which US$24 million related to an increase Association as a benchmark price.
As a through aggressive cost management in overdue VAT.
This is being closely result of this and our strong customer and prudent investment in growth, managed by the Group and it is expected relationships, value-in-use marketing and maintaining the cost competitiveness that VAT refunds will be resumed in 2010, our ability to provide small-lot just-in-time of our existing operations following the expected stabilisation of the deliveries to our Traditional Market Ukrainian economy.
customers, the Group was able to settle the majority of its contracts at around this As previously announced, the Group level from the start of the fourth quarter.
successfully secured a new pre-export The lower settlement price and the 3 finance facility of US$230 million.
The new temporary exposure to seaborne markets facility was drawn down to repay in full the and high freight rates in the earlier part of Leverage our marketing platform amount outstanding on the existing loan.
the year resulted in Ferrexpo achieving an using our strong customer average Delivered at Frontier Free on Marketing and logistics relationships and beneficial location Board DAF FOB price for its pellets of As we reported at the time of our interim to maintain sales volumes and US$66.3 t 2008: US$124.6 t. Importantly, results, in the first half of 2009, 54% of our Ferrexpo remained profitable throughout increase market share in our sales were made to China, the majority of the 2009 downturn and minimised the Traditional Markets these being on a spot market basis.
This reduction in revenues by continuing to high level of spot market activity was increase production of its 65% Fe necessary to counteract the weakness in grade pellets.
demand in our Traditional Markets, but we remain committed to our strategy of selling Lower production in January and 4 the majority of our production on longFebruary, resulting from poor weather term contracts to our well established conditions impacting our logistics chain, Pursue best practice in our mining customer base.
In line with our strategy, was followed by a 10-month period of operations, financial and risk the Group reverted to selling typical record output.
Production of pellets from management and corporate contract volumes to its portfolio of own ore was in line with the record levels governance long-term contract customers when achieved in 2007 and 2008 and, in line economic conditions permitted, which with our strategy, included a higher ratio of occurred in the third quarter.
We shall high grade 65% Fe pellets an increase of retain the flexibility to compensate at 7.2% compared with 2008.
Our mining short notice any further reduced demand operations gave another strong 5 in our Traditional and Natural Markets performance, increasing production with sales in seaborne markets, where efficiency and operating at full capacity Resume modest expenditure on our demand has remained more resilient and despite a cash-constrained environment.
extensive undeveloped iron ore Ferrexpo has a well established presence deposits on a prudent basis to and reputation.
The Groups C1 costs fell by 18.6% to ensure future production growth US$34.4 per tonne in 2009 compared with The Groups strong customer relationships US$42.3 per tonne in the previous year.
have stood it in good stead in the past The significant cost pressures we faced 12 months and we remain committed to for much of 2007 and 2008 were largely maintaining our relationships with our absent in 2009.
We experienced more long-standing customers and supporting stable prices for state-controlled inputs them during the forthcoming period of and lower domestic inflation.
At the same change occurred in the Groups C1 costs time, we have continued to develop new at the end of 2008, primarily as a result of Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 06 Company Overview Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Review continued global market opportunities and in particular we were able to begin supplying Our year in review the north-west Indian region on a spot basis in 2009.
We believe that this could become an important new Growth Market January 2009 February 2009 for Ferrexpo in the future.
The Group has Pellet production reduced as a result of Trading update announcing increased good access to seaborne markets through adverse weather conditions impacting spot sales to China to compensate for the TIS-Ruda Terminal at Yuzhny, our joint the logistics chain weaker iron ore demand in Europe, as venture Panamax port terminal on the Chinese steel mills commence re-stocking Black Sea.
Going forward we are exploring the possibility of expanding the TIS-Ruda New World Resources NV abandons plan Terminal to allow for the loading of larger to purchase a stake in Ferrexpo from vessels up to cape size 150,000 tonnes.
RPG Industries SE its parent company and appoints Kostyantin Zhevago to its Ferrexpo enjoys several unique logistical Board as a Non-executive Director advantages, the most notable of which is our proximity to our key customers.
Our operations in central Ukraine are several March 2009 April 2009 times closer to our principal European Pellet production increased to full No Benchmark Price settlement agreed, markets than most of our global capacity, where it remained for the rest of owing to worldwide lack of visibility of competitors and, as a result, we are in the year demand for iron ore. No contract many cases the lowest cost supplier to settlement is possible, so most our customers.
The advantage of Mike Salamon and Marek Jelinek producers including Ferrexpo continue proximity is enhanced by our location next appointed to the Ferrexpo Board as to sell largely on a spot or provisional to a navigable river and established rail Non-executive Directors pricing basis links to our customers.
By capitalising on this proximity to Traditional and Natural Market customers and our ability to June 2009 July 2009 provide them with continuous small-lot iron ore deliveries, we believe we have Vale, the worlds largest iron ore pellet Ferrexpo enters into talks with its increased our share of those markets in producer, settles pellet prices with its Traditional Market customers for the 2009 and are well placed to further contract customers outside China purpose of settling prices for its consolidate those gains in 2010.
The at a 48.3% reduction on the previous 2009 2010 contracts Group remains Ukraines largest exporter years Benchmark Price.
Although this of iron ore pellets.
settlement is not officially recognised as a Benchmark by China, it slowly Management and people gains universal acceptance during the The Board is deeply grateful for the efforts following months of our management and staff over the past year.
2009 has proved to be a particularly difficult period in the industry and globally August 2009 September 2009 and our staff have risen to the challenge Ferrexpo interim dividend deferred Ferrexpo settles its long-term contracts admirably.
Ferrexpo has come together as pending contract settlements at or about the Vale implied Benchmark, a single entity of great strength and as adjusted for quality and freight for the resilience and our excellent results in the fourth quarter of 2009 and first quarter of face of adversity would not have been 2010 and returns to supplying its portfolio possible if it were not for the tireless efforts of long-term contract customers of our people.
As we have previously announced, Mike October 2009 December 2009 Salamon and Marek Jelinek of New World RPG Industries SE, a large shareholder of Ferrexpo refinances its principal debt Resources NWR joined the Board as Ferrexpo, enters into a Total Return Swap facility, replacing it with a new US$230 Non-executive Directors in March and transaction over 12% of the Company million pre-export finance facility through have been making an invaluable which effectively returns Ferrexpos free a syndicate of leading international contribution.
As part of the arrangement float to above the 25% level financial institutions under which NWR directors sit on the Board, Marek will be retiring from the Deferred interim dividend of US$20.0 The Ferrexpo share price rose 506% Board at this years AGM.
We are most million declared following contract between 1 January 2009 and grateful to him for his contribution to the settlements 31 December 2009 Groups affairs.
Ferrexpo has once again been able to avoid any forced redundancies in 2009 despite the challenging economic climate.
We shall continue actively to manage the size of our workforce over time to Company Overview Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 07 the project and maintain its schedule to close of business on 30 April 2010.
The maximise productivity, but as one of the the extent possible.
It is notable that this dividend will be paid in UK pounds sterling major employers in Ukraine, maintaining stripping was achieved at a cost less than with an election to receive US dollars.
the employment of our people is a priority.
budgeted for in the Yersitovskoye feasibility study.
Outlook Corporate governance and social In 2009, Ferrexpo produced at full responsibility Uniquely among companies in the region, capacity and remained cash flow positive The Group continues to meet the high the Group was able to refinance its and profitable even in the face of standards of corporate governance set by principal debt facility at the end of 2009. dramatically weaker demand for iron ore the Board and we remain committed to The new US$230 million pre-export and steel worldwide.
As the iron ore continuing compliance with the UK finance facility was provided by a market began to show signs of stabilising Combined Code.
syndicate of leading global financial in the second half, visibility increased and institutions and provides Ferrexpo with a Ferrexpo was able to return to long-term The Boards Corporate Safety and Social facility which will enable the Group to contract pricing.
We believe that market Responsibility CSR Committee invest a higher proportion of its cash flow conditions will continue to improve during continues to monitor the management of from operations in its growth projects.
We 2010 with a slow but definite recovery in the Groups health, safety, environmental plan further pre-stripping works at steel demand now evident in Europe.
and community programmes in line with Yeristovskoye and at the expansion of the Encouragingly, Chinese spot prices for best practice for mining companies.
existing open pit in 2010 and will iron ore have stabilised above the current Safety-conscious behaviour has become accelerate the development of all projects contract level and the cycle of fide-stocking more entrenched in 2009 and we are as soon as market conditions permit.
and re-stocking by steel mills is largely pleased to be able to report that there behind us.
were no production-related fatalities at our The outlook for 2010 is considerably more operations this year.
While this represents positive than it was for 2009, marked by The Group has resumed contract sales to good progress, CSR remains a priority increased visibility and strengthening iron its higher-margin Traditional Market and we are pursuing further initiatives to ore prices.
In 2010, we aim to increase our customers, but retains the ability to ensure a culture of continuing cost competitiveness through continuing access the seaborne market to improvement in this regard.
efficiency improvements, while exploiting compensate for any recurring weakness in our strategic location and strong customer these markets.
The Group is exposed to Growth projects and strategy relationships to maintain sales and the positive outlook for iron ore pricing.
In While the Board placed all significant production tonnages and to increase view of higher pricing, we expect Ferrexpo capital expenditure on hold in October market share in our Traditional and Natural to continue to trade profitably and to 2008 in response to the global financial Markets.
Throughout 2010, the Board and increase margins in the year ahead.
crisis, we are pleased to have progressed management will continually assess with critical path items, which have opportunities to accelerate investment into In 2010, the Board will be focused on enabled the Group to maintain a key development projects, in line with the increasing margins and resuming significant level of control over the economic climate.
Our operating, financial development of our growth projects at a schedule of core growth projects.
No and risk management capabilities have modest level while continuing to add material capital commitments were made been proven during the past 12 months capability in project execution and in 2009 as the Group focused its efforts and we are confident that this strategy consolidating our strengths in best on cash conservation and the will optimise value for the Group while practice mining and marketing.
We believe maximisation of production from its effectively protecting it from any further that growth from developing and existing facilities.
The Group nonetheless market downturn.
industrialising nations will continue to considers its major growth projects to be underpin the strong fundamentals of a priority and is working to continue their development in the short-term in order to Dividend global steel demand as demand in leverage off strengthening iron ore prices The Board is of the view that Ferrexpo developed nations continues slowly to going forward.
These core development should pay modest consistent dividends recover.
Ferrexpo is well placed to take projects are focused primarily on the based on continuing profitability through advantage of improvements in the iron ore increase of output, enhancing product the economic cycle.
The Group has markets in both the developed and quality from our existing operations and operations which are cash generative and developing world.
accessing more of the Groups substantial can both support returns to shareholders ore reserves at the Yeristovskoye deposit and form a platform to finance the with the aim of doubling production.
development of its significant world class Michael Abrahams CBE DL undeveloped reserves.
Chairman In 2009, we took the opportunity to review the scope and capital expenditure The Board believes that the business has Kostyantin Zhevago requirements of all these projects and we sufficient operational flexibility to respond Chief Executive Officer believe that we are in a position to reduce to the demands it will face in 2010 and as substantially the capital required for their a result, it is appropriate to continue with a development.
We also spent US$4.6 dividend in line with prior years.
The million on overburden removal at the new Directors therefore recommend a final Yeristovskoye mine, using both local dividend in respect of profits generated for contractors and equipment already the Group in 2009 of 3.3 US cents per purchased by the Group.
Pre-stripping is a Ordinary Share for payment on 4 June critical path item and this capital was 2010 to shareholders on the register at the expended in order to preserve the value of
