CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Dear Shareholders, I am pleased to report a year of significant operational progress: record attributable silver production, the completion of development works and start-up of operations at Soledad-Dipolos, advances at the Saucito project, substantial increase in total resources, and mineralisation extended at our major exploration prospects.
We enter 2010 with a strong cash position and no debt.
These results are the outcome of a strategy designed to create value across precious metals cycles: a focus both on operational excellence in maximising current assets, and on delivering long-term growth through ore reserve replacement and expansion into new projects.
We have a strong foundation upon which to deliver on this commitment to stakeholders: Leadership: The Fresnillo Group is the worlds leading primary silver producer and Mexicos second largest gold producer.
Among our global precious metals peers, we are ranked in the lowest quartile on the cash cost curve.
Leadership is also an attribute exemplied on the ground through our people.
The Groups professionals make a substantial difference in where we choose to explore, how prospects are evaluated, the pace at which projects are developed, the efficiency with which we operate our assets, and the effectiveness of our administrative processes.
Quality: We have world-class, low-cost precious metal assets, including the largest silver mine in the world.
At 31 December 2009 we had double- 4 FRESNILLO PLC 2009 ANNUAL REPORT Focused on increasing productivity, reducing costs, expanding the resource and reserve base, and strengthening our growth pipeline.
digit reserve life at all our mines and attributable reserves 2008 to 37.9 million ounces.
This was largely as a result of of 374.0 million ounces of silver and 4.3 million ounces of an increase in ore volumes milled at Fresnillo, higher metal gold.
This is an indication of the quality of our mine develcontents extracted from the development works at Saucito, opment and exploration efforts.
and higher silver ore grade at Cinega.
Sustainable growth: We have an extensive portfolio of Attributable gold production surpassed our expectations, rising high quality exploration projects and prospects, along with the 4.9% to 276,584 ounces.
Greater throughput at Herradura and largest land position for precious metals exploration and minFresnillo helped compensate for the lower average gold ore ing in Mexico.
In 2009 we once again extended mineralisation grade at Cinega.
Total gold production at Herradura reached at all advanced exploration prospects and further consolidated an all-time record with 259,839 ounces.
Production at Cinega our mining districts.
At 31 December 2009, total attributable has now been stabilised at approximately 100,000 ounces per resources included 1,289.0 million ounces of silver 2008: 1,115.9 year: furthermore, a capacity expansion project was approved Moz and 13.9 million ounces of gold 2008: 12.0 Moz.
Our aim for 2010 with higher production expected in 2011. is to deliver one new mine or mine expansion a year for the next four years, starting with Soledad-Dipolos.
Lead and zinc production, by-products of the Fresnillo and Cinega mines, declined 3.0% and 13.3% against 2008, reThese attributes are backed up by our commitment to sustainspectively, due to lower grades at Cinega.
We have developed a comprehensive health, safety and environmental management system that integrates Market conditions and metals prices evolved favourably personnel training and development.
In addition, we invest in over the course of the year.
By the second half of 2009, gold conservation and biodiversity efforts and closely collaborate with staged a remarkable rally and rose to new historic levels, communities to ensure that our growth is truly sustainable.
while silver largely recovered the ground it had lost at yearend 2008.
For 2009 as a whole, the market price for gold OPERATING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS averaged US$972.98 per ounce, compared to US$871.71 In 2009 we delivered strong performance and made progress per ounce in 2008, while the average market silver price across all our KPIs see KPIs on pages 12 to 15.
Attributwas US$14.67 per ounce, compared to US$14.97 per ounce able silver production achieved a new record, rising 8.8% over in 2008.
WHAT WE EXPECTED TO ACHIEVE IN HOW WE LAST YEARS ANNUAL REPORT PERFORMED Production at Fresnillo: Silver production in line with 2008 rose 4.9% Production at Cinega: Silver production rose 67.3% but gold in line with 2008 production declined 11.5% Production at Herradura: significant 18.6% increase in attributable gold small increase over 2008 production production, 38.5% in silver Completion of construction at Accomplished ahead of time and within budget: Soledad-Dipolos first dore bar poured on 9 December 2009 Pre-feasibilithy study for first stage Accomplished at Saucito: upgrade expansion of ore resources 5 Chief Executives statement LEADERSHIP.
A number of input costs were higher in the year when compared was expanded to receive samples from Soledad-Dipolos and to 2008, particularly drilling steel, sodium cyanide and tyres, but included the installation of an automated sampler system.
the average 21.4% devaluation of the Mexican peso against the We concluded construction of the seventh leaching pad in US dollar meant that costs denominated in pesos, representing 2009 and began work on the eighth, and acquired new mobile approximately 70% of total production costs, were signicantly reequipment to enhance productivity.
duced when converted to US dollars.
Combined with greater ore throughput, this served to decrease costs per tonne at all three DELIVERING GROWTH operating mines.
We also worked more efficiently this year, as Our pipeline of organic growth includes two development projects measured in total equivalent silver ounces produced per person.
and a number of advanced and long-term exploration prospects.
Djg cVcX Va eZg[dgbVcXZ gZZXiZY i]Z XdbW cVi dc d[ Construction was completed at Soledad-Dipolos in December higher average metal prices, excellent operational results 2009, ahead of schedule and within budget.
This project will be and lower costs per tonne.
Adjusted revenues, which exclude an operating mine in 2010, with commercial production having treatment and rening charges and hedging results, rose started in January 2010.
Total annual gold production is expect- 12.4% in the year.
Total revenues increased to US$849.9 miled to be 100,000 ounces, increasing to approximately 130,000 lion, 18.0% higher than at 31 December 2008.
EBITDA rose to ounces in the following years with an investment of US$34.0 US$496.6 million, with a significant expansion in the margin million in mobile equipment and leaching pads.
Net profit attributable to shareholders, prior to Silverstream revaluation effects, At Saucito, the pre-feasibility study for the first phase of was US$308.0 million, 140.8% higher than in 2008. the project was approved in August 2009 with total capital expenditure of US$309.0 million.
Mining operations at this There was a 65-day labour strike at the lead-silver renery of our world-class silver deposit are scheduled to begin in 2011, with 2 customer Met-Mex Peoles, where all products from our mines expected first year production levels of 4.7 million ounces of are shipped under contract.
During this strike we managed to silver and 22,500 ounces of gold gradually ramping up by the export part of our concentrates, precipitates and dore at similar third year of operations to approximately 9.0 million ounces terms with no major financial impact.
of silver and 45,000 ounces of gold.
In 2009, 735,744 ounces of silver and 2,880 ounces of gold were obtained from the develFresnillo plc has no bank debt, and as at 31 December 2009 a cash opment works at Saucito and processed at the Fresnillo mill.
position of US$312.2 million, 47.3% above the 2008 gure, which shows continued strengthening of our balance sheet.
Results from exploration activities during the year were very encouraging: INVESTING IN PRODUCTIVITY AND COST CONTROLS At Fresnillo, we constructed a water treatment plant to treat &, #& b aa dc djcXZh d[ h akZg VYYZY id i]Z gZhdjgXZ WVhZ & # sewage from the city of Fresnillo.
Instead of utilising fresh water &#.
b aa dc djcXZh d[ daY VYYZY id gZhdjgXZ WVhZ & #- [gdb Vfj [Zgh!
i]Z diVi dc eaVcih Vi :gZhc aad VcY HVjX id l aa use treated water, which brings environmental benets to the Of particular note was the preliminary conrmation of ore community and reduces our fresh water consumption costs.
We have accelerated the exploConstruction was completed in 2009 and the plant is now fully ration programme in 2010 in order to determine whether a operational.
We are also constructing a new shaft to extract pre-feasibility study should be conducted.
mineral from the western zone of the San Carlos vein and reduce haulage costs.
The first stage of the project, expected to In addition to organic growth, we also evaluate potential acbe completed in 1H 2011, is progressing according to schedule.
quisitions on an ongoing basis.
These targets must meet strict operational requirements and value creation criteria.
In 2009 At Cinega, we completed the optimisation of the leaching circuit we evaluated a number of acquisitions, none of which were by the year end.
We have already begun to see an improvement considered to be in the best interest of shareholders.
in recoveries, which were further enhanced with the Knelson gravimetric concentrator that started operations in SeptemNonetheless, we are optimistic about new opportunities for ber.
The sinking of the shaft at Cinega a further 300 metres is growth and remain open to potential acquisition opportunities progressing according to schedule and should be concluded in 2H that may arise if they are value accretive to our shareholders 2011: this project will enable us to gain access to deeper ore reand comply with our strategic and financial return criteria.
In addition, an increase in milling capacity from 755,000tpy will commence exploration activities in Peru, which has a rich to 930,000tpy was approved at an investment of US$24.9 million, mining tradition and significant potential for precious metals, which will increase average production to 110,000 ounces of gold having incorporated Fresnillo Per in 2009. per year: this project will commence in 1H 2011.
COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT At Herradura, the expansion of the beneficiation plant to inHealth, safety, environment and community relations pro- 3 3 XgZVhZ i]Z dl [gdb &!
'%% b to 1,600 m per hour was comgrammes are an integral part of the Groups activities.
I am pleted at year end, allowing us to maintain production above pleased to report another improvement in safety performance: 250,000 ounces of gold per year.
In addition, the laboratory once again zero fatalities, and an improvement in safety indices.
2 Since 2006 the primary products from the Groups mines, silverand gold-rich lead and zinc concentrates and dore have been sold to the Peoles Groups rening and smelting facility at Torren, operated by Met-Mex Penles S. A. fide C. V. Met-Mex under a series of supply agreements.
See Customer Relationships in the Directors Report, page 83.
6 FRESNILLO PLC 2009 ANNUAL REPORT Our adherence to domestic and international standards of environmental performance is evidenced by ISO 14001 certication at all mines and exploration ofces.
In addition, Herradura completed the certication process for adherence to the International Cyanide Management Code, and we initiated the process at Cinega.
We continue to enjoy excellent relations with our personnel.
Annual labour negotiations concluded with the agreement of a 6% wage increase, 1% increase in fringe benets and a one-time bonus of 1% of base salary for 2009.
Community investments this year included education programmes and sponsorship of athletic teams, arts and culture.
Worker at Fresnillo mine Efforts to protect biodiversity are considered within our operations planning process, including investments in nursery LEADERSHIP management, reforestation and conservation efforts.
In 2009 Operational excellence Fresnillo plc became a founding member of the Corporate Leadership on the ground, union and non-union alike, keeps Commitment to Wilderness.
This is an initiative of the WILD Fresnillo plc in the lowest quartile of the cash cost curve.
Foundation, an international non-profit organisation dedicated to wilderness protection around the world.
The Company also endorsed the Copenhagen Communiqu, an initiative of the Prince of Wales Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change.
A full description of the Groups sustainability programmes, objectives and performance may be found in the Sustainable Development Report on pages 46 to 59.
OUTLOOK While we are not insulated from continued volatility in the global economy, I am confident that the Group is well-positioned to consolidate its leadership in the global precious metal industry.
We remain focused on increasing productivity, reducing costs, expanding the resource and reserve base, and Fresnillo: worlds largest primary silver mine strengthening our growth pipeline in support of our strategy to create ongoing and sustainable value to all our stakeholders.
QUALITY Specically, we expect: World class precious metal assets H akZg egdYjXi dc id gZbV c c a cZ l i] '%%.
aZkZah Record silver production in 2009 and double digit reserve life 6iig WjiVWaZ daY egdYjXi dc id g hZ '% gZZXi c i]Z Xdcat operating mines underscore the quality of our mining and tribution from the recently completed Soledad-Dipolos mine exploration efforts.
"8dbeaZi dc d[ ZmeVch dc Vi 8 cZ V VcY eaVci c[gVstructure at Saucito 6 - cXgZVhZ c i]Z ZmeadgVi dc WjY Zi id JH, , # b aa dc 9ZX h dc dc l]Zi]Zg id XdcYjXi egZ""[ZVh W a in hijYn Vi Noche Buena HiVWaZ dgZ gVYZh 8dci cjZY begdkZbZci c hV[Zin cY XZh Our 2010 priorities and targets are included in full in the Strategy section on pages 10 to 11."
In closing, I would like to extend my gratitude to our Chairman and Board members for their continued support and oversight this year.
As the Group enhances its international prole, their guidance is vital.
To my fellow executives and employees, thank Exploration at Juanicipio you for your dedication to quality and sustainable growth.
I am proud to be a member of the Fresnillo plc team.
SUSTAINABLE GROWTH Extensive portfolio of projects and prospects Jaime Lomeln Metal contained in total resources grew 15.8% for gold and CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 15.5% for silver in 2009.
The Company aims to deliver one new mine or expansion per year for the next five years.
Hoist at the main shaft, Fresnillo mine 8 FRESNILLO PLC 2009 ANNUAL REPORT STRATEGY AND PERFORMANCE 9 CAPITULO LEADERSHIP.
