G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 04 Chief Executives interview Progress and prospects The underlying performance of the business was very strong in 2009 demonstrating both the breadth and international diversity of our business mix.
Looking forward, by leveraging our expertise in existing markets and broadening our capability into new, complementary, areas we can drive growth and deliver continued improvements.
View this interview online at: http: reports2009.
com G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Overview Business review 05 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information How well do you think the G4S Strategy strategy is understood by investors?
How would you summarise The market understands us well in terms of the key sectors and the group strategy?
segments of our business which hold the most value.
We are very clear about our strategy and what we need to do to drive Perhaps what we need to communicate more clearly is the fact that, accelerated growth and development in the business.
We must differentiate whilst each of those areas are strong in their own right, they are even ourselves in our markets by using our expertise and geographic presence better together as a whole.
to drive outsourcing and to minimise commoditisation of traditional Exporting our developed markets government expertise into other security services.
This will ultimately lead to longer term, recurring countries, driving the development of cash solutions in New Markets revenue and outsourcing partnerships with customers in key segments.
and developing secure solutions for multi-national customers across G4S plays an important role in societies around the world and we will numerous countries are huge opportunities for our business and drive continue to help our customers improve their security, increase their greater value for our investors.
revenues, reduce their costs and improve the service that they provide to their end customers.
Performance We are able to use our developed market cash cycle expertise and track record to drive changes in policy around the management How would you sum up the and flow of cash in New Markets to encourage central bank and group performance in 2009?
The underlying performance of the business was very strong in 2009, We can demonstrate to governments that the private sector has particularly given the economic crisis and the impact of exchange rates a significant role to play in securing the world that we live in and in on the overall result.
Earnings for the year were up 22% on the previous delivering services that have historically been under government control.
year and even if you exclude the impact of exchange rate movements, In most cases, it can be done more efficiently by the private sector earnings were up by 12%.
and at reduced cost to the government, and therefore the taxpayer, at a time when public sector spending is under significant pressure.
There was definitely a slow-down in organic growth as the economic downturn took effect.
In essence, it removed any opportunities for We invest in the development of our managers to ensure that inflationary growth due to the global decline in RPI, meaning that price we have the expertise to continue to drive the strategy forward increasing was almost impossible.
However, I am pleased to say that and ensure high quality succession planning.
our volume growth was very strong and ahead of the market.
We continue to acquire capability-building businesses which bring Our cash generation was also strong and we incurred no significant sector or market specific expertise to the group and add value bad debts a real achievement given the state of the global economy to our service offering and business model.
We controlled capital expenditure well whilst still We can continue to build on our good reputation and excellent brand investing in areas such as IT, security technology, state-of-the-art to differentiate ourselves from our competitors and build alliances with vehicles and premises.
By leveraging our existing expertise in specific markets and broadening our capability into new, complementary areas, we can drive growth and deliver continued improvements in our business performance.
Strategy Performance Performance Our strategy will lead The underlying Profits for the year to longer term, recurring performance of the were up 12% excluding revenue and outsourcing business was very currency impacts partnerships with customers strong in 2009 in key segments G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 06 Chief executives interview continued One of the challenges we have, particularly in an economic downturn, Which parts of the group performed well?
is to manage the trade-off between organic growth, profit margin The real highlights were in the cash solutions businesses, percentage and debtor management.
We have to accept that there the New Markets countries and across the government sector is a balance to be had and whilst growth for us in 2009 was slower than all areas where we have strong competitive advantage and the the previous year, we did very well on driving profit margins and cash expertise to drive market-leading growth.
Even in businesses which struggled to deliver the financial results that we expected, they still outperformed their competitors in their own What measures did you have to take markets and contributed to the overall success of the group by sharing to minimise the impact of the crisis?
expertise and helping to spread best practice across the organisation.
They also worked extremely hard to control the cost base to minimise We focused heavily on managing our debtors and driving efficiencies the impact on profit margins.
in the operation and overheads.
We implemented pay freezes in economies where forecast RPI was below 3% and RPI only-based Overall, 2009 was a tough year.
However we were able to hit our pay awards elsewhere.
short-term performance targets by carefully managing the cost base and we continued our commitment to the long-term strategy by investing in We increased our headroom and our range of funding sources strategic, capability-building acquisitions and hiring sector experts to drive by issuing a corporate bond of 350m in May 2009.
This required business development in key strategic sectors over the longer term.
us to put in place a credit rating which we did through Standard and Poors.
Our rating is BBB and our headroom at 31 December 2009 was 614.7m, which is a very comfortable level.
Which parts of the group didnt perform to your expectations?
How do you think the economic outlook There were no specific under-performers.
Improvements could be made is going to affect the business performance in some businesses which did not meet our internal profit margin targets in the next 12 months?
in places such as Continental Europe, where businesses have been unable to pass on substantial cost increases such as wage rises mandated by We are expecting the challenges of 2009 to continue into 2010. governments and regulators.
We are working hard to make sure this We hope to be emerging from the recession in terms of GDP growth, balance is corrected over time and that margins in these businesses RPI growth and interest rates towards the end of the year, giving us a are in line with our expectations in the future.
We believe that pressure on public sector spending will further drive the need for governments to outsource specific areas to the private Economy sector which is an opportunity for us.
How did the economic crisis affect the business?
Outlook Generally, our business is resilient to economic pressures, but the depth of the recent crisis is unprecedented in modern times.
The global What is going to be your biggest challenge fall in inflation meant that there was a lack of growth in some developed or biggest risk in 2010?
The rapid and substantial fall in interest rates had some effect A lack of economic improvement a prolonged period of deflationary on the cash outsourcing model in some markets as the drivers to manage environments with low interest rates could be a risk to the business the cash cycle more efficiently became less important to the banking and performance.
Others might be managing the business reputation retail sectors.
Many of our customers were under pressure to reduce the against a backdrop of increasing risks such as global terrorism and cost of security significantly, whilst not compromising their security balancing the risk and reward of being responsible for outsourced standards this is both a challenge and an opportunity for us.
services in the government sector.
Our biggest challenge is keeping our people motivated and focused on the long-term strategy delivery despite the ongoing short-term trading pressures.
Economy Economy Outlook Generally our business We focused on managing Pressure on public is resilient to economic our debtors and driving sector spending will drive pressures but the recent operating and overhead government outsourcing crisis is unprecedented efficiencies an opportunity for us in modern times G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Overview Business review 07 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information What targets are you setting for The G4S strategy is to yourself and the business in 2010?
We are targeting profit growth well ahead of worldwide GDP focus on sectors where growth.
Over the longer term we are targeting improvements in our post tax return on invested capital which we believe is a good, security and safety strategic measurement of performance.
As economies improve, we expect organic growth to return to high single digit levels.
are key considerations What other developments are in the and where we have plan for 2010?
significant competitive Some of the areas that we intend to focus on even more in the future are compliance, ethics, environmental impact and our reputation.
We want to make sure that our policies in these areas are fully understood throughout the organisation and are put into practice by our employees around the world.
This is particularly true for some The next sections highlight the market opportunities acquisitions we need to ensure that they live up to G4S standards and G4S capability in some of the key sectors.
very quickly once they have become part of the group.
We have recently established a Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee to focus on these issues, chaired by Mark Elliott, one of our p non-executive directors.
The committee will ensure that our CSR strategy remains an integral part of the group plan and monitor compliance with our policies across the group.
How would you summarise the general outlook for the group in the mid term?
The economic pressures from last year will continue into 2010 and we will continue to focus on minimising their impact.
We have shown that we can do this whilst driving the strategy forward and this will be an ongoing focus for 2010.
However, we expect good organic growth from continued outsourcing in key sectors, to leverage our expertise in cash solutions to drive change in key markets and to utilise our secure solutions approach to take on more multi-national customers across the world turning their security challenges into opportunities.
Whilst the challenges of 2009 will continue into 2010 we are confident that we have the expertise, the opportunities and management to perform well in the year ahead.
Nick Buckles Chief Executive Officer Outlook We are targeting profit growth well ahead of worldwide GDP growth in 2010 View sector case studies online at: http: reports2009.
