GKN plc Annual Report 2009 Chief Executives Statement 04 Against a background of expected improvements in global economies, the Group should make significant progress in 2010.
Our balance sheet strength and excellent market positions give the Board confidence in a strong and sustained GKN recovery.
Sir Kevin Smith Chief Executive As we entered our 250th year, the global An intense focus on all elements of cash flow financial crisis had already severely impacted has been a key feature throughout the year, demand in automotive markets worldwide enabling us to deliver very strong operating and expectations were high that aerospace cash flow.
The Groups balance sheet also and off-highway end markets would be benefited from the proceeds of the rights similarly affected during 2009.
Investor issue, and net debt at 31 December 2009 concerns had weighed heavily on the stood at 300 million compared with 708 Companys share price and all three major million at the end of 2008. debt rating agencies had downgraded GKNs credit to sub-investment grade.
Refinancing for success Having stabilised operating performance 2009 was set to present the severest of during the first quarter and with the Company challenges for GKN, its management team back to profitability in the second quarter, we and employees right across the Group.
moved to address the market uncertainties around the Groups debt financing, in The Company has met those challenges particular the renewal of a 350 million head on and I am pleased to report that GKN revolving credit facility which is due to expire has emerged from 2009 in excellent shape, in July 2010.
After extensive discussions with already making strong progress in recovery our lending banks, it became clear that the and strategically well positioned in all its terms available for new debt would constrain major businesses.
the Groups development and we believed acceptance of these terms would not be in Repositioning to perform the best interests of shareholders.
Restructuring activities had been launched in 2008 and were extended in 2009 both to Consequently, in June we launched a 423 protect short term performance and position million rights issue, which was strongly the Group for a swift return to acceptable supported by shareholders for which we levels of profitability as markets recover.
The rights issue not total restructuring programme sadly will have only removed any market uncertainties removed around 7,000 jobs and resulted in around GKNs financing, but also provided the closure of 15 facilities worldwide.
It will some capacity to pursue new opportunities conclude during 2010 at a total cash cost to develop and grow.
In September we of around 189 million, having lowered the also secured 60 million of repayable break-even point in the Automotive, Powder investment funding from the UK Government Metallurgy and OffHighway businesses by for the Airbus A350 XWB programme and around 20% and repositioned Aerospace for in December we agreed an 80 million anticipated lower aircraft production volumes.
technology-related loan facility from the European Investment Bank on attractive 17139 09 03 2010 Proof 25 17139GKNPLC FRONT-5 for web.
In December we were also able to buy stabilised and government incentive programmes recognised individuals, teams back 124 million of our 2012 bond, reducing schemes supported improved vehicle sales and partnerships whose achievements were annual interest costs by around 8 million and production volumes.
Performance both humbling and inspiring.
in Automotive and Powder Metallurgy also improved steadily as the benefits of Despite the difficulties in our end markets, GKN left 2009 with a strong balance sheet restructuring significantly reduced operating 2009 was a year in which GKN people across and a capital structure well able to support costs.
First half trading losses of 51 million the Group excelled.
I am extremely grateful the continuing development of the Group.
were more than offset in the second half with to them and immensely proud of their efforts profits of 58 million.
Those efforts and the tough Building the future decisions and decisive actions taken in GKNs Integration of the Filton aerostructures OffHighway sales declined sharply in the 250th year have positioned the Company facility, acquired in January 2009, has gone second quarter as the global recession strongly to flourish for many years to come.
extremely well and has helped to propel impacted demand in all market segments.
By Outlook GKN Aerospace forward as Europes No.
1 June volumes were down more than 50% and The outlook for our major markets is mainly aerostructures company and amongst the top stayed very weak through the second half.
positive although some uncertainty remains, three in the world.
GKN Aerospace was also particularly around second half demand.
successful in winning a number of important Aerospace had a record trading year.
Growth additional work packages on the A350 XWB in sales to the military sector more than Against this background we expect our and the Joint Strike Fighter.
offset the slight decline in civil aerospace Automotive and Powder Metallurgy demand and there was a strong initial businesses to make strong progress in GKNs Automotive operations also had contribution from Filton.
2010, with the improvement in end market much success in winning new business with demand, healthy order books and improving existing and new technology.
Although new Overall, in an extremely challenging market mix underpinning sales growth.
Further programme opportunities were more limited environment, decisive management action incremental benefits from restructuring than usual, GKN Driveline secured around delivered a creditable performance.
A trading are expected to support steadily improving 90% of business for which we were invited profit before tax of 91 million was delivered trading margins from 2009 second half levels.
to bid, including a number of important new in the second half and we finished the year programmes.
A new driveshaft plant was strongly with a trading margin of 6.5% in the Aerospace sales are expected to be broadly opened in China through our SDS joint venture fourth quarter.
flat, assuming there are no further reductions with SAIC, ensuring we continue to have in production schedules in the second half.
capacity to take advantage of growth in the Enduring values Although Airbus will receive price downs from Chinese market.
Our latest hybrid rear axle Although a difficult year, 2009 brought out Filton in 2010, we expect double digit trading products secured their launch customer in the best in GKN: the quality of our businesses margins to be maintained in Aerospace.
Europe on Peugeot Citrons HYbrid4 system and the skill, commitment and sheer and will be available on vehicles from 2011. determination of our people to succeed.
That In OffHighway, we expect some increase in resilience is built on a culture and value set sales and a good improvement in trading GKN Sinter Metals also had a successful year which have developed through generations of profits, as the modest recovery in demand in winning new programmes and secured GKN employees.
is converted to trading profit from a much 25 million in annualised sales of business reduced fixed cost base.
re-sourced by customers from competitors.
Our drive for excellence continued in 2009.
Technology continues to play an important We further improved customer service Against a background of expected part in Powder Metallurgy and we were and product quality, maintained our world improvements in global economies, the delighted to achieve another breakthrough class health and safety performance and Group should make significant progress from our high performance gear programme continued to develop our people under in 2010.
Our balance sheet strength and with the award of a contract to produce the GKNs continuous improvement programme.
excellent market positions give the Board worlds first powder-forged differential gears.
Our technology development activities confidence in a strong and sustained GKN progressed as planned, with a sustained recovery.
Performing to plan drive to develop products and processes for In automotive markets, as the year the new low carbon world.
And our Hearts developed, global vehicle inventories of Gold and Evolve community involvement 17139 09 03 2010 Proof 25
