02 Chairman & CEO summary Our strategy is delivering and we believe that GSK is now moving to a position where it can deliver long-term financial performance on a sustainable basis for shareholders.
Sir Christopher Gent Andrew Witty Chairman Chief Executive Officer GSK Annual Report 2009 03 Chairman & CEO summary We continue to look at how we can make better decisions around Dear Shareholder pipeline progression and maintain our strategy to increase the level Since our last Annual Report, GSK has made significant progress of externally sourced compounds in our pipeline, through more to transform its business model.
Our strategy is delivering and we believe that GSK is now moving In addition, we are reducing R&D investment and associated to a position where it can deliver long-term financial performance infrastructure in therapy areas where we believe the prospects on a sustainable basis for shareholders.
for successful registration and launch of differentiated medicines are low.
Return to sales growth In 2009, we saw GSK return to sales growth.
Our strategic Based on the investment made in our late stage pipeline and our priority, to diversify and drive growth in key investment areas long-term sales expectation, we estimate our projected rate of R&D such as Emerging Markets, Consumer Healthcare and Vaccines, return to be around 11%.
We believe this is an improvement on has supported this growth.
the industry average over the last ten years.
Our long-term goal is to go further and realise an aspirational rate of return for GSKs In doing so we have developed many more engines of growth R&D of around 14%.
This increased diversification is helping to reduce risk through lower sales volatility evident in that More responsive, more flexible, more open GSK absorbed the impact of losing more than 1 billion Equally important are GSKs financial and social responsibilities to of sales to genericisation in the US market in 2009. ensure the long-term success and sustainability of our business.
Of course, sales of our influenza products to governments We are determined to make our company more responsive, responding to the H1N1 pandemic also contributed to sales.
more flexible and more open to societys expectations.
For many years, we have invested in developing our influenza We continue to make progress in many areas such as improving capabilities.
Five months after the WHO declared H1N1 a global access to medicines, enhancing research opportunities for flu pandemic, GSK was able to supply an approved vaccine neglected tropical diseases, raising the ethical standards for for governments across the world.
We are continuing to work conducting our research and our commercial activities, and closely with them to respond to their needs.
being more transparent about the way we run our business.
New product momentum sustained Progressive dividend We remain focused on broadening and strengthening our As one of the FTSE 100s top dividend payers, we strongly believe product portfolio.
Last year, GSK received 12 product approvals in the importance of returning funds to our shareholders.
In line and completed 11 new filings.
with GSKs progressive dividend policy, the Board has approved a total dividend for the year of 61 pence, a 7% increase on last In the last 3 years, GSK has obtained more FDA approvals for years dividend.
new medicines and vaccines than any other company.
Improving long-term prospects Over the next 18 months we have the potential to launch a In conclusion, we are making progress against our strategic number of brand new medicines and vaccines, including Benlysta, priorities.
We have seen good progress in our sales performance: which would be the first new treatment for systemic lupus in over we are maintaining a strong focus on cost reduction: we 50 years.
are delivering more new medicines, vaccines and consumer This momentum is set against a continued goal of maintaining healthcare products: and we continue to take new initiatives around 30 assets in our late stage pipeline.
In accomplishing this, we would like to recognise the enormous contribution of our employees and our Improving return on investment wide network of partners.
We remain mindful of the need to improve and demonstrate better returns on investment.
Across the entire business, we There is no doubt that we are operating in a challenging continue to implement our restructuring programme to simplify environment.
However, with further successful execution of our operations and reduce costs.
In 2009 this programme delivered strategy, we believe GSKs long-term prospects are improving 1 billion of annual savings.
and that we will enhance our position as a leading-edge healthcare company.
In particular, in Research and Development we are strongly focused on allocating capital to areas where we can get the best return on investment.
Sir Christopher Gent Andrew Witty Chairman Chief Executive Officer GSK Annual Report 2009
