Directors Report: Business Review Group Chief Executives review We are pleased with this years performance, which has been delivered through our experienced and focused management style and Experienced devolved structure.
Overview of operating performance Overall operating performance was slightly ahead of our expectations, with operating profit of 123.6m underpinned by record results from our bus operations and good results from rail after a particularly strong year to June 2008.
Strong cash management resulted in a reduction in net debt to 91.0m Our strategy 2008: 197.8m.
Total capital is straightforward investment was in line with depreciation to maintain our high quality asset base.
and we remain We remain highly disciplined in our assessment of potential acquisitions confident in the and franchise bids.
We were delighted to retain our Southern rail franchise underlying strengths which we believe we secured on the of the Group.
basis of current and prudent economic assumptions and deliverable initiatives.
We did not complete any acquisitions during the year but, as recently announced, we have agreed to acquire EastThames Buses fromTransport for London TfL for 5m and Arrivas Horsham bus operations for 5m.
Both are due to complete in the second quarter of the new financial year.
We remain financially robust, with a strong balance sheet and secure financing and propose to maintain our full year dividend to shareholders at 81p per share 2008: 81p per share.
Divisional performance overview Bus Our bus division performed slightly ahead of our expectations for the year, reporting record results despite adverse movements in fuel, pension and accident claims costs.
We increased revenue in all six of our bus companies: a result which endorses the economic resilience of these operations.
Our devolved structure provided high levels of service quality, customer focus and strong local cost control.
This was supplemented by Group purchasing power and fide-risked through comprehensive fuel hedging.
Capital investment above depreciation ensured we continued to benefit from well maintained freehold depot locations and from one of the youngest bus Keith Ludeman, Group Chief Executive fleets in the sector.
6 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Rail Revenue and operating profit by division Our rail operations performed well, in Increase decrease Increase decrease line with our expectations.
2009 m 2008 m m % Revenue Each UK rail franchise is different and Bus 584.7 557.7 27.0 4.8% we believe our three franchises are Rail 1,552.0 1,378.4 173.6 12.6% relatively robust given their focus on Aviation Services 209.4 263.0 53.6 20.4 % high density, urban commuter markets.
Total 2,346.1 2,199.1 147.0 6.7% Revenue continued to grow in all three operations, albeit, as expected, at a Operating profit loss Bus 66.6 66.2 0.4 0.6% slower rate in the second half and Rail 61.5 77.2 15.7 20.3 % overall service quality remained strong.
Aviation Services 4.5 1.5 6.0 n a We are making good progress with Total 123.6 144.9 21.3 14.7 % cost control initiatives, particularly in Southeastern and also in London Midland where we have recently the economic cycle.
We expect the In summary market conditions for our aviation appointed a new managing director to We are pleased with this years services division to remain challenging lead the changes in that franchise.
Our strategy is in the near term.
Looking forward, we are well advanced straightforward and we remain with preparations for the new Southern confident in the underlying strengths of Our strategy franchise commencing in September the Group.
Going forward, we will Our strategy remains to provide high 2009 and the UKs first domestic high maintain our financial discipline and quality passenger transport in the UK.
speed rail service in Southeastern from prioritise the delivery of value from our December 2009. existing portfolio of operations.
The underlying elements of this strategy are to: Aviation services Run our companies in a socially and Aviation services delivered a environmentally responsible manner performance in line with our expectations.
This was despite difficult Provide high quality, locally focused trading conditions in ground handling passenger transport services and cargo and the previously reported Keith Ludeman Prioritise high density, urban markets loss of contracts in Meteor parking.
We Group Chief Executive in the UK recognised an exceptional non-cash 2 September 2009 impairment charge of 38.4m in the Maintain strong financial discipline to first half to reduce the carrying value of deliver shareholder value our ground handling and cargo These elements have a number of operations to approximately 20m.
We performance indicators, both financial will continue with the necessary and non financial, which are routinely restructuring in this division to protect measured for improvement trends against near term deterioration in and comparison between operating results and to strengthen our operating companies.
In the near term, our priority is to deliver value from our existing portfolio Market environment of operations.
Public transport remains crucial to the development of the UK and is strongly Key risks to our performance include a supported by the main political parties.
major accident or incident, or an We believe that it is likely to generate unexpected reduction in demand for long term growth if supported by our services.
We operate a strong operators with strong local stakeholder governance structure and control relationships providing high quality environment to mitigate these and services and innovation.
other risks as far as possible.
In the short term, we need to deal with the current phase of the economic cycle.
Demand for our bus operations has proven to be resilient.
In rail, we believe that the underlying passenger revenue growth before new services and other initiatives will broadly follow Before amortisation and exceptional items.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 7 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review
