Chief executives review These results represent a resilient performance by Greene King in what has proved to be one of the toughest trading periods for many years.
For the 52 weeks to 3 May 2009, revenue was 954.6m, 1.3% ahead of last year, operating profit was 216.2m, down 6.7% against last year and profit before tax was 118.5m, 15.0% below last year.
Adjusted earnings per share were down 8.4% at 66.5p.
The board has declared a final dividend of 15.1p per share, marginally ahead of last year, being the equivalent of 18.7p per share before adjusting for the rights issue.
In each of our divisions the operating focus In addition, our successful rights issue, which is on achieving profitable sales growth and completed after the year end, will further growing market share.
This is achieved by strengthen our competitive and financial three main elements: rstly, providing value position.
We raised 207.5m to selectively for money offers for customers supported acquire freehold, managed pubs and by industry-leading service and standards: opportunistically pay down our securitised secondly, consistently raising the quality debt at below par values.
Already we have and performance bar of employees, licensee moved forward in both aims, buying back partners and suppliers: and thirdly, rigorously 22.4m of our securitised bonds at 51% controlling costs to preserve cash and help of their nominal value and acquiring 11 highfund internal investment.
quality, freehold, managed pubs from Punch Taverns for 30.4m.
We expect to make Our consistent and long-term strategy has We believe we are in a stronger position further progress during the next 12 months.
stood Greene King in good stead through now than we were two years ago, when both prosperous times and recessionary the initial warning signs of an impending Current trading periods.
The primary objective of our strategy slowdown appeared at the front line of our Recent trading, particularly in Retail and is to create shareholder value by delivering businesses.
The sector is polarising with the Brewing in both England and Scotland, organic growth across our divisions, weaker players underperforming and reducing has been strong.
In Retail, not only have augmented by value accretive investment investment, whilst the stronger players our invested food-led businesses continued in our core brand and property assets, have healthier profits and cash conversion, to perform well, but our wet-led businesses a selective acquisition strategy and the are maintaining investment, accelerating have also been stronger.
The benefit disposal of non-core assets.
market share gains and selectively targeting of the realignment and adaptation of these acquisitions.
Within the overall strategy businesses continues to come through, The execution of the strategy is driven by framework, in order to strengthen our supported by the recent warmer and drier a number of key elements of the business position as one of the stronger players, weather.
After eight weeks of the new year model including: we have continued to realign our businesses.
to 28 June, like-for-like sales in Greene King During the past financial year we have: Retail are 5.2% and like-for-like sales in A commitment to both managed and Belhaven Retail are 10.2%.
tenanted pubs supported by a leadership Reduced our net debt by 46.9m.
Momentum in our brewing businesses has Further repositioned our Retail operations also been sustained.
Own-brewed volumes A high quality, freehold asset base.
toward growth categories such as food, in Brewing Company remain well ahead wine and coffee.
of the market at 12.1%, helped by the A focus on generating profitable renewed success of Ruddles in the on-trade sales growth for cash generation Continued the repositioning and and the better weather, whilst Belhaven Best and brand stability.
adaptation of the Pub Partners volumes in the year-to-date are 9.0%.
A broad geographic spread but with Pub Partners trends have stabilised and a primary focus on the prosperous Reduced Brewing Companys xed cost remain in line with the underlying South East and resilient Scotland.
base whilst maintaining sector-leading performance from the second half of 2008 09. brand investment.
The actions we have taken to support our Decentralised business units and at licensees are beginning to take effect and management structure to stay close Grown food sales in Belhaven Retail we have seen a better volume performance to our customers.
As throughout, profit figures are shown before exceptional items.
As throughout, 2007 08 rebased to 52 weeks for comparative purposes.
GREENE KING PLC 6 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 09 Locals Events are playing an increasingly important role for our Local Pubs with promotions offering value for money on food and drink for occasions such as Valentines Day and Christmas as well as key sporting events.
The recent Fathers Day promotion proved a great hit with regulars at the Lady Bay in Nottingham.
GREENE KING PLC 7 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 09 Other information Management and governance Financial statements and notes Business review Overview Destinations Our popular Hungry Horse family pubs, such as the Four Seasons in Laindon, Essex, have seen a rise in the numbers of meals sold during the year, driven by menus offering even greater value than ever.
Last year we continued to invest in the brand with 28 major refurbishments aimed at appealing to families of all ages with attractions for youngsters such as play zones and fun days and for adults with sports events, entertainment and curry nights.
GREENE KING PLC 8 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 09 Chief executives review Retail Greene King Retail achieved sales of 569.5m in the year, 0.3% above last year despite trading in 3% less sites.
Operating profit of 105.6m was down 7.6%.
After an improved second half, total like-for-like sales were 1.7%, driven by both liquor and food growth, including strong performances from strategically important categories such as cask ale, wine, coffee and soft drinks.
Food is now 35% of total Retail sales.
Hungry Horse, following its repositioning and upweighted investment programme throughout the past 18 months, achieved like-for-like sales growth of 8.1%.
The underlying pub operating margin, excluding the impact of the mainly leasehold Loch Fyne Restaurants, was just 1.2 percentage points down on last year, despite the ongoing machine income decline, fewer sites and above inationary cost increases.
52 weeks 2007 08 2008 09 Change Average number of sites trading 801 779 -2.7% Revenue 567.7m 569.5m 0.3% EBITDA 145.1m 139.8m -3.6% Operating profit 114.3m 105.6m -7.6% Operating profit margin 20.1% 18.5% -1.6%pts Enhanced value-for-money across liquor and As always, we have managed our costs very Estate numbers food has been the main driver of Retails sales tightly.
Investing in value for the customer We began the financial year with 792 performance.
At Hungry Horse, a fall of 9% has not been at the expense of gross margins, Retail sites.
Four new Loch Fyne sites were in the average price of a main meal over due to improved liquor and food yields and acquired, 18 pubs were sold and a net six the year drove covers up 14%, whilst the further menu engineering.
Our pub operating transferred to Pub Partners.
The closing introduction of two meals for 9.95 in Inns margins, due to a number of factors, remain balance was 772 sites, segmented as follows: turned cover decline into cover growth in the industry-leading: wage efficiencies have second half of the year.
In Loch Fyne, we have improved with the total wage cost falling: and Outlets trading steered clear of the two-for-one offers that we have increased our use of smart meters Outlets at on average are common place in the restaurant sector, across the estate to drive outlet electricity year end during period but have broadened our xed-price menu usage down 7% this year, partially offsetting Destination Pubs 275 266 offer and introduced regional pricing.
Local Pubs 449 468 Local Savers value initiative now covers 77 Loch Fyne Restaurants 48 45 pubs within the Local Pubs estate.
At the end Raising the calibre of our people has been a Total 772 779 of the first quarter, when we launched Local further focus for the year.
We have improved Savers, we reduced liquor prices on a number the quality of our operations teams at area and of key lines in these pubs by 13%, which outlet level, taking advantage of our strong led to a subsequent 12 percentage points appeal in a weaker employment market.
We improvement in like-for-like sales for the have also stepped up our training programmes rest of the year.
All main meals on the Local across each of the three businesses within Savers menu are now at 3.50 or below.
Retail, concentrating on improving the internal talent pool.
Almost 40% of new Value is not just about price.
We have further House Manager appointments came through improved our customer offers, we continue our Rising Star training programmes.
to invest in our sites, we are recruiting better quality employees and we are improving Unlike much of the pub and restaurant standards and customer service across the sector, we have maintained a significant business.
For example, our Beds, Baths, level of investment in our Retail business.
Breakfasts investment in Inns has driven During the period, we invested 24.6m of market outperformance with REVPAR up expansionary capital, a further 25.1m was 1.5% in the year.
All our Retail businesses invested in maintaining our pubs and 8.1m take part in Mystery Guest programmes and was spent on repairs from the revenue scores have consistently improved during account.
The focus on Hungry Horse has the year and are benchmarking well against continued, where we have invested c. 10.0m competitors.
Sport and other big events have across 33 developments in the year, whilst we also increased in importance as part of our also completed a sparkle programme across value offer to our customers, with significant 20 pubs in the Locals estate.
We converted uplifts on key dates through well targeted five Greene King sites to Loch Fyne in the and communicated activities.
year and opened four other new sites.
GREENE KING PLC 9 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 09 Other information Management and governance Financial statements and notes Business review Overview Chief executives review Pub Partners Revenue at Pub Partners, our tenancy lease division in England and Wales, was down 5.4% at 155.2m, with operating profit down 11.3% to 70.9m.
During the period, a total of 7.0m was invested across the Pub Partners estate, an additional 6.3m went on maintenance capex and 3.3m on repairs from the revenue account.
An average of 1,445 sites traded over the period.
At the start of the financial year, 1,474 pubs were trading, three were added from acquisitions, while 92 were sold or closed and a net six were transferred in from the Retail division.
The closing balance was therefore 1,391 pubs.
52 weeks 2007 08 2008 09 Change Average number of pubs trading 1,443 1,445 NC Revenue 164.0m 155.2m -5.4% EBITDA 86.5m 78.1m -9.7% Operating profit 79.9m 70.9m -11.3% Operating profit margin 48.7% 45.7% -3.0%pts In recognition of the pressures our licensees existing licensees: 137 training courses were As a result of the various initiatives and are facing in the current environment, held in the year, including 37 Go for Growth investment we and our licensees have been we have been repositioning and adapting the induction courses.
These helped to improve making, the vital signs of licensee health have Pub Partners business model to make it more first year licensee retention rates up to 88%.
remained stable through the year.
At the pragmatic and more agile.
In the first half Finally, we launched a specialist tenant trainer year end, we only had 30 pubs closed for of the year, we split the business into two: programme and we now have 20 licensee reopening, just 2% of the entire estate, in the Core estate we reduced the size of each trainers providing on the job training to there were 272 licensees on cash-with-order area to 44 pubs per Business Development new licensees.
against 245 at the end of last year and 137 Manager BDM to get closer to our licensees temporary agreements against 131 last year.
and to nd mutually beneficial solutions However, for some of our licensees, this more quickly: and in the Independence Pub support has not been sufficient to offset the We are monitoring developments following Company, the exibility of our agreements unprecedented pressures they have faced.
the recent Business & Enterprise Committee is industry-leading.
By the year end, we had For these, we have provided over 4m of report.
We have been successfully operating 12 totally Free of Tie agreements and 46 additional financial support during the year, a tie for over 200 years with short-term partially tied agreements, putting Pub Partners via rent concessions and product discounts.
tenancies currently representing 78% of our rmly in the vanguard of industry business This additional support is not given on the agreements and long-term leases representing model evolution.
During the second half of basis of charity, but is conditional on our just 22%.
Tenancies offer the lowest cost the year, we also took a prudent view of licensees changing elements of their business entry route into the pub industry for potential both inventory values and potential bad debts to increase their consumer appeal.
This licensees and the model ensures we share in within the tail-end of the Pub Partners estate, support includes Crunch Time, an initiative the upside and the downside of an economic resulting in a P&L charge of 1.9m.
Excluding to ensure many of our licensees can compete cycle with our licensees.
We were the first this and investment to strengthen the model, more effectively in the current environment, to introduce a Code of Practice in 1998 and underlying EBITDA per pub was -6.7%.
guaranteeing licensees gross margins on it has been continuously evolving since then.
leading products at competitive prices.
Going forward, our business model will The most important element of the 120 pubs were fully operational on Crunch continue to adapt in order to ensure tenanted leased model is licensee quality.
Time by the year end, a further 80 have Greene King remains appealing and fair During the year we received 1,241 applications signed up since then and the resulting to both prospective and existing licensees, for our pubs and let 331 pubs, and at the year volume performance of these sites is very whilst delivering attractive returns to end there were 495 fully vetted applicants on encouraging so far.
We have also introduced our shareholders.
Our recruitment campaigns are the Pelican Buying Company to our licensees, increasingly innovative.
Both our Civvy Street allowing them to benefit, in terms of supplier and Public Housewives campaigns are proving accessibility and cost savings, from its successful, with the first licensee recruits economies of scale, and we have upgraded starting to run their pubs.
We continue to our food and marketing support to licensees offer industry-leading training to new and by further utilising our Retail infrastructure.
GREENE KING PLC 10 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 09 Pub Partners During the year, we provided over 4 million of additional financial support to our tenants in the form of rent concessions and product discounts.
As part of this package of support, Pub Partners launched a major value for money drinks promotion entitled Crunch Time which offers top brands at value prices.
The Victory, in Walton-on-the-Naze, is one of over 200 pubs across the UK now benefiting from the promotion.
GREENE KING PLC 11 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 09 Other information Management and governance Financial statements and notes Business review Overview Belhaven Food has become an increasingly important part of the Belhaven offer where sales rose 49% last year.
The seven pubs redeveloped into Eating Inns, such as the SpringKerse View in Stirling, with its new dcor, waitress service and great menu offering plenty of value, lead the way with sales almost doubling after refurbishment.
GREENE KING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 09 Chief executives review Belhaven Belhaven revenues grew 9.9% to 6.0m in the year and Belhaven achieved a record operating profit of 0. m, growth of.
9% with increased contributions from all three divisions.
Even though there were significant cost pressures in the year, very tight cost control in all businesses helped deliver an operating margin of.
The number of pubs trading grew from to 5 and on average pubs were trading during the period.
Despite the demanding conditions and senior management change in the year, the Belhaven team has yet again performed very strongly.
However, we remain cautious on the outlook, mainly due to the risk to Scottish public sector employment levels as we move into 0 0.
52 weeks 2007 08 2008 09 Change Revenue 123.7m 136.0m 9.9% EBITDA 31.1m 34.9m 12.2% Operating profit 27.0m 30.2m 11.9% Operating profit margin 21.8% 22.2% 0.4%pts Belhavens retail operations went from Yet again Belhaven Best, Scotlands leading strength to strength during the year.
By the ale brand with a 21.5% share of the year end, like-for-like sales were up 5.4%, Scottish on-trade ale market, outperformed driven by food like-for-like sales growth of that market.
In an ale market down 9.0%, 16.0% and liquor like-for-like sales growth of Belhaven Best grew its volumes in the year, 2.6%.
Total food revenues were up 49% and supported by a return to TV advertising in food is now 25% of total revenues, up from the final quarter.
Industry-leading customer 15% just two years ago.
The seven pubs service levels and an attractive brand redeveloped as Eating Inns contributed much portfolio combined to help our highly of the growth, with average weekly sales motivated and successful free trade team growth almost doubling post refurbishment.
win further market share through growing The average return on investment on these their free trade account base without pubs is 25%.
The rest of the estate achieved sacrificing margin: in the year, trading profit like-for-like sales growth of 3.3%, driven by per barrel grew 1.2%.
the repositioning of four high street venue sites into more food-led offers, growing AC Nielsen, Volume MAT to March 2009. post-refurbishment sales 48%.
Whilst conditions for our licensee partners in Scotland remain challenging, we have further increased our support to them, including towards the end of the year reducing the already unrivalled 40 pubs for each BDM to 36.
This ensures we maintain very close relationships with our licensees leading to stronger licensee performance and lower potential risk.
At year end, we only had six closed pubs and 20 temporary agreements, in line with the position at the start of the year.
Tenanted operating profit rose 12.1% in the year, driven by a 7% increase in the number of pubs, like-for-like rental income growth and improved gross margins.
GREENE KING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 09 Other information Management and governance Financial statements and notes Business review Overview Chief executives review Brewing Company A stronger second half for Brewing Company drove own-brewed volume growth of.
This led to significant market share gains in a UK ale market down 5.6%.
9m, whilst operating profit was unchanged at.
m. The margin decline in the year of.
8 percentage points is mainly a technical issue driven by a decline in internal volumes, which have no associated revenue, but do contribute to Brewing Company trading profit.
5m increase in fuel, energy and raw materials, we were pleased with second half margins being held to within 80bps of last year.
52 weeks 2007 08 2008 09 Change Revenue 86.8m 93.9m 8.2% EBITDA 25.1m 25.4m 1.2% Operating profit 21.2m 21.2m NC Operating profit margin 24.4% 22.6% -1.8%pts Brewing Companys continued No.
1 premium ale in the off-trade with a outperformance is driven by a consistent, 13.3% volume share of the premium ale focused strategy: most importantly, we brew market in multiple grocers.
In the year we also high quality beer from an efficient, single-site launched Old Crafty Hen and both brands brewery: we have a focused brand portfolio, won gold medals at the recent international minimising the complexity and cost of a multiMonde awards.
Just after the year end, Old brand strategy: we invest more than any other Speckled Hen began sponsoring Prime Time cask ale brewer: we rigorously attack costs at TV on the Dave channel.
all levels of the business: we recruit and retain the best people in the market: and we retain We have continued to both remove cost a passionate focus on our customers.
and switch from xed to variable cost to improve efficiency.
During the year we Greene King IPA remains the UKs No.
1 outsourced our Totton and Crayford depots cask ale with a 20.5% volume share of the to Tradeteam.
Not only does this make standard cask ale market and the fastest rate our business model even more efficient, of sale of all brands with over 5% distribution.
but increased delivery frequencies should During the year, we upgraded our livery and improve customer service levels and lower branding to reect the Suffolk heritage of HGV mileage and CO emissions which 2 the brand, we further leveraged our England will help protect the environment.
Rugby sponsorship through Lawrence Dallaglios role as brand ambassador and AC Nielsen On-Trade MAT to March 2009.
BBPA MAT to April 2009. we began the roll out of the innovative Cask AC Nielsen Off-Trade MAT to April 2009.
Old Speckled Hen is the GREENE KING PLC 4 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 09 Brewing Company Greene King IPA was rebranded this year to reect the proud Suffolk heritage of the UKs No1 cask ale.
This year also saw the launch of our new Revolution font the first major innovation in cask dispense for over 200 years.
Revolution offers drinkers a choice of pours clean and crisp looser bubbles and softer froth, or smooth and creamy a tighter head that holds until the end of the pint.
GREENE KING PLC 5 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 09 Other information Management and governance Financial statements and notes Business review Overview Loch Fyne The focus for Loch Fyne has been to continue to invest in the expansion of the brand and on broadening its customer base with popular set price menus and a wider range on offer.
Aimed at attracting the younger diner, the Loch Fyne in Oxfords vibrant Jericho district is the first Loch Fyne Bar and Grill.
GREENE KING PLC 6 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 09 Chief executives review Outlook I am encouraged by our performance, both last year and through the first few weeks of this year, in what are demanding circumstances.
We have strengthened our position within the sector through our resilience, the ongoing realignment of our businesses and, post the year-end, our successful rights issue.
Our balance sheet is in good shape, our cash ows are healthy and our profit conversion is strong.
We are unique amongst the major companies within our sector in paying down debt, continuing to invest in our business and maintaining dividends to shareholders.
Greene Kings reputation within the industry ensures our team remains highly motivated to succeed and we continue to attract high calibre people from both within and outside the industry.
The future remains uncertain, but I believe we will continue to grow our market share and outperform our competitors, further strengthening our leadership position.
Rooney Anand Chief executive 1 July 2009 GREENE KING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 09 Other information Management and governance Financial statements and notes Business review Overview
