Chief Executives Report I am delighted that the significant changes we introduced throughout 2009 have put us in excellent shape to make Greggs accessible to even more consumers through a faster programme of shop openings.
In the coming year we will be doubling the number of shops we refurbish and also undertaking the previously announced investment in our supply chain to maximise the many opportunities we have identified for expansion across the UK.
The right Ingredients Trading performance We stated in the last annual report that, in the light of the general economic climate, we had budgeted for marginally positive likefor like sales during 2009, and the final outturn was very much as we had anticipated.
In the first 26 weeks, likeforlike sales increased by 1.5 per cent and were flat during the second half, giving an increase of 0.8 per cent over the year as a whole.
An important factor in the slowing likeforlike sales trend, seen across the food retailing industry, was a reduction in selling price inflation yearonyear as input costs began to stabilise following the major increases in ingredient and energy prices during 2008.
Our operating margin improved to 7.4 per cent 2008: 7.1 per cent reflecting the initial benefits of centralisation, a reduction in waste and sensible control of labour costs in a difficult trading environment.
13 Preparing for accelerated growth All of this will free up our Retail teams to During the year we implemented considerable concentrate on delivering excellent service and changes which have made the business simpler and raising standards still further in our shops.
They will more efficient to run.
We are already seeing benefits also be working with our expanded Property team from the changes we have made to our operating to open more new shops and double the number of structure and the harmonisation of our product refits we undertake.
Of fundamental importance was the creation We harmonised 80 per cent of our product of a centrally run business and the significance range throughout the country, while fulfilling our of these changes should not be underestimated.
commitments to remove all artificial colours, HVOs We achieved this by: hydrogenated vegetable oils and trans fats from the reorganising our previous 11 bakery divisions products we make ourselves.
By harmonising our into seven new retail regions: range, we have been able to provide customers with organising our 10 bakeries, 2 distribution nutritional information in store on our core range of centres, transport teams and central savoury sandwiches, savouries and drinks.
production facility into a single Supply Chain We also created a single brand throughout Function to concentrate on supporting the UK by converting 60 per cent of our 164 Bakers the planned growth in the business whilst Oven shops to the Greggs fascia, with the remainder delivering significant efficiency improvements: scheduled for completion during 2010. strengthening our Central Support teams to handle more of our accounting, administration and IT support: and creating a Trading function under a newly appointed Group Trading Director to focus on range, new product development, promotions, pricing, sourcing and margin.
14 Our customers Our products Greggs serves a million customers every day.
80 per cent of our product range is now In a recessionary climate, with particular uncertainty harmonised across our 1,400plus shops.
Critically caused by fears of job losses and tax rises, our though, the remaining 20 per cent of the range customers naturally look to make their money go as comprises regional and local specialities, which our far as possible.
We have maintained our focus on customers love and expect us to continue making delivering the outstanding value for which Greggs for them.
has long been renowned whilst not compromising We increased the amount of new product on the quality of our products.
This has undoubtedly development, launching a total of 22 new products contributed to our ability to sustain likeforlike sales during the year, compared with nine in 2008. growth throughout the recession.
Following a successful trial in the North West, We have also listened and responded to our our breakfast offer is now available across the whole customers by increasing the pace of our product of the UK, comprising bacon or sausage in a fresh, innovation and offering even greater choice of range.
We believe that this presents In addition we have also launched a much wider a good opportunity for sales growth in our quieter, range of sandwiches without mayonnaise, with a early morning period.
third of our range now mayo free.
Our new marketing campaign, launched in February 2010, promotes Greggs as The home of fresh baking.
This is very much a return to our roots and reiterates what has always made Greggs special: our people and our products, who together fill the starring roles in our new generation of TV commercials.
By reemphasising the freshness and quality of our bread, rolls, savouries, sandwiches and cakes, we aim to extend awareness of our key proposition as the nations favourite retail baker.
Being a baker as well as a retailer gives Greggs a real competitive advantage and our aim is to communicate these key messages to an even wider audience who may not know what makes Greggs so special.
In total, we see scope for Our shops Last year we opened 49 new shops and closed more than 600 new shops, and currently expect to increase the pace of net new openings from 50 60 39, making a net addition of 10 new shops and giving us a total of 1,419 at the yearend.
The rate in the current year to 70plus from 2011.
As part of this expansion we will continue to of shop closures was higher than usual as a result of the sale of our 10 shops in Belgium and the diversify our estate by opening more shops in places where customers work and travel, as well closure of 10 Bakers Oven shops as part of our restructuring to a single brand.
We also maintained as in traditional high street and suburban locations.
Almost 30 per cent of our 49 new shops in 2009 a firm approach to lease renewals, which we believe makes sound business sense in the current retail were in nontraditional locations, such as industrial estates, business parks, hospitals, universities, and property climate.
We are planning to open a net 50 60 new garage forecourts, airports and bus stations.
We expect this proportion to increase to around 50 shops during the current year, with around two thirds of these openings due to take place during per cent of new shops as our opening programme gathers pace in future years.
The shop opening programme is proceeding at a sensible pace, balanced by our During the year we trialled three new concept shops in the south of England.
Key features of desire to only open in optimum locations.
There are positive signs of increasing realism about the value these shops are that they provide more comfortable browsing of our products, more of which are of leases, though landlords continue to prefer to offer incentives to new tenants rather than to improve their available for selfselection rather than behind counters in a traditional Greggs.
Given the increasing proportion of empty retail they also make more space available to our customers and provide some seating.
The results space on the high street, we continue to argue that the existence of upwardonly rent reviews imposes have been encouraging, with sales increasing as customers get to see more of our range.
It is an inappropriate pressure on retailers.
In rent reviews over the next 12 18 months, we expect to see also very pleasing that customers rate us even higher for value in these concept shops.
This is many rents frozen when they would have fallen in an open market.
We continue to urge the Government extremely important to us as exceptional value has always been a great strength of the Greggs offer.
to consider the enlightened example of the Irish government in abolishing upwardonly rent reviews.
The learning from these trials will be progressively applied to a further 24 shops in London during We have identified opportunities to open new shops right across the UK, from the south west the year.
of England to the north east of Scotland, making Greggs accessible to the more than 50 per cent of the UK population who currently do not have a 16 During 2010 we plan to double the overall capacity for growth will begin in the second half of number of shop refurbishments with 120 refits this year when we start the building of new bakeries throughout the country.
This acceleration has been in Newcastle and Penrith.
We are also planning for made possible by much hard work to identify and a new bakery in the south of England and expect refine a costeffective refit formula that will allow us to have secured a site by the end of the year.
to make our shops better for our customers and Further investment to extend our existing bakeries in simpler for our staff, but at a lower refit cost per shop Glasgow, Leeds and Birmingham, and to replace our than in the past.
bakery in Twickenham, is planned for 2011 2013.
Our supply chain Capital expenditure During 2009 we undertook a fundamental review Our total capital expenditure in 2009 was 30.3 of our supply chain to establish how we could million 2008: 33.3 million net of capital grant, 3 achieve the optimal production and distribution million below our original budget as we deferred network for our planned growth to more than 2,000 some investment, mainly in our bakeries, until we shops in the UK.
We reevaluated the costs and had completed our supply chain review.
In the performance of our integrated bakery and logistics current year we are budgeting capital expenditure of model on a number of different bases, including 45 50 million as we double our rate of new shop comparison with outsourced alternatives, and openings and refits, and begin the first phase of concluded that continuing to make and bake our investment in our bakeries to support our plans for own products contributes strongly to our profits shop growth.
and gives us a distinct competitive advantage.
The review also highlighted the potential for us to Cash flow and balance sheet supply substantially more shops through our existing The Group remains strongly cash generative bakeries, thus achieving significant efficiency and we ended the year with net cash and cash improvements.
equivalents of 34.6 million 2008: 2.1 million As previously announced, our expansion on the balance sheet.
This puts us in an excellent plans for the next five years require an increase in position to fund increasing investment as we enter investment in our supply chain to enable us to make the expansion phase of our strategy, and to take Greggs more accessible to consumers across the advantage of other opportunities which may arise to UK.
This capital expenditure will be funded from our add value for our shareholders.
strong cash flow and will begin delivering benefits As the Chairman has stated, we are committed from 2011, ultimately delivering efficiency benefits to a progressive dividend policy.
In addition, when to the bottom line of at least 10 million per annum our plans indicate that we are holding surplus by 2014.
Our programme of renewing our older cash, we look to return this to shareholders.
Having bakeries to improve quality, efficiency and their examined our current circumstances we believe that 17 Pudsey Bear joins the Greggs team as part of the fundraising efforts for BBC Children in Need 2009. a cash return up to 15 million is appropriate and we substantial contributions to the Foundation which will progress this at a sensible pace using our share supports a wide range of excellent causes through buyback authority as we have done in the past.
grants to charitable and community organisations in the areas where we operate.
Corporate Social Responsibility We are very proud to continue supporting Our Food.
We have eliminated all artificial the Greggs Breakfast Clubs in primary schools in colours and all HVOs hydrogenated vegetable disadvantaged areas, where we know that they oils and trans fats from our own products.
We have make a huge contribution to childrens attention already been removing artificial flavours from our and learning.
I am also very pleased to report that products during 2009 and expect to complete this by we have been successful in building partnerships the middle of 2010. with other organisations to help us to open more I am pleased that, as we previously committed, breakfast clubs.
We have also supported the we now have nutritional information about our ExpoChef roadshow to explain the importance of products available in all of our shops in order to healthy cooking and eating to children and their make it easy for customers to make informed dietary parents in schools.
This is now available for our national range The Environment.
Last year we achieved an of sandwiches, savouries and drinks, and will be 18 per cent reduction in the amount of food waste extended to our sweet products and bread and rolls being sent to landfill, and in 2010 we are setting during 2010. ourselves a range of stretching environmental The Community.
Even in a severe recession, targets, including a 25 per cent reduction per shop in Greggs customers have again proved that they our carbon emissions by 2015.
We have introduced have hearts of gold and helped us to raise 739,000 reusable bags for sale in our shops and the profits for the BBC Children in Need appeal during 2009. from these bags will be dedicated to providing This was more than double our contribution for grants for environmental projects through the 2008 and means that we have raised a total of 1.4 Greggs Foundation.
million during the four years of our involvement a In all areas of Corporate Social Responsibility I fantastic achievement.
Our customers again amazed am hugely impressed by our peoples determination us with their generosity when they asked us to to apply Greggs values and to make a real provide collection points in our shops for the Haiti difference.
I am grateful to all of them for the earthquake appeal: their donations, combined with phenomenal enthusiasm they have shown in helping a 25,000 donation from Greggs, generated a total us to achieve so much during 2009. contribution of 186,000.
These and other issues are covered in greater I am delighted with the continued good work of depth in our Corporate Social Responsibility report the Greggs Foundation and the difference it makes on pages 20 to 24. to lives across the UK.
We have continued to make 18 We aim to meet consumer demand for our great Our people In the face of the worst recession for many taste, freshness, quality and value by increasing access to Greggs, at a faster rate, in new areas years, our people have displayed quite extraordinary determination and commitment, not only to deliver throughout the UK.
We will also make our products even more accessible as we further improve the continued sales growth, but also to implement the many changes in the structure of the business and shopping experience in our existing shops through our accelerated and costeffective refurbishment in our ways of working which have established the platform for our next phase of growth.
The changes of the last year have put us in illustration of the dedication of our staff that only 15 of our 1,400plus shops were closed for any length a strong position to deliver the significant growth opportunities that we have identified, and to fulfil our of time during the severe blizzards which swept the country in January.
vision of being the best in bakery.
In doing so we will realise further benefits for our staff, customers, Our people have done a truly fantastic job in putting us in great shape for the coming year and shareholders and local communities.
I am hugely grateful to them all.
I am also delighted that they will share in our success through Greggs Kennedy McMeikan Chief Executive profit sharing scheme.
We look forward to creating job opportunities for a further 6,000 people through 18 March 2010 our future plans to grow our shop numbers to more than 2,000 in the UK.
The future Greggs is a business with a proud history, strong values and a clear vision for the future: to be the number one for sandwiches and savouries, from a united team who are passionate about being the best in bakery.
We have a great reputation that commands huge loyalty among our existing customers, and the spirit of our people is absolutely second to none.
All this gives me a high level of confidence in our ability to deliver our vision, as we increase awareness of what we have to offer as The home of fresh baking.
