DIRECTORS REPORT Chief Executives review Our balanced approach of maintaining short-term returns and protecting medium-term growth will continue through the coming year Revenue and profit growth Revenue for the full year increased by 15% to a record 455.9m 2008: 395.1m with underlying 1 organic revenue growth of 11% after excluding acquisitions.
profit for the full year grew by 9% 1 to a record 79.1m 2008: 72.8m with underlying organic profit growth of 5% after excluding acquisitions.
Our revenue and profit performance both benefited from an 8% positive contribution from currency movements.
In the second half, organic revenue growth was 8%, benefiting from a 12% positive impact from currency.
Order intake during the same period was 3% lower than revenue.
We operate in diverse markets and macro-economic factors affected each of our markets differently in terms of the scale and timing of their impact.
Whilst some of our businesses continued to grow revenues, others were affected by lower demand for example, due to customers reducing inventory or delaying investment decisions.
However, the overall impact of lower revenues in the second half was reduced profitability which required action to reduce costs in those businesses affected.
The cost of these actions was 1.2m in 2008 09.
In anticipation of current trading trends continuing, we are taking further steps to reduce costs in early 2009 10.
We expect the costs of these further actions to be approximately 2.5m.
In Andrew Williams combination with the action already taken in 2008 09, we anticipate that we will achieve Chief Executive annualised xed-cost savings in excess of 15m relative to our overhead base during the second half of 2008 09.
These savings are in addition to our continuing activities aimed at product cost reductions through value engineering.
Sector review Our three reporting sectors all achieved double-digit revenue growth.
Infrastructure Sensors increased revenue by 11% and profit by 16% with underlying organic growth in both revenue and profit at constant currency.
There was organic profit growth in all four subsectors Fire Detection, Security Sensors, Automatic Door Sensors and Elevator Safety although there were differences in the revenue growth levels achieved across geographic regions.
For example, our Fire Detection business grew revenue strongly in the UK whilst our Security Sensor business continued to experience soft market conditions there.
The majority of our Infrastructure Sensors products are tted to existing commercial and public buildings to comply with safety regulations.
During the year, the impact of the slowdown in new commercial public building construction was mitigated somewhat by increasing sales into existing buildings particularly where major customers also refocused their efforts on selling more into existing installations.
Revenue in Health and Analysis grew by 23% whilst profits increased by 3%.
Fluid Technology and Health Optics achieved revenue and profit growth.
Our Photonics business was adversely affected by high overhead costs and delayed new products now launched whilst our Water business suffered a major reduction in UK demand.
As expected, UK water utilities reduced capital expenditure in year four of their five-year investment cycle but a number also delayed investment due to concerns over constraints within their business.
As highlighted in our February Interim Management Statement, significant action was taken in both Photonics and Water to improve profitability.
These actions included senior management changes, organisational restructuring and headcount reduction.
We anticipate seeing the benets of these actions come through most strongly in the second half of 2009 10.
Our Industrial Safety businesses delivered a good performance with revenue up 12% and profit up 14%.
There was underlying organic growth in both revenue and profit at constant currency.
There were particularly strong returns from Gas Detection and Safety Interlocks.
Our Bursting Disk businesses grew market share and implemented common manufacturing and sales processes which improved their competitiveness.
Following good growth in recent years, Asset Monitoring experienced weaker demand for subsea survey products in the North Sea due to some customers delaying major survey projects.
Growing revenue in export markets Double-digit revenue growth was achieved in all major geographic regions except the UK where revenue fell by 4% mainly due to weakness in our Water, Security Sensor and Asset Monitoring businesses.
It was encouraging that we were able to mitigate the impact of this reduction in UK revenue with continued growth in international markets.
Revenue outside our traditional operating bases of the USA, UK and Mainland Europe increased by 31% and now represents 22% of Group revenue 2008: 19%.
International expansion remains one of our key strategic objectives.
It was pleasing to see revenue from China grow by a further 25% this year to 12m, building on the success of the Halma hubs established there in 2006 at which time our annualised revenue was 6m.
Our new manufacturing hub in Shanghai is operational and an additional three companies are starting to build their products in the region for the first time.
12 Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW In September 2008, we launched a new Halma hub in Mumbai, India where we are recruiting 1 2009 ORGANIC REVENUE GROWTH commercial and technical staff for Group companies in all three sectors.
We remain committed to % increasing our revenues from developing markets.
In the coming year, we will continue to make modest investments towards achieving this goal.
% Acquisitions and disposals 11 We made two acquisitions and two small disposals during the year.
Our two acquisitions added new technology and products to our Photonics business.
In 2009 11 September 2008 we acquired Fiberguide Industries, a manufacturer of specialist bre optic components, for $14m.
In November 2008 we acquired the Colorado operating assets of Oerlikon 2008 8 Optics USA for $6m, adding new optical coating capabilities and capacity to our existing Ocean Thin Films business.
Fiberguide is based in New Jersey, USA and Oerlikon in Colorado, USA.
Since 2007 8 acquisition, both businesses have required some reorganisation which is now substantially 2006 15 complete and both are expected to be earnings enhancing in 2009 10.
In January 2009, we sold the assets of the South African based portion of our Security business, -1 2005 Texecom, to local management at book value.
This signicantly simplied our continuing security business whilst maintaining strong distribution channels in an important territory.
In February 2009, we sold our remaining high-power resistor business, Fortress Systems Pty 1 2009 ORGANIC PROFIT GROWTH based in Melbourne, Australia, to Telema SpA based in Milan, Italy for Aus$2.6m.
Prior to this % disposal, Fortress Systems also distributed our Safety Interlock products and we have merged this retained activity under the management of Fortress Interlocks, UK.
% A strong balance sheet 5 We ended the year with a strong balance sheet and net debt of 51m 2008: 44m.
Our bank facilities are in place until 2013.
This gives us plenty of headroom within our core borrowing facilities of 165m to invest in existing businesses and in acquisitions.
Our cash generation 2009 5 throughout the year was satisfactory, although the effect of currency exchange rate changes 2008 7 increased the value of our loans by 17m.
Almost all of our borrowings are in Euro and US Dollars and nanced the recent acquisitions in Europe and the USA.
2007 8 Capital expenditure in existing operations increased by 7% to 16.8m 2008: 15.7m as our companies continued to invest in their business to maintain high returns.
The average return on 2006 11 capital employed in our operating companies was 56%.
2005 -7 Innovation maintains high returns Halmas resilience over the years is reected in our ability to maintain high returns.
Key to this is our investment in value engineering existing products and developing new products.
It is pleasing to report that, despite tougher market conditions this year, our product margins were robust.
In Halma, product pricing is determined within each operating company and is typically based on the value to customers.
Looking ahead, we are not complacent and our efforts to maintain healthy returns continue apace.
This year our expenditure on R&D increased by 23% to 22.9m, equivalent to 5% of revenue 2008: 4.7%.
Encouraging more collaboration inside Halma Following the period end, in May 2009 we held our first Innovation and Technology Exposition.
For the first time, the senior managers from all Halma companies were brought together in one location to identify new collaboration opportunities by sharing their expertise in technology, manufacturing, finance, sales and marketing.
In recent years, we have been encouraging more interaction between Halma companies and this event showed that we have benefited from this already but still have a lot of new opportunities.
Further details are included on pages 39 to 41 of this report and, in future, I hope to highlight a number of successful new products or significant process improvements which were first initiated at this inaugural event.
Corporate responsibility and sustainability Halmas commitment to the environment, safety and improving the quality of life for individuals continues to be reected in both the way we do business and the products we create for our customers.
Our operational commitment is shown in greater detail in the Corporate responsibility review including the clear objectives we set ourselves in areas ranging from carbon policy to the safety of our employees.
We set objectives because they make good business sense.
These are regularly reviewed and, where necessary, acted upon by the Board.
The positive impact that our products have on society and the environment is significant and is a source of satisfaction for employees.
com 13 DIRECTORS REPORT Chief Executives review continued benefiting from investment in people development We have continued to benefit from our efforts to develop the quality and depth of management talent throughout the Group.
We are committed to maintaining this investment since it not only equips people to lead our businesses through the current market uncertainty but also ensures we have effective succession planning and renewed momentum when markets improve.
The Halma Executive Development Programme HEDP is our agship training programme and has had a major inuence on the careers of many of our senior managers since it was launched three years ago.
I would like to take this opportunity to record our thanks to Nigel Young, the Executive Board member who successfully led the creation of HEDP, who retired in March 2009.
Nigel worked in Halma for many years as a Managing Director and Divisional Chief Executive, and we wish him a long and happy retirement.
Delivering consistently high returns requires not just talented people but leaders who set demanding goals and build strong teams with the commitment and innovation to achieve them.
The efforts of all Halma employees to achieve such high standards so consistently is appreciated and I thank all of them for their contributions during the past year.
Outlook We aim to deliver value to shareholders by growing market share, continuing to deliver high returns, maintaining a strong balance sheet and generating cash.
This supports our progressive dividend policy and enables ongoing investment in our existing businesses.
We will also continue to invest in selected acquisitions as and when suitable, value-adding opportunities present themselves.
One of Halmas strengths is that we operate in diverse niche markets, which have robust long-term demand drivers and where we build strong global market positions.
In the past year, there have been some unexpected and sometimes conicting market trends.
However, this variation in market characteristics also contributes to our resilience since whilst some might be in decline, others continue to trade well or are in the process of recovery.
Currently, we are managing the business on the basis that many of our end markets are unlikely to support organic revenue growth in the coming year.
We believe we can grow market share and have a exible manufacturing base which can cope if revenue grows faster than anticipated.
In order to maintain returns and absolute earnings, individual businesses have taken action to reduce direct and indirect costs and the benets are expected to show through in the second half of the year.
We will continue to invest in innovation, people development and growth in developing markets.
Although short-term market demand remains difficult to predict, our balanced approach of maintaining returns by responding quickly to market changes and protecting medium-term growth through disciplined investment will continue through the coming year.
Despite the current market conditions, this underpins our confidence in continuing to deliver a resilient performance.
Andrew Williams Chief Executive 1 See Financial highlights PERFORMING AGAINST OUR STRATEGY WHAT WE SAID WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED 11% organic revenue growth and 5% organic profit growth driving Organic growth to exceed 5% p. a. record results.
$20m spent acquiring Fiberguide Industries and Oerlikon Optics Targeted acquisitions USA Inc to add further technology and product strength to our Photonics business within Health and Analysis.
Additional subsidiaries using Halma Shanghai hub and four Expand business in Asia establishing manufacturing in China for the first time.
New hub opened in Mumbai, India.
Revenues to Asia Pacic and Australasia grew by 26%.
Two more Halma Executive Development Programmes and four Continued management development Halma Management Development Programmes completed.
New Head of Halma People Development appointed.
Investment in R&D increased by 23% to 22.9m.
First ever Halma Maintain high rate of innovation Innovation and Technology event held in May 2009 to accelerate collaboration between subsidiaries.
14 Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2009
