BALANCING SHORT TERM ACTIONS WITH LONG TERM INVESTMENT We are balancing the actions taken to protect current profitability with the investment required to build leadership both now and in the next cycle of growth.
08 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 haysplc.
com 09 Directors Report Business Review Chief Executives Strategic Review A GOOD PERFORMANCE IN A DIFFICULT MARKET ENVIRONMENT The recruitment markets this year have been the most challenging on record.
We responded early by rapidly adjust ing the cost base, focusing on cash generation, redirecting resources into more resilient markets and investing to grow market share.
This approach has delivered good levels of profitability in a difficult market environment combined with an excellent cash ow performance.
Addressing the cost base During the year, we have carefully balanced short-term actions to protect current profitability with longer-term investment to build our business.
To address the short-term conditions, we have cut costs signicantly, primarily by reducing global headcount by 26% and consolidating a number of our offices, principally in the UK & Ireland.
These actions resulted in our cost base at the end of the year being 24% below the cost base at the start of the year.
Investment We have also invested in our business to grow market share both in the short term and long term.
Firstly, we have defended infrastructure in businesses that are at early stages of development, particularly in Continental Europe and Asia, where the long-term growth opportunities are substantial.
Alistair Cox Secondly, we have added resources into more resilient sectors Chief Executive including Healthcare, Education, Oil & Gas, and Pharmaceutical and the wider public sector where we see good opportunities for growth.
Thirdly, we have invested in our account management infrastructure to increase our share of the large corporate market.
Fourthly, we have continued to selectively invest internationally, starting operations during the year in India and Russia.
Review of 2009 Innovation Year ended 30 June Actual LFL Having built an infrastructure that covers the globe, has In s million 2009 2008 growth growth deep expertise across a wide range of skills and sectors and Net fees 670.8 786.8 15 % 18 % is increasingly enabled by technology, we are now innovating and developing ways to leverage that infrastructure to further Operating profit from 158.0 253.8 38 % 40 % differentiate ourselves in the market.
Whilst the core of our continuing activities business, helping our clients nd the experts they need for Basic earnings per share 7.72p 12.59p 39 % their own businesses and helping candidates nd the right role for themselves, will remain unchanged, we are developing LFL like-for-like growth represents organic growth for continuing activities at constant currency.
There were the same number of trading days in 2009 and 2008. new ways of delivering our services.
2008 numbers are presented pre-exceptional items.
There were no exceptional items in 2009.
During the year, we launched a global resourcing service called Relates to the change in consultants shown on a closing basis, comparing 30 June 2009 LOCATE, which uses our international network to help nd and versus 30 June 2008. attract skilled physicians and nurses for our clients from all over 10 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 a s r s l o a e u O n n n n o e d e i v t t i a H h t r e a c e y w e p s o ff O r l e d We have defended infrastructure in businesses that are at early stages of development, particularly in Continental Europe and Asia, where the long term opportunities are substantial.
We also launched Hays Digital and Creative, which Our strategy provides a broad range of technology-driven communication products and services, from candidate attraction, mobile messaging and web-based recruitment, through to video production and the use of social media.
We are seeing high levels of interest in these services and currently have around 200 bespoke client recruitment microsites online.
By having deep expertise across a wide range of job categories, national and international coverage and an ability to source temporary, permanent and interim staff, we are uniquely able to provide a complete solution to our clients to cover all their professional, qualied and skilled recruiting needs.
To best leverage this array of services, we continue to strengthen our major accounts infrastructure.
As a result, we have made good progress in signing multi-specialism contracts with an increasing number of large private and public sector organisations across the world.
Many of our clients are further benefiting from our ability to manage their entire recruitment process on an outsourced basis, providing them with greater levels of cost control and transparency than via the more traditional in-house recruiting model.
For example, in the UK we recently signed a 10-year contract as exclusive partner to Buckinghamshire County Council to recruit all their professional and skilled people across a wide range of job categories.
Our ability to combine the management of a clients recruitment process, with the delivery of the skills they require across multiple disciplines, is a further important differentiator for us.
Finally, we have made excellent progress rolling out our new IT systems.
These programmes are designed to give our global front office the best database systems available, as well as automate components: improving operational effectiveness, developing significant portions of our UK back office administration.
When the best people in the industry, applying a Hays way of doing completed, we will have the best platforms in the industry, which things consistently across the world, and growing our business will make us more efficient and further enhance our services to by replicating what we do geographically and sectorally.
I am pleased to say both programmes are on track For 2010, this strategy translates into the following key areas and are due for completion in 2010. of focus: These are just some examples of the ways we are investing in our business to build long-term differentiation with the aim 1.
Cash, profit and productivity maximisation of ensuring that we are well positioned to take full advantage We will continue to deal with challenging short-term trading when our markets improve.
conditions by focusing on profit, productivity and cash ow maximisation.
This will require continued close control of the Strategy and priorities for 2010 cost base, reducing it further where necessary.
However, we will Our underlying aim and strategy remains fundamentally be cautious about reducing costs further in those parts of our unchanged irrespective of the economic backdrop.
Our business where operations are at an early stage of development aim is to build the pre-eminent global business in specialist or where we see the need to retain infrastructure to allow us to recruitment.
Our strategy for achieving this divides into four rapidly build a market-leading position once the market stabilises.
com 11 g p n i e D t s o a e s p c v l e i e l e n l p i i o n e s p r t u h y t b e h b i e r n h u d t b o u w e s s o t t r r y G Directors Report Business Review Chief Executives Strategic Review continued We will be ready to add resources into the more cyclical sectors when we see signs of recovery in our markets.
Increase market share Whilst we anticipate that 2010 will be another tough year We believe that recession provides a good opportunity for for our industry, we must not lose sight of the fact that many nancially strong businesses like ours to increase market share.
of the markets in which we operate are at very early stages Our broad capability means we can target resources on those of development and will provide us with substantial growth areas of the market that are both currently resilient and have opportunities over the long term.
We will, therefore, continue attractive long-term growth characteristics.
Firstly, this means to take advantage of the downturn to build market share and continuing to invest in more resilient sectors like Healthcare, maintain our investment in a wide range of operational areas Education, Oil & Gas, Pharmaceutical and the wider public to strengthen our business for the long term.
Secondly, we will leverage our new account management market conditions persist, we will manage this balance, remaining infrastructure to win more large corporate accounts.
Thirdly, we confident in the resilience of our business as well as excited will continue to selectively invest in the international network about how we will develop our business in the future.
taking account of both current economic trends and long-term opportunities.
Fourthly, we will be ready to add resources into Alistair Cox the more cyclical sectors when we see signs of recovery in Chief Executive our markets.
Complete rollout of IT systems We are already half way through the rollout of our new front office and back office IT systems.
The priority this year is to complete the rollout in 2010 and to start exploiting the systems to their full advantage with the dual aim of improving customer service and the efficiency of our business.
As this process approaches completion, we will start to shift our focus to developing our online capability and presence: we are market leaders in specialist recruitment and we want to fully develop a powerful online presence that reects this.
Strengthen our brand positioning Market-leading companies have market-leading brands.
We want our brand to be synonymous with Powering the world of work.
To achieve this, we are refreshing our branding to address areas where we have identied improvement is needed.
This Report is a reection of some of the changes we are already making.
In addition, we plan to increase our investment per head in training to ensure that our recruitment consultants have the expertise in their sectors that our clients and candidates demand.
This will allow us to live up to our promise of Recruiting experts worldwide.
12 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 SHORT TERM VISIBILITY: LIMITED LONG TERM OPPORTUNITIES: LIMITLESS Market drivers Market opportunities The multiplier effect and cyclical growth OUR INTERNATIONAL MARKETS ARE AT VERY EARLY As positions are lled, new vacancies are automatically STAGES OF DEVELOPMENT WITH SUBSTANTIAL created generating a multiplier effect on demand.
Hence LONG TERM GROWTH AHEAD OF THEM economic growth has a leveraged impact on our business.
UK Increasing deregulation GERMANY Deregulation, particularly in Continental Europe, is opening up new markets for our services, generally making it easier FRANCE for us to operate and grow.
SPAIN Cultural changes Increasing awareness and willingness to use specialist ITALY recruitment services in sectors and countries that, historically, have not been familiar with specialist NETHERLANDS recruitment services.
BELGIUM Structural skills shortage CANADA Skill shortages means businesses are using our services to help ll highly-skilled roles.
Increasing flexibility demands Country population.
Increasing demand by employers and employees for Hays view the country population as a useful indicator of the long-term potential market exible employment is driving longer-term growth in the size in each country.
Increasing job velocity People are changing jobs more frequently, which will create a greater demand for our services.
com 13 Four key characteristics that position Hays well for the upturn: TIMING OF PURE PLAY SPECIALIST RECRUITMENT 2.4bn revenue 345 offices MARKET LEADING POSITIONS ECONOMIC Number 1 in UK & Australia and top 3 in most of Continental Europe ATTRACTIVE MARKETS WORLDWIDE With strong long term growth drivers RECOVERY: BUSINESS MODEL REPLICATES On global scale with low expansion risk UNCERTAIN HAYS ABILITY TO TAKE ADVANTAGE WHEN IT COMES: CERTAIN 14 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 haysplc.
