Business Review CHIEF EXECUTIVES Q&A What, for you, were the Anthony Buckingham, CEO, answers some frequently highlights of 2009?
asked questions about the progress and future of Heritage.
2009 was a remarkable year for Heritage and marked another milestone in our development.
Operational success continued in Uganda where we concluded our successful drilling campaigns in both blocks and in Kurdistan where we announced the significant Miran West-1 discovery.
From a corporate perspective, we are in the process of disposing of our Ugandan interests and we raised $217 million through a successful offering of Ordinary Shares last summer.
The proposed sale of our Ugandan interests is a demonstration of our ability to seek an early opportunity, based on our strong technical capability and network of relationships, and to successfully operate, explore and monetise.
Delivering on our promises in this respect has been a wonderful achievement.
What does 2010 hold for Heritage?
2010 will continue to be a very interesting year for Heritage as we have a diversified drilling programme and the financial flexibility to accelerate programme execution in several of our core areas.
In the near-term the main priorities for the Group are to continue to drive our current portfolio forward with drilling in Kurdistan, Malta and Pakistan.
2010 will be full of many exciting opportunities for our Company.
14 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Drilling operations at the Kingfisher-2 well, Uganda What are the key components What is the Companys How does the Company engage of your strategy?
approach to CSR and how has with shareholders?
We aim to continue to generate growth A.
The Chairman, with input from the in shareholder value by focusing on high Senior Independent Director, is responsible A.
Heritage has always recognised that our impact international plays with the potential for ensuring effective communication of licence to operate is closely linked to our to discover significant hydrocarbon shareholders views to the Board as a whole adoption of CSR concepts.
We look to acquire and invest and will update the Board accordingly.
of this is our approach to the conduct of in exploration and early development We employ an investor relations specialist our business matters.
It is an important opportunities throughout the world, with and an investor relations programme is in management priority to ensure that our a particular emphasis on our core areas place for Executive Directors and senior relationships in the countries in which we where we have a strong technical management to meet with institutional operate are conducted in a transparent and understanding.
By entering into regions investors in European and North American responsible manner.
Our systems in this early we seek to obtain a large equity cities.
The website is updated continually area are reviewed regularly and will be an interest and operatorship.
to keep investors informed of our activities.
important responsibility of our new CSR committee.
How would you describe the Do you have a message for We work closely with a variety of local culture at Heritage?
stakeholders in the areas where we operate.
We aim to ensure that the economic value A.
We have an excellent track record of A.
The Company has an excellent track generated by our operations is applied to attracting and retaining talented personnel.
record built over many years, one that we address important aspects of local need.
All staff are encouraged to participate in the continue to live up to.
Since we listed in We have worked closely with the local development of the Company.
Heritage is London in March 2008, we have enjoyed authorities in Uganda to develop important an ambitious company that is moving fast.
We have delivered on health, educational and economic We attract individuals, therefore, with the our promise to generate shareholder value, infrastructure projects.
For example, we same ambitions who want to seek out high expand analyst coverage and to increase have built a school and a potable water impact, value creating opportunities.
liquidity and we are firm in the knowledge project for the local villagers.
We aim to that we have the right people and the right apply our experience in Uganda to the other assets to allow us to continue to deliver high parts of the world in which the company impact results for our shareholders.
This approach is already being reflected in a number of our activities in Kurdistan.
What distinguishes Heritage from its peers?
The Company has many competitive strengths including: a strong balance sheet: a proven management team: strong and established technical expertise: a geographically diversified portfolio of high impact exploration plays: and well-established connections in all areas in which we operate.
