Business Review CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT We are demonstrating the success of our Since discovering the Kingfisher Field in strategy as a first-mover by the proposed 2007, net contingent resources in Heritage monetisaton of our Ugandan interests and operated Blocks 1 and 3A have been are considering many new opportunities estimated at 355 million barrels with a value with the potential to generate value for our of $1.126 billion, based on a discount rate shareholders.
After reaching five-year lows, equity markets Kurdistan saw a recovery during 2009.
Brent Oil prices Kurdistan remains a core area for Heritage.
moved up from the low of $36.40 per barrel Since signing the licence in October 2007, we in January 2009 to a high of $79.20 per have shot seismic, drilled a discovery well on barrel in November 2009 and the outlook for the Miran West structure and are currently the oil and gas markets remains positive.
This is a huge Leading figures around the world achievement demonstrating our commitment acknowledge that demand for hydrocarbons to the region and confirming the high level of will continue to increase as both populations operational expertise within Heritage.
Since much of the Anthony Buckingham easy oil has already been discovered, it is The Miran West-1 exploration well Chief Executive Officer frontier exploration that will be required to commenced drilling on 21 December 2008 satisfy this growth.
These areas often come and initial testing operations completed in with their challenges which we consider we May 2009.
A gross oil bearing column of approximately 700 metres was discovered and are well equipped to manage through our 2009 saw further experienced management and technical the oil in place for the field has been estimated to be approximately 3.4 billion barrels with net significant operational teams and our proven operating capability.
combined contingent and prospective success and corporate resources totalling approximately a billion Uganda At the beginning of 2009, we announced barrels.
Excellent recoveries, of between developments in our core 5070%, are expected from the fractured the successful Giraffe discovery in Block 1, assets in Uganda and Uganda, adding to our previous discoveries in carbonate reservoirs, based on fracture porosity alone.
During testing operations, the block, Warthog and Buffalo.
Pressure and Kurdistan propelling seismic data indicate that the Giraffe discovery concluded in August 2009, the Miran West-1 Heritage forward into a well flowed at a maximum rate of 3,640 bopd is structurally connected to the Buffalo Field, creating a combined Buffalo-Giraffe Field from a single reservoir interval.
new phase as we enter a covering approximately 48 square kilometres new decade.
with an oil column of approximately We announced in April 2010 that the Miran West-2 appraisal well had intersected 140 metres.
This was a pivotal discovery that confirmed the viability of the Albert Basin as a hydrocarbon-bearing intervals over approximately 1,800 metres within the commercial oil basin.
The success of our multi-well programme, which began in Cretaceous formations.
Three zones, determined from logging, within the October 2008, is evident with net contingent resources that have been estimated at 250 Cretaceous formations have been identified for testing once drilling operations have million barrels.
In February 2009, we completed the drilling of the successful Kingfisher-3A sidetrack well The well is being deepened to approximately 4,600 metres to explore further potential in the which appraised the Kingfisher discovery in Block 3A.
This well intersected all three underlying Jurassic and Triassic structures.
These exploration targets have the potential to Kingfisher reservoir intervals encountered in the Kingfisher-1A and -2 wells.
All three contain substantial volumes of additional hydrocarbons.
We are planning to acquire 3D Kingfisher wells have been suspended as future producers.
seismic over the Miran Block in the second 12 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Operations at Miran West-1, Kurdistan half of 2010 to enable further appraisal drilling our partner in the blocks, exercised its right of Operating Capability to encounter the fracture networks efficiently.
pre-emption on the same terms and We are proud of both our environmental and The Miran West-1 well has previously conditions as agreed with Eni.
We have continued our goal demonstrated that where open fractures are we announced that we had received a letter of pursuing operational excellence and have encountered in wells the reservoir will support from the Ugandan Government stating that it achieved the challenging goals set for last potential production rates of approximately supports Heritages sale and transfer of its year.
In addition, we have also maintained 10,000 bopd.
Ugandan interests and that it will conclude its an excellent track record of no significant review of the transaction within eight weeks.
Last years lost time Future plans for drilling of the Miran East-1 Following this, Heritage expects to receive incident frequency rate was well below exploration well are progressing and we are formal consent and to close the transaction industry average and was achieved at a looking to contract a rig for later this year.
time when Heritages operational scope increased significantly.
Russia On completing the disposal we will have The Zapadno Chumpasskoye Field is located operations in seven countries and some of Outlook in Western Siberia.
Approval was received at the disposal proceeds will be used to 2010 is set to be another significant year the end of 2009 for a Field Development Plan accelerate exploration, appraisal and for Heritage.
We have never been stronger to enable us to commence horizontal drilling development of these areas.
Furthermore, financially and we believe that we have a to improve the recovery efficiency and also to Heritage will have the financial flexibility to very valuable and prospective portfolio enhance the economics of the field.
The field participate in opportunities to generate which will see high impact drilling in was shut in for most of the first quarter of further value for shareholders.
Capital 2009 following a temporary reduction in expenditures in 2010 are expected to be Other 2010 Operations domestic oil prices in Russia.
After approximately $155 million, of which production restarted, measures were Operations are planned to expand in Malta this approximately $100 million will be allocated year with the acquisition of 1,000 kilometres undertaken to increase output to the current to exploration and appraisal activities and production rate of approximately 650 bopd.
of seismic and the drilling of an exploration approximately $55 million to production and well.
Heritage has already identified a number development activities.
Financial and Corporate of large targets from over 3,500 kilometres of With the disposal of the Oman operations seismic acquired when the Company was In summary, 2010 promises to be a year in April 2009, oil production and revenue awarded the Malta licences at the end of 2007. of significant change for Heritage as we is now generated from the Zapadno increase production, continue with high In Pakistan, we are in the process of acquiring Chumpasskoye Field in Russia.
Heritages impact exploration and look for further net production decreased by 13% to an infill seismic in the Zamzama North Block.
The exciting opportunities for our portfolio.
current seismic database used to map the average of 329 bopd during 2009, compared to 2008, as a result of the field being shut in Zamzama North Block comprises some 750 As always, I am very grateful to our talented kilometres of fair to good quality, 2D seismic.
during 2009. management team and employees and On the basis of this data we have mapped a supportive Board for their dedication and During 2009, our liquidity was enhanced number of structural leads.
An exploration well contribution to the remarkable progression through two initiatives.
Firstly, in April 2009, is planned to be drilled in the second half of made by Heritage this past year.
$28.4 million was realised through the sale of this year following interpretation of the current Eagle Energy Oman Limited Eagle Energy.
Finally, to our shareholders, thank you for your Secondly, in June 2009, 25.4 million new continued support and interest in Heritage.
Genel Enerji A. S. Ordinary Shares were placed successfully at a price of 5.20 per share for total gross In June 2009, Heritage announced that it had entered into a non-binding Memorandum of proceeds of $217 million.
Understanding with Genel Enerji A. S. Genel In November 2009, we announced that a to acquire the entire share capital of Genel Anthony Buckingham Letter of Intent LOI had been signed with Energy International Limited Genel Energy.
Chief Executive Officer ENI International B. V. Eni to sell our In November 2009, after signing a LOI with Ugandan interests for up to $1.5 billion.
In Eni for the sale of our Ugandan interests, December 2009 a Sale and Purchase discussions with Genel were terminated Agreement the SPA was executived with before the terms of a definitive agreement Eni.
Subsequently, Tullow Uganda Limited, had been settled.
