12 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2009 Chief Executive Officers review 2009 has been a very successful year for Hikma in which we have made excellent progress towards achieving our strategic objectives Strengthening our leading position Extending our reach and diversity in the MENA region through partnerships Our position as the leading regional pharmaceutical We continue to deliver a strong performance from company in the MENA region remains solidly in place.
our in-licensed products, which grew by 25% in We continue to increase our market share across the 2009, reinforcing our position as the licensing partner region as a whole expanding our product portfolio of choice in the MENA region.
We signed three new in growing therapeutic areas and penetrating further licensing agreements during the year that will bring into new markets, while maintaining our strong four new products into our portfolio over the coming position in the field of anti-infectives.
In rapidly years and will strengthen our product offering in key changing markets like Algeria, we have demonstrated therapeutic areas.
Using our local manufacturing our ability to turn obstacles into opportunities capabilities, we will be able to introduce these delivering a strong performance relative to other products into multiple markets simultaneously players in this market.
Increasingly we are benefiting across the MENA region.
from the acquisitions of Hikma Egypt and Arab Pharmaceutical Manufacturing APM which Increasing the scale of our speciality are now well integrated into the Hikma Group.
Injectables business Our efforts to build scale in our global Injectables Developing our global product range business continue, with 16 products launched across in growing therapeutic areas our markets in 2009 and continued investment in Our product portfolio continues to grow with 24 new sales and marketing.
The 41 approvals received across compounds and 47 new dosage strengths and forms all regions and geographies in 2009 will help to marketed and sold this year.
A further 114 approvals deliver growth in 2010. across all regions and markets ensures that we will maintain a steady stream of new product launches in Leveraging our expertise and capacity 2010.
Our portfolio also continues to develop in new in the US market therapeutic areas, with new launches in oncology, During 2009 a considerable effort went into CNS, diabetes and respiratory.
continuing the turnaround of our operations in the US, with outstanding results for the full year.
The performance of the Generics business in the US has exceeded our expectations and I am confident that the operational issues we have faced in the past are well behind us.
We have refocused the business on providing higher service levels and we Delivering Our strategy 13 Our strategy for growth % %% %%% l Strengthen Develop Extend Increase Leverage Build on our our leading our global our reach and the scale our expertise world-class position in the product range diversity as a of our and capacity manufacturing MENA region in growing partner of speciality in the US and API therapeutic choice in the Injectables market sourcing areas MENA region business capabilities are successfully utilising our high quality, lower cost Implementing our new organisational structure MENA manufacturing facilities in the US market.
To achieve our growth ambitions, we must have Through well-coordinated and collaborative efforts, the right personnel and systems to support them our teams in the US, Jordan and Saudi Arabia have in place.
Thus, during 2009, we implemented a delivered excellent results, significantly increasing new organisational structure, which was sufficiently sales of our global products.
established to contribute to the years success.
The new structure created corporate-level marketing, Maintaining our world class operational, HR and business development functions manufacturing capabilities designed to improve the efficiency of our activities I am extremely proud of our manufacturing and across the Group.
I am confident that the new regulatory personnel, whose teamwork and structure will enable us to focus on efficiency and commitment to the highest quality standards really deliver on our strategic objectives going forward.
Our plant in Portugal passed its Through our new corporate HR function we are FDA inspection this autumn with no observations, implementing fundamental processes that will help demonstrating the true excellence of the Group us to recruit, develop, retain, engage and manage regulatory team.
This teamwork and commitment to our people, thereby supporting our short and excellence was reinforced in January 2010, when our long-term strategic business objectives.
Jordanian facility which includes a general formulation I am confident that the new structure will enable plant, a penicillin plant, and a chemical plant also us to devote an even higher focus on efficiency and passed its FDA inspection, quality in all of our operations, thereby enabling us again with no observations.
to deliver on our strategic objectives going forward.
Quality is proving to be a key differentiating factor and our investment in and commitment to quality continues to deliver results.
Said Darwazah Chief Executive Officer 14 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2009 Chief Executive Officers review continued Top 10 MENA companies in 2009 Value Growth Market share Rank $m % % MENA private market 8,028 10.0 100.0 Sanofi-Aventis 1 769 2.6 9.6 GlaxoSmithKline 2 619 13.0 7.7 Pfizer 3 465 4.5 5.8 Novartis 4 442 5.5 5.5 Hikma 5 294 12.4 3.7 Merck & Co 6 231 3.1 2.9 Spimaco 7 198 11.6 2.5 AstraZeneca 8 177 24.0 2.2 Bayer 9 167 3.7 2.1 Pharco 10 138 14.1 1.7 All market data sourced from IMS Health, MAT December 2009.
Figures reflect private retail sales in Algeria, Jordan, Kuwait, Egypt, Tunisia, Morocco, UAE, Lebanon and Saudi Arabia.
Strong results in 2009 Improving efficiency continues All of these efforts have enabled us to achieve 36% to be a high priority net income growth for the Group in 2009.
In the Because of the value to be generated, we continue context of the difficult economic environment, to challenge and engage every person in the Group these results are truly impressive and demonstrate to innovate for efficiency while maintaining quality.
the strength of our diversified business model, our Maximising plant utilisation, lowering overheads, dedicated efforts to improve efficiency and the reducing inventories, better cash collection these hard work of the Hikma teams around the world.
are just some of the areas where our people are committed to creating value.
There is always scope Looking ahead to do what we do better and every little bit helps.
Looking forward to 2010 and beyond, we still have much work to do.
We will be implementing the following key initiatives to help us deliver continued operational excellence and strong financial results.
Delivering Our strategy 15 Centres of excellence in manufacturing Growing through acquisitions will enhance our global product range We remain very ambitious for the longer-term Global products are integral to our growth strategy.
prospects for the Group and we have an excellent Developing and strengthening our global product track record for making successful acquisitions and range is essential.
Through the creation of integrating them swiftly.
Acquisitions in the MENA manufacturing centres of excellence, we have a region remain a priority both to enter new markets significant opportunity to grow sales and improve and develop our position in existing markets.
We will margins by better utilising our manufacturing also continue to look for opportunities in Europe, facilities across the Group.
In our Injectables business the US and Asia, particularly when it comes to we are already doing this we manufacture in acquiring new global products and new technologies.
Portugal and sell across the US, Europe and MENA.
Our oral cephalosporins, which are produced in Developing new partnerships Saudi Arabia and sold across the MENA region Our commitment to developing our in-licensed and also in the US, are another good example.
portfolio remains very much intact.
We believe Yet numerous other opportunities remain.
2010 that we remain the clear partner of choice in will see the launch of our oncology products in the the MENA region for licensing opportunities, MENA region and continuing efforts to prepare our as the recent additions to our in-licensed oncology manufacturing plant in Germany for the portfolio demonstrate.
manufacture of FDA approved products.
We expect to leverage further our cephalosporin plant in Saudi Investing in our people Arabia and our penicillin and general formulation As a company we have always been committed to plants in Jordan to produce not just for MENA but developing our people.
As the Group grows, this is also for the US and, in some cases, Europe.
We will continue to challenge ourselves to improve and commit to providing the Strengthening Group communications opportunities necessary for our teams to develop.
Improving communication across the Group is Striving to make Hikma the employer of choice will also critical.
Strong communication and excellent ensure we retain the skills required to take our teamwork paid off in 2009 from a regulatory business forward.
The US turnaround was also made easier by the well coordinated efforts of the US, Jordanian Going forward and Saudi teams previously mentioned.
Facilitating I am very excited by the opportunities we have communication across departments and geographies to expand our business in 2010 and beyond.
in our rapidly expanding Group will remain a priority.
Said Darwazah Chief Executive Officer 16 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2009 l DELIvErING OUr StrAtEGy Strengthening our leading position in the MENA region 16.28 9 General formulation manufacturing facility, Algiers, Algeria In many markets in the MENA region, local manufacturing Manufactured is critical to establishing a strong market presence.
We are committed to developing our manufacturing capabilities in in Algeria... Algeria in order to better serve the Algerian market.
We expect our Algerian manufacturing capacity to double over the next three years.
17 13.28 9 Patients in Algeria are benefiting from our locally produced products We worked hard in 2009 to build our market share in Algeria,... A dministered particularly in the important cardiovascular and metabolic therapeutic areas.
Making a wide range of high quality products in Algeria available to patients in Algeria is also a key priority.
three new products were launched in Algeria in 2009.
18 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2009 DELIvErING OUr StrAtEGy Developing our global product range in growing therapeutic areas 06.57 9 Oncology manufacturing facility, vienenburg, Germany We made excellent progress in the development of our Manufactured oncology business in 2009.
We are now producing four of our own oncology products at our cytotoxic manufacturing in Germany... facility in Germany.
this facility has been inspected by health authorities from across Europe and the MENA region and we are working hard to prepare the facilities for production for the US market.
19 9 Hikma is making cancer treatment more 09.57 accessible to patients in Jordan Following the initial launch of our injectable oncology products...
Administered in Jordan and yemen in the second half of 2009, patients in the Middle East now have access to our high quality generic in Jordan oncology products.
We have an excellent opportunity to build a leading oncology business in the MENA region and plan a further four oncology launches in 2010.
20 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2009 % %% %%% DELIvErING OUr StrAtEGy Extending our reach and diversity as a partner of choice in the MENA region 08.45 9 General formulation manufacturing facility, Salt, Jordan APMs manufacturing facilities in Salt are now fully integrated Manufactured into the Hikma Group and are helping us to serve our growing markets in the MENA region.
Currently, these facilities produce in Jordan... products, including some of our important in-licenced products, for sale across 22 countries.
Output will increase in terms of volumes produced, products produced and markets served as we work to transform these facilities into a manufacturing centre of excellence for the MENA region.
21 9 Actos, the leading type 2 diabetes treatment, 11.45 is now available to patients in Egypt As our product portfolio grows, we are enhancing the range...
Administered of high quality and affordable products available to patients across the MENA region.
In 2009, our product offering in Egypt expanded to 245 products in 472 dosage strengths and forms, including 40 in-licenced products.
Seven new products were launched in Egypt, including Actos, tanatril imidapril, Blopress and Omnicef.
22 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2009 DELIvErING OUr StrAtEGy Increasing the scale of our speciality Injectables business 11.42 9 Sterile injectable manufacturing facility, Sintra, Portugal Our sterile injectable manufacturing facilities in Portugal Manufactured produce high quality injectable products for the US, European and MENA markets.
these facilities are producing sterile in Portugal... liquids and cephalosporins and we have recently added significant lyophilisation capacity.
23 08.42 9 Our sterile injectable products are reaching patients across Europe In Europe, we currently sell 23 compounds in 78 dosage...
We have a strong presence in Germany, Portugal and Italy and are also rolling out our products in Germany in Austria, Spain and the Netherlands as well as in other new markets.
24 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2009 DELIvErING OUr StrAtEGy Leveraging our expertise and capacity in the US market 9 Dedicated cephalosporin manufacturing facility, 13.32 riyadh, Saudi Arabia Our manufacturing facility in Saudi Arabia has been approved Manufactured by the US FDA for the production of oral cephalosporins.
In 2009 we more than doubled our exports from Saudi Arabia in Saudi Arabia... to the US.
25 10.32 9 Our leading anti-infectives are being dispensed to patients in the US Demand for our oral anti-infectives, which we manufacture at...
Administered our facilities in Jordan and Saudi Arabia, grew significantly in 2009.
We increased our market share of Cephaclor, one of our in the leading cephalosporins, from 1% to nearly 30% for the year.
United States 26 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2009 DELIvErING OUr StrAtEGy Building on our world-class manufacturing and API sourcing capacities 17.15 9 General formulation manufacturing facility, Amman, Jordan Our high quality general formulation, penicillin and chemical Manufactured manufacturing facilities in Jordan produce a broad range of products for sale across the MENA region and increasingly in Jordan... for the US and Europe.
through our focus on efficiency, our manufacturing facilities in Jordan increased volumes in 2009 while keeping costs constant.
27 16.15 9 Our leading anti-infectives are reaching patients in Iraq Demand for our leading anti-infectives Amoclan and Suprax...
Administered grew significantly in Iraq in 2009.
Hikmas overall sales to Iraq more than doubled as we launched new products and worked in Iraq hard to rebuild our sales and marketing capabilities in this recovering market.
A total of six new products and 10 new dosage strengths and forms were launched in Iraq in 2009.
