REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Chief Executives statement In a particularly diffi cult trading environment, we have managed our costs and cash very eff ectively to limit the impact on profi ts.
This focus has put us in an even better posiBene t of broad product offerings tion to trade through another tough year Argos and Homebase are strong retail brands and while further improving our competitive household names that draw demand from having position.
We will continue to develop our a wide customer appeal.
Average transaction broad product range, bene t further from our values are low at 2030, while purchase advantaged sourcing operations and invest frequency is relatively high at around five visits in our multi-channel operations in order to per customer each year.
The Argos operating strengthen our position as the UKs leading model typically allows it to offer the product home and general merchandise retailer.
range depth of a specialist retailer in each of the many categories in which it operates.
Homebase Outlook for our markets is well positioned across the broad home Total consumer spending in the 60 billion home enhancement market.
The product ranges are and general merchandise market declined maralso adjusted to the changing needs of customers ginally in calendar year 2008.
product categories we have typically held or The product offering will continue to be gained some share: however, our greater relative strengthened to maximise opportunities during exposure towards some of the weaker markets the consumer slowdown, and to target further Terry Duddy such as furniture, homewares and DIY resulted share gains in large product markets such as Chief Executive in our overall 10% share of the total market consumer electronics at Argos and kitchens at remaining unchanged.
Looking ahead, we continue to expect a dif - cult trading environment for the product markets Leadership in multi-channel convenience in which we operate.
We remain in a position of Leadership in multi-channel convenience remains planning cautiously in respect of the outlook for key to differentiating the shopping experience for consumer con dence in general and for the level customers, enabling them to shop how they want of discretionary household spending.
to today and in the future.
Some 40% of Argos In addition to reduced consumer demand, there sales are now multi-channel, i. e. internet and are also further retail industry-speci c pressures.
phone orders, or store orders for home delivery.
Given the weakness of sterling, the cost of goods The fastest growing channel continues to be for the majority of home and general merchanonline reservations for immediate store collecdise products will increase for virtually all UK tion, a unique service across the entire product retailers.
A further area of pressure will be the range and available in every store.
The internet in likely continued cost in ation that retailers face.
total generated 1.1bn or 26% of Argos sales.
Against this dif cult economic backdrop, Argos and Homebase will continue to develop Home Retail Group, as the UKs leading home their internet offerings as a further important and general merchandise retailer, will continue to growth opportunity: the potential of the internet pursue a strategy to further its competitive is signi cantly supported by the presence of an advantage.
expanding store network for additional customer convenience.
It is also supported by the scale ef ciencies of the shared home delivery infrastructure that delivered 12 million items in the year.
The shared Financial Services platform, which provides promotional credit offers across all customer channels, adds further competitive advantage.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 9 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Chief Executives statement continued Gross margin management The Group remains committed to delivering Group are already being made in order to deliver customer value while trading through the conannualised cost savings of approximately 50m, sumer slowdown.
Our product markets will of which around 35m will be achieved in the new however see signi cant impact from the weakfinancial year.
ness of sterling, which is likely to more than offset any underlying easing in supplier manufacturing Focus on cash generation and shipping costs.
Prices to consumers are thereThe Group will maintain its focus on cash, buildfore likely to rise in some of our product markets, ing upon the success of the past three years over but the Group will remain price competitive and which time approximately 500m of net cash has the prices of thousands of lines will still be held been generated.
Capital expenditure will be at or lowered.
restricted to where it generates the highest levels As a market leader, the Groups scale advanof return and to that required to keep our infratage will continue to see it well positioned to stay structure well maintained: excluding brand price competitive relative to most other retailers acquisitions, net capital expenditure reduced by operating in the same product markets and around a third to 132m in the year being facing the same overall product cost pressures.
reported, and is expected to fall further in the new financial year.
Working capital will also Advantaged sourcing operations continue to be tightly managed: stock levels were As well as purchasing scale, the Groups skills and reduced by around 7% year-on-year and the infrastructure in all areas of sourcing create a overall movement in working capital was broadly highly advantaged supply base that will enable it neutral.
to continue to provide excellent customer value.
The Group will still invest capital selectively Buying directly from overseas has grown to 33% in order that its businesses will emerge from of Group sales, with our overseas buying of ces the consumer downturn strongly positioned.
now directly sourcing around 8,300 product lines This will include around 20 new stores at Argos across the majority of the Groups product cateand approximately five at Homebase in the new gories.
These shared sourcing operations will financial year.
continue to be the major driver of Group synergy bene ts.
Overall position of strength There is expected to be further progress on Home Retail Group faces the challenging backgrowing the proportion of products directly drop from a position of operational and financial sourced from overseas manufacturers, as well as strength.
The Groups broad product offerings, 484m additional bene ts from value chain projects, low average transaction values and frequent of net cash has been generated supplier base management, and synergies in purcustomer visits are likely to offer resilience.
over the last three years.
chasing goods or services that are not for resale.
Our strength and leadership in multi-channel retailing will ensure the relevance of our business Managing the cost base for further ef ciencies model by offering true customer convenience.
In a likely environment of declining sales, coupled Product cost pressures will be dealt with by with further in ationary pressures on the operatappropriate trading strategies and our competiing cost base, there will be an ongoing need to tive scale advantage, skills and infrastructure in deliver further cost ef ciencies across all parts of Group-wide sourcing operations.
To offset each 1% of underlying in afurther cost ef ciencies and our overall focus on tion across the operating and distribution cost cash generation will further protect our position.
base would require around 20m of cost savings All of this will be delivered by our colleagues, to be found, whilst declining sales volumes would with their commitment, effort and passion for require even further cost reductions to be made.
success being a critical element of the strength of Given the inherent bene ts in its operating Home Retail Group.
cost model, Argos has a strong track record The Group therefore expects to demonstrate of achieving cost ef ciencies and positive cost further good relative performances in its markets, productivity.
While ongoing action on costs will and to emerge well positioned from the current still be required at Argos, there remains a more economic downturn.
signi cant challenge at Homebase given it is a more highly operationally geared business.
Terry Duddy A number of organisational changes across the Chief Executive 10 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009
