Chief executives statement The Howdens model has been 2009 was a very important year for authorities.
Occasionally, he may work the guiding statement of our Howdens.
The downturn which began for a big builder or developer.
The business since it was founded in 2008 reshaped the economic pattern of his work will vary from season in 1995.
It has served us well in landscape.
It combined with the to season and from year to year.
all kinds of economic weather.
continuing legacy of MFI to present us Howdens benets directly from this with a real test of our business model.
It is the builder who regulates The results we achieved in 2009 bear the mix of end-users.
The builders witness to the strength and resilience relationship with us is not with a central of the Howdens model.
This model organisation but with his local depot.
has been the guiding statement of Once the depot has earned his trust and our business since it was founded in loyalty, the builder allows us immediate 1995.
It has served us well in all kinds access, at no extra cost, to all sectors of economic weather and it has seen of the market.
We already have a us through the turmoil that surrounded significant share of the retail market in the demise of MFI.
Last year, we the UK without any of the costs such as continued to trust the model in difficult showrooms, tters or home delivery that and unpredictable market conditions, are normally associated with retail.
So We have 185,000 credit account ours is not an inexible model.
The average spend per inherently responsive to market needs.
Our There will always be as many kitchens sales are spread across a very large 08 Our depot expansion programme as there are households.
Kitchens are number of small accounts, and we do is adaptable.
It can be switched not about to go out of fashion.
They not have any significant exposure to on and off in anticipation of, and play an increasingly important role in one major customer.
in reaction to, market conditions.
our lives: and they are becoming more Ours is a low-cost model.
Depots are sophisticated all the time.
The rent we We have always believed that the best pay for them is low, the t-out costs way to get a kitchen installed and are modest, and a new depot can be working is to have it tted by a small up and running very quickly.
Many people now agree with depot occupies around 10,000 square our view.
One of the main reasons for feet, only 10% of which is selling and the resilience of the Howdens model is ofce space.
The rest is low-cost that the business serves many sectors storage, because we operate an of the market via one channel the small in-stock model.
From the outset, we designed Our depot expansion programme is our business around his needs.
It can be switched The small builder is an entrepreneur on and off in anticipation of, and in who migrates from one sector of the reaction to, market conditions.
That market to another by recommendation.
is why we were able to resume our Many of his customers are private depot opening programme so quickly landlords or owner-occupiers.
Some last year following strong autumn may be housing associations or local trading.
We opened eight new depots Galiform Plc Annual report & accounts 2009 in December 2009, bringing the total First, we stopped opening depots in Howden Joinery gains in exibility number of depots trading to 462.
Then in July of the same by being a truly local business.
year we reorganised our banking Howden Joinery gains in exibility by arrangements in anticipation of the being a truly local business.
Next, we looked for exactly what sells in each of our 462 greater efficiency throughout the depots.
We trust our depot managers business.
In the depots we focused to adjust their stockholding, and their on margin growth, less stock and pricing, to suit their local conditions.
We can exercise this trust because At the start of the year, it was clear of the role played in Howdens by that volumes were going to be lower incentivisation.
In our depots, each than they were in 2008.
We decided, persons bonus is directly linked to in difficult market conditions, to sell our local margin and profit.
Everyone is product at the right price rather than at personally engaged in the success and any price.
We adjusted to the rhythm development of the business.
Depots are not the only area in which The consequent margin growth was we have been able to demonstrate down to a combination of factors.
We take a commercial view Each depot can manage its own of purchasing.
We make what we need sales mix, its discounting policy, to make, and buy what we need to buy.
its local stock needs and its stafng 09 With security of supply in mind, as well requirements.
The results we as cost, we took the decision in 2008 achieved were a testimony to what to bring some sourcing back to the UK.
we call best demonstrated practice, by which we mean understanding During 2009, our own factories in how well we can do things.
We the UK produced 3.5 million kitchen share information about the range cabinets: 800,000 kitchen worktops of individual performance throughout and breakfast bars: and over 2 million the business, in particular in the kitchen frontals, which was over 2.5 depots, and we measure ourselves times more than in 2008. against the very best we can do.
The inherent adaptability of the Since we opened our first depot Howdens model allowed us to make in 1995, we have always been early decisions that enabled us to adapting to the changing market, concentrate on increasing cash.
and encouraging the lower-performing Given our legacy obligations and the depots to improve to the standards economic outlook from 2008 onwards, set by the best-performing ones.
we recognised that cash was a priority.
Margin growth plus greater efficiency So we took a series of actions.
delivered the cash we needed.
Chief executives statement continued With one route to market, via the We would not have been able to Today, we are looking forward to the depots, we can reap the rewards nd efficiency, however, if Howdens further growth and development of of focus.
had not been a completely focused Howdens.
We know the world has business.
We conceive of Howdens as changed, and continues to change.
Supply needs to We do not know what is coming.
have an accurate view of what depots It could be bad or good.
But we will require next week, next month, know our model is sound, and that it is and even next year, and be able to link adaptable as well as strong.
So investors that to the reliable delivery of very large can look to us to check and re-check volumes in order to achieve lowest our assumptions, and to make any cost fullment.
adjustments that may be necessary, or to take advantage of opportunities that Supply also has to deliver the right arise as the years advance.
quality of product, which means nocall-back quality for the builder, while We have many possible routes to growth.
making sure it is available in all of our First, we can expect further growth in our depots, and producing it at a lower existing depots.
A typical depot continues cost than anybody else in the sector.
to increase sales for at least seven years With one route to market, via the after opening, and many continue to depots, we can reap the rewards of achieve further growth after that.
And because we have a tightly are aware, around 200 of our 462 depots focused business, in which a whole have yet to reach maturity.
10 Investors can look to us to check kitchen is available on demand and re-check our assumptions, and Secondly, we plan to open between from stock, we can also collect to make any adjustments that may 20 and 30 new depots in 2010.
be necessary, or to take advantage experienced property team has already of opportunities that arise as the During 2009 we also undertook identied suitable low-cost locations in years advance.
several major IT projects, all of which catchment areas where we see good were implemented smoothly.
included: first, the rollout of a new, Thirdly, we are confident that we trade-focused computer system to all have the best product offer in the depots: secondly, the introduction of a marketplace.
We carried out extensive new warehouse management system: work on quality and range in the and thirdly, the latest version of the course of 2009.
On the quality front, SAP manufacturing applications.
These this included: improving the build and other IT initiatives have already quality of our cabinets and our joinery been instrumental in helping us reduce doors: incorporating better-designed, stock and deliver better service.
In higher-specication accessories such particular, we are able to improve stock as drawer closers and wirework into replenishment cycles: reduce lead our ranges: and re-sourcing product times: gain access to better information to suppliers who can guarantee a more quickly: and generally have much reliable, year-round ow of product that better visibility of the whole supply consistently meets our quality demands.
This year, there are more benets to come from these major projects.
Galiform Plc Annual report & accounts 2009 As Howdens grows, so does our As previously reported, we have Howdens today is a relevant visibility in the marketplace.
Our ten pilot depots in the North East business, with strong foundations, scale in itself brings inuence.
We of France and the Paris region.
We consistent values and principles lead a market that we have helped have recently developed their product and substantial prospects.
We know that we have a offer to ensure it is more closely suited voice that we can use, for example, to local market requirements, and we through advertising, to speak to many continue to monitor their performance.
Our current magazine Clearly, we would like to be able to campaign is designed to help the progress further with France, but we builder sell by giving him the tools will not make any moves until we are to build awareness among his own satisfied that all the necessary criteria customers.
Our total advertising spend for growth are in place.
in 2009 was 1.6m or less than In summary, Howdens today is a quarter of one per cent of sales.
a relevant business, with strong We have also identied several gaps foundations, consistent values and and opportunities, in terms of range principles and substantial prospects.
and price points, in our current offer.
We intend to continue to build a We know what our customers like, and strong and vibrant business, ready more importantly, what they buy.
Over to adapt in uncertain times, ready to the course of 2010 we will be rolling take opportunities when they present out further colour options in some themselves and able to provide value 11 of our most successful ranges, and to all concerned.
will investigate the possibilities in this area in more detail as we gather more Matthew Ingle information.
The new introductions Chief Executive should make it easier for our planners to plan and sell, allow us to offer a 3 March 2010 better choice to our customers, and give us more opportunities to continue to improve margin.
We also have other tools to help us nd further margin opportunities.
These include the latest version of the kitchen planning software used by our 800 designers, which has just been rolled out to all of our 462 depots.
This is an important step, which makes it far easier for our designers to select and sell our product and should make it easier for our customers to buy.
