1849 Black Sun ImpTob p6 p7:Layout 1 30 11 09 20:36 Page 6 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: STRATEGIC AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Chief Executives Review LEVERAGING OUR STRENGTHS Gareth Davis Chief Executive On an organic basis, we delivered growth of 5 per cent in tobacco net revenue and 7 per cent in adjusted profit from operations in the second half of the year, offering a true comparison post the Altadis acquisition.
Performance Overview In the premium segment, we grew During another successful year for Imperial Davidoff by 12 per cent with particularly Tobacco we have grown profits in our strong growth in our Rest of the World mature markets and made great advances region.
Within the mainstream segment, in emerging markets with volume, profit Gauloises Blondes was up by 1 per cent and market share gains.
and JPS, a key brand in our value portfolio, grew volumes by 11 per cent We increased our overall cigarette volumes with growth in all regions in which it is by 10 per cent to 322 billion, including a full sold.
This was complemented by excellent year contribution from Altadis and many results from a number of our regional and good brand and market performances.
Our focus on building sales has delivered We continue to leverage our strength in 5 per cent organic growth in tobacco net value cigarettes and fine cut tobacco to revenues and 7 per cent organic growth in respond to ongoing consumer downtrading.
adjusted profit from operations, at constant We have also grown our fine cut tobacco currency and before synergy benefits in the volumes in the UK, Spain, Germany and second half of the year, the first reporting Central Europe.
period to offer a true comparison post the Altadis acquisition.
We are world leaders in cigars and in spite of challenging trading conditions, Our total tobacco portfolio ensures we we have further improved profitability and can be flexible and agile in responding to strengthened our competitive position.
changing consumer and market dynamics.
Understanding the evolving nature of Our tobacco logistics business performed consumers and aligning our local market robustly including a particularly good portfolios to match their preferences is performance in France.
Whilst our other an increasingly important element of our logistics operations have been affected sales strategy.
by current economic conditions, we have We have delivered excellent growth from maintained our profitability through cost our leading international cigarette brands.
6 IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p6 p7:Layout 1 30 11 09 20:36 Page 7 Our Brand Performance Highlights We have grown volumes of our leading cigarette brands.
Premium segment Mainstream segment Value segment 1 % % % 12 1 11 1 Adjusted for shipment timings.
Corporate Responsibility From a financial perspective, we have Further enhancing our focus on sales, delivered significant working capital savings Our Corporate Responsibility strategy is whilst optimising our cost base and which have improved our strong cash integral to our overall business strategy effectively managing our cash, will ensure generation and enabled us to make a and is embedded throughout the Group.
we continue to create sustainable considerable reduction in our debt levels.
It is gratifying that our progress has shareholder value.
been recognised again, with a Bronze Class Integration rating from Sustainability Asset Management, We made excellent progress with the which analyses companies on behalf of the integration of Altadis during the year.
We completed consultations with trade Gareth Davis An overview of this years progress is unions and works councils and implemented Chief Executive provided on page 20 of this report.
More our major European integration projects, detail will be available in our Corporate including merging our sales and marketing Responsibility Review, to be published teams, enabling us to deliver a more in early 2010. comprehensive service to our customers.
Our People A number of manufacturing restructuring Key to delivering sustainable shareholder projects in Europe were also progressed.
value is the continued development of our In addition, we closed two cigar factories in people who once again have delivered the USA and continued to align processes, these excellent results.
systems and standards across our manufacturing operations.
Looking around the Group today, I am very encouraged by our significant and growing Regrettably, these projects have impacted our employees and we continue to assist pool of talented employees.
Our leadership all individuals affected with a comprehensive and development programmes are designed range of support measures.
to support employees at all levels, from senior managers to those who are at an Regulation early stage of their career.
The tobacco industry has been subject to increasing regulation for many years and We are committed to ensuring our we are confident of being able to continue employees continue to fulfil their potential to successfully develop our business in and share in the success of the Group.
Outlook We believe that adults should have the In conclusion, we have made significant freedom to enjoy smoking whilst being operational and financial progress in a aware of the associated risks to their health.
We support reasonable regulation of Our strong business fundamentals and tobacco products but will continue to successful growth strategy are the basis challenge disproportionate and unnecessary of our long-term sustainability.
regulation that undermines the principles of We will continue to drive further organic adult choice and the freedom of competition.
growth, leveraging our enhanced This type of regulation stigmatises smokers geographic footprint and our total and denormalises smoking and we strongly tobacco portfolio.
believe that adult consumers and smoking should not be treated in this way.
