Business review Strategy Group Chief Executives strategic review Inchcape is a leading independent, international automotive distributor and retailer, with scale operations in Australia, Belgium, Greece, Hong Kong, Russia, Singapore and the UK as well as operations in 19 other markets.
We represent some of the worlds leading automotive brands with whom we have long-standing relationships.
The Inchcape management team has reacted decisively to the unprecedented global slowdown in car sales witnessed in the latter part of 2008 and in early 2009 by focusing on five key operational priorities: to build market share: to grow our aftersales business: to reduce our costs: to manage our working capital by controlling inventory: and to limit capital expenditure to committed strategic investments.
These actions, together with our decision to strengthen our capital structure and reduce debt through a Rights Issue completed in April 2009 with the support of our shareholders, has meant the Group has ended 2009 in a signicantly stronger position than we entered it.
Inchcape is uniquely positioned Inchcape is in a net cash position, has gained share in many of its key markets, has worldwide.
We are a leading enjoyed a resilient aftersales performance independent international automotive approximately 50% of Group gross margin and has signicantly reduced the cost of distributor and retailer who has doing business.
Our operating cash ow was the highest achieved since 2000 and delivered a record cash performance was almost twice our operating profit before exceptional items as we reduced in the downturn by creating great value our stock.
Further, we have strengthened our balance sheet which will enable the Group from great brands.
We are strongly to trade effectively, invest in working capital and to take advantage of the upturn.
positioned for the global recovery.
During the Companys 160 plus year history, Inchcape has invariably emerged from a Andr Lacroix time of crisis stronger and more resilient.
Group Chief Executive Although we expect a continuation of difficult trading conditions in many of our Sales Operating profit Cash generated markets until well into the second half of before exceptional items from operations 2010, I am confident that we are uniquely positioned as the global industry leader to 5.6bn 175.2m 336.7m grasp the opportunities of recovery when -10.8% -27.2% 83.3% they emerge.
In that context, I would like to emphasise why we believe that the medium to long term outlook for Inchcape is very exciting.
05 06 07 08 09 05 06 07 08 09 05 06 07 08 09 10 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 4.5bn 4.8bn 6.1bn 6.3bn 5.6bn 189.4m 213.9m 265.0m 240.5m 175.2m 195.4m 236.8m 293.0m 183.7m 336.7m Section One Business review Uniquely positioned Focused strategy Vision To be the worlds most customer centric automotive retail group Core Purpose To create the ultimate Strategy Strategy customer experience Strengthen for our brand partners Expand Customer-focused Consolidation in operational high margin high excellence in growth areas every site Key strengths Resilient Unique Decentralised Uniquely business approach and empowered positioned 1 2 3 4 model organisation for the future Our broad geographic Our unwavering Customer Our empowered local With our unique business spread, scale and 1st focus driven by our management teams have model, long standing diversified activities give us unique Inchcape a deep understanding of brand partner relationships, balanced expansive and Advantage programme regional trends and diverse geographic spread, defensive capabilities, so succeeds in creating the customer preferences.
The financial strength, scale we can grasp growth greatest possible value speed and decisiveness operations and engaged opportunities by selling from the worlds leading with which they responded people, we believe more vehicles, finance and automotive brands in every to the onset of recession Inchcape is in a unique insurance products and market where we operate, through a focus on our five position to continue to draw upon consistent constantly strengthening key priorities enabled us to outperform our competitors streams of revenue from our relationships with manage the impact of the and to benefit from the vehicle servicing and the our brand partners and downturn and emerge global market recovery.
from 2009 with improved customer service, a lower cost base and in a net cash position.
More on pages 12-13 More on pages 14-15 More on pages 16-17 More on pages 18-19 www.
com 11 Business review Strategy 1 Group Chief Executives Resilient strategic review continued business model efficiencies and strong margins through Resilient business model our management of the entire value chain.
Inchcape has a mix of growth and Our business model We operate scale retail and distribution defensive value drivers, which gives the businesses in 26 markets across the world enables growth, Group a diversity of revenue streams.
Our and are a leader in 14 of these.
Our core growth drivers are new and used vehicle spreads risk, and brand partners, with whom we have longsales together with associated finance standing relationships, have a history of delivers resilience.
and insurance products, which are outperforming the market.
Inchcapes global particularly important to facilitate the sales It is fundamental scale of operation is unique in our industry.
Defensive drivers are our resilient to our position as Our business model is further strengthened parts and aftersales servicing businesses, by the Groups broad geographic spread, which in 2009 represented approximately a global leader.
which embraces developed markets like 50% of our Group gross margin.
Australia, the UK and other western European We are in close partnership with many countries together with powerful Asian of the best known and most respected centres like Hong Kong and Singapore, automotive brands in the world.
These are and emerging markets such as Russia, strong, innovative brands that outperform China and other central and eastern and lead the market based on years of European states and is unequalled.
Our investment, to create deep customer diversity has spread risk, as decline in some relationships through constant technological markets has been balanced by strength advance and continuous improvement.
It also gives us a vital presence in those emerging markets where sales potential is highest and which, in the fullness of time, we believe will deliver the best returns thanks to our efficient retail footprint.
We also match the demands and opportunities in each territory with the appropriate channel strategy.
In small to medium sized markets, we predominantly operate as country distributors, where we become the custodian of brands like Toyota, Lexus and Subaru to manage every step of the journey between the factory and the end customer.
This demands our deep involvement with our brand partners, as well as developing local brand, marketing and sales strategies, finance products, aftersales servicing, parts and accessories, plus managing sales via a mix of Inchcape-owned retail centres and third-party independent dealerships.
In larger markets like the UK and Russia, manufacturers use their own national sales companies to distribute and appoint independent dealers.
In these markets, we operate a retail service that is increasingly focused on bigger, better sites that deliver an enhanced customer experience and provide scale volume for our sales and aftersales activities, including servicing, parts and accessories.
In the city state markets of Hong Kong and Singapore and a number of central European states, we operate avertically integrated retail VIR model where we are both the distributor and the exclusive retailer, enabling us to deliver heightened 12 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 V e h i c l e s s a t l r e a s P D i s t l i r i a Section One Business review The Inchcape business model Our defensive drivers become increasingly important in times of economic difficulty Defensive drivers Growth and Broad defensive geographic value drivers spread Diversified Strong brand multi-channel partnerships business model Growth drivers Our growth drivers give us opportunities to drive our business forward Growth and defensive value drivers Vehicle sales Finance and Service Parts insurance products As fewer, better retail centres Strong customer relationships, Ensuring customers have drive efficiencies, our scale While credit has been harder a high level of customer immediate access to for customers to arrange operations present the best service, trained technicians genuine spare parts from performing manufacturer during the downturn, our and hi-tech resources give our manufacturer brand ability to organise finance brands with superior us a source of competitive partners both strengthens operating and customer has supported sales, advantage.
relationships along the value reassured customers facing processes.
chain and provides a resilient and provided income.
Strong brand partners Broad geographic spread Multi channel business We are proud of our portfolio Distribution We have scale positions across 26 developed and of winning brands which emerging markets.
We benefit from a decentralised In markets where Inchcape is outperform and lead the organisational model which enables us to stay the distributor, we effectively market.
Our long-standing close to changes in the marketplace and react become the custodian of the relationships with the worlds quickly to flex our operational focus.
manufacturers brands, leading manufacturers have handling every aspect of their created strong partnerships operation as the national sales at both a national and and marketing company.
Retail As a retailer, Inchcapes strategy is to have scale operations on a regional basis with premium brands and to leverage the benets of diversied income streams.
Vertically integrated retail VIR In city state markets, where we are both the exclusive distributor and the exclusive retailer, we deliver a seamless brand experience and drive superior returns, leveraging our scale position with leading market shares.
com 13 b t e u R t i F o i n n a n c e a e n d c i i v n r s e u S r a n c e Business review Strategy 2 Group Chief Executives Unique strategic review continued approach accelerating our response and enabling us Through our superior Unique approach: to grasp new opportunities as they emerge.
customer processes, Inchcape Advantage is our These proprietary retail processes are competitive advantage we deliver the truly unique in the automotive sector.
They are a vital point of differentiation across ultimate customer To extract the greatest value from this unique our business and the foundation stone of global infrastructure, we have a clear and experience and the operational excellence that gives us simple vision, to bethe worlds most a key advantage as we expand into create maximum customer-centric automotive retail group.
value for our brand Our industry is generally not known for the quality of its customer service and our partners across the approach is based on a simple insight: if we world.
look after people and their cars better than the competition, customers are more likely to choose us: and if we perform demonstrably better for our brand partners than our competitors, manufacturers are more likely to expand their global business with us.
By successfully continuing to implement our strategy for improved customer service, based on our unique Inchcape Advantage programme, we increased market share in many of our markets in 2009, despite tough decision-making that led to the closure of underperforming sites and a reduction in headcount.
Through Inchcape Advantage, customer service is truly at the heart of the business, from the top of the company to the sales oor and service workshop.
It is intrinsic to the way that every Inchcape person works, ensuring that providing superior service is present and evident at every stage of the customer journey.
As a result, we believe we are the most advanced company in our industry in implementing cutting edge retail techniques and technologies.
Among other initiatives we manage a continuous mystery shopper programme to maintain the highest standards of in-centre service: we interview around 12,000 customers every month to identify precisely what we do well and what we should do better: and we constantly track a wide range of customer metrics from footfall and test drives to leads and conversion rates.
Our global online portal winner of a Microsoft Innovation Award is used to interrogate this data, enabling local performance management and the sharing of information across the Group to learn on a daily basis from the experience of our businesses across the world.
These leading indicators and a real time view of our customers provide us with valuable insights into changing consumer preferences and behaviours, effectively 14 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 SecO tio ne n One B Bu us siin ne es ss s review review The Inchcape Advantage Inchcape Advantage is a systematic, Group wide The customer funnel continuous improvement programme that is at the heart of our strategic commitment to Purchase Ownership Customer strengthening our business through customerdata centric operational excellence.
The outstanding quality of service it drives is Trafc Enquiries proven to set us apart from our competitors, building tangible customer loyalty that makes Leads Bookings potential buyers more likely to deal with us than with anybody else.
Test drives Lead time In an industry not renowned for putting the Capture rate Capture rate customer first, Inchcape Advantage is our competitive advantage.
Identify focus areas & recognise progress Service excellence Inchcape Advantage portal Customer management Group wide Customer 1st processes, Portal allows rigorous daily performance Targeted retention programmes help staff training and retail systems drive management, recording data from all us to take care of our customers as quality.
retail centres to identify areas for focus well as their cars.
and the sharing of best practice.
Net Promoter Score NPS Mystery shopper customer feedback programme Innovation sharing Our global mystery shopper We interview around 12,000 buyers Leveraging the benefits of the programme helps drive service and non-buyers each month across Inchcape Advantage portal to improvement in every retail centre.
both sales and aftersales to measure quickly share innovation.
satisfaction and provide customer insight to drive performance.
Superior customer service We are convinced that the real Advantage processes, delivered We interview over differentiator is, increasingly, the consistently through all of our retail customer experience.
Superior centres across the globe.
140,000 customers customer service is a sustainable competitive advantage for us through per year our metrics and proprietary Inchcape www.
com 15 Business review Strategy 3 Group Chief Executives Decentralised strategic review continued and empowered Decentralised and empowered organisation organisation I believe that this unique position also extends to the quality of our global and The unprecendented regional management teams, on whose economic crisis personal judgement and freedom to make decisions so much depends.
brought out the best It is our people across the world who in our organisation, have enabled us to deliver a performance achieving success in 2009 that was ahead of our own expectations and which improved as the through a balanced year progressed.
Revenues declined year approach to cost and on year but due to our committed operational focus, we ended 2009 with cash initiatives as well a robust gross margin performance, strong as superior customer cash ows, improved customer service globally and increased market share service and strong in many territories across the world.
market share This performance was due, in no small part, performance.
to the tight management of our five key priorities growing market share, growing aftersales, reducing costs, managing working capital, and selective capital Five Key Priorities expenditure investment augmented by the in depth personal knowledge that our local management teams have of their markets.
Our decentralised structure enables management to act swiftly with relevant, local, innovative propositions to meet the particular needs and preferences of their customer base, ensuring that a localised customer focus builds on our global strategy.
Growing Growing market share aftersales High quality people are vital to ensure that the business model works, and I would like Reducing Managing Controlling to thank all our employees for playing a costs working capital capital expenditure fundamental role in delivering a record operating cash ow in 2009.
16 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section One Business review Global experience The decline in new car sales that we saw The speed and decisiveness with which As a result of actions taken at the end of begin in late 2008 was unprecedented.
We we responded was the result of the many 2008 and during 2009, we ended the year immediately narrowed our management years collective industry experience and in a far stronger competitive and financial focus across the world to five key priorities.
a deep personal understanding shared by position than we entered it.
our local managers of what really matters in their markets.
Inchcape Group Executive Committee Outperforming the downturn our Five Key Priorities Growing Growing Reducing Managing Controlling 1 2 3 4 5 market aftersales costs working capital share capital expenditure We have Despite the We reduced like for In reducing our Our investment succeeded in downturn, our like costs by c. 70m inventory by 28.7% activities have been improving customer in comparison with selective and have aftersales business at constant service in all of our has remained currency during the end of 2008, focused on the operations and resilient thanks to 2009, having taken we were able to opening of nine gaining share the quality of our the difficult decision destock faster than new strategic in most of our customer service, to close 31 less we expected and greeneld sites in key key markets.
release cash from markets to reach effective marketing profitable sites campaigns and our and reduce our working capital.
large and valuable approach to workforce by customer clusters.
Market leader Share of gross margin Annualised benefit Inventory reduction Capital expenditure Number 1 c. 50% c. 70m -28.7% -57.5% in 14 markets Group gross margin Like for like Year on year Year on year www.
com 17 Business review Strategy 4 Group Chief Executives Uniquely strategic review continued positioned for the future repower to invest in the best strategic Uniquely positioned for the future opportunities to give us and our brand partners access to markets with strong We are well placed I believe that the future for Inchcape, its future wealth and growth potential.
employees, brand partners and to take advantage of We outperformed the market in 2009. shareholders is very exciting.
I believe that we will continue to outperform the economic upturn.
While we remain cautious about the timing our competitors in 2010 and that Inchcape of the market recovery, we certainly believe is uniquely positioned worldwide to benefit Our unique business that no competitor is better placed than from the global market recovery in 2011 Inchcape, both to weather any continuing and beyond.
model, long-standing impact of the downturn and to grasp brand partner the opportunities that recovery will bring.
We consider Inchcape to be uniquely relationships, diverse positioned worldwide to take advantage of the global upturn for a number of reasons.
geographic presence, We are one of the most international of FTSE financial strength, 350 listed retailers, having delivered 83% of scale operations, Andr Lacroix trading profit outside of the UK in the last six Group Chief Executive years.
Our diversied geographic portfolio decentralised has scale businesses in 26 developed and and empowered emerging markets and we are a leader in 14 of these.
organisation are our Our resilient business model, with distribution key strategic assets.
and retail channels, differentiating Customer 1st strategy and empowered management has a proven track record.
Our portfolio of the worlds strongest automotive brands consistently outperforms the industry.
Our balance of revenue streams provides us with both growth opportunities and recurring aftermarket income.
Our leading, customer-centric operational processes introduced with our Inchcape Advantage programme, have improved our competitive position globally.
Our competitive position has grown stronger over the last year, both in terms of customer service and market share, providing us with an excellent growth platform for the future.
We expect customer demand for greener technology to drive vehicle replacement in developed markets and we are partnered with manufacturers committed to investing in the newest technology and greener vehicles.
In the emerging markets, where we have scale operations and the car ownership levels are relatively low, the increase in wealth will grow demand.
We believe consolidation of a fragmented market to be inevitable.
Inchcape will benefit from increased market share and the desire of manufacturers to seek new retail or distribution partners with the strongest companies.
We have the financial 18 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section One Business review Superior customer service driving growth Growth opportunities in mature markets in sales and aftersales Increase in demand Inchcape Advantage for greener low cost processes deliver of usage vehicles consistent, superior will accelerate the customer experience replacement cycle to drive growth in mature markets.
in vehicle sales and aftersales.
Growth opportunities in emerging markets Financial repower to take advantage of consolidation Wealth increase and low levels of car ownership will grow Inchcape is in a Committed facilities demand in emerging markets unique position as a well nanced High growth, low car ownership: 980m 5.0% global operator with Asia, S. America, E. Europe a strong track record 4.0% to take advantage 3.0% of scale expansion opportunities 2.0% at the right time 1.0% in the right markets.
Low growth, high car ownership: N. America, W. Europe 0 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 2009 Cars per 1,000 population Source Global Insight At swap foreign exchange rates Forecast global sales 85 Global car sales forecast to grow over 30% between 2009 and 2014 80 30% 75 70 65 60 55 50 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Source Global Insight www.
com 19 Millions 2004-2014 compound annual growth rate
