the Year in Review chIeF executIves RevIew ExCEPTiONAl PREFORmANCE: Publishing During a period of sustained economic decline 72% of publishing revenues are delivered across the world, our Publishing assets have in digital format which represents 39% of performed exceptionally well.
Our focus on Group revenues.
digitally delivered, subscription-led, must have proprietary content has enabled us to avoid Peter Rigby, Chief Executive significant reductions in demand albeit with some vertical markets performing better than others.
Revenues grew by 8.6% 1.7% on an organic basis and overall publishing now accounts for 54% of Group revenues and 72% of Group adjusted operating profits.
academic Information aI Our AI division delivered organic revenue growth of 6.5% and organic adjusted operating profit growth of 7.8%, testament to the resilience of its products.
We are particularly pleased with the performance of our books business.
Our portfolio of products textbooks, monographs and reference works delivered its best ever performance as we saw our global sales and marketing network sell over 5.6m books in 2009.
We saw excellent growth especially in the faster developing Asia regions.
During the year we established a print on demand POD partner in our own Kentucky distribution facility to improve our control over the print supply chain.
Over 25,000 titles are now available as POD with overall stock levels being reduced as a consequence of our continuing emphasis on printing shorter run quantities.
We have significantly grown our electronic book business revenues by 33% with 22,000 titles available digitally either as e-books or on databases.
We watch with interest the introduction of new electronic readers and are well placed to take further advantage of this new format if it develops in the academic sector.
We launched 26 new journals and continue to have a real strength in the growing areas of research which include humanities, social sciences, environment and agriculture.
Must have content in academic journals is tracked by citations and we continue to see more and more of our titles gaining recognition, testament to our partnership with editors, societies and academics.
16 Informa plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 We have worked hard to enhance the value of our offering Within our financial data businesses IFI we have to our customers and have tempered our pricing policy to inevitably lost customers over the past eighteen months reflect what is happening in academic budgets worldwide.
as the financial markets collapsed.
Yet all four businesses We started the journal renewal process for 2010 earlier in increased adjusted operating profits and we secured the final quarter of 2009 than last year, which along with some important customers wins.
We anticipate another considerable systems development and working closely tough year but IFI is protected because it comprises with our customers has resulted in our processed orders electronically delivered data, is subscription led and being higher this year than they were a year ago.
Despite enjoys very high margins.
the challenging academic market conditions we anticipate Datamonitor has continued to expand its presence that renewal rates will not be materially affected in 2010. around the world.
New customers and renewals have Professional & commercial Information PcI taken longer to secure but we have been able to supplement revenue with one off reports as well as one PCI which comprises publishing across healthcare, or two large consulting projects.
The investment in our maritime, pharmaceutical, commodities, professional Knowledge Centers has improved the offering and we and financial sectors, as well as Datamonitor, delivered have restructured our suite of IT products which was the revenues which were down 2% on an organic basis most challenging sector in 2009.
We have targeted those but by working extremely hard on costs delivered sectors where we believe there are significant growth organic adjusted operating profit growth of 8.6%.
opportunities such as energy and healthcare.
This part of our business generates 72% of its revenue A lot of cost has been taken out of the business but we from subscriptions, 84% of its revenue digitally have also reinvested in global sales teams as we look to and has some of the highest margins in the Group.
Datamonitors integration into Informa Being diversified not just geographically but across and our office network and databases has enhanced its sectors, we witnessed a strong performance across access to new geographical territories.
Whilst markets pharma and life sciences, whilst financial services remain difficult, we are encouraged by how well was a much tougher area as banks consolidated, Datamonitor has performed this year.
disappeared or simply reduced their headcount.
Our portfolio of market leading brands, including Scrip, Renewal rates were robust across PCI including Lloyds List, TrialTrove, Insurance Day, IGM, Food News, Datamonitor, where the number of high value SeaSearcher and Datamonitor gives us confidence that subscribers was maintained.
we can continue to deliver deep, content led intelligence, increasingly in an online format focusing on end-users in It was difficult to grow revenues during 2009 but by high value markets.
anticipating this and taking cost out of the business, we increased adjusted operating margins by 4.2 percentage events & training points to 32.2%.
Our portfolio of products covers many niche areas across numerous different vertical markets.
When we reflect on the past eighteen months and the We focus on key accounts and delivering content with nature of our Events and Training business which accounts deep intelligence direct to the customers workplace.
for 46% of Group revenues and 28% of Group adjusted operating profits, it has delivered an extraordinary result.
Informa Business Information, part of PCI, will push We have lost revenues of 108.8m, around half due to us ahead in 2010 developing essential, high-value online pro-actively taking product out of the market, and yet information and intelligence services in its markets.
In protected the bottom line to the extent that adjusted maritime, the Lloyds List Group, comprising not only operating profits only fell by 40.4m.
We still achieved an the newspaper but the online offering used by 83% adjusted operating profit margin of 15.5%.
of its customers, databases, maritime law reports, finance and insurance services, has been transformed over the past two years by focusing on customer needs and utilising technology to improve delivery.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 17 the Year in Review chIeF executIves RevIew continued Our exhibitions and large conferences were resilient.
The top 200 events contribute 28% of overall Events Our largest events including Arab Health, the Monaco and Training revenues and around 55% of adjusted Yacht Show, SuperReturn, the Com series Telecoms, all operating profit.
performed well and we expect them to do so again in 2010.
Participating in a market leading exhibition or The most challenging areas were local language large conference remains one of the best ways for a conferences and training courses, as corporate budgets company to market their product, garner intelligence, were cut.
We reacted quickly to reduce volume and costs.
debate industry issues and network.
This is evidenced The cost base is very flexible and we are confident we can by Arab Health which ran in January 2010 with revenue accommodate increased demand before we need to put 20% up year on year or SuperReturn International which cost back into the business.
ran last month with over 1,000 delegates.
Our forward bookings for the rest of our shows in 2010 are slightly Geographically, the picture was similar everywhere for ahead of last year.
Europe, and in particular our large German operations, were hit hard but it was a similar trend in The final quarter of 2009 showed a degree of stability the US, Middle East and Australia.
We would expect each amongst our Event and Training operations.
This has region to bounce back in line with the recovery in their continued in 2010 and we are working hard to ensure our respective economies.
In anticipation of this, we are portfolio meets the needs of our customers and markets.
working hard on new products and topic development We are looking to build on our existing exhibition and making our training materials easier to access and portfolio through supersizing and geo-cloning existing more flexible for the corporate landscape.
events, new launches and small bolt-on acquisitions.
Our corporate training portfolio had a stronger end to the year but has suffered significantly over the past Peter Rigby eighteen months.
It was one of the first businesses to Chief Executive be impacted by the recession and may take a while to recover.
However, with significant cost taken out of the business, any pick-up in demand, particularly in the US, will result in a materially improved performance.
There were still some notable successes despite the difficult environment which indicates the quality of our businesses: Dubai exhibitions excluding Cityscape increased revenues by 18%: Telecoms, where the revenues from our Com World Series of events were up 12%: Vitafoods increased revenues by 32%: Monaco Yacht Show increased revenues by 3%: AusRail, where revenues were up by 14%: and Our Life Sciences events business delivered profits in line with 2008.
18 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
