CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS BUSINESS REVIEW OUR YEAR FINISHED STRONGLY AND WE SAW GOOD TRADING CONDITIONS IN ALL OUR MARKETS.
WE ENTER 2010 WITH A POSITIVE OUTLOOK, REVENUE GROWTH MOMENTUM AND NEW GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES AHEAD OF US.
ANDREW SUKAWATY CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AWARDS WE ARE DELIGHTED TO HAVE RECENTLY RECEIVED A NUMBER OF HIGH-PROFILE INDUSTRY AND CONSUMER AWARDS.
THESE RECOGNISE OUR ACHIEVEMENTS AS A BUSINESS IN THE SERVICES WE PROVIDE AND HOW THEY ARE DELIVERED.
MSS OPERATOR OF COUTTS & CO LARGE-CAP INNOVATION AWARD FOR THE YEAR BUSINESS OF THE YEAR FLEETBROADBAND Awarded by Euroconsult for excellence Presented at the UK National Business Awarded by the Mobile Satellite in satellite management Awards for demonstrating exceptional Users Association financial returns, strong growth and innovative strategies BEST SATELLITE PROVIDER WINNER OF THE EXPLORATION INDUSTRY INNOVATOR ANCILLARY & ANALYSIS AWARD CATEGORY AWARD Awarded by SAMENA for expanding From Mining Magazine which recognised Given by the Society of Satellite telecoms services in the South Asia, the BGAN as an invaluable tool Professionals International for the Middle East and North African regions development and launch of the Inmarsat-4 system of spacecraft 4 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009 2009 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS This is our fifth year of public company reporting.
We are extremely pleased that despite continuing worldwide economic OUR RESULTS HAVE dif culties and uncertainties, we have delivered another set of strong financial results.
Throughout 2009, our results have DEMONSTRATED demonstrated resilience in the markets we serve and in the types of applications we support.
Our new services gained solid uptake despite the global recession.
Revenue growth translated into RESILIENCE IN THE stronger operating cash ow and free cash ow, enabling the Company to continue to improve its sound financial position.
MARKETS WE SERVE Inmarsat was created over 30 years ago as a mobile satellite AND IN THE TYPES services operator to serve maritime users, extending over time to land and aeronautical services.
We bring connectivity for OF APPLICATIONS the everyday applications needed, in general, for remote of ce environments where terrestrial services do not, or cannot, operate WE SUPPORT and satellite communications is often relied upon.
We are a pioneer of mobile satellite services, with a global leading position in the industry.
We are successful in delivering innovative services, with a reputation for reliability and quality.
These attributes are Inmarsat Global Limited Inmarsat Global which is our core at the core of our ongoing success.
Inmarsat has a long history of business and the wholesaler of the satellite capacity we sell to being deeply embedded within our customer base and across our distributors, including Stratos.
Our services have evolved to meet customers needs.
This is demonstrated by our new maritime and land An overview of our results, compared to 2008, shows that revenue mobile services which were launched in 2009. growth of 4.2% for Inmarsat plc has been converted into stronger growth in EBITDA and free cash ow, with these increasing In essence, we support mission critical applications to customers 11.9% and 54% respectively.
At the Inmarsat Global level, operating in extreme environments supporting their day-to-day we are exceeding the 6-8% annual average revenue growth operations.
Our customers often rely on our communications target through 2010 which we set for ourselves in 2005. services for their businesses regardless of economic cycles.
We bene t from the diversity of sectors we serve within the maritime, Revenues at Inmarsat Global grew 9.5% to US$694.8m land mobile and aeronautical markets.
This diversity, coupled and separately Stratos showed a 1% growth to US$644.1m.
with the mission critical nature of our customers uses for these Combining the two groups, consolidated revenues, after services, creates a stable revenue stream, somewhat independent intercompany eliminations and adjustments, were US$1,038.1m.
Because our services are global and We have passed the billion dollar milestone for the first time.
work the same virtually wherever they are required on the planet, in many situations we are uniquely placed to support customers The EBITDA margin growth illustrates our business to be and serve their needs.
In 2009, of course, we also bene ted from a favourable British Sterling to US Dollar exchange rate shift.
Two years of planning enabled us to achieve our ambition early Continued cost control discipline also contributed to driving in 2009 to reposition our Inmarsat-4 satellite constellation to our improved margin performance.
Cash ow growth has come maximise user experience.
Having invested US$1.1bn in three through increased revenues not being offset by increased costs satellites, we took the decision to reposition them above the to deliver this growth and also from reduced capital expenditure, worlds continents, rather than the oceans.
This improved following the completion of the Inmarsat-4 satellite programme.
elevation angles for land users, an important market for our We are pleased to have one of the lowest ratios of debt to cash data transmission services while maintaining quality coverage ow in our industry.
The Inmarsat-4 satellites are expected to be operating into the 2020s and this gives our customers comfort You will note that Stratos growth was not as high as that of that they will have continuity of service for many years to come.
This was due to several factors strategically It provides them with a good return on their investment in driven by Inmarsat itself with a view to increasing the overall satellite equipment and service from Inmarsat.
The Inmarsat-4 market opportunity for the Group.
First, new distribution satellites are sophisticated, with the unique ability to generate agreements were put in place in April 2009 for all distribution beams of variable size and power to adjust the performance of partners: these new agreements impacted discounts, working the link with different user terminals.
We have seen at first-hand capital and ultimately margins.
Secondly, we appointed some how this speci c beam control can assist in times of humanitarian new distributors at the Inmarsat Global level who were previously need, such as Haiti in early 2010.
In this situation, we were able Stratos distributors.
These decisions affected Stratos revenues to direct additional satellite capacity to support government negatively, but the revenues and much of the margin have and aid agencies with reliable communications channels when remained in the Group.
From a Group perspective, it is good terrestrial systems were not fully functioning, or congested.
news that these initiatives are expanding the market for Inmarsat services.
Stratos also experienced a change in trends in some of In April 2009, we completed the acquisition of Stratos Global its markets, with customers moving from older to new services, Corporation Stratos.
We had previously consolidated the and from on-demand services to leasing agreements.
This Stratos results into the Group results, so 2008 is a true comparator sometimes meant a short-term loss of revenue due to lower year with our 2009 results.
However, 2009 is the first time we are pricing, typically being compensated by higher usage over able to comment about Stratos business and I will cover this later time.
Therefore, overall we are pleased with the performance in my report.
I will also discuss the operating performance for of Stratos in its first year with the Group.
Inmarsat plc 5 Annual report and accounts 2009 CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS BUSINESS REVIEW continued Last year in the Annual Report, we focused on the importance telecoms services and addressing the needs of the sector in of liquidity and debt levels in the midst of the global financial South Asia, the Middle East and North Africa.
We were in a comfortable position with our debt, but set for all at the Company, at the National Business Awards 2009 about improving our position in 2009 to give us greater security.
ceremony in the UK, we were named Coutts & Co Large-Cap I am pleased to say that during the year, we signed a new Senior Business of the Year.
We were judged to have demonstrated Credit Facility with our banks.
In addition in November 2009, exceptional financial returns, strong growth and innovative we successfully completed a US$650.0m bond offering.
Over 150 companies were assessed in the category, funding allowed us to redeem our previous two long-term which covered UK publicly listed companies with a turnover of debt instruments, reducing our cost of debt and extending our over 500m.
The success of these transactions in what has continued to be a volatile financial environment re ects the Inmarsat continues to focus on the development and retention strength of our business and the solid track record we have of our skilled and highly motivated staff.
Last year, I reported delivered since we became a public company.
on the broad-based promotion of internal talent to senior management positions.
We are delighted at how these Taking account of the strong trading results and the healthy individuals have developed professionally and operationally financial position of the Group, the Inmarsat plc Board is within the business.
In addition, the Stratos management team recommending a second interim dividend of 20.63 cents US$ remains in place following our acquisition of the business.
I am per share, to be paid on 1 April 2010 to holders on the share pleased to report that we have experienced management teams register on 19 March 2010.
This dividend will be paid in lieu in place within each of our businesses and continue to bene t of a final dividend for the 2009 financial year.
It will bring the from the continuity, skills and talents that they bring to the Group.
total dividend payable for 2009 to 33.36 cents US$ per share, an increase of 10% on the total dividend paid in 2008.
The On a personal level, I am delighted that the Board asked that increase in the dividend payment underlines our con dence I remain in my current role for a further period of time: it is a in the strength of our balance sheet.
privilege and pleasure to work with such a talented team of people in the further development of this solid high technology Due to our continuing performance, our public pro le has business franchise.
We also welcomed a new independent increased throughout the year as we remained in the FTSE 100 Non-Executive Director to the Board Mrs Janice Obuchowski.
and were included in the MSCI World Index.
During 2009 we Janice has extensive experience in the sector and we have received several outstanding accolades for the business, which bene ted from this greatly since she joined the Board in we are honoured to have received.
A summary of the awards May 2009.
Her biography on page 31 gives further detail on we received is shown at the beginning of my report, but I would her extensive global experience.
like to highlight a selection here.
We take our leading role in the broader global commercial space We received the prestigious MSS Operator of the Year award, industry very seriously.
In this context, an initiative which had been sponsored by Euroconsult, which recognises outstanding under consideration for some time was realised in 2009.
Inmarsat achievement in the satellite industry.
We were also awarded Best became one of three satellite providers to create the Space Data Satellite Provider by the SAMENA Telecommunications Council Association.
This is a non-pro t company which is the first satellite which recognised us for our outstanding efforts in expanding operator-led association dedicated to sharing critical operational data in support of satellite operations to improve ight safety and preserve the space environment.
We have also been participating in a joint government and industry initiative in the UK which seeks to fide ne a 20-year vision and strategy for the future growth of the UK space industry.
An expert group, the Space Innovation Growth Team, has been formed from among the UKs leading companies, institutions and government departments to create a 20-year strategy for the future of the British space industry.
We were pleased to contribute to this initiative and several of our executive team were invited to contribute to its delivery, a re ection of the depth of talent employed at the Company.
In our report on Corporate Social Responsibility, we have provided additional insight into how we support the satellite community.
We work closely with organisations such as the International Telecommunication Union ITU and the charity Tlcoms Sans Frontires TSF, supporting them when they are called upon to provide assistance in response to natural disasters.
Left to right: Andy Green from Logica, Science Minister Lord Drayson, Perry Melton from Inmarsat and UK astronaut Timothy Peake at the launch of the UK Space IGT at Inmarsats London of ce.
6 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009 2009 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS l a n F i o n i t a a n r c e i a p l O INMARSATS STRATEGIC PERSPECTIVES Our customers We operationally receive... deliver...
Highly reliable trusted Highest reliability standards comms for data transmission Accelerated revenue growth in on the move core business and new services Bundled value voice Fixed cost base through primarily Competitive reliable wholesale approach and hand-held service careful capex planning Premium services A professionally rewarding, good value challenging and enjoyable To serve place to work Innovative services mission critical communications needs where terrestrial networks dont go or are ineffective To deliver superior total Our position as the shareholder returns by leading mobile satellite increasing revenue growth services MSS provider on a largely fixed-cost base Being technology leader in MSS Build sustainable cash returns Providing a broad range of to shareholders leading innovative services Prudent capex planning Offering premium services at good value Our financial Our reputation performance... is built on... Strategy Looking beyond Stratos, our success as a business depends on 2009 was really a transformational year for us in many respects.
our global network of distribution partners and service providers.
Although we own Stratos, we work with them on an arms length We remain focused on the roadmap to shareholder value basis.
We support all of our distribution partners in a way which creation, which we first presented at the time of our IPO.
The is targeted at the growth of revenue and pro tability of their roadmap showed how we intended to grow our business at businesses in parallel with our own.
It is our intention to continue an accelerated rate, leveraging our capital investments.
selling primarily on a wholesale basis and we will continue to In doing so, on our xed cost base, we would grow cash ows support diversi ed choices for customers to serve their needs.
Adding new, more diverse and secure revenue streams to our xed cost base was the target and this is what We have previously identi ed an opportunity to expand our we have achieved.
Part of this has come through acquisition.
revenue in satellite low data rate SLDR services.
In July 2009, In April 2009, we completed the acquisition of Stratos, which is we made an investment in SkyWave Mobile Communications our largest distributor.
Stratos is now a wholly-owned subsidiary SkyWave and entered into a partnership arrangement with and operating division of Inmarsat plc and continues to be them to increase our presence in this market.
We already have managed by their existing management team lead by their some low data rate, or telemetry, business today, although our President, Jim Parm.
focus has been on the high-speed data market with products like our broadband services.
A telemetry device is typically an The Inmarsat Global and Stratos businesses retain their Inmarsat unit coupled with a GPS unit.
The GPS unit records separate and fide ned roles.
We did not expect that acquiring the position of the asset often trucks, containers, or high-value the Stratos business would generate cost-oriented integration mobile assets like heavy plant machinery and passes this synergies.
Material cost synergies are also not the expectation information to the Inmarsat part of the device which transmits going forward.
We do see the opportunity for integration it to the customer via our satellite network.
ef ciency by leveraging the network infrastructure operated by both businesses.
We have cross-company teams exploring how to do this effectively and ef ciently and the implementation planning between the two businesses is progressing very well.
Inmarsat plc 7 Annual report and accounts 2009 t I e n k d r a u s M t r y r e P m o s o i t t s i o u n C CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS BUSINESS REVIEW continued The telemetry market offers the key strategic bene t of driving Inmarsat-5s.
The process for building and launching a new more traf c onto our existing network, without requiring us to satellite constellation is a multi-year programme.
As part of incur any material increases in capital expenditures, or operating the planning process we review existing and future satellite costs.
The low-speed and packet nature of data transmitted by technologies and the alternatives for increasing bandwidth these units also allows us to support these services without capabilities.
This intelligence feeds into the final scope of our any material impact on the capacity required for other services.
We expect to progress We entered the market more actively because the revenue our plans for the next generation during 2010. opportunity, which historically has been minimal, has recently been growing as the applications possible through these units Government usage of our satellite capacity has been a major has been expanded.
Following a recent review, we estimate that source of revenues for us over the last five years and an area the SLDR market is worth US$600.0m in end-user revenue and we have focused on for further growth.
Part of this focus resulted has signi cant growth potential.
Our relationship with SkyWave in the November 2009 announcement of our acquisition of the positions us well as a leader in the SLDR eld, to bene t from the business and assets of Segovia, Inc. Segovia.
The transaction future growth in this sector.
In addition, we work with the other moved quickly and was completed in January 2010.
Segovia global service providers at growing these low data rate services.
is a leading provider of secure internet protocol IP managed solutions and services to various US government services.
Our next satellite development, Alphasat, is also progressing Segovia designs, deploys and operates mixed satellite and well.
We are the commercial partner for the European Space terrestrial networks.
This expertise, together with its secure Agencys ESA Alphasat project, which is a major European global dedicated IP network infrastructure, has positioned it well initiative.
Alphasat is an important investment for us, allowing in the US Department of Defenses DoD transformation and development of new technology for our next generation network.
Part of the rationale for buying the It will also provide network redundancy that will further enhance business is the opportunity to strengthen our relationship with our services.
The new satellite will join our current satellite eet key government customers across all sectors, bringing enhanced of 11 geostationary satellites to offer advanced mobile voice and services to the government sector generally and enhancing data communications services across Europe, Africa and the Segovias standing as a premier supplier to the US DoD.
The Alphasat programme is progressing well and we remain on schedule for a 2012 delivery of the satellite.
During We continue to support the newly emerging development of 2009, we also announced that we will be using Arianespace to hybrid satellite terrestrial networks.
These are referred to as launch the satellite from French Guiana.
This commits the launch Ancillary Terrestrial Component ATC networks in the US and to one of the most reliable launch vehicles in the industry.
Complementary Ground Component CGC networks in Europe.
Working with SkyTerra and its af liates under an In parallel with the Alphasat programme, we have also agreed a agreement we signed with them in 2007, we remain poised to co-funding opportunity with ESA for the development of a range progress any opportunities should they arise in the US.
Similarly of new and enhanced Inmarsat products and services, supporting in Europe, we were successful with our application for an award us and our community of suppliers and partners through the next of S-band spectrum under the European S-band Application four years of product evolution.
Through our recently formed EuropaSat venture, we are pursuing discussions to establish commercial partnerships But technology doesnt stand still.
We are also looking to the to develop further the infrastructure, particularly the capital future by starting to plan our next satellite generation the intensive terrestrial piece of this S-band programme.
Technology doesnt stand still Thales Alenia Space engineers carry out one last inspection of the Alphabus Service Module before installation in the purpose-built container which was used to transport the module to Astrium-Toulouse.
Pictures courtesy of Astrium and Thales Alenia Space.
8 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009 2009 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REVIEW OF OPERATIONS: INMARSAT GLOBAL LIMITED MARITIME SECTORS: Merchant Government Fishing Leisure LAND MOBILE LEASING SECTORS: SECTORS: SERVING Media All of land mobile, GROWTH MARKETS Oil and Gas sea and air INMARSAT AS A Construction WHOLESALER, STRATOS AND Mining OUR OTHER DISTRIBUTION Aid PARTNERS SERVE EACH OF THESE MARKETS GOVERNMENT AERONAUTICAL SECTORS: SECTORS: Land, sea and air Air transport Military and civil Government First responders Business Border control Diplomatic traf c Once our Inmarsat-4 constellation was fully repositioned in remains key to our success.
Supporting these relationships and February 2009, we completed global coverage for all our our growth targets, we created a new accreditation programme broadband services: Broadband Global Area Network BGAN for our service providers.
This is designed to recognise, reward for land mobile users, and FleetBroadband and SwiftBroadband and support those service providers who contribute most to for maritime and aeronautical users respectively.
We have seen growth and the expansion of applications and customer support.
our broadband services grow further as a result, particularly our maritime and aeronautical services.
Data IP usage continues to We are constantly looking for additional, non-traditional sources be the main driver of this growth.
We see this particularly in our of revenue on our three global satellite constellations and related broadband services, although some of our older services still ground infrastructure.
To that end, we entered into the lease contribute signi cant data volumes to revenues.
and operation of navigation transponders for several important customers.
We will continue to look for pro table opportunities During the year we have continued to face competition from such as this to further leverage our xed cost infrastructure.
VSAT at the high end, or high expenditure per user market sectors and from hand-held operators in the voice and low Of course, our business, now in its 31st year, has been built on expenditure per user part of the market.
New distribution a tremendous track record of reliability and satellite availability.
agreements which came into effect on 15 April 2009 provide us Once again, in 2009 we did not disappoint: availability of with increased exibility and enhanced opportunity to develop satellites and ground network exceeded 99.9% and we remain markets in the face of these two competitive developments.
very proud of this achievement.
With our customers using We have also responded to competition with the introduction Inmarsat for mission critical and, at times, life-saving operations, of innovative pricing packages and geographical pricing we set ourselves a high standard, against which we delivered.
We strongly believe that the introduction of our own global satellite hand-held phone, IsatPhone Pro, will take back Beyond pure reliability, we also recently celebrated being the market share in the land mobile and, in the future, the maritime recipient of a 2010 Industry Innovator Award presented by the voice market.
We have seen erosion of market share and Society of Satellite Professionals International.
We have been revenues over several years because we had no suitable honoured as a creative innovator and alongside our partner, hand-held offering.
This gap will now be addressed with EADS Astrium, as systems engineer and project manager what we believe will be a highly competitive new service.
for what the organisers describe as the complex, multi-year effort to develop and launch the Inmarsat-4 system of spacecraft.
We appointed some additional new distribution partners during This recognises the tremendous achievement of the professionals 2009, targeting new areas of business.
We work with all our at Inmarsat in delivering next-generation technology that our distributors to address new markets and applications and this customers now bene t from globally.
Inmarsat plc 9 Annual report and accounts 2009 CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS BUSINESS REVIEW continued other operating costs on the ship.
In addition there is the MARITIME bene t of improving crew morale by providing them with access to low-cost voice and data communications services, MSS revenue 2009 for which demand is also growing.
We have seen our voice revenues remain steady, due to the increased affordability of Maritime 52% our services which enables crew to use us economically to Other 48% 48% 52% call friends and family.
Our latest maritime service, FleetBroadband 150, introduced in mid-2009, is targeted at smaller vessels.
In common with the other FleetBroadband services, the new service also provides Maritime revenue 2009 customers with simultaneous data and voice capabilities.
Over 29% Voice 29% 600 terminals have already been installed a rapid adoption in Data 71% the first eight months of service.
Early in 2010, FleetBroadband 71% 150 won the 2010 SAIL magazines Pittman Innovation Award in the electronics category which recognises maritime innovation and new technology that makes sailing easier, safer and more enjoyable.
It is satisfying to see how quickly this service has been accepted and adopted by the maritime community.
2009 revenues for maritime increased 7.4% to US$357.0m, with data revenues increasing 10.8%.
Voice revenues remained in Our mature Inmarsat B service continues to show strong usage line with those of 2008 at US$104.7m.
Maritime customers are still levels despite a decline in the number of active terminals.
increasing their use of connectivity at sea, despite the recession, Demand for older services, such as Inmarsat B, is, as expected, as they adopt new technology and provide more social access slowly declining due to replacement and upgrade to our newer to their crews as a staff retention and support tool.
services, as well as some vessels now due to be scrapped.
These services still contribute a steady source of revenues, although we Additions of Fleet and FleetBroadband terminals are an are incentivising migration to our new FleetBroadband services important lead indicator in demand for our maritime services, so over time.
consistent growth in terminal installations remains encouraging.
FleetBroadband is becoming the maritime standard and the level In 2008 and into 2009, we were the of cial provider of satellite of new terminal sales is taking-over from our Fleet service.
The communications for sailings premier Round-the-World FleetBroadband family allows ship operators to invest in new race the Volvo Ocean Race VOR.
Race conditions provided operating applications, often using information technology an excellent opportunity to demonstrate a variety of Inmarsat applications at sea to reduce on-board costs.
Ship owners services, including FleetBroadband 500, Fleet 33 and Inmarsat C, connect, operate and monitor these applications remotely using in the harshest of maritime environments.
Communication costs are very small relative to fuel service was described as awless by VOR organisers and the costs and other operating costs.
So often a small additional quality of the high fide nition video sent by each vessel exceeded expenditure for our satellite service can serve to greatly reduce the broadcast communitys expectation, allowing direct air transmission.
Due to the success of this partnership, we are pleased to recommit our support as communications partner in the upcoming 2011-12 Volvo Ocean Race.
We should stress that Inmarsat was created by the International Maritime Organization to provide safety services at sea and this is part of our corporate DNA.
We remain the only provider of satellite services for the Global Maritime Distress and Safety System GMDSS.
We remain fully committed to ensuring that mariners can rely on our service in times of need.
In 2009, we also introduced an additional safety service called 505.
Vessels with FleetBroadband can now dial this number to be connected to recognised maritime rescue co-ordination centres for assistance.
This service is not intended to replace the GMDSS service we provide, which is accessed by some of our other services, but is an additional means of safety communications for ship operators and their crew.
We are also progressing plans to provide a GMDSS-approved service on FleetBroadband in the future.
This will ensure that these highly reliable global safety services continue into the next decade.
Competitors in the Volvo Ocean Race use various Inmarsat services.
FleetBroadband 150 provides simultaneous voice and data capabilities to smaller vessels.
10 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009 2009 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our BGAN service can be set LAND MOBILE up quickly and easily anywhere.
MSS revenue 2009 22% Land 22% Other 78% 78% News broadcasters bene t 6% from enhanced speeds via our Land revenue 2009 new BGAN X-Stream service.
Voice 6% Data 94% 94% Revenues from our land mobile sector were US$146.5m, an own global hand-held service, the IsatPhone Pro, will address increase of 3.3% compared to 2008.
Data revenues increased customer needs and allow us to compete more actively for 5.7% with voice revenues decreasing by US$2.8m in line with new voice business of this type.
Our Global Satellite Phone Service GSPS comprises two key Land mobile sector revenue comes from a wide range of development areas the handset itself and the ground network customer groups.
The sensitivity of these land customers to through which the service will operate.
The ground network was disruptive events, such as earthquakes, military activities and even completed in 2009 and we have nished upgrading and testing the Olympics, cause higher variability in usage compared to the the three gateways which will enable us to launch the new maritime and aeronautical sectors.
We are seeing over time, service globally across all three Inmarsat-4 satellites.
a diversi cation develop in the land mobile data business.
In early 2010, our contractor Sasken Communications By far the largest contributor to land mobile revenue is the Technologies delivered advance prototypes of our hand-held government sector, whose usage can be hard to forecast and also unit for testing over the network and we have successfully volatile from quarter to quarter.
Other key segments for our land made the first test voice calls.
The handset has been tested in mobile sector are oil and gas extraction and exploration, usage harsh environments, has been built to have long battery life by media for on-the-spot news gathering, aid agencies and and is ruggedised for the often remote environments in which beyond these, industries that simply operate in remote areas.
We have announced the launch The usage pro le of these customer groups is such that they distribution partners for this service, who serve different rely on Inmarsat services to provide essential value-for-money geographic markets and sectors.
There is increasing interest communications for remote operations.
Unless these operations and excitement throughout our partner network for the launch are entirely withdrawn, this day-to-day usage will continue to of this new service, which is planned for June 2010. translate into somewhat consistent ongoing revenues.
We have seen from past experience that providing broadband to these We are con dent that we will bring a quality offering to market customers has produced a growing and diversi ed base of that will be cost-competitive on service and on handset price.
revenues, beyond event-driven and less predictable revenues.
Early indications are that customers will be receptive to this new This is a positive indicator for the long-term outlook for BGAN.
service and that we can take share from established operators.
We are reiterating our original market share objective of 10% of Use of BGAN continues to grow, with revenues increasing 33% to this US$350m wholesale market within two years of service launch US$98.7m in 2009.
We are focused on targeting new geographies and remain con dent of achieving this.
and key market segments to increase BGAN usage in new applications and vertical segments.
One new area has been work I mentioned in the strategy section of my report that we saw on a software fide ned radio version of BGAN.
This will allow the opportunity to grow revenues in the low data rate market.
terminal developers to incorporate BGAN more easily and less SkyWave, in which we now have an investment, has contributed expensively on platforms that support multiple communications to land data growth through successful migration of terminals to protocols.
Using a BGAN terminal to achieve this is an exciting our Inmarsat-4 network.
It previously used the satellite capacity development and we may see it used by first responders and of another operator.
We are pleased with this progress, with the military users on more hardware platforms in the future as a result.
new revenue contribution from SkyWave and with the continued revenues from our other SLDR distributors.
We are seeing some migration from our older Global Area Network GAN service to BGAN although this service continues In response to customer requests, particularly from broadcasters, to make a valuable contribution to overall land revenues.
We we developed our BGAN X-Stream service.
This service delivers have seen some reduced GAN usage levels in the Middle East, the worlds fastest on-demand mobile satellite-based video consistent with troop withdrawals in Iraq, while BGAN usage in streaming, guaranteeing streaming data rates from a minimum other areas of operations for US and other military forces has of 384kbps up to 450kbps.
BGAN X-Stream has been developed been growing.
as an enhancement to the streaming service already offered via our BGAN service, and has enabled broadcasters to deliver There was little change in our land mobile voice business where high-quality, live media reports from anywhere around the we continued to experience customer migration away from our world.
This new premium streaming service is accessible through much older Mini M service.
We believe the introduction of our existing hardware, without the need for additional hardware.
Inmarsat plc 11 Annual report and accounts 2009 CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS BUSINESS REVIEW continued their existing capabilities at a comparatively low incremental AERONAUTICAL cost.
We undertook the network upgrade to support the take-up of SwiftBroadband, and also to provide an important step MSS revenue 2009 11% forward in delivering our commitment to aeronautical safety Aeronautical 11% services for the long term.
Other 89% SwiftBroadband continues to see orders related to the introduction of inight cellular services on commercial airlines.
89% Certain airlines are taking delivery of new aircraft equipped to provide inight services, even if commercial services have not 5% yet been announced.
While we see positive take-up of Aeronautical revenue 2009 SwiftBroadband for these passenger applications, we are at Voice 5% an early stage and revenue is not yet material to us.
The airline Data 95% industry is going through a tough economic period and we expect that this will have some impact in the speed of take-up 95% of SwiftBroadband for passenger services.
The service recently won a Gold award in one of the categories of the Air Transport World magazines Annual Airline Industry Achievement Awards.
We are proud of this and see SwiftBroadband as the reliable Revenues for our aeronautical sector were US$75.8m, an and economic choice for the airline industry when compared increase of 17.7% compared with 2008. with alternative services.
We are committed to developing the SwiftBroadband service and are well positioned, with the We offer two types of services: Classic Aero and SwiftBroadband.
Inmarsat-4 satellites expected to support the SwiftBroadband The Classic Aero services are currently used in more than 8,000 service for the next decade globally.
airlines, business jets and military aircraft for operations and safety-critical services, providing links between the ight deck LEASING and air traf c control.
All of the worlds top intercontinental airlines use our services.
MSS revenue 2009 15% The Classic Aero services became available in 2009 over the Leasing 15% Inmarsat-4 satellites, following a network upgrade.
These services Other 85% already operate over the Inmarsat-3 satellite constellation.
The network upgrade allows users of Classic Aero, such as air 85% transport, business, VIP and government customers, to access SwiftBroadband through a single antenna and set of avionics.
This enhancement to the Inmarsat network allows customers to enjoy the bene ts of satellite-aided air traf c control alongside Leasing revenues increased by 30% from 2008 to US$103.5m.
SwiftBroadband-based high-speed connectivity for passenger As leasing grows, so do the number of renewals we need to and crew applications.
The ability to use a single installation for secure each year to sustain our leasing revenues.
We have safety services, operational communications and passenger retained business added in 2008 and have bene ted from the connectivity is one of the key bene ts of our solution as well as migration of traf c from other business sectors to leasing.
This is giving the airline the option to add passenger connectivity to notable in the expansion of certain aeronautical leases, re ecting a shift in the revenue mix in favour of leasing.
Leasing customers generally wish to secure longer-term arrangements with us and where the economic bene ts are balanced for both sides, it makes sense to agree to do this.
GOVERNMENT We have continued to support government operations worldwide with military and civilian applications.
Government usage occurs across all our market sectors in maritime, on land and in the air and revenues from these customers are included in these sectors rather than being broken out into government sector usage.
During 2009, we and our partners have worked closely with first responders, training and making them aware of how our services can be deployed ef ciently and quickly in times of a disaster situation.
We have seen continued take-up of our services for military operational requirements.
BGAN is used for providing mobile Government usage of commercial voice and broadband data while on the move.
Our leasing satellite services has been increasing.
services serve aeronautical or maritime users who access dedicated satellite channels across different geographies.
Business jet users can now bene t from SwiftBroadband and its We continue to see the government sector as an opportunity enhanced capabilities.
to expand our reach and the acquisition we made of Segovia, with its specialist knowledge and skills, can help this drive greater growth in more applications in this sector.
12 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009 2009 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REVIEW OF OPERATIONS: STRATOS GLOBAL CORPORATION As this is the first time we are reporting on the activities for lower gross margins than Inmarsat services.
The increase in the Stratos, Id like to brie y summarise their business as it has revenues of other MSS revenues was due primarily to increased different components to that of Inmarsat Global.
Stratos, as sales of mobile terminals and equipment and LES services a major distributor, provides services directly to the customer, provided to other Inmarsat distributors.
or through a network of service providers.
It provides Inmarsat non-broadband services, such as GAN, Inmarsat C and Fleet, Broadband services through its terrestrial network, including land earth stations Broadband revenues reduced by 13.4% to US$91.1m in 2009. located in Australia, Canada, the Netherlands and New Zealand.
It also offers xed-site remote telecommunications services over The Stratos Broadband business provides VSAT services, primarily xed satellite systems and through its owned and operated to the oil and gas sector, microwave services to oil platforms in microwave facilities.
In addition, Stratos provides customised the Gulf of Mexico, equipment supply and engineering services.
turnkey remote telecommunications solutions, value-added services and equipment and engineering services.
The Stratos VSAT network enables integrated data and voice telecommunications between remote xed sites and We report Stratos revenues in two segments: the first being the land-based of ces.
MSS business, which is sub-divided into revenue for Inmarsat airtime services and then into Other MSS revenues.
The second The Broadband division is experiencing lower demand segment is the broadband business.
The dominant portion and an increasingly competitive trading environment.
Stratos of MSS revenues comprises Inmarsat airtime sales, which are management has already taken a range of actions, and is approximately 77% of total MSS revenue, representing around planning further initiatives, to improve results.
Steps have been two thirds of total Stratos revenue.
taken to reduce costs in this area and to run off certain legacy products and exit some markets.
In June 2008, Stratos sold MSS services its VSAT hub located in Germany and in September 2009, During 2009 MSS services represented US$553.0m of revenues, it sold the remaining assets in Germany, including its customer an increase of 3.8% compared to 2008. contracts which contributed to this revenue reduction in Broadband services.
Stratos has distribution agreements with Inmarsat covering the provision of our non-broadband services: provision of services These actions have already resulted in improved earnings and offered over the Inmarsat-4 satellites and the provision of lease margin on the lower revenue base.
We are actively reviewing services.
The price and volume of the various services sold by the pro tability of this business and are committed to taking Stratos has been in uenced by several key factors, including further steps to address the less attractive areas and exit them price competition, the introduction of new services, the transfer if necessary.
These steps may affect net revenue growth in the of some of their service providers to becoming new Inmarsat short-term, though are not expected to result in any reduced distribution partners and changes in the mix of services they pro tability for this part of the business.
In addition, Stratos will distribute our new IsatPhone OUTLOOK Pro service when it is launched.
2009 was a transformational year for our satellite network, our In 2009, the largest growth contributor at Stratos was the leasing service portfolio and our distribution arrangements, giving us sector.
This is a result of increased usage by government and a strong platform with which to maintain our market leadership.
military customers and a shift of certain on-demand GAN and Swift 64 usage to leasing contracts.
This change in mix of service We have a skilled and talented team across the Group.
Their comes with price discounts but also provides a commitment passion for the work we do for customers continues to drive from customers, which assures revenue commitments for longer them to deliver the reliable and high-quality services that our periods.
This was a successful year for lease renewals, which customers expect from us.
contributed to the leasing growth.
Stratos is building up an inventory of longer-term business that can help smooth volatility It was yet another solid year of growth as clearly represented over time at both the Stratos and Inmarsat Global level.
But beyond the pure numbers, it was also operationally transformational in our distribution, network and Growth in both leasing and maritime, where FleetBroadband services, which are poised to serve us and our customers well growth was particularly strong, was partially offset by lower land for many years to come.
With a portfolio of broadband services and aeronautical revenues impacted primarily by customer now fully deployed globally over our Inmarsat-4 satellites, we migration to a lease basis.
The business jet market, where are well positioned to meet our customers growing data Stratos has grown over the last few years, went through a degree application needs and continue our revenue growth.
Our land, of contraction in 2009, although sales of new SwiftBroadband sea and aeronautical family of broadband services were truly terminals remain strong.
The aeronautical sector derives much proven and established in the market place in 2009.
In addition, more revenue from government business than the business we are excited about entering the hand-held satellite phone jet market.
Stratos also saw some migration of GAN revenues voice market.
We believe this represents an attractive new growth to BGAN revenues, which is encouraging, although there is opportunity for the future.
In view of these factors we believe generally a reduction in revenues in the early customer life, the Group can continue to deliver solid revenue growth in 2010. followed by increases over time as the customer adapts the service to its operations.
Andrew Sukawaty Other MSS services for Stratos primarily consist of mobile Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer terminals and equipment sales, mobile telecommunications services sourced on a wholesale basis from other MSS providers, land earth station LES services provided to certain distributors and other ancillary services.
Other MSS services, in general, have Inmarsat plc 13 Annual report and accounts 2009
