4 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009 Chief Executives review Our strategy is to be one of the very best companies in the world, delivering Great Hotels Guests Love 2009 proved to be one of the most challenging years on record, with double-digit In a difficult year weve taken declines in revenue per available room RevPAR leading to lower profits.
decisive actions to improve the efficiency of our business, In a difficult market we outperformed the competition and delivered well on the significantly reducing costs key priorities we set at the beginning of the financial crisis.
while opening a record number Focus on efficiency of hotels and driving forward with the $1 billion Holiday Inn We exceeded our cost savings target for the year, reducing central and regional costs relaunch.
by $95 million of which $50 million is sustainable.
We also delivered $25 million of sustainable cost savings in our franchised and managed businesses.
In addition, we have taken similar actions to increase the efficiency of the system fund spending.
Andrew Cosslett Support hotel performance Chief Executive As the financial crisis took hold, we were able to harness the power of our global system to support performance in our hotels.
Rooms revenue booked through our reservations channels or by Priority Club Rewards members direct to hotel, rose four percentage points on last year to 68 per cent.
We also introduced a number of initiatives to help owners keep operating costs down.
Build quality distribution During the year, we added a record 439 hotels to our system, over 80 per cent of which were new-build, and we signed 345 hotels into our development pipeline.
This is a noteworthy achievement given the scarcity of financing and is a testament to the strength of our brands and the power of our system.
Our drive for quality continued with the removal of almost 30,000 rooms in the year.
We made excellent progress with the Holiday Inn relaunch with over 50 per cent of the hotels now operating under the new standards.
The consumer marketing campaign started over the summer and the relaunched hotels continue to show encouraging results.
The relationship we enjoy with our owners has been key to managing through this downturn and we continue to work side by side on our shared purpose of creating Great Hotels Guests Love.
The actions we have taken in 2009 build on IHGs transformation to an asset-light, fee-based, aligned business with the brand strength and scale to drive market share and operational efficiencies whatever the market conditions.
Our resilience through this downturn demonstrates the robustness of this strategy.
We will continue to focus hard on execution in 2010 to drive competitive advantage and deliver sustained value to our shareholders.
