OVERVIEW Chief Executives review 5 Questions and Answers with the Chief Executive: Q Q Q What has been IHGs strategy to With owners looking for support How will IHG make the most of the deal with the difficult economic to reduce costs, why is the Holiday upturn when it comes?
climate and how successful has Inn relaunch still a priority?
A During these tough economic times, A We set about the relaunch of weve taken decisive action both to Holiday Inn in 2007 and although no strengthen the efficiency of our business A Over the past few years, weve taken one could have predicted the economic and to keep on course with our growth a number of strategic actions to become circumstances we have since faced, strategy.
more efficient and effective and make weve pushed on with the $1 billion better use of our global scale.
The most We continued to invest in our people, our programme because we believe this important of these was the decision to systems and our brands, while forging is exactly the right time to be doing it.
focus on becoming a predominantly even closer working relationships with franchised and managed, fee-based The relaunch is re-setting peoples our hotel owners and partners.
This gives us a more perceptions of Holiday Inn.
In their With momentum and a united, winning predictable income stream, strong cash search for great value theyre giving the spirit inside the business, IHG is well generation and allows us to continue to brand another try and liking what they placed to make the most of the upturn grow because new hotels are funded by find.
Guest satisfaction is up and owners when it comes.
Over the past are seeing RevPAR outperformance.
18 months, our continued growth in new These economic circumstances might rooms has helped offset some of the seem like a great reason to shy away revenue lost from RevPAR declines.
from making such big changes, but time will show that it is both a very opportune Driving revenue into our hotels has been and very effective initiative for this, our a priority and our system is key to biggest brand.
Our system comprises our world class reservations centres, websites, global sales teams and Priority Club Rewards loyalty scheme and Q delivered 68 per cent of rooms revenue to our hotels in 2009.
Has it been difficult to retain Reducing our corporate and regional loyal customers while guests cost base was crucial to managing have been so focused on price through the downturn.
This was and value for money?
something on which we were already engaged, but in response to the A Our most loyal customers the economic climate we stepped up the 48 million members of our Priority Club pace of change.
While weve been able to Rewards programme have been our reduce costs by taking better advantage most supportive.
Not only do these of our scale, we also had to make guests stay with us more often, they reductions in our numbers and this spend more when they do.
The action A guests loyalty can never be taken for we took this year to reduce our costs, granted it is something that can take while difficult, allowed us to conserve years to achieve and seconds to lose.
So cash and continue to invest in those we have made sure we have continued things that drive guests to our hotels to add benefits to the loyalty programme and revenues to our owners.
right through the downturn, and made Finally, the great working relationship membership of it even more worthwhile.
we enjoy with our owners, both directly This year we enrolled six million new and through the IAHI, our Owners members into the programme thats Association, has also been key.
By a significant number of people whose working side by side with our hotel first choice will now be to stay in one of owners, were able to focus on the our hotels.
guest experience and on delivering Great Hotels Guests Love.
