04 International Power Annual Report 2009 Chief Executive Officers statement 2009 presented many challenges, and the good performance across the Group is testament to the quality, skill, enthusiasm, and commitment of everyone within the International Power team worldwide.
We have delivered another year of strong In North America, the power sector was Europe had another very strong year, operational and financial performance, dominated by the impact of the recession principally driven by a good performance against global economic and banking on both power demand and gas prices.
We have completed environments that were uncertain and Demand levels in our major markets of Texas the environmental upgrade at our coal-fired challenging.
We have maintained a healthy and New England were both down some Rugeley plant, enabling a longer life for this financial position with good corporate 5-6%.
Lower gas prices have an important important asset.
We continue to believe liquidity, driven by solid operational effect, as gas generally sets the price of power there is significant value in owning power performance, selected asset sales at in our markets, and although we clearly generation capacity in the UK, given the extremely good values, a successful early benefit from relatively lower fuel costs, this scale of impending plant retirements, and extension of our corporate banking facility was more than outweighed by lower power the uncertainty on future investments.
High and conclusion of major refinancings.
Lower demand, high levels of storage, levels of plant availability, and the flexibility and plentiful supply have all contributed to and diversity of our portfolio, enabled us to Our performance in 2009 again lower gas prices that were some 70% capture significant value at times of power demonstrates the strength of our down on peak 2008 levels.
Despite these and gas price volatility.
We were also strongly international portfolio.
We have a blend of challenges, our plants performed well, forward contracted for 2009, and this merchant and long-term contracted assets with high availability ensuring we captured protected us from lower margins caused by across both developed and developing maximum value.
Not surprisingly, our lower power demand and lower gas prices.
This platform profitability in North America was down We continue to have a good level of forward provides both resilience and attractive some 24% on 2008.
Given our very strong contracting for much of 2010. growth opportunities.
cash flow and liquidity, we decided in In continental Europe, our assets performed Health and safety is a key part of our wider December to temporarily pay down the well.
The major event in the year was the corporate responsibility, and is core to our US$769 million of US non-recourse project sale of our Czech business for 593 million, day-to-day activities.
I am pleased to report debt that was due to mature in mid-2010.
crystallising very significant value for our that the accident frequency rate at our Although there were refinancing options shareholders and recording a 427 million operational plants remains at a low level, available, we concluded that temporary post-tax profit on sale.
Our new-build similar to that established in 2008. repayment was in the best economic projects in Portugal and Belgium 830MW Our behavioural safety programme, known interests of shareholders.
We continually and 420MW gas-fired plants respectively, as Fresh Eyes, continues to gain momentum, monitor this position.
both with long-term offtake contracts are and the improvement in performance at We are pleased to have added a renewable progressing well, and on target to reach many of our plants is attributable, at least portfolio in Canada, through the acquisition commercial operation in 2011. in part, to this programme.
of 40MW of operational wind capacity plus Our Middle East portfolio comprises Details of our regional operational and 40MW under construction and a pipeline of long-term contracted assets, where we take financial performance are set out in the advanced development projects located in little or no pricing or volume risk we are regional reviews, but these are the highlights.
Ontario, a market which provides attractive paid for having our capacity available, and long-term contracts.
The environmental Page Regional reviews pages 36 to 53 our operational track record here continues debate continues in North America, but there to be excellent.
We do earn additional income is no clear path forward.
We continue to be through the achievement of performance actively engaged in the regulatory debate, targets, and this is a further reason why we and are well placed, given our efficient have key long-term operational roles in these gas-fired fleet.
Our existing assets all performed backdrop is still uncertain, the fundamentals well during 2009, and our large-scale project of our markets remain attractive, and we are under construction at Fujairah a 2,000MW well positioned to benefit from recovery.
05 gas-fired plant, together with a desalination coal.
The debate is centred on how the 2009 presented many challenges, and the plant producing 130 million imperial gallons environmental, economic and social good performance across the Group is of water a day is on plan to reach commercial dimensions of this subject can be reconciled.
testament to the quality, skill, enthusiasm, operation on a phased basis during 2010.
We remain very actively engaged at both and commitment of everyone within the The Middle East markets in which we operate state and federal government levels.
Given International Power team worldwide.
I would have been much less impacted by the global the uncertainty in the market, we are not like to thank everyone for their efforts and economic recession, and growth prospects forward contracted post July 2011, which achievements.
We go into 2010 with the remain strong.
We are, and expect to is the provisional date for the introduction outlook for the global economy still continue to be, active in bidding on growth of a CO trading scheme.
Forward margins, particularly 2 projects across these markets in both the context, we were pleased to conclude the in North America and the UK, are at the short and medium-term, as new power restructuring of the non-recourse project low points in their cycles, but the strong and water capacity is such a fundamental debt at our Hazelwood brown coal-fired fundamentals across our international building block underpinning the growth plant in early 2010. portfolio mean that we are well placed to of these economies.
We continue to review both grow our operational platform and Our Asian portfolio had another good year.
new markets that may be attractive for our benefit from economic recovery.
In terms Like the Middle East, all our assets are business, with North Africa a particular focus.
of growth, we continue to look at a range long-term contracted, which means that of opportunities, and in this context we held Australia had a much improved 2009, operational standards and plant availability preliminary discussions with GDF Suez to principally driven by good operational are the key drivers of financial performance.
see if there was value for our shareholders performance in terms of plant availability, Our assets across Thailand, Pakistan and in combining certain GDF Suez power which enabled us to capture value at times Indonesia all achieved availability levels above assets with International Power.
This was the case, both for that targeted in their long-term offtake discussions were discontinued.
our major coal-fired plants in Victoria, and for contracts, and in 2009 we benefited from our gas-fired peaking plants in South Australia.
a full year of increased ownership in Uch, We go forward with enthusiasm and Climate change continued to dominate the in Pakistan.
We continue to be active in confidence, as we have a very strong base 2009 political debate in Australia, but how and greenfield developments in the region, from which we can deliver our goal of when carbon dioxide CO legislation will be and in January 2010, we announced that creating shareholder value namely, a very 2 enacted is still uncertain.
This is clearly very we will build a 110MW plant in Thailand, high quality asset portfolio, good long-term important for the power generation sector, close to our existing plant, selling the majority fundamentals across our international given that some 80% of Australias electricity of its output under a long-term contract to markets, an experienced and committed is generated by coal-fired plants, which are the state utility.
At Paiton in Indonesia, we team, and a healthy balance sheet backed on average relatively high in CO emissions.
have signed the financing for an 815MW by very strong cash flow.
2 However, coal-fired power generation expansion, which is an excellent example of provides Australia with enormous benefits, utilising our existing installed base to deliver both in terms of cheap electricity as a project that is very good value to both us measured by international standards and and our customer.
On the wider front, we in terms of security of supply, given Australias continue our focused development activities vast indigenous reserves of black and brown across this high growth region.
Philip Cox Chief Executive Officer Business overview
