12 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Directors Report Business Review Chief Operating Ofcers Review Our clients are producing some of the most exciting innovations Our Intertek as One in their industries today, ranging from creating safer and more environmentally friendly products, to introducing groundbreaking programme positions technologies and developing alternative sources of energy.
As the environment in which they are operating is evolving, our clients are us to serve our customers rapidly adapting their strategies, business models and supply chains to ensure they keep their competitive edge.
Intertek is changing better and help them with them, as we continue to execute our customer-focused Intertek as One strategy.
succeed in a difficult In 2009, we further strengthened the integration and co-operation business environment.
across the operating divisions with the nomination of a further eight country managers, bringing the total to 25, covering 84% of the Groups revenues.
The country managers are responsible for co-ordinating the actions and activities of the operating divisions within a country to ensure that we present a consistent face to our clients and simplify our service offering to enable them to understand exactly how we can help them.
Under the Intertek as One initiative, we met with more than 200 global industry leading clients to understand their priorities.
These meetings not only provided insight into their business challenges: we were able to talk about how we can expedite their product time-to-market, improve their supply chains, reduce cost and increase efficiency, meet regulatory requirements and adopt sustainable business practices.
These client engagements resulted in over 130 assignments and contracts, including some significant projects with world-leading companies to provide services from the combined divisions of Intertek.
We also learnt that Intertek enjoys a reputation for integrity, speed of response, and prompt delivery of unique solutions, which is one of our competitive advantages.
As we move into 2010, we will focus on developing collaborative relationships based on mutual trust and confidence, sustaining momentum in pursuing new opportunities, and delivering superior service that encourages retention.
Mark Loughead Chief Operating officer www.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 13 In support of our single face to clients and stakeholders, we launched the new Intertek website at www.
Going Intertek The marks of quality forward, we will build on this new platform to increase engagement and develop new business.
For more than 100 years, Intertek has guided clients through the Internally we are investing in infrastructure improvements to enable faster, more ef cient service and productivity that will lead to higher challenging certi cation process.
We will transition to common systems and Offering the broadest range of processes, beginning with the Intertek Common Financial Platform AND SHARED SERVICE CENTRE THAT ARE BEING PILOTED IN.
ORTH !MERICA certi cation and accreditation marks &ROM ANUARY WE HAVE A SINGLE ACCOUNTING PLATFORM BILLING accepted in markets around the world, system and Customer Relationship Management system, fully integrated across all divisions in the USA, operating from a newly Intertek can help clients to succeed created shared service centre in Houston.
in new and existing markets, meet We have reduced costs by leveraging our combined buying evolving regulatory requirements and power across the Group and utilising central procurement teams.
To date, we have consolidated our suppliers for services such as win new customers.
travel, telecoms, logistics of ce supplies and laboratory equipment and we will continue to seek other cost saving arrangements.
Also as part of this strategy, and aligned with our corporate social responsibility planning, we are establishing a sustainable and ethical procurement system.
We have also redesigned and relaunched the Intertek Intranet with improved graphics and enhanced content, which will serve to inform and align our global organisation in support of our growth initiatives.
What weve accomplished this past year has positioned us to serve our customers better and help them succeed in a dif cult business environment.
There is no end point for our Intertek as One strategy, which will evolve as we invest in our capabilities and our people.
We will continue to prioritise our spending where we see opportunities to grow our business and deliver faster, more ef cient customer service.
