08 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Directors Report Business Review Chief Executive Ofcers Review Our strategy in action Introduction Our commitment to As expected, 2009 was a challenging year with tougher global market conditions, recession in many countries and severe supporting and adding contraction in some industries.
Despite these difficulties, the key business drivers to Interteks global business remained value to our customers intact and combined with our customer focused strategy enabled us to achieve strong results for the year.
by improving their Our strategy products and processes Our mission is to add value to our customers processes, products and brands through providing quality and safety services.
and reducing their costs We concentrate on industry sectors in which we have the critical drives everything we do.
size to provide our customers with global world-class services which are based on a deep understanding of their current and evolving future needs and challenges.
Our divisions are organised to focus on specic sectors and they continuously improve their capabilities and procedures to deliver customer centric services.
Our excellent staff, market leading response times and high value solutions differentiate us in the marketplace.
Our network of laboratories and ofces are located where our customers need them and our highly motivated people are chosen for their understanding of local culture as well as their industry expertise.
We understand that our people are our core assets and invest continuously in them.
Our close relationship with our customers and our reputation for quality has allowed us to develop partnerships with many globally-renowned companies where we take over and operate our customers in-house testing facilities or quality processes along their supply chain.
Companies can outsource their laboratory activities to Intertek and be confident that the service they receive will be both high quality and more cost effective.
Our strategy is to be the premier high value service provider in our industry sectors and we will continue to build a full service portfolio to offer our customers one-stop shopping solutions and give us the opportunity to leverage excellent customer relationships across a broad portfolio.
Besides focusing on delivering strong organic growth rates we will continue our well dened acquisition strategy to strengthen our position in evolving market segments and the important regional markets of the future.
We will do this with small to medium sized bolt-on acquisitions but we are also well prepared to be an active consolidator in the industry.
Wolfhart Hauser Chief Executive officer www.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 09 In 2010, we will further strengthen our Intertek brand as the name Action: understanding the regulations on which leading global players rely if they want to be confident We used our knowledge and understanding of international that their products and procedures match the highest quality, safety regulations and standards to help the worlds largest manufacturer and environmental standards.
of rehabilitation equipment to navigate the labyrinth of medical regulatory standards that apply to their products.
When a new Action: adding value to the energy sector edition of the IEC 60601 international series of standards for We have worked closely with some of the major oil companies to electronic medical devices was released, we were able to determine develop better ways to analyse crude oils from offshore production which edition would be most suitable for the clients design, elds.
We have developed a groundbreaking approach that uses certication and market entry needs, thus supporting their near infra-red to conduct pipeline crude oil analysis in combination reputation for engineering excellence.
This solution has enabled our customers to cut costs, increase revenues and deliver greater profitability.
Action: being close to our clients One of our clients in the mining industry wanted to be able to Action: using global and local knowledge analyse iron as soon as it was extracted.
We set up a laboratory We helped one of our well-known retailer clients improve their at their mine site which uses robotic technology and automated quality control procedures in various countries.
Our solution systems to provide faster, more accurate analysis which is also balanced global and local concerns.
Multi-disciplinary quality cleaner and safer.
Our results allow our client to make more assurance teams worked closely with the client in each location informed decisions and improve resource utilisation.
to analyse the supply chain and strengthen local quality control procedures at source.
Our innovative database technology provided Action: focusing on global trade transparency and allowed rapid analysis and correction of problems A customer in the aerospace industry had been working with in supply before they hit the shelves reducing costs for our client multiple companies to certify their facilities across the world.
and protecting their worldwide reputation and brand.
They recognised the inefficiency of this approach and asked Intertek to provide this service globally.
As one of the best known certiers Action: helping our customers grow in the aerospace industry and one of the first companies to provide We have helped our customers in China compete on the global AS9100 certication the internationally recognised quality stage.
We contributed expertise in multiple areas for one of the management standard specically written for the aerospace worlds largest manufacturer of white goods.
By assisting with industry, we were a natural choice.
design and R&D and providing training to improve internal capability we helped our client make and market better products at a much Result: sustainable growth faster rate.
This improved their competitive advantage, enabling Despite tougher global market conditions, the them to further their international growth.
key business drivers to Interteks global business Action: expanding our service offering remain intact, namely product variety, supply Through our knowledge of the energy and industrial markets, we chain complexity, the outsourcing of in-house identied that our customers worldwide needed global technical testing laboratories and increasing demand for inspection and expediting support to bring them new expertise, safe, environmentally friendly and quality products project efficiencies and cost saving.
In February 2009, we acquired the WISco group of companies to add these service capabilities driven by ongoing regulation and end customers.
to our Industrial Services division.
We are now able to offer these Supporting our customers as they strive to be services globally to our customers.
more competitive and cost effective underpins this growth.
We expect this strategy and customer focus to generate continued and sustainable growth.
10 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Directors Report Business Review Chief Executive Of cers Review The Intertek growth drivers Our success lies in our strategy.
Our consistent and committed focus on our customers is the cornerstone of our success and enables us to take advantage of the five key growth drivers in our business which are shown below.
GLOBAL TRADE: Impacting volume related businesses 1 MARKET DRIVERS: Increasing demand for quality and safety, concern for the environment and product variety 2 EXPANSION: More services, regions and industries 3 DRIVING THE Customers outsourcing to make INDUSTRY: xed costs variable 4 Strong track record of acquiring EXTERNAL GROWTH: complementary businesses 5 www.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 11 The drivers of our growth remain robust Only about 30% of our business relies on the volume of global trade, so although growth in global trade has slowed down since the economic crisis began, this has primarily impacted our inspection related businesses.
Consumer demand for product variety and safe, environmentally friendly and quality products continues to grow.
An increasing number of products are subject to regulations which require them to be tested, often by an independent company.
We are continually developing the range of services we can offer customers and expanding the industry sectors that we cover.
Each of our divisions broadly supports different industries although customers have access to all the services available in the Group.
We provide local support to our customers on an international scale by locating our of ces and laboratories close to our customers buying of ces and manufacturers.
The trend is for customers to concentrate on their core business and reduce their xed costs by outsourcing any non-core activities to specialists.
We have a successful track record of providing outsourced laboratory services to many leading companies in a wide variety of industries.
We have acquired over 50 businesses in the past five years to complement and enhance our service portfolio.
In 2009, we reduced our investment in acquisitions to re ect the uncertain market conditions and provide increased capacity to fund medium or larger acquisitions should suitable opportunities arise.
Go online for more information www.
