Chief Executives Statement We are committed to collaboration, responsiveness and flawless execution.
As an unquestioned leader in providing industries with open thinking and open technologies, Invensys provides customers with the ability to respond more quickly to an ever-changing Ulf Henriksson environment with confidence.
Chief Executive The development of standardised control systems technology reflects the movement away from customised equipment with proprietary operating systems towards platforms with open operating systems.
In parallel, industry-standard communication specifications have been created to foster interoperability and create flexibility in system architectures and component selection.
Open architectures also create the ability to draw information in real time from disparate parts of operations control and business support systems to enable higher levels of automation and optimisation.
We recognise the importance of these trends to our customers and support open architectures in our businesses.
For example, Wonderware software was created specifically to allow broad levels of system integration and data communications.
It is now in use in around one third of the worlds manufacturing plants and increasingly in infrastructure operations.
The application of communication and integration technologies is constantly being expanded and refined, including their use across our other businesses.
Currently we We believe that the key to maximising are introducing these technologies into the rail industry to both our customers and our own support advancements for infrastructure management and signalling control rooms.
potential lies in an open approach.
This belief shapes the way we work, Social, economic and environmental trends reflect the increasing need to run capital-intensive operations such as our mindset and approach, and the manufacturing, mining, power generation and transportation solutions, technologies and products more efficiently.
Our businesses have adopted the position that we need to work with our customers on their terms.
We that we develop with our customers.
open our thinking to new approaches, collaborate with our customers and open the door to new value propositions I am pleased to be able to report that we achieved a robust for our customers.
This open-minded approach to solving performance during the past year against the background of customer business issues resulted in an impressive new order one of the most difficult global economies in decades.
performance over the past year.
We had strong order intake, which is testimony to our Outside its core markets, Invensys Rail is developing its customers belief in our ability to deliver projects and solutions.
business in a number of other countries around the world.
We had strong cash flow across the Group, which has further Rather than being a completely global player, we have strengthened our financial position: we are debt free with selected a number of key markets in which to develop new 309 million of net cash and deposits on the balance sheet.
regional businesses, and to continue our successful strategy of We have managed our pension assets and liabilities to reduce developing strong market share where we have an advantage volatility and have agreed the future funding schedule with in meeting the needs of customers.
We have recently placed the Trustee of the UK Main Pension Scheme with no change new business development teams into South East Asia, the to our annual payments.
We have undertaken restructuring Middle East, India, Germany and Latin America and we are where there has been a need to realign capacity and improve already seeing success with several new orders.
This overall performance has given the Board time, we are driving a strong platform and component strategy confidence to recommend the resumption of dividend through our development planning.
We are developing new payments to shareholders.
technical solutions that will facilitate the efficient operation of railways, in addition to the fundamental aspect of maintaining Strategy safety.
In particular, we are investing in communications-based Our vision is to become the unquestioned leader in our train control, intelligent operational control systems, European markets.
Our mission is to unlock our potential so that Railway Traffic Management System ERTMS and unified we can in turn help our customers to unlock theirs.
interlocking offerings, all of which we see as important pillars that will support our customers in the years to come.
We believe that the key to maximising both our customers and our own potential lies in an open approach.
This belief At Invensys Controls, we have taken aggressive action to shapes the way we work, our mindset and approach, and the realign capacity and resources following the declines in its solutions, technologies and products that we develop with consumer cyclical markets while continuing our intense focus our customers.
on improving productivity and generating cash.
We are 10 | Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 concentrating on emerging markets, geographic expansion Corporate Social Responsibility CSR of our heating segment and leveraging our global engineering Invensys is committed to supporting the principles of capabilities to support our customers new product economic success, environmental stewardship and social introductions.
These actions taken together position us responsibility.
We believe that by acting as a responsible well to capitalise upon an eventual market recovery.
corporate citizen, we will not only minimise business risk, but also enhance our reputation as a business partner.
Our Creation of Invensys Operations Management CSR report, which starts on page 22, contains more detailed The decision has been taken to integrate our three industrial descriptions of our achievements.
I am pleased to announce automation businesses Invensys Process Systems, that we have exceeded our targets for reductions of key Wonderware and Eurotherm into a single division, Invensys performance indicators KPIs of consumption and waste Operations Management.
This decision has been driven by production.
I am also pleased that our injury and illness the convergence of technologies that enable our customers incident frequency rates have been reduced again since to optimise their entire operations, the opportunity to create last year.
a continuum of solutions and services for the whole industrial market and the potential for cost savings from common sales Invensys is producing a Sustainability Report, which will and marketing, delivery and back office functions.
be available for download from our website.
Also available from our website will be our revised and updated Code of We have identified significant growth opportunities from Conduct, which summarises our goals and demonstrates our more effective coverage of our customer base and attractive commitment to legal and ethical compliance.
We believe that savings from using common approaches to business our performance and our values are things to be proud of and processes.
Some integration activities began earlier in should be reported clearly and transparently, which is why we the year as a result of common research and development have made these documents available.
requirements between the businesses and the opportunity to eliminate redundant infrastructure costs.
Throughout the Our people remainder of the current year, additional integration will be In 2008 we listened to our employees through an Invensyscarried out: however, we do not intend to make substantial wide Employee Engagement Survey.
We have reviewed and changes to the business strategy, products, services and collated the results of the Survey, and I am pleased to report levels of support for our customers.
We see this integration that our employees engagement with Invensys rates highly as a natural evolutionary step building upon the successes in comparison to other companies which have been through that we have already achieved with our strategy of becoming a significant changes.
Based on the findings of the Survey, our solutions and services provider.
We will be reporting Invensys leaders are developing action plans to ensure that the voice Operations Management as a single division going forward.
More information on our Employee Engagement Survey can be found in our CSR report.
Our industrial customers face an expanding set of challenges that go beyond the need for increased productivity.
They face Our people are a great strength, and I am delighted that we new pressures related to globalisation, shifting demographics, have such good people across Invensys who are dedicating environmental issues, energy efficiency and greater complexity their skills and time to help Invensys to succeed.
Their in the supply chain.
They are seeking new ways to optimise commitment and achievements have helped us to deliver a their operations across their production assets, systems and robust performance at a time of considerable challenges, and processes.
By bringing together our three businesses, we can I would like to thank them all for their contribution.
We will harness technology, domain expertise and service delivery strive to give our employees every reasonable encouragement capability to provide agile real-time operations capability and incentive to succeed.
through integrated solutions backed by our deep industry knowledge.
Our combined portfolio enables us to provide right sized solutions and delivery mechanisms that meet customers needs most effectively.
Branding During the year, we carried out a review of our branding to ensure that our visual identity and brand structure reflect Ulf Henriksson an open approach and provide differentiation from our Chief Executive competitors.
This review has resulted in the new logo and visual identity which you see within this document and which more readily reflect our status as a technology company, following the reclassification by FTSE in June 2008.
It also achieves the aim of creating the visible differentiation from our competitors that we required.
Just as importantly, we have simplified our multi-tier brand structure to create greater emphasis upon the Invensys name.
As we gradually implement the new branding across the Groups businesses over the next year, our people will become Invensys people and our renowned brands like Foxboro, Westinghouse and Wonderware, which are currently business names, will become product brands.
We want our people to embrace our Invensys-wide aspiration to apply an open approach to unlocking potential.
Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | 11
