Introduction Strategy Sustainability Performance Governance Financials Chief Executives review It is now more than three years since we set out the AMEC has 21,000 engineers, consultants, project roadmap for the first stage of AMECs journey and the managers and support staff and combined, they are scale and success of our delivery has exceeded even what make AMEC successful.
We need to continue to our expectations.
The group has been transformed.
attract the best and then invest in their development Our 2009 adjusted profit before tax was 2.7 times without high quality, engaged people, AMEC has no higher than the equivalent 2006 figure and three per cent business.
Our second global employee survey showed above the prior year.
This was achieved despite the a six percentage point improvement in employee general economic downturn and the level of uncertainty engagement, ranking AMEC firmly amongst the about the future, which resulted in key investments highest performing companies, and again rated our being postponed.
Our EBITA margin was twice that in commitment to employee safety very highly.
It also 2006 and we are firmly on track to deliver on our margin showed we have more work to do in other areas, target for 2010, of 8.5 per cent.
And our balance sheet improving collaboration and investing in the is exceptionally strong, putting AMEC in an enviable development of our employees.
position to grow through selective acquisitions in our But 2010 is just a milestone, not the end of our journey.
chosen areas of activity and markets around the world.
We are positioned in the right markets and serving We aspire to have the best team of engineers, project the right customers, and, as the chairman has already managers and consultants in the world and our said, our focus is now on growth, though not at the Operational Excellence programme is designed to expense of margin.
Vision 2015 will help us further help us achieve this.
It is changing the way we operate strengthen our competitive position as we move and helping ensure AMEC becomes and remains towards One AMEC.
Operational Excellence has best in class, as we deliver for our customers.
Our already created a commonality of culture, tools and improvements are not measured purely in terms of processes and encouraged a collaborative approach.
financial numbers: we are also concerned with the This is increasingly important, as customer projects wider implications of what we do and how we do it.
Our become larger and more complex, and has facilitated health and safety performance has achieved another the bringing together of the Natural Resources record year, with lost time incidents of only 0.04 per and Power & Process divisions under Neil Bruces 200,000 exposure hours.
In 2009 we started to measure leadership.
We are confident that this integrated our carbon footprint consistently across our global model will deliver greater efficiencies and improved operations.
For AMEC, the primary carbon emitting customer service and will allow us to continue activities are transportation and utility costs.
to develop the skills of our employees.
Sustainability is, of course, also a commercial It is clear that the management team and our 21,000 opportunity for us.
During 2009, we advised our employees have more than delivered in the first stage customers on a range of sustainability issues, of our journey.
AMEC is now a high margin, well for example, helping to determine a suitable location controlled and focused business, operating in some for a commercial scale, third generation biofuel 40 countries.
It is now time for the second stage, pilot plant.
profitable growth, as we expand our geographical In 2009 we have strengthened and developed our footprint and add capabilities, while maintaining the customer relationships, and have seen the successful high quality.
We see exciting opportunities, even in ramping up of the Kearl oil sands project in Canada for lacklustre markets, and are confident we are well Imperial Oil, and the Sellafield nuclear decommissioning placed to take advantage of them.
Samir Brikho Chief Executive 4 March 2010 Explained further on page 8.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 5
