Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-24 25-33 34-41 42-66 67-116 05 Chief Executives statement Dr Paul Davies Chief Executive We have the balance sheet, the strategy and the expertise to drive forward during what will be a key 12 month period.
Our marketplace Our performance We develop oil and gas interests in and around the As I anticipated in last years statement, 2009 was a former Soviet Union with a particular focus upon difficult year for all businesses, regardless of country Ukraine and Russia.
We utilise our extensive regional of operation or sector.
The recession and global experience, knowledge and expertise to deliver value credit crisis affected economies everywhere.
this background, we have again demonstrated our ability to deliver growth and profitability in Locally-based and managed operating subsidiaries challenging times.
have been central to our success throughout the 16 years since JKX was established.
The technical, I am pleased to report that average oil and gas operational and commercial challenges in the production rose by 6% in 2009 to 11,665 boepd former Soviet Union are many and diverse.
Revenues eased by 5% to Geologies, regulations, cultures and working $196.5m 2008: $207.0m due largely to reduced oil practices vary considerably, and these differences prices, partially offset by a strong rise in realisations are at times exacerbated by the fluid political and for gas sold in Ukraine.
Operating profits reduced by economic environment.
Working closely with the skilled and experienced indigenous workforce in Ukraine, Russia and in the Our progress other countries where we operate, we have earned a 2009 was a year of stability and steady progress reputation as an efficient and valued partner, able to against the objectives outlined in last years identify and harness the significant opportunities statement.
We currently have a staff of over 600, 95% of whom are operationally focused We enhanced our Ukrainian producing operations, and based in Ukraine and Russia.
where the completed tie-in with the Soyuz trunkline has increased our production capacity.
We also We were among the first western operators to completed fracture stimulation testing at understand the potential value of gas reserves in the Rudenkovskoye which demonstrated an encouraging region, which in our view had long been undervalued.
rate of potential production improvement and This belief was endorsed during 2009 as prices in underscores our confidence in the field.
both Russia and Ukraine have moved closer to those achieved in the EU.
06 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Seizing our potential Objectives for 2009: Achievements of 2009: Objectives for 2010: Performance Included in the 2008 As set out in this report For each of the identified report were objectives, the Company has made strategic areas the further set out below, aimed at progress against each objectives for 2010 are set advancing the Groups objective.
Enhance Ukrainian Tie-in to Soyuz pipeline has Commence development of producing operations.
removed production the Rudenkovskoye field.
Construct, install and Successful results from commission an LPG facility proppant fracture in Ukraine.
Accelerate the workover programmes required to programme.
bring the Russian assets on stream.
Test the first of the Achieved.
Initial test results Test additional wells.
were more than twice those anticipated.
Design Construct and commission programme to deliver the completed and contracts the facility, with delivery in Russian gas processing placed with suppliers.
followed by installation in the fourth quarter.
Bring on stream our first Achieved in August 2009.
Double reserves and producing field in Hungary.
Continue to enhance and portfolio in Eastern Europe.
develop the exploration portfolio, particularly in Hungary, Bulgaria and Slovakia.
Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-24 25-33 34-41 42-66 67-116 07 Chief Executives statement In Russia, we initiated the workover programme $90 million in Ukraine with the balance invested in required to bring our assets on stream, achieving our Hungarian operations and elsewhere.
We have excellent results from the first of the well workovers.
four key near-term objectives: Contracts for the gas processing facility were placed Accelerate the appraisal and development of in 2009 and equipment is currently being fabricated non-producing fields and reserves in our existing for delivery in the third quarter of this year.
Specifically, these are the In Hungary, it was pleasing to see exploration Rudenkovskoye field in Ukraine where we will broadening into development.
We tied-in two wells employ a larger rig to develop its tight gas to bring our first producing field on stream during the reserves, and the Koshekhablskoye field in Russia year, as planned, and also continued to extend our where we will extend the initial workover exploration portfolio elsewhere in Eastern Europe.
programme to maximise startup production when the field comes on stream at the end of the year.
Delivering on our promise Continue to optimise production from the The last 12 months reconfirmed our confidence in producing fields in Ukraine with development the existing portfolio.
The steady increases in drilling utilising the existing dedicated drilling rig production, the encouraging results from the and the installation of an LPG facility.
fracture stimulation test programme and the convergence of gas prices in Ukraine and Russia Increase activity on our existing exploration and to European net back underpin our optimism in the appraisal portfolio in central Europe.
Maintain flexibility to acquire additional interests 2009 built the platform for success: 2010 will be the in our focus area, to increase production and year when we take a significant leap forward.
In January 2010, following the financial year-end, we announced our intention to place over 14 million new shares with investors to raise approximately $61 million before expenses.
The placement was well-received and the funds have strengthened our balance sheet, giving us the opportunity to increase capital expenditure in order to accelerate production significantly.
In total, we plan to invest $230 million during 2010.
Of this, $110 million will be spent in Russia, 08 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Risks, measures and outlook Managing our risks Outlook We operate in a challenging industry and risk is Although there are signs of improvement in the rightly a primary concern.
Key risk areas are in global economy, we believe that there remains much relation to: reservoir performance: capital work to be done before the recession can be expenditure: commodity prices: procurement and considered to have passed.
However, for JKX the contract management: capital management: foreign outlook is extremely positive.
We have the balance exchange exposure: cash flow and interest rate sheet, the strategy and the expertise to drive forward exposure: credit: liquidity: country exposure and during what will be a key 12 month period for the taxation, with the Group subject to uncertainties Company.
relating to the determination of its tax liabilities in The quality of our people will again be instrumental Ukraine, where tax legislation and practice are in a in ensuring that we reach our objectives.
We will state of continuous development, and laws subject to continue to attract, develop and retain high calibre varying interpretations.
During 2009 we ensured that individuals not only in the countries where we robust risk management processes were in place, operate but also at our UK head office.
Together, this with oversight at Board level.
These risks are further team will help us rise to the challenges and deliver described in the Financial Review on pages 28 to 31 on our promise.
and note 21 to the Group accounts.
Beyond 2010, we have measurable milestones in Measurable milestones place, in particular the clear commitment to We aim to: significantly increase production during 2011.
Reach in excess of 20,000 barrels of oil equivalent We look to the future with great confidence.
Increase production at Rudenkovskoye from 2% of JKXs Ukrainian production in 2009 to 25% in 2012.
