CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Neil Carson Chief Executive Johnson Matthey performed well in 2008 09, which was very much a year of two halves.
A record first half performance was followed by very difficult market conditions in the second half of the year, especially for our Emission Control Technologies business which was impacted by the effects of the credit crunch and collapse in consumer confidence on automotive markets, particularly in North America and Europe.
Our non-automotive businesses however, held up well.
For the year as a whole, revenue rose by 5% to 7.8 billion and sales excluding precious metals were up 3% at 1.8 billion.
Profit before tax, amortisation of acquired intangibles and restructuring charges was up 1% at 267.9 million.
From 1st April 2009 we have transferred our Catalysts and Chemicals business, which makes precious metal and some base metal catalysts and precious metal chemicals, into our Precious Metal Products Division.
Going forward, the Fine Chemicals businesses, comprising of our Macfarlan Smith, Pharmaceutical Materials and Services and Research Chemicals businesses, will be reported as Fine Chemicals Division.
A key element of our strategy has been to maintain a strong balance sheet to ensure that we have sufficient funds to support our investment in R&D and fund organic growth.
This has put us in a good position to face the current economic downturn.
Our investment in R&D is the foundation of our high technology business and we will continue to increase this investment to ensure that we have the products to maintain and grow our world leading market positions.
At the same time we are taking continued action to cut costs in all of our businesses and are maintaining a sharp focus on generating cash.
In 2009 10 we plan to reduce our capital expenditure to around 1.2 times depreciation.
We will however, continue to pursue opportunities for growth, for example in manufacturing catalysts for NOx control on coal fired power stations in China.
4 - Johnson Matthey Despite the difficult market conditions that we currently Against this background we expect Johnson Mattheys face, the medium to long term prospects for our businesses profit in the first half of 2009 10 will be lower than in the same continue to hold a great deal of promise.
The legislative drivers period in 2008 09, when the group achieved strong growth and of our business remain firmly in place and the world continues record profits.
Emission Control Technologies sales excluding to focus on protecting the environment, improving efficiency precious metals fell by 26% in the second half of 2008 09 on and on enhancing energy security, all areas where we have key a constant currency basis and have continued at that level enabling technologies.
We are also well positioned to grow in into the first quarter of 2009 10.
Despite good demand for Asia, the one part of the world where national economies are Process Technologies products, if current market conditions expected to be least impacted by the current global downturn.
continue we would expect Environmental Technologies Divisions Over the last few years we have been investing in infrastructure operating profit will be significantly lower than in the first half of and building our market shares in Asia.
Our businesses in the 2008 09. region, particularly in China, have achieved good growth.
All of Precious Metal Products Division achieved very strong our divisions now have a well established presence in the key results in the first half of 2008 09, boosted by record platinum Chinese and Indian markets to serve growing local demand for group metal prices and good growth in the manufacturing our high technology products.
The platinum price in the first two months of the current financial year has averaged $1,153 oz which is well below the same period last year.
In addition, demand for Sustainability platinum refining and recycling, which contributed approximately Sustainability is also a key element of our strategy for the future 15% of the divisions profits in 2008 09, is much weaker.
Today a significant proportion of our Although some of Precious Metal Products businesses, such as profits are generated from products that benefit the environment gold refining, continue to enjoy good demand, overall the and we are world leaders in this field.
It is now almost 18 months division is also expected to be down in the first half of the year.
since we launched Sustainability 2017, a long term vision for the The one area where we expect to see some growth in whole group which sets our direction and aspirations to become operating profit in the first six months of 2009 10 is Fine a more sustainable business in the future.
We have set Chemicals Division, where demand is less affected by the challenging targets to at least double our earnings per share, recession and we should get a boost from additional income achieve carbon neutrality, eliminate waste to landfill and halve on the generic version of ADDERALL XR which was launched the key resources we use per unit of output by 2017.
We have in April 2009. now established our benchmark position and have started to The outlook for the second six months is more difficult to measure our progress.
We have been working hard to embed predict, given the current economic uncertainty.
However, if sustainability into the companys culture and all of our conditions do start to improve we would expect the group to businesses have set their own annual sustainability plans which return to growth in the second half of 2009 10. align with the group goals.
Looking beyond 2009 10, prospects for Johnson Mattheys There is tremendous enthusiasm and commitment for businesses remain encouraging with emissions legislation already sustainability among our employees.
All across the group, in place which will drive demand for new catalysts.
New individuals and teams are focusing on improving the resource regulations for heavy duty diesel emissions in North America efficiency of our own operations and on designing new and will come into force from 1st January 2010, which will increase improved products that help our customers to be more the number of catalysts sold per vehicle.
In the European Union, sustainable and competitive.
This approach not only ensures new regulations will apply from January 2011 which will mean we become more careful with the way we use the worlds that all new diesel cars sold will need to be fitted with diesel resources and enhances our manufacturing processes, but at particulate filters to reduce particulate emissions.
In China, the same time it is saving us money today and is also driving regulations on reducing harmful NOx emissions from power the development of new environmental technologies to stations are anticipated to start in 2011, while energy security support the future growth of our business.
Such efforts are and environmental concerns continue to underpin demand for even more important in the challenging market conditions that syngas catalysts and purification materials.
Despite the economic we currently face.
Further details of our progress towards slowdown, we are continuing to increase our investment in Sustainability 2017 are summarised on pages 29 to 37 and are research and development to develop new catalyst products presented in full in the groups Sustainability Report which will and technologies for the future.
Johnson Matthey has a strong be published on our website in July.
balance sheet and is well placed to benefit from any recovery in global activity.
Outlook The credit crunch and global recession have significantly reduced demand in a number of Johnson Mattheys markets.
Demand for automotive products has been particularly badly affected and so far we have seen no signs of improvement.
Prices of platinum group metals are also well down on their peaks Neil Carson reached in the early part of 2008 09.
Chief Executive Annual Report & Accounts 2009 - 5 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW Research and development at Davy Process Technology, Chiral ligands are developed by our Catalysts and Chemicals Stockton-on-Tees, UK.
Manufacturing plate catalysts at Redwitz, Germany.
Decorative precious metals, colours and enamels produced by our Colour Technologies business.
Fuel cell component manufacturing at our Swindon, UK facility.
