12 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report: Business Review CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW adverse tax impacts in the year, which have reduced EPS on Underlying profit to $1.13 per TRANSLATING ACTION share, compared to $2.27 per share in 2008.
INTO RESULTS ACROSS The presentation of our reported financial ALL OPERATIONS numbers has changed signicantly this year, which is dealt with more fully on page 36.
Following the Boards decision to dispose of MKM, it is now classied as an asset held for sale and its results are included under discontinued operations.
Following the sale of 50% of Ekibastuz GRES-1 in February 2010, it will in future be treated as a joint venture.
Under IFRS requirements, for 2009, this business is also classied as an asset held for sale and is included within discontinued operations.
Ekibastuz GRES-1 remains an important part of our Group.
COPPER DIVISION OUTPUT FOR 2009 At the start of 2009, with low copper prices and concerns over the economic outlook, we focused on controlling costs, protecting OLEG NOVACHUK margins and maximising cashow generation.
Chief Executive Four high cost mines were suspended, which led to a 9% decline in ore output to 32,409 kt.
Lower ore output combined with a reduction in grade, from 1.26% to 1.18%, created a SUMMARY FINANCIALS FOR 2009 higher cost operations, and in particular 15% decrease in mined metal output.
The financial results for 2009 were dominated to protect employment, in the event of by the lower price of copper.
Group revenue prolonged weakness in the copper price.
The reduction in mined metal, however, from continuing operations was $2,404 million, was offset by pro-active, targeted actions The programme offset the negative impact a reduction of 27% from the previous year such that the production of copper in own of copper prices falling below $3,000 per and Group EBITDA excluding special items concentrate reduced by just 3% to 359 kt.
tonne at the cost of sacrificing the upside declined 21% to $1,634 million.
These actions included improved productivity when the price rose above $4,000 per tonne.
at continuing operations, the processing of The average market price over the year was Given the subsequent rise in the price of stockpiled ore, the reprocessing of waste copper, a loss was incurred of $129 million.
$5,164 per tonne, compared to $6,952 per materials and higher recovery rates at No similar transactions are in place for 2010 tonne in the previous year.
or beyond, as it remains our general policy realised price, of $5,024 per tonne, was lower to be an unhedged copper producer.
than the average market price, because our Production of copper cathode equivalent, production and sales were weighted to the our nished material, declined by 7% to 320 kt.
Costs in the Copper Division fell sharply first six months of the year.
This gure was ahead of the target of 300 kt, in 2009.
Costs were assisted by a sharp based on planned mine output, which we devaluation of the tenge to 150 KZT $ Revenue in the Copper Division was set at the beginning of 2009.
The target was in February 2009, lower input prices and $2,357 million, compared to $3,227 million exceeded due to the management actions targeted action to improve efficiency.
in 2008, the reduction mainly being due to referred to previously.
Sales of cathode By-product credits benefited from rising the lower copper price.
EBITDA excluding equivalent were 341 kt, with additional prices over the course of the year.
These special items in the Copper Division fell 36% volume coming from a reduction in inventory changes led to a decline in net costs from to $1,027 million, as the decline in the copper in the first half of the year.
There was some 116 US cents per pound in 2008 to 72 US price and sales volumes were only partially rebuild of work in progress and inventory cents per pound in 2009.
This achievement offset by a reduction in costs.
at the year end, which had been reduced was signicantly ahead of our net cash cost Revenue in the Power Division was $238 million.
to low levels during the year.
target at the start of 2009, of between Sales at Ekibastuz GRES-1, on an annualised 90 and 120 US cents per pound.
BY-PRODUCT OUTPUT FOR 2009 basis, were in line with the previous year.
In 2008 the Government of Kazakhstan From our copper mines, we also produce The increase in power tariffs matched the implemented new legislation to change tax by-products of zinc, silver and gold.
By-product slight decline in power generated and the rates from 1 January 2009.
The phasing in of output in 2009 exceeded 2008, as the negative impact of the tenge devaluation.
these new rates has since been slowed down, reduction in by-product metals mined during At the start of 2009, we hedged 8.5 kt of which is covered further in the Financial Review.
the year was offset by significant contributions copper sales per month for the year, around The new tax regime is relatively aggressive from the processing of stockpiled polymetallic one third of our total output.
The programme at lower metals prices, such as those seen ores, higher recovery rates at the concentrators was put in place to protect some of our in 2009.
There have also been some further and lower levels of work in progress.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS www.
com 13 POWER DIVISION OUTPUT FOR 2009 The new Bozymchak gold copper project Annual net power generated at Ekibastuz in Kyrgyzstan has moved to full development GRES-1 in 2009 fell 6.4% from 2008, but the stage, following the allocation of $100 million recovery through the year was dramatic.
The funding by the China Development Bank demand for electricity declined signicantly and Samruk.
at the end of 2008 and remained low at the Bozymchak should move into production by beginning of 2009.
A moderate improvement the end of 2010 and has a potential annual in demand started in April 2009 and the trend output of 30 koz of gold and 7 kt of copper.
strengthened during the rest of the year, led Subject to completing various technicalities, it by rising industrial output in Kazakhstan and is likely that the assets within the Gold Division Russia and some shutdowns at other generators.
will be absorbed within the Copper Division.
There is a tight supply demand balance for KAZAKHMYS PETROLEUM power in Kazakhstan and the sector needs Kazakhmys Petroleum has continued its drilling investment to meet growing future demand and testing programme at the Eastern Akzhar for electricity.
The Government, recognising exploration block in western Kazakhstan.
this need, increased the ceiling tariffs for the Remedial work is being carried out at the first years 2009 to 2015, in order to raise cash two deep wells in order to continue testing, ows and allow greater investment in the which encountered some technical difficulties sector.
The tariff at Ekibastuz GRES-1 was an during 2009.
The drilling of a third deep well average of 3.19 KZT kWh in 2009, compared is planned to be completed in the first half to 2.42 KZT kWh in 2008.
Domestic tariffs of 2010. nished the year in line with the ceiling tariff of 3.60 KZT kWh.
The results of 3D seismic data covering the northwestern part of the licensed area will KAZAKHMYS GOLD OUTPUT FOR 2009 be available in early 2010 and it is expected AND OUTLOOK that these results will be used to identify As anticipated, there was a decrease in ore prospective locations for future deep well extraction and metal production in the Gold drilling.
By the end of 2010, sufficient data Division during 2009.
Zhaima mine closed in should have been collected from the wells September 2008, and the grade was lower at to give a fuller economic evaluation of the eld.
the continuing operations of Mizek and Mukur.
OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION IMPROVING EFFICIENCY, INCREASING PRODUCTIVITY As part of our optimisation programme, we have reorganised our smelters to encourage cost control and improve recovery rates.
Zhezkazgan and Balkhash smelters now work under a single specialist metallurgical unit.
These changes have streamlined the process of moving material from concentrators to smelters.
There has also been a complete rebuilding of one of the furnaces at Zhezkazgan and this will now be commissioned and the second furnace will undergo a similar refurbishment.
These initiatives will save costs and improve quality.
14 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report: Business Review CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION INVESTING FOR GROWTH Over the past three years Kazakhmys has invested around $250 million in new capital mining equipment.
Around 50% of the eet is under three years old.
This extensive investment programme has had an impact on output over the past year as new equipment has removed bottlenecks and raised efficiencies.
With so much investment in new equipment, work is taking place to improve maintenance scheduling, both to increase availability and ensure a longer life.
ENRC drawn on 17 March 2010 for $300 million.
production of by-products from stockpiled Our 26% holding in ENRC PLC was worth Interest is payable on funds drawn at a rate material, so that the by-product credit will $4,879 million at the end of 2009, compared of 4.80% over US$ LIBOR.
This facility has depend on mined metal and pricing.
to $1,600 million at the start of the year.
several attractions, being long term, flexible COPPER GROWTH PROJECTS The increase in value reects the recovery in drawing and at a competitive rate.
The Group has two major copper growth in commodity markets.
ENRC is principally OUTLOOK FOR COPPER DIVISION IN 2010 projects, Aktogay and Bozshakol.
These involved in ferrochrome, iron ore and Mined ore output should rise slightly in 2010, have both successfully completed their alumina.
During the year, ENRC made but this will be offset by a general decline in pre-feasibility stage.
Both projects showed further investments outside Central Asia grades.
Given that mined metal output will be economic value on conservative pricing including the purchase of Central African at a similar level to 2009, we are setting the assumptions, with significant net present Mining and Exploration Company PLC, who same target for output of just over 300 kt of value at Bozshakol.
have assets in Central and Southern Africa.
There is some These acquisitions potentially give ENRC As mentioned last year, we delayed the move stockpiled material, but not at the scale greater exposure to base metals.
to feasibility stage until we had identified of 2009.
FUNDING partners and external sources of funding for The four suspended mines will not be Over the course of the year we generated cash the projects.
With the loan from the China brought back into production in 2010. from operations including dividends received Development Bank and Samruk, we now have The most significant of these is Akbastau, from ENRC PLC, before taxation and capital committed funding for Bozshakol and the where we are intending to build a expenditure, of $1,084 million.
In March 2009, feasibility study commenced in January 2010. concentrator close to the mine, in order to we commenced capital repayments on our The study contractor is Aker Solutions.
The reduce transportation costs and maximise the principal $2.1 billion five year debt facility, feasibility study should be completed by value of the ore reserve.
With funding now at the rate of $44 million per month.
the end of 2010, allowing the project to At the end of 2009, $1,662 million was available from our new facility, we are now move into development in 2011 with first outstanding on this facility and, after cash carrying out preliminary economic studies.
production of copper in concentrate by early and cash equivalents, there was net debt of 2014.
Some items of large equipment are Gross cash costs are likely to increase $689 million relating to continuing operations.
likely to be ordered towards the end of next year given rising input costs and lower 2010.
The total capital investment will be Interest on our principal facility is 1.25% over grades.
Ination in Kazakhstan is currently just around $1.5 to $2 billion, but the feasibility US$ LIBOR.
In 2009, a portion of the interest under 10%, which will put some pressure on payments were xed via interest rate swaps study will define this gure more accurately.
The Kazakhstan tenge trades to reduce volatility in our cash ows.
in a xed band around the US dollar, which The funding facility from the China has recently been widened and could allow Development Bank and Samruk will allow At the end of 2009, the Group was allocated the currency to strengthen against the US the consideration and potential development up to $2.7 billion from a loan arranged between dollar, again putting pressure on costs.
of other projects including the underground the China Development Bank and Samruk.
The first utilisation under the facility was There is unlikely to be further significant mine at Kosmurun, the new concentrator at OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS www.
com 15 Akbastau, the expansion of Zhomart and the price will reach that level over the course development of the underground mine of the year for domestic sales, though some at Abyz.
power will still be exported at a lower price.
We continue to look at funding alternatives CONCLUSION for Aktogay and anticipate that progress will In 2010, the cost environment is expected be achieved during the current financial year.
to be more challenging than in 2009 and we At that point, the project will then move to will need to maintain output while controlling feasibility study.
The receipt of the loan facility from Samruk and the China Development Bank All of these future copper projects potentially has transformed our ability to pursue our represent over two-thirds of our current growth projects and we are now in an production.
We are, therefore, in a position excellent position to take forward some not only to replace the decline in our current of the largest and lowest-risk copper production, but to signicantly increase projects that are currently available globally.
output in the medium term.
KAZAKHMYS POWER OUTLOOK FOR 2010 AND FUTURE EXPANSION With the overhaul of Unit 5 in 2009, the plant now has a capacity of 2,470 MW.
During 2010, Unit 3 will undergo a major overhaul and we will start the complete rehabilitation of Unit 8.
Ekibastuz GRES-1 will see a significant change in capacity when Unit 8 is completed in 2013.
If demand continues to be strong, then the refurbishment of one of the other two dormant units may be brought forward.
As mentioned above, tariffs averaged 3.19 KZT kWh, including Russian sales, which were at a lower price than sales in Kazakhstan.
The ceiling for domestic sales in 2010 is 4.68 KZT kWh and it is anticipated that the OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION REALISING OUR GROWTH POTENTIAL In 2009 the Group arranged a debt facility of $2.7 billion, which will be used to develop our significant growth projects.
This is a fifteen year debt facility, which is ideally structured for the development of long-life mining assets.
The assets we will be focusing on include the major copper growth project at Bozshakol and the copper gold project at Bozymchak.
The facility will also be used for a range of mid-sized copper developments and new processing plants.
Together these projects will add substantial additional production and, given their location and the existing infrastructure, they are some of the lowest-risk copper developments in progress in the world.
$2.7billion to develop significant growth projects Directors Report: Business Review PERFORMANCE 18 Measuring our Progress through KPIs 20 Market and Operations Review 32 Risk Management 33 Risk Factors 36 Financial Review OPTIMISING PERFORMANCE THROUGH INVESTMENT OF ASSETS Caterpillar trucks move blasted rock from the mine face at Zhezkazgan.
In 2009 we ordered a total of 42 Caterpillar trucks, as part of our investment programme.
