Kier GrouP PlC AnnuAl rePorT AnD ACCounTS 2009 ChieF exeCutives review The good performance for the year is the result of our product diversification and spread of operations, the quality and commercial capability of our staff as well as our approach to risk management.
The Group continues to be cash-positive with healthy order books in our Construction and Support Services businesses supported by framework agreements and public sector opportunities.
John Dodds Chief executive overview 2008: 32.2m.
our Developments business revenue i am pleased to report that Kier Group plc has saw modest sales activity this year although we performed ahead of expectations in the year to have been active on a number of projects and 2,146m 30 June 2009 and has maintained strong levels of long-term opportunities.
2008: 2,374m revenue, underlying profits and cash.
More recently our Developments business has our Construction division has had a strong acquired a majority stake in a BSF programme for year achieving further growth in operating profits Kent County Council.
This acquisition secures our % revenue by division at record margins of 2.6% 2008: 2.3% together position on the local education Partnership board with healthy average cash balances.
We continue to giving us access to a further 16m of PFi investment focus on long-term relationships and have successin education projects together with at least 300m fully extended the number of long-term public and of additional construction work for our regional private sector framework agreements in which we contracting businesses as well as a 25-year facilities participate to 52 across the country.
Public sector management contract for Kier Support Services.
projects, particularly in the education sector, We have also, recently, exchanged contracts for continue to underpin our order books representing the disposal of the uK Supreme Court for over 56% of our contract awards for the year, with private 30m which provides an exit yield of around 5% sector enquiry levels holding up in many sectors.
based on post-tax disposal proceeds.
Completion The infrastructure, power and energy sectors are is expected imminently.
providing significant opportunities in the uK, and overseas we are seeing improved prospects for work Financial performance Construction 70% arising from the Middle east and Hong Kong.
revenue for the year was 2,145.6m, Support Services 20% in Support Services our order books have grown 2008: 2,374.2m with good growth in Support Partnership Homes 7% significantly, particularly with the recent award of Services offset, as expected, by a reduction in Developments 3% each of the Partnership Homes and Developments the contract with north Tyneside Council to repair and maintain around 16,000 social housing units divisions.
The Construction division saw a mild together with other council-owned property.
We are reduction in revenue largely as a result of a decline also seeing an increase in the number of outsourcing in private sector projects.
underlying operating profit for the Group was 40% less than last years at opportunities for both the public and private sectors as organisations continue to examine their cost 50.1m 2008: 83.8m, the decline attributable to base and seek efficiencies.
our Partnership Homes and Developments divisions our Partnership Homes division, which now encomoffsetting significant growth in Construction and Support Services.
passes the former Kier Homes, our private housing business, and Kier Partnership Homes, our social housing contracting business, performed in line with our expectations.
Despite weak buyer sentiment and a continued lack of liquidity in the mortgage and general lending market, the division completed 1,141 unit sales for the year 2008: 2,090 and generated an underlying operating profit of 1.1m ChieF exeCutives review ConSTruCTion 06 07 SuPPorT SerViCeS PArTnerSHiP HoMeS DeVeloPMenTS 1 GMAC headquarters, Bracknell 1 2 Kier Facilities Services Welder James Mayhew worked on the GMAC headquarters Bracknell site.
The 110,000sq ft building incorporates a cutting-edge direct cooling system for the data servers and a 6,300 amp busbar system with a line voltage rating of 400 volts.
2 university of east Anglia, Central Square redevelopment, Kier eastern General operative Craig Newman and the rest of the Kier eastern project team carried out works for the university of east Anglia to create a six-storey library link to the existing Grade ii listed building over a 45-week period.
The Central Square redevelopment also included the refurbishment of the existing library with sectional completions for each floor level, stairs and toilets, over a 50-week period.
exceptional items before tax amounted to a charge group structure and strategic developments Construction secured and probable order books of 27.3m 2008: 24.6m analysed as follows: For the year to 30 June 2009 Kier Group plc comprised four divisions: Construction, Support m 2,245m Services, Partnership Homes and Developments.
Pension credit arising from changes to the salary- 2,114m related section of the Kier Group Pension Scheme 24.3 The Groups management structure and segmental analysis for reporting purposes are based on the redundancy and reorganisation costs associated with our Partnership Homes division 1.8 four divisions.
During the year we successfully completed Provisions against land and work in progress the merger of the former Kier Homes, our private Partnership Homes 42.5 Developments 7.3 housing development business, together with Kier Partnership Homes, our social housing contracting Total exceptional items 27.3 business, to form the enlarged Kier Partnership 09 Homes division.
This merger has combined the skills underlying profit before tax for the year was 08 and relationships of the social housing management 50.6m 2008: 87.1m after amortisation of intanteam with the land skills and marketing techniques gible assets, joint venture tax and before exceptional support services order books items and on the same basis adjusted earnings per of our private development team in order to focus on large-scale regeneration projects, to participate in share were 98.1p 2008: 170.6p.
2,292m housing PFi schemes, and to respond to the Homes Cash remains strong with month-end net 2,023m and Community Agencys HCAs affordable housing balances in the year averaging 62m, ending the year at a net balance of 92.5m 2008: 143.9m.
indeed, Kier Partnership Homes enjoys Partner Status with the HCA and is able to apply Healthy cash balances have been maintained in the for and receive grant directly.
Construction division which averaged 390m for the The new division is better able to respond to year, together with the Support Services division which averaged 20m.
Within our Partnership the current market conditions with an emphasis on social housing provision within a mixed tenure Homes division we experienced a cash outflow, as context whilst continuing to develop out or seek predicted, of 22.3m largely due to land payment disposal opportunities for the 6,150 plots of land commitments and the high levels of work in progress 09 08 built up prior to the commencement of the 2009 with residential planning consent which we hold across our operational areas.
With the change in financial year.
This, coupled with our investment in emphasis towards providing an increasing number of the uK Supreme Court development and our equity social housing units, whilst retaining our private land investment in PFi and property joint ventures, led to an outflow of Group cash of 51m during the year.
development and marketing skills, Kier Partnership Homes will benefit from a reduced risk profile.
The new business model requires less working capital than the previous model, arising from a higher proportion of social housing units developed on third-party land and, consequently, a higher return on capital employed.
