Peter Hill Chief Executives review Overview Results Laird is a leader in the design, manufacture and Revenue from continuing operations in 2009 was supply of customised, performance critical products 528.8 million, down 17% 2008, 635.3 million.
and systems for wireless and other advanced Revenues in US Dollars declined 30% in the year.
We design, develop Compared to the first half, revenues in the second and supply the technology that allows people, half of 2009 were broadly at on those in the first half organisations and electronic devices to connect expressed in Sterling, but were up 8% in US Dollars.
effectively and ef ciently, locally and globally: we We saw good revenue growth in the second half of provide technology for a connected world.
the year in our Performance Materials and Wireless Systems divisions, while revenues in our Handset In 2009 we experienced a sustained upheaval in the Products division declined, compared with the first global economy, with its associated credit pressures, half of 2009. reductions in consumer spending and currency volatility, all of which impacted our global electronics We took swift and aggressive actions during the year markets.
We were also impacted by destocking in to reduce our cost base in response to the economic our global supply chain, the effect of market share downturn, exing direct labour costs, consolidating loss by certain key customers in their end user facilities and reducing direct overheads and Selling, markets, bankruptcy lings in the automotive sector, General & Administration SG&A costs, while and the loss of market share with a key customer largely maintaining our investment in engineering in our Handset Products division as they changed and research & development R&D.
Our objective their sourcing strategy.
Trading conditions were has been to protect pro tability during the downturn, challenging, and visibility of customer demand while retaining our capabilities and our ability to was limited and volatile.
respond rapidly to a market recovery.
Against that background, we rapidly implemented In 2009, we reduced our direct labour costs in an extensive programme of restructuring and cost US Dollars by 30% compared with 2008, in line reductions and strengthened our balance sheet, with the fall in revenues.
Total overheads in 2009, repositioning our business to operate successfully including direct overheads, SG&A costs and R&D, in the changed economic and market environment.
were $72 million 45.9 million lower than in 2008, We continued to invest in enhancing our technical as a result of the actions we had taken.
and operational capabilities, which has allowed us to increase our penetration with a number of key customers as well as expanding our customer base itself.
04 Laird PLC Laird is a leader in the design, manufacture and supply of customised, performance critical products and systems for wireless and other advanced electronic applications: Technology for a connected world.
Underlying operating pro t from continuing Statutory pro t before tax from continuing operations operations was 33.6 million in 2009, down 51% in 2009, after exceptional items, the amortisation 2008, 68.5 million.
Operating margin was 6.4%, of acquired intangibles, the gain or loss on the down from 10.8% in 2008.
However, the operating disposal of businesses and the fair valuing of financial pro t of 22.2 million in the second half of 2009 grew instruments, was 4.6 million 2008, 26.5 million.
strongly compared with the 11.4 million in the first half.
Underlying operating margin in the second half We focused strongly on cash generation in 2009, of the year was 8.5% 8.8% in the fourth quarter, reducing working capital signi cantly and curtailing compared well with the 4.3% in the first half.
Operating cash ow after capital expenditure from continuing operations was Underlying pro t before tax from continuing 49.7 million 2008, 48.1 million.
Cash conversion operations was 26.5 million in 2009, down 56% after capital expenditure was 148% 2008, 70%.
However, underlying pre tax pro t in the second half of 2009, at 18.9 million, was Net borrowings at 31 December 2009 were more than double the 7.6 million in the first half of 45.4 million 2008, 139.5 million, with the the year.
reduction due largely to the receipt of proceeds from the Rights Issue announced in October 2009 The restructuring actions taken, including headcount together with the strong cash conversion of pro ts.
reductions and the consolidation of manufacturing facilities, resulted in exceptional costs from continuing Underlying earnings per share from continuing operations of 10.2 million in the year, with a cash operations were 9.6 pence 2008, 23.8 pence, spend of 3.4 million.
There was an additional cash re ecting the lower pro ts and, as expected, a spend on exceptional items of 8.6 million in 2009, higher tax rate.
resulting from exceptional charges incurred in 2008.
Laird PLC 05 2009 REVENUE BY DESTINATION BY ORIGIN BY MARKET SEGMENT BY PRODUCT SEGMENT North America Asia North America Asia Handsets Consumer Mobile Antennae Actuation Mechanisms Europe RoW Europe IT Datacom Industrial & Telematics Non-handset EMI Instrumentation Wireless Modules Signal Integrity Transportation Other Other Antennae Thermal Handset Metals Other Strategic Development PC notebooks and netbooks are expected to be Laird has built or acquired a number of leading another area of growth, with Gartner projecting a positions in its core markets with a broad range CAGR of 21% a year, from 2009 to 2012, in unit of proprietary products and strong customer shipments, while mobile network infrastructure relationships.
We specialise in providing products spend is projected to be maintained, with growth in and solutions for our customers that allow their infrastructure for 3G, 3.5G and 4G LTE more than own electronic devices to operate ef ciently and offsetting a decline in 2G.
Other areas projected by iSuppli to show strong Through investment in technology leadership, we growth are LCD at screen displays 2009 2012 seek to strengthen our positions in our core markets, CAGR of 16% a year, and Machine to Machine to broaden our customer base, and to increase our M2M wireless modules 2009 2012 CAGR 44% penetration with our customers.
Strong growth is also projected in both from this investment in 2009 in terms of new wireless broadband and cellular wireless adoption customer and programme wins, with further gains across a broad range of consumer electronics expected in 2010 and 2011. including gaming devices, book readers, portable navigation devices, and broadband PC applications We continue to enhance our competitive edge with a CAGR in unit shipments of 23% a year.
by repositioning manufacturing, engineering and support functions to lower cost locations, while In the medium term we also believe that opportunities maintaining the highest levels of customer support.
exist in a number of new emerging growth markets, Approximately 90% of our revenues by manufactured where we currently have little presence but where origin in 2009 were from lower cost countries.
We we are now researching the opportunities for the seek to be the employer of choice in these locations, application of both our existing, and potential new, recognising that competition for labour will continue components and systems.
We believe that we are well positioned geographically, particularly in our ability to serve the growing Asian economies, and in markets with attractive fundamentals.
For example, a leading industry commentator, iSuppli, is projecting a compound annual growth rate CAGR of 9% a year, from 2009 to 2012, for mobile device unit shipments, with growth driven in product terms by smartphones and geographically in Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
They are also forecasting strong growth in embedded telematics, including satellite radio, with a CAGR of 24% a year from 2009 to 2012.
Laird PLC 07 OPERATING REVIEW Performance Materials Division The division designs and supplies a full range of EMI shielding materials, thermal management solutions and signal integrity products.
These provide critical protection for a wide range of electronic devices, allowing them to function and connect effectively, whether for voice or visual communication or for high quality data storage and transmission.
Our EMI shielding products isolate sensitive electronic components and apparatus from electromagnetic emissions, which can interfere with their operation and performance: our thermal management materials protect and improve a devices performance through the transfer of heat, while our ferrite-based signal integrity products remove and lter unwanted or harmful electromagnetic noise generated by active components.
Laird PLC 09 Performance Materials Division The division designs and supplies a full range of EMI shielding materials, thermal management solutions Year ended 2009 2008 and signal integrity products.
These provide critical 31 December H1 H2 Year protection for a wide range of electronic devices, m m m m allowing them to function and connect effectively, Revenue 86.3 95.6 181.9 190.9 whether for voice or visual communication or for high quality data storage and transmission.
Underlying operating pro t 4.8 14.2 19.0 23.1 Our EMI shielding products isolate sensitive electronic Return on sales 5.6% 14.9% 10.4% 12.1% components and apparatus from electromagnetic PERFORMANCE MATERIALS 2009 REVENUE emissions, which can interfere with their operation BY MARKET SEGMENT and performance: our thermal management materials protect and improve a devices performance through the transfer of heat, while our ferrite-based signal integrity products remove and lter unwanted or harmful electromagnetic noise generated by active components.
Divisional revenues decreased by 5% in 2009 to 181.9 million, with the year-on-year decline in revenues in US Dollars being 19%.
However, we saw an encouraging recovery in the second half of 2009, with divisional revenues up 21% in US Dollars IT Datacom Industrial Instrumentation compared with the first half.
Divisional revenues grew Transportation Other progressively quarter by quarter during the year.
Consumer The majority, 63%, of the divisional revenues in 2009 PERFORMANCE MATERIALS 2009 REVENUE BY PRODUCT SEGMENT were from EMI shielding materials, with 27% from our thermal management solutions and 10% from our signal integrity products.
By market segment, 52%, of the divisions revenues in 2009 were to the IT, telecommunications and datacom sectors, with the balance to the consumer electronics, industrial and instrumentation, medical, and aerospace and defence markets.
EMI Signal Integrity Thermal 10 Laird PLC We introduced a new range of cooling products, with 2009 was a record year for revenues from our thermoelectric assemblies offering a more compact thermal management product lines, despite the design and enhanced thermal module performance, overall economic downturn.
We bene tted from new as well as new thermally conductive printed circuit product introductions, and saw growth in revenues board products, initially for the LED lighting market.
into the telecom and datacom infrastructure markets and notebook PCs, as well as into the LED lighting, We also developed softer and thinner fabric over medical and aerospace sectors.
foam shielding materials, providing customers with a lighter and more versatile solution without any loss Revenues in our EMI product lines declined overall of performance.
Our new EMI Sentry family of compared with 2008.
From a low point in the second EMI form in place gaskets offers greater adhesion, quarter of 2009, we have seen progressive growth strength and reliability that is ideal for base stations during the second half, particularly into PC notebooks, and portable devices, as well as for the consumer telecom and datacom, portable location devices electronics industry more generally.
new EMI elastomer products were also introduced, underpinning our growth in the telecom and datacom Revenues in our signal integrity product lines fell infrastructure markets.
sharply in the first half of 2009 compared with 2008, as a result of excess industry capacity caused by The re-engineering of our signal integrity products reduced customer demand.
During the year we has resulted in the launch of new families of ferrite began to see the bene ts of a re-engineering of our cores, and chip beads for use with printed circuit product lines and we expanded and strengthened boards, and these have been instrumental in the our sales force for these products, regaining market recovery in revenues seen in the second half.
share and broadening our customer base, with the result that revenues in the second half of the year Operationally, we have continued the progressive grew strongly compared with the first half.
relocation of the majority of our remaining North American manufacturing in this division to Asia, and Underlying operating pro t in the division fell 18% in are also strengthening our design and engineering the year to 19.0 million 2008, 23.1 million, and capabilities in Asia, where the majority of the return on sales fell from 12.1% in 2008 to 10.4% in divisions customers are now located.
However, underlying operating pro t recovered well in the second half of 2009 compared with first The higher power, speed and performance of half, as a result of higher revenues and the bene t of electronic devices are expected to underpin demand cost reductions: return on sales in the second half for our Performance Materials divisions products.
increased to 14.9% compared with 5.6% in the We saw a recovery in both revenues and pro ts in first half.
this division in the second half of 2009, and have strengthened its capabilities and enhanced its We successfully launched a number of new products competitiveness.
We currently expect this recovery during 2009, resulting in market share gains, greater to continue into 2010. penetration at existing customers, and a broadening of the customer base.
Laird PLC 11 OPERATING REVIEW Handset Products Division We are a leading global supplier of customised, high performance products to the global mobile phone handset and handheld device manufacturers, enhancing connectivity, performance and physical functionality.
The divisions products include cellular and complementary Bluetooth, WiFi, FM, Zigbee and GPS antennae, board level EMI shielding BLS, environmental gaskets, mechanical actuation mechanisms such as sliders and camera shutters, audio modules, integrated sub-assemblies including SIM holders and contacts, and visual metals.
Laird PLC 13 Handset Products Division We are a leading global supplier of customised, high performance products to the global mobile Year ended 2009 2008 phone handset and handheld device manufacturers, 31 December H1 H2 Year enhancing connectivity, performance and physical m m m m functionality.
The divisions products include cellular Revenue 142.4 119.6 262.0 348.7 and complementary Bluetooth, WiFi, FM, Zigbee and GPS antennae, board level EMI shielding Underlying operating pro t 6.3 5.4 11.7 37.4 BLS, environmental gaskets, mechanical actuation mechanisms such as sliders and camera shutters, Return on sales 4.4% 4.5% 4.5% 10.7% audio modules, integrated sub-assemblies including SIM holders and contacts, and visual metals.
HANDSET PRODUCTS 2009 REVENUE BY PRODUCT SEGMENT Divisional revenues decreased 25% in 2009 to 262.0 million 2008, 348.7 million : in US Dollars, the year-on-year decline was 36%.
The majority, 63%, of divisional revenues in 2009 were cellular and complementary antennae products, with 19% from actuation mechanisms and 18% from handset metals, including BLS.
Revenues in the division in the second half of 2009 declined by 7% in US Dollars compared with the first half of the year.
Revenues in our antennae and handset metals product lines showed quarter on Antennae Handset Metals quarter growth in the fourth quarter, although this Actuation Mechanisms trend was not seen in actuation mechanisms, where fourth quarter revenues declined signi cantly.
As previously highlighted, we have lost market share in the actuation mechanisms and handset metals product lines as a result of a progressive shift in the sourcing policy of a major customer, in favour of large contract manufacturers.
In handset metals we have been successful in broadening our customer base, particularly in the smartphone segment.
These new revenues are largely offsetting the impact of the major customers change in sourcing policy.
14 Laird PLC We were very active in new product development In actuation mechanisms new programme awards during 2009, which will bene t us progressively in 2010 are, as expected, taking longer to come through, and 2011.
We successfully launched our Activv leading to a short term decline in overall revenues FM internal antennae, with strong interest from all from this product line.
Close to 8 million phones with this In our cellular and complementary antennae area, the technology were sold in 2009.
We also developed bene ts of increasing unit volumes during the second and offered to customers a full metal cover half of 2009 were offset by lower average selling prices, antenna, a collaboration across product lines that both as a result of changes in the product mix of uses the external cover of the phone as an antenna, antennae and customer price-downs.
However, we also enabling greater industrial design freedom and saw a temporary decline in our antennae market share improving antenna performance.
in the fourth quarter, as programmes on which we were We successfully launched our new laser directed single sourced in the ramp up phase were moved by a structuring antennae, a method of applying three major customer to being dual sourced.
dimensional antennae patterns onto a plastic We currently expect the revenue trends in our product carrier using an advanced laser system.
We also lines described above to continue into the first half broadened our product offering during the year with of 2010, before recovering in the second half.
the successful launch of our mobile broadband PC antennae products, and our first Long Term Evolution The divisions underlying operating pro t fell 69% in LTE, or 4G platforms.
the year to 11.7 million 2008, 37.4 million, and return on sales fell from 10.7% in 2008 to 4.5% Operationally, we have increased our own vertical in 2009. integration, offering greater exibility to customers while preserving margins and reducing inventory.
Our customers now include all of the top five global Our continuous improvement programmes have Original Equipment Manufacturers OEMs, and lowered our cost of quality and improved yields, we are winning increasing amounts of new business bene tting margins.
We closed our handset products from the emerging North American players in the manufacturing in Szombathely, Hungary, with smartphone segment.
We are also consolidating production successfully transferred to China and India.
our presence with Asian Original Design We have at the same time increased our design and Manufacturers ODMs and OEMs.
engineering facilities in Korea, China and Taiwan to best position us to serve our local customers.
We retain a strong technical and operational capability in handset metals including the emerging We expect 2010 to be a year of transition in this segment of visual metals and actuation mechanisms, division, with a rebalancing of revenues across a and are increasing our penetration with a number broader customer base, but with continuing bene ts of the top 5 OEMs as well as broadening our from the cost reduction actions we have taken.
In cellular and complementary antennae we believe, based on customer feedback, that we hold the industry technology leadership position.
A major OEM customer has con rmed to us that we hold this position with them, relative to their other suppliers.
Laird PLC 15 OPERATING REVIEW Wireless Systems Heading Division We design and supply a range of customised, high speci cation wireless antennae, and machine-to-machine M2M wireless modules, which can include micro-processors and embedded software, for the infrastructure, automotive and transportation, municipal, industrial and instrumentation, datacom, security, retail and asset management markets.
Lair Lair d PLC d PLC 17 17 Wireless Systems Division We design and supply a range of customised, high speci cation wireless antennae, and Year ended 2009 2008 machine-to-machine M2M wireless modules, 31 December H1 H2 Year which can include micro-processors and embedded m m m m software, for the infrastructure, automotive and Revenue 37.4 47.5 84.9 95.7 transportation, municipal, industrial and instrumentation, datacom, security, retail and Underlying operating pro t 0.3 2.6 2.9 8.0 asset management markets.
Return on sales 0.8% 5.5% 3.4% 8.4% Divisional revenues declined by 11% in 2009 to 84.9 million 2008, 95.7 million : in US Dollars, WIRELESS SYSTEMS 2009 REVENUE the year-on-year decline was 25%.
BY MARKET SEGMENT The majority, 57%, of the divisions revenues in 2009 were from telematics antennae and modules into the automotive market, with 34% of revenues from the infrastructure, datacom, security and asset management sectors, and 9% from sales of our wireless M2M modules.
Our telematics antennae product lines suffered particularly in the first half of 2009, as a result of the general downturn in the automotive industry which was ampli ed by the bankruptcy ling by two of the IT Datacom Other divisions major customers.
These bankruptcies were Transportation Automotive resolved and this, together with a more general recovery in the divisions markets, resulted in revenues WIRELESS SYSTEMS 2009 REVENUE BY PRODUCT SEGMENT in the second half of 2009, expressed in US Dollars, being up 38% compared with the first half.
Year-on-year, the division experienced a decline in revenues across virtually all its markets and product lines, although vehicular wireless and Land Mobile Radio revenues held up well and in automotive telematics we made the first signi cant penetration with the remaining customer in the US top 3 automotive OEMs.
"Telematics Wireless ""M2M"" modules Infrastructure and other antennae 18 Laird PLC We have introduced a number of new products We saw a strong recovery during the second half of during the year, providing greater penetration of 2009 in our automotive telematics, wireless modules existing customers as well as broadening the and WLAN antennae revenues, compared with the customer base."
In telematics, for example, we first half of the year.
We also won a number of new have developed a smart antennae solution which platforms with the top US and European car makers, combines cellular and GPS Satellite antennae, which will bene t us in 2011 and 2012. wireless modules and input output interfaces, all software controlled.
This is allowing us to expand We are developing our subsystems offering in considerably our telematics capabilities, beyond our telematics, with increasing business in the asset traditional satellite digital radio offering.
tracking, insurance, and credit market sectors.
We are integrating 802.11, Wireless LAN and Bluetooth into We also developed a dual band MIMO internal our telematics products, broadening the scope of the antennae family to enhance the latest generation of products and providing a greater range of options for Wireless LAN technology systems, the next generation our customers across various wireless protocols.
Stealth II GPS, and new Bluetooth antennae products.
We also introduced a new Land Mobile Although recovery in our infrastructure antennae Radio family for the China Public Safety market, for product lines in the second half of 2009 was more handheld and vehicular applications.
All of these muted, particularly in North America, overall we products should lead to new, additional revenue in saw a progressive growth in revenues through the 2010 and beyond.
third and fourth quarters of 2009, compared with the second quarter.
In addition, our development Operationally during the year, we closed down of various Bluetooth, Zigbee and proprietary radio manufacturing at our New Hampshire, USA facility applications is allowing us to expand our product and downsized manufacturing in Illinois, USA, with pro le into retail, meter reading and remote production being expanded in Malaysia and China.
Our focus on geographic Overheads across the division have been reduced, expansion, notably in Asia, began to produce results while design and engineering have been downsized during the second half of 2009, with further bene ts in North America and Europe and expanded in expected in 2010.
The divisions underlying operating pro t fell 64% in During 2009 we have been successfully re-engineering the year to 2.9 million 2008, 8.0 million.
Return the division, expanding our technology capabilities, on sales fell from 8.4% in 2008 to 3.4% in 2009, with product range and geographic presence, while the margin decline being caused primarily by the ensuring a more cost effective manufacturing base.
overall decline in revenues, as a result of customers We began to see a recovery in revenues in the reducing their car volume projections.
However, second half of 2009, and we have seen this continue underlying operating pro t recovered well in the into 2010. second half of 2009 2.6 million compared with the first half 0.3 million, as a result of higher revenues and the bene t of cost reductions: return on sales in the second half increased to 5.5% compared with 0.8% in the first half of the year.
Laird PLC 19 OPERATING REVIEW Technology and Innovation We add value to our customers not only by the characteristics of products that we sell, but also by our science, technology and engineering capabilities that we use across a broad range of disciplines, applications, products and geographies.
In our product development we establish and deliver on technology roadmaps, that ensure we are at the forefront of the technologies demanded by the market.
Our core areas of technical expertise include basic science, product engineering, prototyping, production engineering and process engineering.
These cover such diverse elds as heat transfer, electromagnetic interference prevention, signal propagation, acoustics, metal deposition and processing, polymer processing and semiconductor materials.
We support our customers through our global network of technology, engineering and prototyping centres, which can operate either independently or as an integrated whole, as the customer demands.
Despite the adverse economic environment, our investment in R&D in 2009 was 42.8 million before 11.1 million of capitalised development, compared with 39.0 million in 2008.
Expenditure was 8.1% of sales in 2009, up from 6.1% in 2008.
Innovation through Continuous Improvement The markets in which our products are used typically value and require continual reductions in size and weight, reducing cost while maintaining or improving performance.
We address these needs by our new product development activities as well as by our aggressive continuous improvement approach.
By taking a disciplined process approach to all stages of our operations, and implementing lean manufacturing A core capability in our Corporate Research Laboratory is principles, we are able to reduce waste and defects preparation and analysis of nano-scale particles such as and improve ef ciencies.
these bismuth telluride particles for thermoelectric applications.
20 Laird PLC TM For example, through the implementation of a three With our Activv FM Combo antennae, functions of dimensional plastic printing process we have FM radio, Bluetooth, GPS and WCDMA antennae signi cantly reduced the time required to make are combined into a single component, allowing prototype parts.
By localising the sources for many simpli cation of the design of signal reception raw materials and components, we have shortened and propagation for cellular phones and other our lead times, reduced our working capital, and handheld devices.
Through the development of an integrated processing system for metal products, Robust Intellectual Property Portfolio complicated precision multi-piece products are now Our sustained investment in R&D continues to add to made in a single production line, eliminating all our solid intellectual property position.
queuing of intermediate parts and reducing scrap and downtime.
We use a combination of trade secrets, patents and contractual arrangements in addition to relying Continued Development of our on copyright and trademark laws to protect our Technical Footprint intellectual property rights.
In 2009 we began a In 2009 we continued to develop our technical fundamental review of our patent portfolio from a footprint by expanding the capabilities and locations cost effectiveness perspective, retiring patents where of our engineering and prototyping resources.
We we have protection in another form or where our established a wireless radio design group in Bangalore, developments have progressed to newer technology.
India, based on the availability of skilled engineers As a result of this review we had 667 active patents there as well as to allow us to customise our product at the end of 2009, which includes 73 new patents for the Indian market.
Our thermal engineering granted in the year, down from 725 at the end of capabilities were broadened by the establishment 2008.
The number of patents pending increased to of broad thermal product engineering capabilities 708 at the end of 2009, 49% up on 2008, evidencing in China.
We expanded engineering, testing and our continued investment in R&D and a commitment prototyping capabilities in Korea for all of our handset to seek patent protection for our most valuable products, and established in Shenzhen a centre for intellectual property.
the development of visual metal products.
Corporate Research Laboratory Innovation in Technology and In our Corporate Research Laboratory in Bangalore, Product Convergence India, we accelerated our activities centred around Many of our customers need products that perform the development of materials with advanced physical multiple functions and look to us to integrate a number and electrical properties.
In 2009 we extended of components into integrated systems.
Advanced the number of projects under development to ten Telematics applications need highly integrated and these projects address critical needs in each solutions combining antennae, wireless modules, of our divisions.
Substantial intellectual property input output interfaces and ruggedised mechanical has been generated by this group in the two years design.
We are meeting these needs with Smart since it was formed.
Three new materials are in pilot Antennae, which combine our multi-functional scale trials and commercial launch stages, while antennae and ampli ers in innovative packages encouraging breakthroughs have been made in through the integrated design of these systems.
