Lamprells combined strengths of prudent Chief cost management and operational excellence has enabled us to deliver a solid revenue Executive performance set against a backdrop of Officers challenging operating conditions which are universally acknowledged to have been the Statement most difficult in a generation.
Nigel McCue, Chief Executive Officer As expected, 2009 proved to be a facets of our business been so important turbulent year for global markets.
Lamprells combined USD 426m financial crisis led to lower oil and gas strengths of prudent cost management Revenues prices, a severe, and continuing, and operational excellence has enabled disruption of the worldwide credit market us to deliver a solid revenue performance and overall economic uncertainty which set against a backdrop of challenging has led to lower capital investment by our operating conditions which are universally clients in all sectors of our business.
It is acknowledged to have been the most pleasing, therefore, under these difficult in a generation.
USD 28m circumstances, to be able to report a very Net profit solid annual performance for the Throughout the Companys history, the Company, with revenues of USD 426 quality of our project execution has million resulting in a net profit of USD 54 underpinned our longstanding client million, restated to USD 28 million after relationships and resulted in a significant one-off charges in respect of one, amount of repeat business, and we remain previously announced, project.
committed to achieving the highest standards of excellence for our customers.
It We have always sought to run our is the source of much pride that even against business conservatively without any the extremely volatile backdrop of the last 18 long-term debt.
Never before has the months we have been able to maintain our importance of a strong balance sheet and benchmark of engineering quality, delivering a rigorous approach to cost control in all projects on time and on budget.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 06 Business overview Throughout the Companys history, the quality of our project execution has underpinned our longstanding client relationships and resulted in a significant amount of repeat business, and we remain committed to achieving the highest standards of excellence for our customers.
In this regard, 2009 saw the completion Future Developments Governments recent offshore wind farm of projects that I believe reinforce our As previously reported, capital licensing round in January 2010 reputation for delivery as well as opening expenditure on the expansion of our new reinforced the international interest in the up opportunities with the potential for 250,000m facility in the Hamriyah Free offshore sector: the current constraint on significant growth for the Company in the Zone was phased in light of the prevailing liftboat capacity means we are well coming years.
Notwithstanding placed to capitalise on the construction this, we have already felt the benefit of the opportunities this presents.
Accordingly In our EPC business March and June additional capacity which the new yard this area represents a significant respectively saw the delivery of two harsh provides.
Despite the slowdown in the proportion of our bidding pipeline.
environment, self-propelled, self-elevating development of the facility earlier last liftboats, the Kraken and the Leviathan, to year, the quayside at the new facility has Our recently announced contract award Seajacks for use in the North Sea wind been in partial use since April 2009 when to design and construct two offshore well farm market.
The successful completion of the first jackup rig and since then the head platforms for an offshore gas field these significant contracts ideally positions facility has seen a further 13 rigs at the development in India represents a us to take advantage of forthcoming quayside.
In addition the Offshore successful step to secure more work in opportunities in the much publicised Freedom new build jackup was this sector.
expansion of the European, and completed and delivered at the quayside worldwide, offshore wind farm market.
We now look forward As outlined previously, the new build recent prestigious contract award for the to a number of rig upgrade and market for jack-up rigs continues to be construction of two highly sophisticated refurbishment projects being executed at constrained by existing capacity, new wind farm installation liftboats for Fred this facility in 2010. build rigs entering the market for the first Olsen Windcarrier AS in February 2010 time together with the ongoing impact of further underpins our confidence in The Company continues to pursue new budget cuts arising from the oil price this sector.
opportunities that the expanded site collapse eighteen months ago.
allows, such as those relating to the In April 2009 the new build LeTourneau construction and refurbishment of We previously reported that we Super 116E jackup drilling rig, Offshore semi-submersible drilling rigs, and anticipated seeing the regional rig Freedom, was delivered to Scorpion, on drillship refurbishment, supporting the refurbishment market dip in the light of time and on budget.
The construction of overall strategic and commercial the economic conditions and whilst we the second unit, Offshore Mischief, is on reasoning behind the Companys saw the level of rig activity exceed our schedule and on budget for delivery in decision to build greater capacity.
expectations, the level of expenditure the second quarter 2010. decreased, as expected, as a result of the Given the overall strengthening in the market conditions.
Both our Sharjah and We were also pleased to have resolved markets we have recently committed to a new Hamriyah facilities were busy the outstanding payment issue relating to further capital expenditure programme of throughout the year undertaking upgrade the tender assist drilling barge, BassDrill USD 25 million to complete the and refurbishment projects.
In total 33 Alpha, being built for BassDrill.
Lamprell development of the facility by early 2011. jackup rigs projects were undertaken, delivered its first new build tender assist This funding will provide for the including two jackups at our Sattahip drilling barge, BassDrill Alpha, in January completion of an 800 man office block, facility in Thailand.
The company received cash additional workshops, fabrication pads nine jackup rigs at our UAE facilities and payment of USD 55 million and 28 million and utility distribution infrastructure.
we look forward to a busy year in this shares in BassDrill, which represented area of our business.
We continue to 20% of the equity of BassDrill, equivalent Market Overview expand our services to clients who at the subscription price of USD 0.1786 The new build market for liftboats for require work to be undertaken outside of to USD 5 million and subject to an offshore wind turbine installation provides our own yards.
A case in point being option agreement.
Lamprell with an opportunity to establish Transocean who awarded Lamprell the itself as an early leader in a growing contract for the upgrade and market.
The success of the UK Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 07 We continue to expand our services to Chief clients who require work to be undertaken outside of our own yards.
Executive Officers Statement continued refurbishment of the Key Manhattan with confidence that both the jackup drilling unit.
This project was refurbishment and new build land rig undertaken in Croatia by Lamprell at the markets will recover in the region and will Nauta Lamjana shipyard.
The initial be attractive for Lamprell for some years contract value was USD 13.4 million and to come.
the work scope includes extensive steel renewals and associated painting works, The Board structural repairs to the cantilever and As previously advised, in March 2009, derrick, and the replacement of hull Jonathan Silver was appointed Nonpiping systems.
The work commenced Executive Chairman of the Board.
I took during September 2009 and was over as CEO from Peter Whitbread in May completed in March 2010. of 2009 and would like to thank Peter, who continued on the Board as the In the FPSO market, Saipem, one of Director of International Development, for Lamprells key customers, awarded a making the transition as smooth and USD 18.1 million contract for the efficient as possible.
Peter has decided to construction of six process modules, retire at the time of the AGM and I would pipe-rack sections and interconnecting like to take this opportunity to express my pipe spools for the Aquila Phase 2 FPSO further thanks for the enormous Project.
The modules will be constructed contribution he has made to the growth at our Jebel Ali facility and are scheduled and success of the Company over the to be completed in November 2010.
are presently seeing a slow recovery in this sector of our business which had Dividend seen a significant decline due to low The Board of Directors is recommending commodity prices and the effects of the a final dividend payment of 3.80 cents per global financial crisis.
ordinary share, with a Sterling equivalent of 2.55 pence per ordinary share.
This will Activities relating to land rigs have be payable, when approved, on 16 June continued and we were pleased to deliver 2010 to eligible shareholders on the four new build API 2000 HP fast moving register at 14 May 2010. land rigs during 2009.
In addition to the 3.80 cents new build projects we also successfully Outlook Dividend per ordinary share worked on a number of land rig Despite the challenging market backdrop, refurbishment and rotary equipment 2010 has started positively, as evidenced repair projects.
There have been a by the major contract awards announced number of land rigs which have been in the first quarter of the year.
We have a temporarily laid up during 2009, reflecting substantial order book extending into a lower oil price and the impact of the 2012 and this combined with our tender worldwide financial uncertainty, and the pipeline, development strategy and the period of this slow down in land rig ongoing expansion of our facilities activity extended further than we supports our confidence for future growth originally anticipated.
of the regional dynamics of the Middle Eastern market, we anticipate a recovery Whilst we are seeing positive signs and in land drilling activities in the Middle East evidence of improvements in our markets in 2010 and this provides management they currently continue to remain Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 08 Business overview We remain confident that our long-term prospects continue to be promising based upon our strong platform for growth.
With our shareholders in mind, it is therefore a priority for management to remain focussed on pro-actively managing the Companys cost base and ensuring first class project execution.
We remain confident that our long-term prospects continue to be promising based upon our strong platform for growth.
I would like to take this opportunity to express the thanks and appreciation of the Board of Directors, and my personal thanks, to all of our management and employees for their support and efforts throughout a challenging 2009.
In addition, I would finally like to thank our founder and President of the Company, Steven Lamprell, for his continuing support, which is very much appreciated.
Nigel McCue Chief Executive Officer Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 09
