Business Review Our market in 2009 E cosystems continually evolve.
As GDP fell across Europe in 2009, the European IT services market declined.
But some things remained unchanged: a close cultural affinity to clients combined with scale and global reach continue to matter in our industry.
Clients are looking for more outsourcing, better value and a global blend.
The growth of outsourcing was the most marked trend we saw in 2009.
Our market share in manufacturing.
Both were hit particularly Our market starts with our clients.
We go to hard in 2009 see pages 8 to 11 for Logicas Logicas top 50 clients market through industry sectors and have a split of revenue by sector.
Some regions as % of 2009 revenue strong client base which includes three of the are more exposed to these sectors, so they top 10 oil and gas companies, five of the top saw a steeper fall in IT spending.
Benelux, 10 utilities and six of the top 10 telecoms for example, saw the biggest decline among operators in Europe.
We also have a strong our European markets.
presence in our chosen domains in the public Over the longer term, we expect the sector in Europe see page 8.
Our top 50 amount spent on IT services to continue to Clients clients represent 42% of our revenue and grow, as clients move more work to service are an important contributor to our overall providers and use IT to cut costs.
economy returns to growth, IT services Top 50 clients: 42% Based on our 2008 revenue, we should also recover.
But this may take 2008: 32% maintained our market position in the until late 2010 and is likely to happen at European market and increased our market a different pace in different countries and share in a number of our Nordic countries.
Despite some weakening in the Netherlands Home | Online Annual report | Logica Home | Online Annual report | Logicas global website | Contact us | Legal | Useful links | HTML v s global website | Contact us | Legal | Useful links | HTML version ersion due to our exposure to the weaker sectors Market and client trends DELIVERING FOR SHAREHOLDERS of the market, we remained a top five player Our bigger clients tend to split their IT market clients in three of our four largest regions.
budget between hardware and technology, value and business services.
As we move to an sustainable DELIVERING FOR CLIENTS Market drivers increasingly cloud-based environment, our integrating reinvesting Analysts estimate that companies in the belief is that offering a service to integrate DELIVERING FOR OUR PEOPLE EMEA Europe, Middle East and Africa all these elements and our partnerships growth forward-looking region spend around 6% of their operating with other players in the client ecosystem expense opex on IT services.
In 2009, will become increasingly important.
In a more difficult For our clients, getting value from their economic environment, GDP declined IT investment means working with people and pushed our clients revenue and opex whose knowledge goes beyond technology.
In turn, absolute IT spend was revised They want suppliers who understand To hear more about market trends, go to: downwards.
The trend was more marked in their market environment and can help http: delivering.
com financial services and industry particularly manage risk.
