Chief Executives Review Dear Shareholders, 2.
Industry-wide supply challenges: The significant factors currently impacting the South Introduction African PGM industry are likely to continue into 2010.
Lonmin produced a satisfactory performance in 2009, despite some significant challenges and the completion PGM industry continues to be cash constrained of a major restructuring programme during the year.
South African mining inflation remains relatively high, Production at our core Marikana underground operations putting pressure on industry margins and capital was in line with 2008 levels and we achieved our revised investment.
Recent improvements in US dollar-based 2009 sales guidance by selling 682,955 ounces of PGM pricing have been largely offset by South Platinum.
African Rand strength, which has resulted in capital Whilst there is still some way to go before we achieve shortages and new projects being delayed.
Cash flow management remains a high priority in the industry.
our goal of fully restoring the operational health of the business, 2009 saw significant steps in achieving this Labour environment remains challenging objective, enabling us to provide guidance for 2010 sales The labour environment continues to be a significant of 700,000 Platinum ounces, implying a slight increase influence on the performance of producers, from both from 2009.
Whilst the increment is only modest, it is a a productivity and cost perspective.
Industry wage significant turning point.
Importantly, improving the settlements for 2010 have once again been above operational health of the business will also ensure that we inflation.
Lonmins negotiations take place late in the are well positioned to capitalise on the investments we year and, at the time of writing this report, we remain have made over recent years as we look to deliver further in discussions with our recognised unions on this growth into the robust market fundamentals we foresee matter.
Furthermore, the shortage of key skills in 2011 and beyond.
remains an issue for the mining industry in general.
Significant management actions taken: With these challenges in mind, Lonmin recognises At the end of 2008, we reacted swiftly to the global the importance of employee engagement strategies.
economic downturn, taking a number of significant Section 54 safety stoppages increasing in frequency actions.
We support the Department of Mineral Resources Non-value adding production eliminated increased focus on safety.
This focus was evidenced Firstly, we took an immediate decision to eliminate in 2009 by an increase in prevalence and severity non-value adding production.
We placed our of Section 54 safety stoppages throughout the uneconomic Baobab shaft at Limpopo on to care industry.
Lonmin lost over half a million tonnes of and maintenance for the foreseeable future.
We also ore production as a result of these stoppages during closed our opencast operations at Marikana, as well the 2009 financial year, representing some 30,000 Platinum ounces or 5% of total underground as rationalising certain areas of high cost production at the underground operations there.
These stoppages are likely to continue actions have removed around 75,000 Platinum in 2010 and beyond.
Our challenge is to improve on ounces from the market place.
our industry-leading safety record in order to reduce the impact of these stoppages on our operational Major cost restructuring programme completed and financial performance.
Alongside that exercise, we completed a major Producers who are able to deliver the strongest restructuring programme across our operations, with safety performances should benefit from fewer all personnel levels affected and around 20% of our interruptions and higher productivity.
Our safety total workforce leaving the business during the year.
performance remains strong and improved slightly This was a significant, but essential, exercise as we in 2009.
However, it was with regret that we reported right sized the organisation and reduced costs.
the death of three of our employees during the year.
Understandably the restructuring programme impacted employee morale and caused some Increasingly difficult and more complex geology disruption to production for a large part of the year.
The Bushveld Complex is a mature geological environment and mines in the area will continue Balance sheet strengthened to deepen over time, with many of the easier to We negotiated with our lending banks the re-financing access reserves becoming steadily depleted.
This of a significant portion of our debt facilities during the is expected to have a consequent impact on industry year, with the tenure of these facilities being extended costs, grades and recoveries in the future.
Lonmin beyond short term horizons.
In addition, we then is in the fortunate position of having access to successfully strengthened our balance sheet by relatively shallow reserves and resources.
raising $458 million through the completion of a Outlook for supply and cost of electricity remains Rights Issue in June.
Furthermore, we successfully negotiated the waiving of all EBITDA covenants uncertain relating to our debt facilities until September 2010.
Challenges in the supply and cost of electricity in South Africa remain.
Electricity pricing tariffs are Operational headquarters and executive management expected to increase by over 45% in 2010 and team relocated there will be similar power price increases in the In October 2009, we announced plans to relocate subsequent years.
In addition, there is a possibility our operational headquarters from London to that security of supply could again come under Johannesburg.
This will place executive management pressure in the medium term, adding to the supply in a single location close to our operations and will side challenges outlined above.
therefore enhance day-to-day management and communications.
It will also enable us to engage more effectively with our South African stakeholders.
06 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information Ian Farmer Chief Executive Officer 4.
Key Focus Areas for 2010 & beyond: Lonmin needs to be well prepared for the opportunity presented by the prospect of an improvement in the market environment.
As such, our focus in 2010 and beyond is on completing the restoration of the operational health of the business, growing our unit throughput and, through this, improving our position on the cost curve.
a Restoring operational health: In the Mining business, we have implemented several productivity improvement initiatives and cost-control programmes, as well as increasing our focus on employee relations.
We reorganised our senior operational management team to ensure a greater emphasis on long term operational health, with a specific focus on long term planning.
Our Process Division benefited Lonmin will be well placed to capitalise on the investment made from stability throughout the value chain, assisted in recent years as we deliver growth into the robust market by our increased investment in plant maintenance.
I am confident that we now have a strong fundamentals we foresee in 2011 and beyond.
management team in place across the business, supported by improving morale within the Ian Farmer business.
Further details on these initiatives can be found in the Operational Review.
b Delivering organic growth: We expect to deliver several years of steady growth from our core Marikana operations 3.
The possibility of a positive surprise in the PGM through production from our three new shafts, pricing: Saffy, Hossy and K4.
The majority of the capital The Rand PGM basket price throughout 2009 needed to initiate and ramp-up production at continued to squeeze industry profitability and cash these shafts has already been invested.
Capital flow, restricting capital investment.
If this continues, expenditure is now predominantly focused on ore further short term under-investment will be the natural body development to support the production consequence.
We therefore anticipate that supply ramp-up of these shafts.
will struggle to keep up with recovering demand from Short to medium term growth in mined production 2010 onwards and, as demand returns, there should from Saffy, Hossy and K4 be a recovery in PGM profit margins.
At Saffy shaft, we made good progress during the Short to medium term outlook for Platinum demand year in converting our mining method from fully Looking at Platinum specifically over the next few mechanised to hybrid mining.
There is still some work years, we expect demand to improve gradually to be done before this process is completed, but we in 2010.
This will be supported by a steady recovery achieved our target of 80,000 tonnes per month, up in the automotive and industrial sectors with the from 45,000 tonnes at the end of the 2008 financial market being in balance for the year.
In 2010, we expect Saffy to continue to ramp-up of investors in the Exchange-Traded Funds will towards its production capacity of 200,000 tonnes continue to influence short term price movements.
More details on the progress being made In early to mid 2011, we expect to see the start of at Saffy can be found in a case study on page 11 of a more significant upturn in demand, supported this report.
by increasing momentum in the automotive and A year ago, we took the decision to continue to industrial sectors followed by a more pronounced run Hossy shaft on a fully mechanised basis.
At that market rebound, with the market moving back time, we set a productivity target for Hossy for the into deficit.
end of the 2009 financial year of an average of 1,500 square metres per month per suite of equipment.
I Long term outlook for Platinum and PGM demand am delighted to say that this target was achieved in In the longer term, the future of PGM market September 2009, with the best performing suites at fundamentals remains strong, primarily as a result Hossy reaching productivity of around 1,800 square of the unique characteristics of PGMs and their metres per suite per month during that month.
This is underpinned Furthermore, the shaft achieved monthly production by the various emissions legislation being introduced of over 60,000 tonnes at that time, from 20,000 in the coming years to combat global climate change.
tonnes per month in September 2008.
Whilst this In addition, PGMs are expected to be critical in the performance does not yet make production costs application of fuel cell technology, which continues competitive with conventional mining methods, it is to advance in a number of sectors, including a encouraging to see what can be done once the growing number of commercial applications for appropriate degree of focus is applied.
The Platinum market, in we have taken the decision to continue with a fully particular, is also expected to be supported by mechanised mining method at Hossy for the continuing demand from the Asian jewellery market.
foreseeable future and we are now targeting to reach As a result of these factors, we firmly believe that the 2,200 square metres per suite of equipment per Platinum and other Platinum group metal markets month by September 2011. continue to be structurally compelling over time.
com 07 Chief Executives Review continued The development of K4 remains on track and we 5.
Outlook Our Marikana operations remain at the heart of the anticipate initial production will take place in the first half of the 2012 financial year, although development Lonmin business and our focus remains on improving ounces will be produced in 2011.
By the time K4 safety, reducing costs and growing production, ramps up to full production of around 225,000 tonnes through delivery of profitable ounces, from what is per month, we expect these three shafts will be a high quality, sizeable ore body.
In this regard it is contributing over 50% of our total underground pleasing to see a reported 20% increase in our production at Marikana.
resource base at Marikana, more detail on which can This organic growth from our Mining business be found on pages 16 and 17 of this Report.
will be supplemented by a number of projects at our We anticipate Marikana mined production will Marikana property, from which we expect to deliver increase in 2010, more than offsetting the reduction in opencast tonnes and ounces from Pandora, as these further value.
This includes the extraction of chrome from our mined production and the re-treatment of pits are now closed.
This should allow metals in tailings following the processing of this chrome.
concentrate production to increase by around 5% and, as a result, we expect to achieve 2010 sales of around Medium term requirement to increase smelting 700,000 Platinum ounces, slightly ahead of 2009. capacity and reduce risk To support this growth, we anticipate that capital It is crucial that the growth in mined production expenditure for the 2010 financial year will be up to is supported by processing capacity and reliability, $270 million.
This will predominantly be focused on particularly at our smelting facility.
Saffy and Hossy, as well as on declines in our two From a reliability perspective, we experienced largest conventional shafts and the continued a matte run-out at the Number One furnace in June development of K4.
We will of course continue to 2009, following which we acted quickly to mitigate maintain a balance between the investment the impact on production.
Our knowledge of the requirements of the business and the imperative of workings of the furnace has improved as a result of maintaining a strong balance sheet.
the incident and we have a highly competent team Beyond 2010, the ramp-up of the three newer running it.
Smelting will always be a high risk aspect shafts will more than offset the decline in production of our industry, however, we are confident that we will from some of our smaller shallower shafts which are be able to improve further our management of this expected to come to the end of their lives over the unit in the future and therefore improve the vessels next few years.
As a result, we expect to steadily reliability.
grow metal in concentrate production from our From a capacity perspective, our Number One Marikana operations and the Pandora joint venture and Pyromet furnaces have the requisite capacity so that by 2013 we expect to deliver sustained, to support current and medium term levels of profitable production of around 850,000 ounces of production.
However, taking into account our longer Platinum per annum.
This will be supported by capital term growth ambitions, and the need to mitigate the expenditure of between $300 million and $350 million risk of Smelter disruptions, we anticipate a per annum from 2011.
This anticipated production requirement for increased Smelter capacity in the growth and capital investment is of course subject to coming years.
We have therefore started to market conditions, and our planning in this regard will investigate options for additional backup capacity.
be regularly reviewed by management, as market circumstances unfold.
c Improving our position on the cost curve Our growth projects at Akanani and Limpopo give The focus on restoring the operational health of us longer term growth optionality to supplement the the business and delivering organic growth is short to medium term growth to be delivered from our critical to improving our position on the industry core operations at Marikana.
Achieving this growth, supported by the Actions taken to support this included the restoration of the operational health of the business, completion of a major restructuring programme is a significant challenge but one which will restore at our operations, through which we anticipated the markets view of Lonmin as the quality asset in $90 million of annualised cost savings.
In January we will commence the process the second half of 2009 we estimate that we of consolidating the executive team in Johannesburg, actually saved $64 million and so we are well thereby enhancing day-to-day management and on our way to beating this target.
This helped communication within the business.
us to report Rand gross operating costs below our initial, as well as our revised and more Employees contribution challenging, cost guidance target communicated We cannot achieve our short term and long term goals during the year.
without the support of our employees, contractors and In addition we have implemented a number of community members.
2009 has been a very challenging productivity improvement programmes and costyear especially given the disruptive impact of the cutting initiatives across the business to ensure restructuring programme.
I would like to thank everybody that our position on the cost curve continues to for their contribution, support, and hard work during move in the right direction.
Details on these the year.
initiatives are outlined in the Operational Review.
The continued inflationary environment in South Africa, including an anticipated increase in real wages for the majority of our workforce, means that strict cost control allied to growth in productivity is paramount next year.
In 2010, we are targeting to manage the increase in South Ian Farmer African Rand gross operating costs to be below Chief Executive Officer local inflation.
13 November 2009 08 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Case Study: 1B Shaft By September 2009, no Lost Time Injuries for over two years Hendrik Swanepoel Mine Overseer, 1B Shaft At 1B Shaft, which produced around 325,000 tonnes in the 2009 financial year, we have maintained our strong safety record through disciplined planning of the mining cycle of drilling, bolting, blasting and cleaning.
This is supported by regular, open communication between shaft management and crew members at the start of each shift, we have a changeover meeting between day and night shift management teams, followed by a meeting with each crew, which includes a discussion of relevant safety issues.
We also maintain a high quality of mining, through consistent cleaning and generally good housekeeping underground, which helps our crew members to remain well prepared and focussed on the task in hand.
As a consequence of all these factors, our 14 man crews are settled, stable and extremely well organised, and each crew member is acutely aware of their role and daily responsibilities.
This guarantees the close-knit teamwork necessary to maintain a controlled, organised and, ultimately, safe mining environment.
SAFE MINING PRACTICES ARE INGRAINED IN LONMINS CULTURE Hendrik Swanepoel www.
