Overview McBride has delivered good growth in sales and profits in the past Chief Executives review year and Private Label has grown share in all our markets.
Organic growth for the year was 4% and return on capital employed improved from 12.8% to 17.1%.
As a result of the actions taken to further raise efficiency, improve the mix of business and strengthen commercial operations, margins across the whole Group have improved.
Operating cash flow was very strong resulting in a reduction in net debt from 103.3 million to 82.4 million.
Steps have been taken to further strengthen the business in terms of increased product development resources, better ways of working, focusing capital expenditure on efficiency projects and the integration and reconfiguration of the new factory in St Helens.
Improvements have been made in the ways in which the Group deals with both customers and suppliers, which will increase business resilience in the future.
The industry, market and competitive environment The European economies have been in sharp recession during the past 12 months: latest forecasts for 2009 show the UK economy down 4.3% and the Euro-zone down 4.8%.
Despite this bleak macro-economic environment the Household cleaning market is up 3% in the UK, 2% in Italy but fell by 1% and 2% respectively in Germany and France.
By contrast, the Private Label sector outperformed the overall market in all countries, growing by over 5% in the UK and Italy, 1% in France and stable in Germany.
In the UK and Italian markets, Private Label growth has been four times higher than branded sales growth.
In the current economic period consumers are more value conscious than ever and are increasingly choosing Private Label products for their superior quality price performance.
Miles W Roberts Watermint hand and bodywash These attractively fragranced hand Chief Executive and body gels are recent additions to the Marks & Spencer range of toiletries.
McBride plc Directors report 08 Annual report and accounts 2009 Chief Executives review The industry is highly competitive and McBride is the leading In Western Europe, the Household and Personal Care markets had provider of Private Label products.
Competition represents a small a combined value of 59 billion at retail selling prices in 2008 and number of major multinational branded companies and a large they grew at 1.0% and 3.0% per annum respectively in the five years number of small and generally local Private Label companies.
In Italy the Household market grew by 2% but McBride differentiates itself mainly through its dedication to the Private Label grew by 6%.
This pattern was reflected in other Private Label sector: New Product Development, customer service, markets too: in France the market was down 2% but Private Label operational efficiency and procurement capabilities enable the was up 1%, and in Germany Private Label was flat in a market which Group to deliver outstanding value products to its customers and was down 2% in value.
ultimate consumers and investments in these important areas have been increased.
Eastern Europe has continued to show higher growth levels in both the Household and Personal Care markets, which had a combined In the last year Private Label has gained market share in all McBrides market value in 2008 of 16 billion at retail selling prices.
This is partly due to the overall economic environment five years to the end of 2008, these markets grew at 13% per annum, in which consumers are increasingly careful to choose products reflecting increasing disposable incomes and consumer affluence which represent the best value for money.
However, it is also due and greater product availability driven by retail consolidation.
to consolidation in the retail sector and the increasing focus of Source of market data: Euromonitor, GfK, TNS and IRI.
major retailers on differentiating their own market position through their Private Label propositions.
The share gain for Private Label has been achieved despite intense competition from the leading brand manufacturers.
Our growth strategy What we said What we did Growth We expect major retailers to grow by 10% per annum Organic growth 4%, total growth 13% Superior growth is forecast in ECE compared to WCE Core product categories growth 18% We will drive growth in priority categories and geographies ECC organic growth 9% excluding contract manufacturing Reduced dependency on top 10 customers 57% down from 59% Efficiency We will step up our focus on restructuring Restructuring and efficiency initiatives: and efficiency initiatives Closure of Coventry and Warrington factories Scale We continue to focus on building scale positions in our Customer service level up from 96% to 97% Successful mitigation of raw material costs priority product and geographic markets We will continue to mitigate the volatility in input costs Improvements in energy and water efficiencies through purchasing strategy, value engineering and selling price increases Innovation We will continue to focus on product development Continued investment in NPD R&D spend up 12% to 6.6 million Focus on high value and eco-friendly products People Introduced new talent management process High performance leadership and culture Strengthened Group Management Team Employee morale up by 4% measured in survey Financial results Further progress Adjusted diluted EPS up from 8.6 pence to 12.8 pence ROCE up from 12.8% to 17.1% Net debt down from 103.3 million to 82.4 million McBride plc Directors report 09 Annual report and accounts 2009 Chief Executives review The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Contents Overall, expenditure on R&D increased by 12% in the year, reflecting Chief Executives review a commitment to differentiate McBride to its customers in this vital area.
A range of environmentally friendly products has also been continued launched in the year, including liquids which wash at low temperatures and more concentrated formats which use proportionately less packaging.
McBrides goal throughout is to develop new products which match or exceed the performance of the major brands.
Customer service Customer service is the Groups main operational priority and a highly visible benchmark that influences directly its ability to maintain commercial leadership and support the Groups overall Business performance growth strategy.
Success is measured in this area by reference to success in delivering products ordered by customers in the correct Geographic and product performance McBrides organic growth was 4% in the year.
Sales of the Groups volumes and within agreed timescales, which can be as short as 24 hours.
The customer service level across the Group in the year established strategic priority categories, Personal Care, specialist cleaners, laundry liquids, air care and automatic dishwashing tablets, was 97% 2008: 96%, although the goal is to strive for customer service levels in excess of 98%.
continued to see stronger than average organic growth of 7%.
Efficiency gains Personal Care sales were up 14%, which represents 8% organic revenue growth in the year, continuing the trends of recent years.
During the year, the Group continued to make incremental gains from improved efficiencies, for example automation of In the UK, sales were up 10% although margins were lower mainly due to the cost of commissioning the new St Helens factory.
Over 20 million was invested in capital expenditure of which the majority was focused on efficiency Performance benefited from some key new customer wins and an expansion into more premium product segments.
The new facility in St Helens was fully integrated, incorporating the production from facilities in Coventry and Household product sales were up 13%, which represents 3% Warrington.
This resulted in the closure of these two factories, delivering overhead savings of approximately 1 million per annum organic growth, reflecting the lower emphasis given to non-core product categories.
During the second half of the year, a number from the latter part of the year.
of new contracts have been gained based on our improved competitive position.
Overhead costs were rationalised by re-engineering of central administrative functions and this is expected to continue as the New product development Group invests to harmonise computer systems and IT infrastructure in the current financial year.
McBride prides itself on the speed and quality of its New Product Development activities, focused on our core product categories.
In the last year ranges of super concentrated liquids and sachets were launched in both laundry and dishwashing categories and two major range enhancements were developed for Personal Care customers.
Yplon anti-calc tablets The Yplon range of anti-calc tablets is becoming increasingly popular throughout Eastern Europe.
Group key performance indicator Customer service level 97% 2008: 96% McBride plc Directors report 10 Annual report and accounts 2009 Chief Executives review Value engineering Deliver improvements in efficiency and reduction in costs Value engineering is a permanent feature of our product A number of programmes to improve efficiency and reduce costs development activities and is consistent with our commitment were implemented, including the UK manufacturing reconfiguration to minimise our impact on the environment.
During the year, we referred to above.
Two sites have been closed and the introduction increased our investment in this area, which, for example, enabled of new operating processes based on Lean principles has been us to continue to reduce costs through product reformulation and commenced.
The installation of over 5,000 solar panels on the lightweighting of product containers.
roof of the Ieper factory has contributed to a reduction in energy consumption of 6%.
Procurement Our procurement activities have been strengthened and Target our identified growth product categories significantly contributed to the Groups performance during The Groups growth product categories are automatic dishwashing the year.
Alternative suppliers have been sought for all critical tablets, specialist cleaners, laundry liquids, air care and Personal materials to ensure that there is more than one source for each.
Care that delivered a combined 7% organic revenue growth compared to 4% in organic revenue for the whole Group.
Sustainability and Safety Progress has been made on key environmental measures in the year.
Further improve performance in Western Continental Europe Energy usage is down 6% and energy used per tonne of product is The Western Continental Europe business has improved its down 1%.
Factory waste increased profitability in the year by a combination of efficiency gains and slightly to 1.3% including the adverse impact of closing two factories price increases to partially mitigate cost pressures.
Operating and commissioning a new one.
Accident levels reduced by 22% and margin was 4.4%, close to the Group average.
the frequency per 100,000 hours worked reduced to 1.4, the lowest level since records were kept.
Accelerate growth in Eastern Continental Europe Although McBrides Eastern Continental Europe sales were only up Performance against objectives 3% and declined by 4% on a constant currency basis, it was heavily Two years ago, a number of key objectives were established and affected by the termination of a major sub-contracting contract the report below summarises the progress made against these during the year.
Excluding this impact organic growth was 9%.
Managing Director has been recruited recently for the region and the Group remains confident of significant further growth in the Improve customer partnership and service, category forthcoming year.
development and product innovation Notwithstanding the cost pressures, resources in this area have been increased by 12 people during the year.
The environmental impact of the Groups products has been reduced through eliminating the use of certain ingredients, such as phosphates, and reducing packaging by, for example, the use of refill sachets and lightweighting of product containers.
New comprehensive Personal Care ranges have been developed for two major customers and new discount products developed for many customers to support the growth of Private Label in the current economic environment.
The development of new products and the improvement of existing products are core planks of the Groups commercial strategy to drive the Private Label segments of its markets.
Surcare McBride has recently relaunched its Surcare range including a new concentrated laundry liquid format.
McBride plc Directors report 11 Annual report and accounts 2009 Chief Executives review The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Contents Take advantage of further suitable acquisition opportunities Chief Executives review During the year the Group continued to consider acquisitions that are consistent with its product and geographic priorities.
continued The St Helens facility, acquired in 2008, has been fully integrated into the Group.
Other targets have not yet been realised other than the capital expenditure in 2009 to acquire the soluble sachet manufacturing equipment from Budelpack in Holland.
Resources on this important area have been increased during the year.
People At the start of the year Colin McIntyre was appointed as Managing Director for the UK Division, following a valuable period in the Western Continental European management team.
The senior In the last year Private Label management team in Europe was strengthened later in the year by the recruitment of two new Managing Directors for the Western has gained market share in all European and Eastern European divisions, Andrea Barbier and McBrides core markets.
This is Greg Krol both of whom have blue chip backgrounds.
partly due to the overall economic Once again significant demands were placed on most of the Groups employees during the year and they have risen to the environment in which consumers challenges set.
People development practices have been further improved by establishing common systems for appraisals and are increasingly careful to choose talent development, by defining core competencies and by working products which represent the best hard on communication.
This is based on a strong culture of openness, ambition, communication and teamwork which ensures value for money.
However, it is also that all the Groups employees are aligned and engaged with the Groups objectives.
due to consolidation in the retail sector and the increasing focus of Objectives for the current year The main objective for the current year is to continue to strengthen major retailers on differentiating the McBride business model and the returns to shareholders.
This will be done inter alia by: their own market position through Improving and investing more in New Product Development their Private Label propositions.
processes for our key growth categories.
Targeting improved customer service levels to ensure the needs of customers are met and to emphasise the difference between McBride and its Private Label competitors.
Improving efficiencies by introducing standard operating procedures across the whole Group and further asset rationalisation.
Seeking suitable acquisition opportunities to enhance further the Groups earnings growth and geographical scope.
Investing further in the growth regions and categories to leverage further our capability and to support the major international retailers.
Lime Lite descalers Stain absorber The Lime Lite range of lime The combination stain absorber descalers further reinforces with anti-calc recently launched the Groups position in the in Italy is a new product format speciality cleaners sector.
McBride plc Directors report 12 Annual report and accounts 2009 Chief Executives review
