As a global active investment manager, we help institutions and individuals meet their financial goals and prepare for the future.
As the world changes, so do our clients needs.
Thats why we have along history of adapting to suit the times and keeping our focus onwhat matters most to our clients.
From pension funds and insurance companies to individuals, we workwith a range of clients whose needs are as diverse as they are.
We are undoubtedly at an important crossroads for the asset management industry.
There are significant shifts in market dynamics, product demand and technology.
So, in this world of variety and change, is it possible to deliver superior outcomes, tailored to meet individual client needs?
Its what matters most to us knowing and understanding our clients and their financial needs, and responding with relevant, actively-managed solutions that help them realise their financialgoals.
It matters because not only does it provide future prosperity for ourclients, but it also allows us to deliver consistent, sustainable earnings for ourshareholders.
And that matters for the success of our business, our employees andthe communities in which we operate.
2 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report 1.4 1.5 1.4 1.2 1.0 392 325 229 163 182 3.5 3.2 2.8 2.5 2.3 A strong financial position matters, because focusing on the long term matters most What makes us different is our long-term approach, whetherits investing in the future growth of the business, developing talent or building client relationships.
This long-term perspective comes from our ownership structureand strong capital base.
It means we can remain focused on our strategy and take advantage of opportunities inany market environment.
We believe in the long-term benefits of active management for our clients.
As responsible stewards of their capital, we can also deliver long-term benefits for society.
These are responsibilities we take very seriously.
Read more in the business and financial review starting on page 20.
Total equity bn Seed capital and capital Regulatory surplus capital bn co-invested m 3.5bn 392m 1.4bn 2016: 3.2bn 2016: 325m 2016: 1.5bn 1.5 4 400 3 300 1.0 2 200 0.5 1 100 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 3 9.6 1.1 13.0 24.8 7.9 Building strong relationships matters, because being a trusted partner to our clients matters most We build close, lasting relationships with our clients, which give us an in-depth understanding of their financial needs.
By combining this deep understanding with comprehensive, data-driven market intelligence, we are able to build a clear picture of future trends and client demand.
We use these insights to identify and build tailored solutions from our broad range of investment strategies or to develop a bespoke approach.
Rather than taking a traditional view of asset classes, we have established arange of strategic capabilities which span the investment universe and provide outcomes that are suited to our clients across market cycles.
Read about our strategic capabilities in the market and opportunities section on page 12.
Net new business bn Assets under management and administration bn 9.6bn 447.0bn 2016: 1.1bn 2016: 395.3bn 25 500 20 400 15 300 10 200 5 100 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 4 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Diversification matters, because building a stable, growing business matters most We are a global business, managed locally.
Our diverse workforce, based across six continents, means we understand what matters toourclients, wherever they are in the world.
On behalf of our clients, we invest in a broad range of asset classes acrossequities, fixed income, multi-asset, private assets and alternatives, aswellasoffering a range of wealth management services.
We have a long history of providing solutions for people and institutions around the world that help them meet their financial goals.
Our diversified business model allows us to build a robust, dynamic businessthat benefits our clients, our shareholders, our people and the communitiesinwhich we operate.
Read more about employee diversity in the people section on page 28.
Assets under management and administration 447.0bn Clients Asset classes Geographies Institutional 57% Equities 40% UK 41% Intermediary 30% Multi-asset 22% Asia Pacic 23% Wealth Management 13% Fixed Income 17% Europe, Middle East and Africa 22% Private Assets & Alternatives 8% Americas 14% Wealth Management 13% Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 5 Schroders at a glance A clear view of our business We have built an active investment management business with broad capabilities, specialist knowledge and deep experience.
We are structured to ensure we consistently deliver globally but always retain the flexibility to meet local needs.
This means that we can help our clients achieve their financial ambitions whatever priorities they have and wherever they are in the world.
Read more about how our business creates value in our business model on page 18.
Asset Management Wealth Management We focus on providing investment management services to As a long-established wealth manager institutions and clients introduced by intermediaries throughout the with a focus on preserving and growing client life cycle.
our clients wealth, we provide a full range of wealth management services.
We manage segregated accounts and pooled vehicles for a range ofinstitutions including local authorities, pension schemes, insurance We offer bespoke, discretionary and companies and sovereign wealth funds.
We also manage assets for advisory investment services to private clients introduced to us by a variety of intermediaries including individuals, family offices, trusts, financial advisers, private wealth managers and online platforms.
We gather the best talent and create specialist teams as well as Our Cazenove Capital business offers encouraging individual thinking.
Our 41 investment teams in 19 discretionary fund management to global locations actively manage investments across a broad range external advisers and their clients.
We are ofasset classes including equities, fixed income, multi-asset, private a leading charity fund manager in the UK.
This gives our clients a unique lens on the Our Benchmark Capital business also investment world and allows us to channel our investors insights into provides technology-led regulatory and the right outcomes for our clients needs.
administrative services for a network of independent financial advisers as well as Our client service teams build lasting relationships with current providing platform services.
This enables us to develop aclear view of our clients financial objectives and how these will We are a leader in wealth management in evolveand adapt.
the UK and have a strong presence in the Channel Islands and Switzerland.
The combination of these client relationships, market insights and awide range of investment capabilities allows us to design bespoke products and services.
We bring together individuals from across the business who are dedicated to understanding what our clients need to help them meet their financial goals.
These solutions are designed to tailor fit our clients and are rigorously tested to ensure that they are fit for purpose.
Contribution to the Contribution to the Groupsnet income Groups netincome 1,757.9m 273.3m Infrastructure Our infrastructure functions provide critical services that support the business operations and include capabilities across Technology, Operations, Finance, Risk, Human Resources, Compliance, Legal, Governance, Internal Audit and Tax.
Group The overall governance and corporate management of the Group is supported by the Chairman, Group Chief Executive andChiefFinancial Officer as well as employees involved in corporate development and strategy, and the management  capital and liquidity.
6 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Strategic report Our people matter Our ongoing success is driven by our people.
Diversity of thought is in our heritage and we encourage our people to think differently and to innovate, but with a clear focus on developing our business for the benefit of both our clients and our shareholders.
Our culture of collaboration means that each time we work with a client, we provide access to the expertise and energy of the entire firm.
Read more about how we develop and retain a diverse pool of talent on page 28.
Global talent, local focus Our footprint We are a global business that is managed locally.
Our teams are based We have more than 4,600 employees who are around the world, close to our clients and to the markets in which we central to our ongoing success.
This enables us to understand our clients needs and deliver targeted outcomes.
For over two centuries we have grown and developed our expertise to find solutions that meet our clients goals.
Employees by geography A culture of innovation We are known for our ability to challenge conventional thinking and anticipate what lies ahead.
We have a long history of innovation, actively seeking better ways to deliver value for our clients.
Developing a deep pool of thought leaders We seek out talented people who can understand and embrace different perspectives.
Crucial to our continued success is the development and retention of people who can meet our clients needs.
Employee opinion survey 2017 94% 90% 93% proud to be recommend believe Schroders associated with Schroders as a behaves UK 54% Asia Pacic 20% Schroders good place to responsibly Europe, Middle East and Africa 18% work towards its Americas 8% clients Global view of our people 4,619 people 29 countries Our values We strive for We work with We have Excellence Innovation Passion Being good at what we do is a We challenge how things are done Were realistic about what we can achieve, powerfulway to create value for our andanticipate future opportunities.
but were ambitious too and approach clients and secure a long-term future everything we do with energy and drive.
Integrity Delivering value for our clients takes collaboration and a healthy respect for Openness and responsibility fuel our individual skills.
long-term client relationships and consistently delivering on our promises sets us apart.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 7
