At a glance Creating the worlds greatest food community Restaurant Partners Customers Our network starts here.
Greater convenience, choice and increasingly, quality Oursuccess is linked to the breadth and depth of the ofservice has resulted in Customers embracing delivered cuisine we offer as well as the commitment and coverage food as a feature of their daily lives.
Of our key 1834 year-old Customers, the largest single Restaurants will want to join the platform if they feel group are young families who typically place orders of itwillcreate value for their businesses both topline highervalue.
Our scale, technology and marketing programmes all contribute tothat valuecreation.
Number of restaurants Number of Active Customers attheendof2017 attheendof2017 82,300 20% 21.5m 22% The Customer journey Delivery method Choose restaurant Customers can then make Once processed through anOrderpad, the Customer aninformed choice byreading Customer receives a notification when the delivery is on its way, reviews andexamining the menu.
Once placed, unless they have chosen tocollecttheir order.
details oftheorder are sent tothe restaurant via our proprietary technology.
Postcode Payment method The Just Eat apps and The Customer can choose websites enable Customers either topay securely to search forrestaurants online or by cash.
The on our network in their Customer receives a neighbourhood using a notification oncethe variety of criteria, such restaurant has accepted asbycuisine choice and the order.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 4 Strategic report Why invest in Just Eat?
Large and growing market Ongoing technology innovation Read more about the marketplace in Known and loved brands Low average market penetration which weoperate on pages16 and 17 Scale drives leverage and Sustainable double-digit growth  Highly cash-generative Strong operational execution operatingmodel Our global coverage Norway Denmark UK Canada Ireland Switzerland France Mexico Spain Italy Brazil Australia Profitable territory Investment territory No presence New Zealand Outside of the UK and Australia & New Zealand, our segments are: The Groups associate in Latin America, iFood, Established Markets Developing Markets alsohas a presence in Colombia and Argentina.
Canada Ireland Italy Inaddition, our Canadian business, SkipTheDishes Denmark Norway Mexico has a smalloperation in the USA.
com 5 Delivering more food choice for our Customers Annual Report & Accounts 2017 6 Strategic report People love takeaway food.
We offer avast choice of restaurants and cuisines, and a convenient and easy touse digital platform.
Just Eat has built its business by having the widest choice of traditional foods available on our platforms, from great local restaurants, imaginative pop-ups and renowned international branded chains.
This exciting variety is what continues to drive Customer loyalty.
13,800 Net restaurants added during the year Over 100 Number of different cuisine types available onJust Eat www.
