Strategic Report THE YEAR IN BRIEF A year of robust delivery Including the acres of development land at Littlebrook, Dartford, we made acquisitions January Achieved practical completion during.
In doing so we have diversified of the forward funded development at Knottingley, the portfolio by geography and Customer and pre-let to TJX UK trading as T. K. Maxx February ensured that the quality of what we had is not Acquired a forward funded investment in a new diluted, but enhanced.
Our average acquisition distribution centre in Didcot, Oxfordshire for.
m, yield and WAULT have been protected, as has the pre-let to Hachette UK Ltd quality of new additions.
July July Achieved practical completion Achieved practical completion of the eighth forward funded of the seventh forward development at Didcot, funded development at Oxfordshire pre-let to Hachette Wolverhampton, pre-let to UK Ltd Gestamp Tallent Ltd September Aubrey Adams was appointed as a Non-Executive Director July September and became a member of the Exchanged conditional Acquired the Royal Mail Audit Committee contracts to purchase a distribution facility atacre prime development Atherstone, Warwickshire, site at Littlebrook, Dartford, for.
bn Euro Medium Term Note Programme EMTN to be November November listed on the ISE, Credit Rating, Acquired the Harlow logistics Acquired a regional distribution Publication of a Base Listing Hub at Harlow, let to Wincanton centre for.
 m at Carlisle Particulars and announced Holdings Ltd and Industrial Tool Lake District Airport, Cumbria, credit rating by Moodys of Baa Services ITS for.
m let to Stobart Group Limited December repayment of the existing m December the facility has been extended Priced m of senior secured syndicated facility Agreed terms to extend from July to July unsecured notes under the EMTN and two bilateral facilities with the maturity on its existing Programme and announced a Landesbank Hessen-Thringen.
m loan facility with new unsecured m revolving Girozentrale Helaba totalling Helaba.
Secured on the Ocado credit facility.
m distribution warehouse at Erith: Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
p. p m March March April May Agreed a new fixed-rate, Declared an interim dividend Declared an interim dividend Raised gross proceeds ofyear term loan facility of.
 p per share, in respect of m through the issue of of m with PGIM Real respect of the three months the three months to March, , shares at a price Estate Finance to December  of p per share.
p July Declared an interim dividend of.
 p per share for the three months ending June June May Acquired a distribution Acquired distribution facility facility let to Morrisons, near let to Unilever, near Doncaster, Birmingham, West Midlands South Yorkshire for.
m. p  September October Achieved practical completion Declared an interim of the Companys ninth forward dividend of.
 p per share, funded development at Fradley, October in respect of the three months pre-let to Screwfix Direct Ltd Acquired the Royal Mail to September distribution facility at Daventry International Rail Freight Terminal, Northamptonshire for.
m November October October Acquired a national distribution Acquired two interconnected Acquired a national distribution and production facility at buildings in Stoke-on-Trent, centre in Stoke-on-Trent, Worksop, Nottinghamshire for Staffordshire let to Dunelm Staffordshire, for .
m, let to Cerealto UK Ltd Soft Furnishings Ltd, for let to Marks & Spencer plc.
m December Acquired a national distribution facility at Cannock, Staffordshire for.
m, which is operated and let to Unilever Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report
