Strategic Report TRITAX BIG BOX AT A GLANCE A compelling business Our strengths, coupled with the highly attractive dynamics of our market, make us a compelling business for the long term.. An attractive market benefitting from structural change Big Boxes are critical in fulfilling the changing needs of consumers.
They generate cost savings and efficiencies needed to deal with the growth of e-commerce and complexities of the omni-channel supply chain.
A supply and demand imbalance favouring owners of logistics assets creates powerful features in our market, including longer term leases and the potential for In , Amazon took the largest annual volume of attractive rental growth.
logistics floorspace for a single occupier on record See Our Market, page for more.
See Our Market, pages - for more.. We selectively acquire and manage.
Our competitive advantage some of the UKs best logistics assets We were first movers in this subsector Tritax Management LLP is our and our dedication to it differentiates Investment Manager.
We benefit us from our peers.
We continue to significantly from the Managers strengthen a portfolio which we believe expertise, knowledge and specialist is one of the best in the UK quoted real subsector focus, to help us buy off estate sector, including outstanding market at attractive prices and asset assets and institutional-grade Customers.
See Our Portfolio, pages - and the Managers Report, pages - for more.
See Our Business Model, pages - for more.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
Well positioned for further success Shareholders Long leases, growing rental income, Our market is performing well, with increasing economies of scale and a strong fundamentals and offers largely fixed cost base allow us to offer continued attractions.
Via a strong transparent, secure and rising dividends.
pipeline we see further opportunities Tenant and investor demand for Big to broaden the portfolio, supporting Boxes, plus our asset management our dividend growth and total return programme, also help to protect and ambitions.
See the Chairmans Statement, pages - and the See T T Th h he Y e Y e Ye e ea a ar i r i r in B n B n Br r ri i ie e ef f f, p, pa ag ge es s - - a an nd d t th he e Managers Report, pages - for more.
Managers Report, pages - for more.
% Tritax Big Box has delivered an aggregate total return of % in the four years since IPO Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report
