Group at a glance A diverse proposition We have multiple brands, products and distribution channels.
These enable our customers to choose the right cover to protect their cars, homes, holidays, businesses and pets.
Our brands Direct Line has maintained its brand Churchill is one of Britains most Green Flag is our roadside rescue heritage of speed, simplicity and a recognisable brands.
Our products and recovery service.
It is a standalone common-sense human touch.
We are available by phone and online, service and an optional product continue to sell products direct to including PCWs.
Our customers are alongside motor insurance across all customers by phone and online.
looking for a dependable partner who of our brands.
Green Flag offers an Our customers want a premium is reliable, trustworthy, and happy award-winning breakdown service at product with exceptional customer to spend time making sure they are a much cheaper price than its two care that is tailored to their needs happy.
Those values are at the heart biggest rivals.
com Direct Line for Business Privilege targets customers NIG is our commercial DLG Partnerships is the is an extension of our Direct who mainly buy through insurance brand dedicated to Groups partnerships arm.
Our customers want a the broker market and is We specialise in of business insurance products quick and efficient service at focused on a number of providing personal lines over the phone and online.
specialisms including SMEs, insurance, and roadside Our customers are looking for Agriculture and Real Estate.
com the right level ofcover at the We sell our products through products to some wellright price.
over 2,000 brokers, including known brands.
an in-house intermediary that www.
co. uk arranges commercial insurance for partnerships, such as RBS and NatWest.
com 4 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Motor Home Rescue and other Commercial personal lines We are Britains leading We are one of Britains We are one of the leading We protect commercial personal motor insurer leading personal home providers of rescue and other businesses through our brands, 1 measured by in-force policies, insurers measured by in-force personal lines insurance in the NIG, Direct Line for Business 1 2, 3 mainly represented through policies.
We reach our UK with 7.7 million in-force and Churchill, and through our well-known brands Direct customers by selling home policies.
This includes our partners RBS and Line, Churchill and Privilege, insurance products through our providing roadside assistance NatWest.
NIG sells its and also through our partners.
brands Direct Line, Churchill and recovery for customers products exclusively through We insure around one in six and Privilege, and our through Green Flag, the UKs brokers operating across the insured cars on the road in the partners RBS, NatWest and third largest roadside recovery UK.
Direct Line for Business 2 UK, representing 4.0 million Prudential.
We also offer provides business, van and in-force policies.
customers protection for their landlord insurance products holidays and pets and are the direct to customers.
Churchill second largest travel and the sells business, landlord and fourth largest pet insurer van products direct to 3 respectively.
Motor Home 1,670.4m 799.1m Gross written premium Gross written premium 4.0m 3.2m In-force policies In-force policies 91.9% 89.4% Where do we Combined operating ratio Combined operating ratio earn our money?
364.5m 128.8m 3,392.1m Operating profit Operating profit Gross written premium up 3.6% Rescue and other Commercial personal lines 501.5m Gross written premium 421.1m Gross written premium 708k In-force policies 7.7m In-force policies 93.4% Combined operating ratio 94.3% Combined operating ratio 74.0m Operating profit 43.6m Operating profit Notes: 1.
Includes Direct Line, Churchill, Privilege and partner brands: RBS, NatWest, Prudential and Sainsburys GfK Financial Research Survey six months ending January 2018, 14,063 adults interviewed for motor insurance and 12,214 for home insurance.
Mintel Vehicle Recovery UK, September 2017.
Mintel Pet Insurance UK, August 2017 and Mintel Travel Insurance UK, February 2017.
