STR STRA ATEGIC TEGIC REPOR REPORT T At a Glance The UKs leading hard landscaping manufacturer Marshalls is a leading brand with a significant market position.
Our cornerstone themes of customer service, quality and sustainability put the customer at the very heart of our business model and investment proposition.
Business model pages 10 and 11 What we do Public Sector and Commercial Domestic Landscapes, gardens and seating Gardens and driveways Marshalls is the leading innovator of hard landscaping Marshalls Domestic customers range from DIY solutions for the commercial construction sector, placing enthusiasts to professional landscapers, driveway afocus on developing new and innovative products.
Sales continue tobedriven through the Marshalls Register of Marshalls focuses on developing products which help  and Driveway Installers.
architects, local authorities and contractors to create better spaces, whether it is street furniture, natural stone paving for For homeowners, Marshalls offers the inspiration the internal or external environment, concrete block paving, theyneed for their garden and driveway projects.
water management or protective street furniture products.
Customers Customers Local authorities, commercial architects, specifiers, National and independent builders merchants, contractors, housebuilders and builders merchants.
DIYgroups, professional landscapers, garden designer andpatio, driveway installers and homeowners.
Products Products Paving, block paving, kerb, water management, Paving, block paving, paths, edgings, walling, naturalstone cladding, street furniture, lighting,  aggregates.
protective street furniture, walling and mortars.
Our investment case Growth agenda Strong market Diversified group Strong asset base Proven record of sustained Serving Public Sector, position and resources growth with 5 year CAGR Commercial and Domestic Unique national network of Well invested manufacturing growthin PBT of 41 per cent.
These have historically manufacturing sites ensures plants with continuing emphasis proved to offer security due to proximity to customers and an on high quality maintenance, their counter cyclical profiles.
technology improvements and Wide-ranging mineral reserves re-investment.
Capital investment with the Marshalls Stone of 22.5 million in 2017.
MARSHALLS PLC 04 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Case study Innovation and NPDframework There is a critical relationship between product, process and materials for development of new products.
The Groups innovation cycle combines intelligence, innovation and delivery, and is a driver of growth: Dedicated and focused resources: High level of technical competence in materials, automation, engineering and product design: Delivering a high degree of product complexity: and Excellent trial and development facilities.
Acquisition of CPM Innovation and Sustainability Culture CPM is a pre-cast concrete The Group has a sustainable The Groups core values of new products manufacturer specialising in business plan and has set KPIs leadership, excellence, trust The continued focus on underground water management forthe key areas of this plan.
andsustainability underpin innovation and new product solutions.
The acquisition will Sustainability and corporate ourculture along with our development ensures the enable the Group to offer a responsibility are key elements keyobjective of doing development of the Groups broader product choice that of the Marshalls culture.
project engineering and complements our existing water manufacturing capabilities, management offering and is a concrete and other materials significant step to providing a full technology innovations and water management capability.
MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 05
