REIGNITE GROWTH 2017 HIGHLIGHTS PURSUE BEST GROWTH What we achieved in 2017 OPPORTUNITIES Key account management Key account management is about accelerating and Why this is important deepening how we work and grow with our most important for Elementis global customers to become their chosen partner.
In 2017, we Our strategic choices focus implemented key account processes with our largest Personal on the best, most material Care, Coatings and Energy customers.
include online account management tools, relationship maps and account specific strategies linked to our new innovation pipeline process.
As a consequence we have improved our dialogue with our key customers and are better placed to deliver Enhanced Performance Through Applied Innovation.
Personal Care global growth In Personal Care we have a unique advantage by owning the only commercial grade hectorite mine in the world.
Hectorite organoclay is all natural and pure white in colour, and is an important ingredient to give products the right viscosity.
In September 2017, we completed the Bentone gel production capacity expansion at our Livingston site in Scotland.
Combined with investment in our salesforce this has Bentone gel and two tone lipstick supported the geographic expansion and product penetration Bentone gel is a sought after technology for the personal of our unique hectorite based personal care products.
care industry and is used in products such as two tone lipstick produced by South Korean cosmetics brand Laneige.
This In March 2017, we completed the acquisition of highly innovative and successful product utilises Bentone gel SummitReheis, a global leader in the antiperspirant actives technology to keep the 2 colour layers discrete while allowing sector.
The integration of SummitReheis was completed in for easy application and an elegant blend of colour on the lips.
December 2017 and the acquisition is delivering a Personal Care business of scale with attractive growth opportunities.
Coatings Asia In Asia, the opportunity is clear: expanding our Coatings presence, including building our decorative coatings activities in China and beyond.
In 2017, we separated our organisation in Asia into 2 regions, India, Taiwan and South East Asia ITSEA and China and North Asia CANA.
This will allow us to build on our strong position in China whilst at the same time increase our presence and focus on the burgeoning economies in ITSEA.
In September 2017, we appointed a new Managing Director of ITSEA who is located in Mumbai and leads our business development in this region.
4 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information $179m Personal Care revenue in 2017 2016: $63m 5 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 REIGNITE GROWTH 2017 HIGHLIGHTS CONTINUED 39m Anticipated proceeds from Surfactants sale 6 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information PURSUE SUPPLY CHAIN What we achieved in 2017 TRANSFORMATION Address disadvantaged assets In March 2017, we announced the sale of our US Colourants Why this is important business to Chromaflo Technologies and, in December 2017 for Elementis we agreed to sell the Surfactants business, including the Elementis has a number of quality Delden facility in Netherlands, to Kolb Distribution AG for 39m.
manufacturing assets: however, By exiting these strategically disadvantaged businesses we some are disadvantaged.
We are have generated cash, simplified our supply chain and are able transforming our supply chain to to reallocate capital to higher margin growth opportunities.
unlock cash and deliver increased financial performance.
In addition, we have progressed the sale of the Jersey City land, the previous site of our US Colourants business, and are exploring strategic options for the Dental business that we acquired as part of SummitReheis.
Manufacturing productivity Production within our network of assets is being optimised to improve efficiency and reduce cost.
During the year we invested in the relocation of our flash dryer asset from St Louis to Charleston, a project with significant returns.
In 2017, we completed a working capital review and identified $18m of efficiencies to be achieved by the end of 2020.
Implementation in 2018 onwards will see improved demand Sale of Surfactants planning, consistent service level agreements, new inventory In December 2017, we reached an agreement to sell the management tools and product rationalisation.
As the project business to Kolb Distribution AG for a cash consideration of is rolled out we anticipate an improved underlying working 39m.
The sale simplifies our supply chain and allows us to capital performance.
reallocate capital to higher margin growth opportunities.
Pursue procurement savings In 2017, we have continued to focus on procurement savings by diversifying our raw material suppliers, looking at different geographies and lower cost suppliers.
As at the end of 2017 just 25% of our raw material supplies were from single suppliers, compared to 36% at the end of 2016.
This has helped mitigate cost increases and assure long term supply stability.
In addition, we have taken steps to improve our logistics capabilities with investments in our own infrastructure and engagement with new third party logistics firms.
This has improved service levels, data visibility and lowered costs.
7 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 REIGNITE GROWTH 2017 HIGHLIGHTS CONTINUED INNOVATE FOR HIGH What we achieved in 2017 MARGINS AND Sustain innovation leadership DISTINCTIVENESS For our customers we deliver Enhanced Performance Through Applied Innovation.
To sustain our innovation leadership Why this is important position we made several changes in 2017 to how we operate.
for Elementis Innovation is at the heart of what Personal Care is now a material business for Elementis we do.
Focusing on the significant and as a result we have increased our resources in this area innovation opportunities will to support new product development.
The acquisition of continue to enhance our SummitReheis also brings a new, market leading technology customers performance.
and innovation opportunity to the business.
Implementation of a global research and development function, and alignment with key account initiatives, mean we are now better positioned to be innovation partners to customers.
In addition, we have improved our decision making systems, implemented stage gate processes and installed a new pipeline management tool.
These changes ensure that we focus on the most attractive and material innovation opportunities available to us.
Customer focused innovation in 2017 Deliver new product pipeline Customer Problem Elementis Solution In 2017, we launched several new products.
In Personal Care, our new multifunctional next generation Bentone Personal Care company unable Elementis developed a non Luxe gel realised its first sales.
This product combines to bring volatile rheology modifier volatile modifier within 4 weeks emulsification with rheological control and opens up new into production site no change to product labels and customer product able opportunities for our Personal Care business.
In Coatings, to move forward new acrylic thickeners for decorative applications are delivering cost effective performance to customers in emerging markets, and our organic thixotropes in Europe Coatings customer unable to find Elementis created a thickener and North America continue to generate momentum, suitable thickener for waterborne to provide superior coating with revenue growth of 13% in the year.
paint airless application performance under airless application product able to move forward Our product pipeline is healthy with a range of active to commercialisation projects in late stage development, reflecting the variety of global customers formulations and needs.
We continue Significant demand from Launched Bentone Luxe in to expand the utilisation of our hectorite resources across Personal Care companies for mid 2017 with first sales already Personal Care applications, including skin care, and an additive that provides registered customers able to emulsification as well as gain rheology modification leverage our technological capabilities from Coatings.
rheological control and emulsification benefit In Coatings, trends such as the reduction of VOC content from single product and emerging market functional requirements continue to shape our innovation pipeline.
8 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 3,431 New Personal Care retail products launched globally containing Bentone gel in 2017 Source: Mintel 9 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 REIGNITE GROWTH 2017 HIGHLIGHTS CONTINUED 1,840 Hours of safety leadership training completed in 2017 10 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CREATE A CULTURE OF What we achieved in 2017 HIGH PERFORMANCE Structure In 2017, we completed the restructuring of our business from Why this is important a divisional to a functional organisation.
The implementation for Elementis of global functions across the Group means we are better All of our employees are very aligned to support strategy execution.
Achieving the right organisation is essential to grow Investment in capability is key to enable our Reignite Growth the business.
As part of this we have established a new global Coatings team, which will be led by Luc van Ravenstein.
This will enable Elementis to pursue growth opportunities more quickly and in an integrated way.
We are moving towards a flatter and more transparent structure.
Reflective of this we will introduce 4 clear reporting segments in 2018: Personal Care, Coatings, Chromium and Energy.
Process During the year, we have implemented new performance management processes to ensure optimal resource allocation and strong execution.
The introduction of standardised management information across the business provides more robust performance review.
Elementis Code of Conduct During 2017, we refreshed and relaunched our Elementis The implementation of workday, a standardised and Code of Conduct.
The Code reflects the spirit of the 5 key automated human resources system means we have the principles at Elementis and the relaunch has been supported appropriate levels of employee management and evaluation by new online training.
Quarterly key account management reviews and innovation pipeline reviews between the CEO, marketing and sales ensure that we, as an organisation are focusing on the most material and commercially relevant opportunities.
All of these process improvements mean we are creating a culture that focuses on transparency, delivery and, where necessary, timely interventions.
11 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017
