Strategic Report ITV at ITV, as an integrated producer broadcaster, creates, owns and distributes high-quality aglance content on multiple platforms globally.
We operate the largest Broadcast & commercial family of channels in the UK and deliver our content 47.6% Online through linear television largest share broadcasting as well as on of the UK TV advertising market demand via the ITV Hub and across other platforms globally.
ITV broadcasts a wide variety of content on its family of free-to-air channels.
21.7% Ourinvestment in programming is primarily funded by television advertising share of viewing revenue.
ITV has the largest share of theUK television advertising market, for the ITV Family in 2017 with a share of broadcast SOB of 47.6%in 2017.
We sell all of our key demographics across 13 regional licences.
21m registered users of the ITV Hub ITV Studios We have built significant scale in key creative markets 8,400 hrs around the world, creating of original content produced and producing programmes and delivered in 2017 and formats that return andtravel, namely drama, entertainment and factual entertainment.
50 labels ITV Studios creates and produces content in the UK and internationally, in 11 different countries supplying while our distribution business, over 200 channels GlobalEntertainment, sells nished programmes and formats worldwide.
62 ITV formats sold in 2017 4 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information ITV at a glance ITV total revenue ITV adjusted EBITA inc. internal revenue Broadcast & Online 2,075m Broadcast & Online 599m ITV Studios 1,582m ITV Studios 243m The family of channels attracted a In addition to linear broadcast, ITV delivers ITV has the ITV Hub which is a totalshare of viewing SOV of 21.7% its content across multiple platforms.
Subscription Video on Demand SVOD in2017, the largest audience of any Thisis either through our over-the-top service where subscribers have access UKcommercial broadcaster.
Our main OTT service the ITV Hub, available on 29 toadvertising free content and the channel is the largest commercial channel platforms including ITVs website itv.
com, ability to download catch up content.
in the UK, delivering 99% of all commercial pay providers such as Virgin and Sky and audiences over five million.
through direct content deals with services We have partnered with the BBC to such as Amazon, Apple and Netflix.
launch a new SVOD service, BritBox, inthe US and Canada.
The streaming service allows subscribers to access thebest of British television.
We also own a best of British SVOD Our free-to-air digital channels provide service, Cirkus, in the Nordicsand more targeted demographics for Germany, and an online service, ITV advertisers, such as 1634s, ABC1s, Choice, an entertainment channel MenandHousewives with Children, and foremerging markets available in consist of ITV2 and ITV3, the two largest 100countries.
digital channels in the UK, ITV4, CITV andITVBe.
We also have high denition versions of our digital channels available onpay platforms.
ITV Studios UK ITV America ITV Studios UK is the largest commercial producer in the UK.
ITV America is the largest independent producer ofunscripted We produce programming across a diverse range of genres content in the US.
We are also growing our presence in scripted such as drama, entertainment and factual entertainment for content, using our strong cash flows to produce high-prole ITVs own channels, as well as for other UK broadcasters such dramas with the potential to travel and build international appeal.
as the BBC, Channel 4, Channel 5 and Sky.
ITV Studios Rest of World Global Entertainment ITV Studios also operates in the Netherlands through Global Entertainment, ITVs distribution business, owns the TalpaMedia, Germany, France, Italy, Australia and the Nordics.
rightsto ITV programmes and formats and acquires third-party Talpaproduces and distributes entertainment formats while content, distributing this to other broadcasters and platforms theotherbusinesses produce scripted and unscripted content for internationally.
Within this business, we also finance productions local broadcasters in these regions.
This content is either created for ITV and third parties to acquire global distribution rights.
locally or are formats that have been created elsewhere by ITV, primarily the UK and Talpa.
