The Weir Group PLC 12 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategy at a Glance Our four distinctive competencies Our vision To be the most admired People Customers Technology Performance engineering business in our markets.
What we said we would do in 2017 Implement a new safety charter Pursue more long-term relationships Expand customer digital offering.
Improve operational performance and embed behavioural safety.
Broaden skills base to reflect digitisation including ontime delivery and Our mission Re-invest in leadership and Shift from product focus to solutions of industrial products.
Embed new innovation framework Reinvigorate lean disciplines and To enable our customers Improve diversity and conduct an Improve customer insights into new throughout the organisation.
simplify value chain excellence process.
employee engagement programme product developments.
Embed customer and Weir sustainability to sustainably and efficiently to support the We are Weir strategy.
goals in value chain improvements.
deliver the energy and What we achieved in 2017 resources needed by 20% improvement in total incident rate Minerals grew orders ahead of Completed a new technology roadmap Minerals reconfigured its manufacturing a growing world.
to 0.53 implemented a new Safety sustaining capital spending and to be implemented from 2018 with a facilities and supply chain to increase Charter and rolled out a Group-wide increased its order book by spending focus on digital solutions, advanced capacity ahead of the anticipated upturn behavioural safety programme.
more time on customers sites and manufacturing, materials science and in the mining capital cycle.
Increased female representation at both investing in additional sales, project and water and energy efficiency.
Oil & Gas delivered an excellent Board and senior management levels product management experts in addition Deployed Synertrex, the Groups operational performance, ramping up Strategy in action with every business developing diversity to opening eight new service centres.
Internet of Things IoT platform, to its supply chain and workforce to enable and inclusion improvement plans to Oil & Gas leveraged its key account initial customer sites within the its main manufacturing facility to double To achieve the Groups vision widen the Groups talent pool.
system to further embed Weir among Minerals division to enable better manufacturing volumes while also Refreshed leadership training and Tier-1 oilfield service customers in North monitoring and maintenance of assets.
and mission, we leverage our undertook a global programme of America and fully capture its share of Oil & Gas introduced the Simplified Baseline Value Chain Excellence scores increased employee engagement the North American market upturn.
Frac Iron System that increases safety were established for each business with business model and focus on to embed We are Weir.
Flow Control restructured its sales and and reduced downtime on frac sites.
improvement plans and training in place marketing capability to better leverage to further improve inventory turns and four distinctive competencies: its divisional product portfolio across a shorten lead times.
greater number of international markets People, Customers, and EPC customers delivering good aftermarket order growth.
Priorities for 2018 We will develop best-in-class Increase revenues from service Progress commercialisation Improve VCE score.
Progress IT infrastructure and We will build organisational capability.
Increase number of customer Further develop additive systems development.
We will develop a culture of the future partnerships on technology manufacturing capability.
Begin to implement sustainability that inspires our people to build a development and trials.
Develop improved Voice of Customer.
Medium term key performance indicators Improved sustainable engagement Increased market share.
Increased percentage of revenues from Sustainably higher margins through scoreand increased organisational new solutions.
Associated principal risks Safety, Health and Environment.
You can read more in Our Staff recruitment, development Contract risk.
Strategy in Action on page 14. andretention.
You can read more in Principal Risks Political and social risk.
You can read more in KPIs on page 22.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 13 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Our four distinctive competencies People Customers Technology Performance What we said we would do in 2017 Implement a new safety charter Pursue more long-term relationships Expand customer digital offering.
Broaden skills base to reflect digitisation including ontime delivery and Re-invest in leadership and Shift from product focus to solutions of industrial products.
Embed new innovation framework Reinvigorate lean disciplines and Improve diversity and conduct an Improve customer insights into new throughout the organisation.
Embed customer and Weir sustainability to support the We are Weir strategy.
What we achieved in 2017 20% improvement in total incident rate Minerals grew orders ahead of Completed a new technology roadmap Minerals reconfigured its manufacturing to 0.53 implemented a new Safety sustaining capital spending and to be implemented from 2018 with a facilities and supply chain to increase Charter and rolled out a Group-wide increased its order book by spending focus on digital solutions, advanced capacity ahead of the anticipated upturn behavioural safety programme.
Oil & Gas delivered an excellent Board and senior management levels product management experts in addition Deployed Synertrex, the Groups operational performance, ramping up with every business developing diversity to opening eight new service centres.
Internet of Things IoT platform, to its supply chain and workforce to enable and inclusion improvement plans to Oil & Gas leveraged its key account initial customer sites within the its main manufacturing facility to double widen the Groups talent pool.
undertook a global programme of America and fully capture its share of Oil & Gas introduced the Simplified Baseline Value Chain Excellence scores increased employee engagement the North American market upturn.
Frac Iron System that increases safety were established for each business with to embed We are Weir.
improvement plans and training in place marketing capability to better leverage to further improve inventory turns and its divisional product portfolio across a shorten lead times.
greater number of international markets and EPC customers delivering good aftermarket order growth.
Staff recruitment, development Contract risk.
