8 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESSES AT A GLANCE Throughout 2017, our business activities were undertaken by two divisions, Risk & Insurance and Employee Benefits.
RISK & INSURANCE Our Risk & Insurance business comprises our global Specialty insurance and Reinsurance broking operations.
Our specialist teams focus on those sectors where we have a distinctive level of knowledge and expertise.
Working in partnership with clients to manage the complex risks they face, we act as their intermediary with insurers and reinsurers and provide related risk management, analytical, advisory and other services.
OUR GLOBAL RISK & INSURANCE BUSINESSES PROVIDE SERVICES INCLUDING: Advice and consultancy Brokerage and placement Specialist insurance Other services products Advice to our clients on their Acting on our clients behalf, Providing a range of related Providing our clients with insurance and reinsurance using our specialist knowledge services to our clients access to certain exclusive programmes, ensuring that to negotiate and place and insurance market insurance facilities, binders they understand the likelihood insurance cover with insurers counterparties in areas and other products, without and potential severity of the and reinsurers all over such as captive management, taking balance sheet risks they face, the options the world.
claims management and underwriting risk.
available to mitigate these administration, and capital risks and the potential cost raising and corporate of doing so.
RISK & INSURANCE CONTRIBUTION TO OUR BUSINESSES 2017 GROUP REVENUE 2017 JLT Europe p28 Revenue Underlying Trading Profit JLT Re p28 1,065.8m 197.9m JLT Australia & NZ p29 JLT Asia p29 % % 11 19 JLT Latin America p30 2016: 960.9m 2016: 166.6m % JLT Specialty USA p30 77 JLT Canada p31 Trading Margin Employees JLT Middle East and % Africa p31 19 5,818 JLT Insurance 2016: 17% 2016: 5,460 Management p31 Excludes employees in shared service operations R I S K & I N S U R A N C E STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 9 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Our Employee Benefits business offers a comprehensive range of employee benefits advice and services to companies, pension trustees and individuals.
Our specialist teams act as advisers, intermediaries and service providers in the areas of pensions consultancy and administration, employee benefits and healthcare, life insurance and wealth management.
OUR GLOBAL EMPLOYEE BENEFITS BUSINESSES PROVIDE SERVICES INCLUDING: Retirement Solutions Benefits Consulting Wealth and Investment Technology Solutions Management Providing a range of actuarial Advice on employee health Provider of one of the most Advice and support to and administration services for and benefit programmes, widely used UK pensions individuals on financial pension trustees, corporate medical claims administration, administration and fund planning, including at-retirement sponsors and scheme members, occupational health and accounting software platforms services, tax planning and life including support of outsourced rehabilitation services and to corporate pension schemes.
scheme administration, payroll, placement of health and risk Providing integrated web communications, documentation protection policies.
Providing discretionary solutions to enable members and technical services.
management of assets for Provision of auto-enrolment, to access information and both high net worth individuals Offering integrated risk flexible benefits, voluntary services, facilitating self-service and company pension management services to UK benefits and total reward benefits management.
schemes, in addition to pensions trustees and corporate statements through our marketasset hosting services.
sponsors, including actuarial, leading platform, Benpal.
investment and risk transfer Scheme design management consultancy, scheme design, services, including advice governance and independent on suitable insurance providers, trustee services.
for defined contribution pension schemes.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS CONTRIBUTION TO OUR BUSINESSES 2017 GROUP REVENUE 2017 UK & Ireland p33 Revenue Underlying Trading Profit Asia p33 320.2m 50.1m Australia & NZ p33 Latin America p34 % % 7 1 Canada p34 2016: 300.4m 2016: 49.5m % Middle East and Africa p34 23 Trading Margin Employees % 16 2,621 2016: 16% 2016: 2,656 Excludes employees in shared service operations S T I F E N E B E E Y O L P M E
