n o i t c e t o r p S S a a & v v h At a glance Group at a glance We meet the long-term savings and protection needs of a growing middle class and ageing population.
We focus on three markets Asia, the US and UK and Europe where the need for our products is strong and growing and we use our capabilities, footprint and scale to meet that need.
In recent years, we have expanded into Africa, taking advantage of the emerging demand for our products in the region.
Our strategy Asia Asia Signi cant protection gap and investment needs of the middle class US UK and Europe Transition of Savings gap and baby-boomers ageing population into retirement in need of returns income Prudential Corporation Asia Prudential Corporation Asia has leading insurance and asset management operations across 14 markets and serves the families of the regions high potential economies.
We have been operating in Asia for over 90 years and have built highperforming businesses with multichannel distribution, a product portfolio centred on regular savings We aim to capture three long-term opportunities and protection, awardwinning customer services and a across our key geographical markets: widely recognised brand.
serving the protection and investment needs of the Eastspring Investments is a leading asset manager in Asia growing middle class in Asia: and provides investment solutions across a broad range providing asset accumulation and retirement income of asset classes.
products to US baby boomers: and Leading pan-regional franchise meeting the savings and retirement needs of an ageing British and continental European population.
We aim to generate attractive returns, enabling us to provide 94% financial security to our customers, invest in growth of APE sales are regular premium opportunities and meet our customers high expectations.
139bn Eastspring Investments funds under management 3.1bn 1 Eastspring Investments external net inflows Africa We entered Africa in 2014 to offer products to new customers in one of the fastestgrowing regions in the world.
We aim to provide products that help our customers to live longer and healthier lives, and save to improve future choices 1 Excluding money market funds.
for them and their families.
10 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk i i t n n l g g a s s e h, s g n i v a S 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults 669bn 26m total funds under management customers worldwide US UK and Europe Jackson M&G Prudential Jackson provides retirement savings and income strategies In August we announced the formation of M&G Prudential, a aimed at the large number of people approaching retirement in leading savings and investments business, ideally positioned the United States.
Jacksons pursuit of excellence in product to target growing customer demand for financial solutions in innovation and distinctive distribution capabilities has helped the UK and Europe.
Our vision is a business built for the us forge a solid reputation for meeting the needs of customers.
customer: simple, efficient, digitally enabled, capital light, Jacksons variable annuities offer a distinct retirement solution fastgrowing and above all focused on delivery.
The designed to provide a variety of investment choices to help combined business benefits from two strong complementary customers pursue their financial goals.
brands, a worldclass investment capability, international distribution and a robust capital position.
Premier retirement income player Well recognised brands with a strong track record of a long-term conviction-led investment approach 6.8x 17.3bn premium growth since 1995 asset management external net inflows 19% 1 351bn market share of US variable annuities 1 M&G Prudential funds under management 3.5bn 7.2m separate account net inflows customers 1 2018 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
The information contained herein: 1 is proprietary to Morningstar and or its content providers: 2 is not warranted to be accurate, complete, or timely.
Neither Morningstar nor its content providers are responsible for any damages or losses arising from any use of this information.
Past 1 Represents M&G Prudential asset management external funds under management performance is no guarantee of future results.
and internal funds included on the M&G Prudential longterm insurance business Total Sales by Company 3Q YTD 2017. balance sheet.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 11
