AT A GLANCE TBC Bank has affirmed its leading position as Georgias largest banking group with its outstanding financial performance, superior customer experience, strong brand and best-in-class digital banking channels.
We continue to innovate and develop unique digital solutions in line with our strategy of becoming the best digital financial services company in 1 the region, while customer satisfaction remains at the heart of everything we do.
We acknowledge responsibility towards all our stakeholders and are focused on achieving strong financial results and maximising our shareholders returns, as well as creating value for our customers, employees, community and environment.
What we do Retail banking TBC Bank is the number one banking group in Georgia by all key TBC Bank is the undisputed leader in the retail segment, which it 2 metrics, including total assets, total loans and total deposits.
We work diligently to offer our While our main business activities include retail, micro, small and clients the best products and services in the market.
We are medium enterprises MSME and corporate banking, we also offer committed to building trusted, mutually beneficial relationships other financial services through our subsidiaries, including with our customers by concentrating on their financial needs and leasing, insurance, brokerage and corporate advisory products.
offering them well-suited banking solutions.
Customer TBC Bank has strong coverage across the country through its satisfaction is a vital part of our success and we are dedicated to well-developed multichannel network serving around 75% of delivering a unique experience in all our channels.
We also pride Georgias adult population.
ourselves on having advanced private banking offerings for our affluent and high-net-worth individuals, which include dedicated multichannel, full life cycle management, tailor-made products and value-added services.
Our vision 49% in total loan book, 56% in total deposits To be the best digital financial 1 services company in the region Strategic priorities Corporate and investment banking CIB Deepen our relationship with customers TBC Bank has a well-deserved leading position in the corporate and deliver sustainable growth segment due to its advisory model, focus on long-term Further enhance the digital capabilities partnership, top-quality financial products and services, and of our best-in-class multichannel platform highly experienced and professional team.
We have a strong Further improve customer experience presence and a diversified portfolio across all major sectors of Increase operational efficiency and automation Georgias economy, divided among dedicated coverage teams with Proactively manage net interest margin strong sector knowledge.
We have strong positions in traditional lending and trade finance products, and have also started introducing brokerage and advisory services through our Find out more about our strategy on pages 24-27 subsidiary, TBC Capital.
Thanks to our broad product offering and operational excellence, an increasing number of leading industry players are choosing TBC Bank as their core bank.
1 Region in this context comprises Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia 29% in total loan book, 31% in total deposits 04 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance MSME banking Our people are key to our success 3 TBC Bank is the bank of first choice for most MSME clients, with 63% We consider our people to be one of our most valuable assets of new companies registered in Georgia in 2017 opening accounts with and the key to our success.
We employ more than 7,000 highly TBC Bank.
We do not find this surprising, since we put a lot of effort skilled, loyal and motivated people, who together form a big into developing the most convenient and innovative solutions for our TBC family.
In addition, we differentiate ourselves by offering extensive non-financial services through our business support programme, Engagement index of 91% which features various opportunities for training sessions, individual consultations, useful business tools and a renowned annual business Find out more about our people on pages 75-78 award ceremony.
This year, we have also undertaken an initiative to support the new generation of businesses in Georgia by launching a unique programme, focused on start-ups, that provides financial and Corporate responsibility non-financial services to early-stage companies.
We strive to make a difference for Georgia, not only by contributing to economic development, but also by faithfully serving our customers, protecting our countrys cultural heritage, promoting 22% in total loan book, 13% in total deposits national sports, supporting the young generation through various projects and initiatives, and caring for the environment.
Find out more about our segments on pages 30-53 Find out more about our corporate responsibility on pages 74-81 Number one market position by all key metrics 2 MARKET SHARES Total assets 36.4% Total loans 38.2% Total deposits 39.8% Loans to individuals 40.2% Loans to legal entities 36.0% Deposits to individuals 41.3% Deposits to legal entities 37.9% 2 Based on data published by the National Bank of Georgia as of 31 December 2017 3 Data is for FY 2017, source: www.
ge, the National Agency of Public Registry TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 05 INFOCUS YEARS OF GROWTH TOTAL ASSETS 2017 13.0 bn $500 1992
