I n - l i n e I n s t r u m e s n i s t y a l t a i o n n A s l a i r e t a M T e Strategic Report Spectris at a Glance SOLUTIONS DRIVEN customer focused 17% Group sales 31% Group sales Delivering integrated customer solutions 20% Group sales 32% Group sales Spectris comprises four business segments which reflect the Sales by destination % applications and end-user industries we serve.
Our businesses are united by the same purpose, values and corporate strategy.
Rest of the world 5 They all work according to a strong common framework of controls, management key performance indicators, financial discipline and rigorous operating principles, but each business 33 is focused on its own markets, customers and technologies.
30 North America Asia In addition to providing strategic direction, governance, financial and operational input and oversight, the corporate centre provides support in areas such as M&A, HR, legal and tax.
The centre also manages a procurement function and other supply chain initiatives which benefit our operating Europe 32 companies and facilitate the sharing of best practice.
4 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 s t a n d M e a s s u l r o r e t m n e o C n t l a i r t s u d n I Materials Analysis provides products and Test and Measurement supplies test, services that enable customers to determine measurement and analysis equipment, software structure, composition, quantity and quality of and services for product design optimisation and particles and materials during their research and validation, manufacturing control, microseismic product development processes, when assessing monitoring and environmental noise monitoring.
materials before production or during the manufacturing process.
Reported Adjusted Reported Reported Adjusted Reported sales operating profit operating profit sales operating profit operating profit 464.9m 83.1m 68.6m 487.3m 68.9m 55.6m Adjusted Reported Adjusted Reported 1 1 Aftersales operating margin operating margin Aftersales operating margin operating margin 32% 17.9% 14.8% 28% 14.1% 11.4% Operating companies Industries Operating companies Industries Malvern Panalytical Pharmaceuticals & fine Brel & Kjr Automotive chemicals Sound & Vibration Particle Measuring Systems Aerospace 2 Metals, minerals & mining ESG Solutions Concept Life Sciences Electronics Academic research HBM Energy Semiconductors Millbrook Academic research In-line Instrumentation provides process analytical Industrial Controls provides products and solutions measurement, asset monitoring and online controls as that measure, monitor, control and connect during well as associated consumables and services for both the production process.
primary processing and the converting industries.
Reported Adjusted Reported Reported Adjusted Reported sales operating profit operating profit sales operating profit operating profit 310.9m 33.2m 29.5m 262.5m 38.3m 28.7m Adjusted Reported Adjusted Reported 1 1 Aftersales operating margin operating margin Aftersales operating margin operating margin 43% 10.7% 9.5% 3% 14.6% 10.9% Operating companies Industries Operating companies Industries 3 Brel & Kjr Vibro Process industries Microscan Manufacturing BTG Pulp, paper & tissue Omega Engineering Process industries NDC Technologies Energy & utilities Red Lion Controls Energy Servomex Web & converting Electronics Healthcare 1.
Aftersales comprise service revenues and sales of spare parts and consumables.
