02 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 At a glance Our business Buy-to-Let Residential and SME lending mortgage lending 2017 Buy-to-Let SME 2017 Residential mortgages Net loans and Gross new Average book LTV Net loans and Gross new Average book LTV advances lending at 31 December advances lending at 31 December 5.6bn 2.4bn 69% 1.7bn 0.2bn 56% 2016: 4.1bn 2016: 1.9bn 2016: 69% 2016: 1.9bn 2016: 0.4bn 2016: 58% Buy-to-Let mortgages First charge We provide loans to limited companies and We provide loans to individuals, secured by individuals, secured on residential property a first charge against their residential home.
Our target Our target market includes high net worth market is experienced and professional and complex income customers.
We landlords or high net worth individuals with are also experts in shared ownership, established and extensive property portfolios.
lending to first-time buyers and key workers buying a property in conjunction with a housing association.
Commercial mortgages We provide loans to limited companies and individuals, secured on commercial and Second charge semi-commercial properties held for We provide loans to individuals seeking to investment purposes or for owner occupation.
raise additional funds secured by a second charge against their residential home.
We predominantly target good credit Residential development quality borrowers.
We provide development loans to small and medium sized developers of residential property.
Loans are staged, with monitoring Funding lines surveyors signing off each stage of the We provide funding lines to non-bank lenders development before funds are released.
who operate in high yielding, specialist subsegments such as residential bridge finance.
Funding lines We provide funding lines loans to non-bank finance companies secured against portfolios of financial assets, principally mortgages and leases.
For more information go to the Operating For more information go to the Operating and financial review on page 22 and financial review on page 24 Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 03 Retail savings Our trading brands 2017 balance by channel OneSavings Bank is made up of a family of specialist financial services brands.
Direct Online Branches 41% 36% 23% 2016: 37% 2016: 32% 2016: 31% Largest lending business in the Group, offering Buy-to-Let and Experienced team providing Online first charge residential loans.
specialist residential development finance to small We attract retail savings deposits via and medium sized developers Kent Reliance is also an the internet.
with a proven track record established, stable and awardcommenced trading in winning savings franchise.
Its strong customer focus delivers high levels of customer Direct satisfaction, resulting in strong The direct channel sources savings products customer loyalty and retention.
Long-standing second charge lender, which offers an awardHigh street branches winning range of specialist Our Kent Reliance branded network operates Specialist semi-commercial secured loans throughout and commercial mortgage England, Scotland and Wales in the South East of England and offers a lender providing Buy-to-Let acquired in September 2012. variety of fixed, notice, easy access and loans, alongside ownerregular savings products, including ISAs.
occupied and investor commercial mortgages throughout England and Wales acquired in August 2012.
Based in Bangalore, India, and a wholly-owned subsidiary of OneSavings Bank, OSBI provides primary processing for our Kent Reliance, Jersey and Guernsey brands.
You can find more about us by visiting our website www.
co. uk For more information go to One fair place to save on page 16
