Strategic Report At a glance What we do, and how we do it Serco delivers services to governments and other institutions who serve the public or protect vital national interests.
We deliver services through people, supported complex challenges facing governments, bringing our by effective processes, technology and skilled experience, capability and scale to deliver the service management.
Our customers define what outcomes standards, cost efficiencies and policy outcomes or services they need to deliver, and we develop governments want.
In this way we make a positive new and more effective ways to deliver them.
We difference to the lives of millions of people around deliver innovative solutions to some of the most the world, and help keep nations safe.
Our core sectors Our business is focused across five core sectors and four geographies, with revenue in 2017 including share of joint ventures and associates of 3,310m Justice & Defence Transport Health Citizen Services Immigration 973m 559m 559m 348m 871m 29% 17% 17% 11% 26% Key Services Base and Custodial Rail and ferries Non-clinical Contact centres operational services support services and case Road traffic support management Immigration management Patient Engineering, detention administration Middle and back Air traffic control management services and contact office services: and information IT services Detainee services transport and Employment and Maritime services monitoring skills services Our purpose and ambition Our purpose at Serco is to be a trusted partner of Our ambition is to be considered the best-managed governments, delivering superb public services that business in our sector.
Since our success in delivering transform outcomes and make a positive difference is almost entirely dependent on people, we believe for our fellow citizens.
that such an ambition is a worthy and value-creating aspiration, and one that we can use to inspire our management teams and customers.
For more information pg 09 on our business 04 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Our geographical footprint Asia Pacific UK & Europe 585m 1,685m 18% Americas 51% Middle East 688m 352m 21% 10% Revenue in 2017 including share of joint ventures and associates.
Our values Trust Care Our values are lived every day, used to help us work through any challenges we may face and help us recognise and celebrate our achievements.
They guide us in our dealings with colleagues, customers, suppliers, partners, shareholders and the communities we serve.
Innovation Pride For more information pg 15 on our values Our method The method we use to deliver our aspiration to be the best-managed business in our sector and to deliver our strategy is to concentrate on doing four things really well.
These are the things we want Serco to be famous for: Being a place Winning good Executing Being profitable people are business brilliantly and sustainable proud to work We try to make sure that everything we do improves our performance against one or more of these objectives, and start from a position where we know we can do much better.
We can improve the way we bid and manage contracts: develop innovative propositions: measure performance: reduce the cost and improve the quality of our administrative systems and processes.
None of these comes easily or quickly, and we need to steer a tricky course between the urgent need to reduce our costs in line with reduced revenues in the short term and investing in systems and processes that will produce sustainable benefits in the long term.
For more information pg 14 on our performance framework Our deliverables We consider the tangible evidence of our success or otherwise can be measured in the three key planned outcomes of our strategy: Employee engagement Revenue growth Trading margin 60% and increasing 57% 56% For more information pg 16 on our deliverables 05
