Strategic Report 2 Group at a Glance Supplying to and located in global markets, the Group serves customers from facilities in Australia, France, India, Scandinavia, the UK and the USA, building an increasing presence in international markets, where countries are upgrading or improving their infrastructure as their economies grow.
A key feature of the Groups chosen markets is the influence of heightened levels of regulation and health and safety considerations on development and growth.
All our products are designed to strict specifications and tested according to applicable standards.
Infrastructure Products Revenue: 187.1m Revenue by Geography Employees by Geography Roads Numbers Our Roads segment designs, Underlying Operating manufactures and installs Profit: 23.6m temporary and permanent safety products for the No.
of Employees: 816 roads market together with intelligent transport systems which provide information to road users.
We principally serve the UK market, with an international presence in selected geographies.
UK 66% UK 546 For more information see page 13. International 34% International 270 Infrastructure Products Revenue: 215.7m Revenue by Geography Employees by Geography Utilities Numbers Our Utilities segment Underlying Operating provides industrial flooring, Profit: 16.8m plastic drainage pipes, security fencing, steel and No.
of Employees: 1,784 composite products for a wide range of infrastructure markets including energy creation and distribution, rail, water and house building.
For more information see page 16.
UK 45% UK 808 USA 36% USA 646 RoW 19% RoW 330 Galvanizing Services Revenue: 182.3m Revenue by Geography Employees by Geography Numbers The Galvanizing Services Underlying Operating division offers corrosion Profit: 40.9m protection services to the steel fabrication industry No.
of Employees: 1,543 with multi-plant facilities in the UK, France and the USA.
For more information see page 17.
com | Stock Code HILS Strategic Report 3 USA our V&S galvanizing UK head office and Sweden location India manufacturing and utilities plants are various locations of ATA and FMK, the facilities for pipe situated on the east coast covering our main road safety barrier and supports.
along with the Bergen and infrastructure signage business.
Carpenter & Paterson pipe products businesses supports businesses and the and a network of UK glass reinforced composite galvanizing plants.
profiles businesses, Creative Pultrusions, Kenway and Tower Tech.
Australia office in France the base of France Galva Norway a division of ATA, the Queensland for the and Conimast where we have ten road safety barrier and signage development of our wire rope galvanizing plants and a lighting business.
Percentage of 2017 revenue 585.1m Percentage of 2017 underlying operating profit 81.3m shown by end market geography shown by location of the operating site UK 49% UK 42% USA 29% USA 43% Europe and ROW 22% Europe and ROW 15% www.
