At a Glance St. Jamess Place has grown consistently since it began trading in 1992, developing from a small life insurance company to become a leading FTSE 100 wealth management business today.
Funds under management St. Jamess Place Capital Funds under exceed J. Rothschild Assurance Group management is renamed St. Jamess Place 10 billion exceed St. Jamess Place Capital, later becoming Charitable Foundation 1 billion St. Jamess Place Wealth The Directors of J. Rothschild Management Assurance Group establish the St. Jamess Place Charitable Foundation Halifax Group St. Jamess Place Academy Halifax Group plc later HBOS LSE listing The first St. Jamess Place J. Rothschild Assurance Group and then Lloyds Banking Group The J. Rothschild Assurance Academy is launched acquires 60% of the issued Founded by Sir Mark Weinberg, Mike Group achieves a reverse share capital of the Group Wilson CBE and Lord Rothschild in takeover of St. Jamess 1991, the J. Rothschild Assurance Place Capital, securing Group begins trading in 1992 a public listing on the London Stock Exchange WHO ARE WE?
A leading provider of advice-led wealth management services in the Personalised face-to-face wealth management advice and services: UK and overseas.
Delivered through the Partnership: and A trusted adviser and manager of 90.7 billion of wealth for 633,000 Built on expertise, trust and developing long-term relationships.
A business that places trust at the heart of all we do and excellence A distinctive approach to investment management: in the standards we deliver.
Access to leading 3rd party fund managers from around the world: and A diverse range of investment funds and portfolios.
The security of a financially strong, FTSE 100 Group that guarantees the suitability of advice given by advisers when recommending any of our wealth management products and services.
Our awards Clients Number of clients 633,000 11% 2016: 571,800 Client retention 96% 2016: 96% St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 2 1991 1992 1995 1997 2000 2005 2006 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Funds under Rowan Dartington management St. Jamess Place acquires exceed Rowan Dartington, creating Funds under Funds under 50 billion the Groups discretionary fund management management management and stock exceed exceed broking arm Lloyds Banking Group 90 billion 25 billion Lloyds Banking Group disposes of its majority shareholding in St. Jamess Place Technical Connection St. Jamess Place acquires Technical Connection, a market leading technical Portfolios launched support services business St. Jamess Place introduces a range of Growth and Income FTSE 100 portfolios to the investment proposition St. Jamess Place enters the FTSE 100 St. Jamess Place Asia St. Jamess Place acquires The Henley Group, a leading wealth management business in Asia WHERE DO WE OPERATE?
Client Geographic Distribution Headquartered in Cirencester, England, we We are expanding our reach by: as at 31 December 2017 now have 22 office locations across the UK, Supporting the growth of Partner businesses: as well as premises in Hong Kong, Building out our Academy programmes: Singapore, Shanghai and Dublin.
Investing into St. Jamess Place Asia: and In the UK we have more than 3,500 advisers Growing our discretionary fund management 6% operating from their own premises or one of business.
our office locations, while more than 100 St. Jamess Place Asia advisers are spread We are broadening our client proposition by: across each of the three Asian territories in Evolving our Investment Management which we have a presence.
2% Approach: 24% In addition to the Partnership, we have Enhancing our intergenerational offering: and nearly 50 Rowan Dartington Investment Building our high net worth client proposition.
Executives providing discretionary fund 14% management services in the UK.
We are investing in technology, building on our 4% 4% multi-year back-office infrastructure programme.
Overseas clients account for 2% of our business.
The UK client geographic 22% distribution is set out in the map on 10% the right.
