Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 02 A At t a a G Gla lan nce ce Leaders in our markets.
We positively disrupt markets where we can become a leader, deliver great outcomes for customers and achieve high-quality returns for shareholders We are a specialist in our chosen markets serving four distinct groups Addressable market Trustees and scheme sponsors: Providing member security and fide-risking pension liabilities Defined benefit pension schemes fide-risking their liabilities by securing member benefits with an insurance contract.
600 Billion Market value of Defined Contribution Individuals: Providing pension savings retirement income People who have built up pension savings throughout their career and want a guaranteed income, flexible income or a combination in retirement.
1 trillion Property wealth owned by people aged 55 Homeowners: Accessing property wealth People aged 60 who want to access wealth locked up in their property.
2.5 trillion Corporate clients: Solving problems for companies Integrated We develop scalable retirement-focused solutions for banks, building societies, life assurance companies, pension scheme trustees, other corporate clients retirement and for their customers, clients and members.
services Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 03 with products and services Competitive position: A leader Developing Services Benefit AND competitive position Justs innovative approach using individual Defined Benefit fide-risking medical underwriting in this segment delivers Solutions DB better prices for trustees.
Solutions for pension scheme trustees to reduce the financial risks of operating pension schemes and increase certainty that members pensions will be paid in the future.
Marketed By using our unrivalled intellectual property, 1 Guaranteed Income productS Just provides an individually tailored for Life GIfL solution providing customers typically with A solution for individuals couples who double digit percentage increases in income want the security of knowing they will receive compared to standard products.
Justs Flexible Pension Plan has been Flexible Pension Plan FPP developed to enable people with modest A solution for a customer wanting to retain pension savings access to an affordable greater flexibility for their pension savings service.
The FPP can be used in conjunction and enabling irregular withdrawals.
with GIfL, enabling customers to mix and match to meet their needs.
Justs Care Plans can be tailored to Care Plans the individual and offer a tax-efficient A solution for people moving to residential solution to making payments to care who want the security of knowing a residential care providers.
regular payment will be made to the care provider for the rest of their life.
Just currently provides a range of lifetime Lifetime Mortgages LTM mortgages enabling people to meet a variety Solutions designed for people who want to 1 Reported in our of needs in later life.
release some of the value of their home.
Services Benefit AND competitive position HUB Financial Solutions HUB A regulated financial advice service for HUB has developed an innovative approach people who want a personal recommendation that is enabling people with modest pension on how to use their pension savings, or when savings to access an affordable regulated considering releasing some of the value advice service.
HUB also delivers face-to-face from their home.
nationwide advice at a time and place to suit the client.
Professional 2 services Support for organisations wanting to deliver Provides a range of business services tailored whole-of-market shopping around services to to the needs of the organisation, ranging 2 Reported in our Other source retirement income products for their from consultancy and software development segment.
See page 34 customers, employees or pension scheme to fully outsourced customer service delivery to learn more about HUB Financial Solutions.
