Overview At a Glance Our Business REGIONAL CLUSTERS DELIVERING ENHANCED PERFORMANCE The NMC Group continues to operate and manage its businesses through its two primary divisions, Healthcare and Distribution.
Business verticals Clusters NMC has developed specialised verticals Prior to 2017, operational decisions for improved control of the day to day within the broader healthcare delivery NMCs multi-specialty hospitals and clinics operations, allowed a better use of platform with  were made by the senior leadership delegated authorities and ultimately, capabilities and brands.
team and key decisions regarding day enhanced performance.
to day operations were elevated to the corporate office.
NMCs success in its During the development of the cluster geographical expansion, as part of the concept in H2 2017, the cluster leadership capability building and capacity growth was rigorously evaluated to ensure that strategy, resulted in a previously very the right team was in place.
In addition to effective organisational structure, which the Healthcare Division and individual was difficult to maintain operationally.
facility performance monitoring, Cluster This was particularly evident through the specific key performance indicators have Multi-specialty increasing cross relationships and patient been developed and assigned to each referral processes which were developed Cluster General Manager with the Network to cross utilise brands and businesses for additional brief of ensuring an appropriate the benefit of our patients which in turn structure in place to facilitate cross has improved the efficiency and use of business cooperation in developing each of our assets.
Therefore, within the UAE and the broader The Management team believe that this GCC, operational clusters were created on has enhanced both cost synergies and a geographic basis with more responsibility, revenue enhancement projects which Maternity accountability and business control have been in place across the Group.
placed in the hands of a new General & Fertility Manager appointed for each cluster.
This change has resulted in better facilitation of real-time decision making, Long-term & Home Care Other Middle East & North Africa 12 facilities 900 beds Operations Europe 4 countries & Management 15 facilities 50 doctors 4 countries Products & Consumables 2 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. Overview II.
V. RAK Umm Al Quwain Sharjah NMC has created regional clusters to aid the process of centralisation Dubai of key services to benefit from our strong growth over the past few years.
Abu Dhabi Al Ain Sharjah & Northern Emirates 20 facilities 379 beds 345 doctors Abu Dhabi 13 facilities Dubai 722 beds 643 doctors 9 facilities 206 beds 442 doctors Oman 12 facilities Saudi Arabia 127 beds 90 doctors 8 facilities 800 beds 5 cities NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 3 Overview At a Glance Strategy FUTURE GROWTH DRIVEN BY WELLDEFINED STRATEGY NMC focuses on underserved medical services and geographies within the countries it operates in and will continue to utilise organic and inorganic growth strategies to address these opportunities.
Our strategy is built on three key tenets Capacity Build Capabilities Focus Geographic Expansion 2015 Strategy Update 2017 Strategy Update Accelerate the establishment of Centres of Excellence ADDITION OF NEW VERTICALS in key specialities within existing hospitals.
Addition of new verticals focused on highly underserved Increase participation in the growing UAE medical segments in the UAE and wider GCC and further tourism industry and establish NMC as a destination development of Centres of Excellence.
Grow NMCs medical specialty offering and clinic TARGETING WIDER EMERGING MARKETS network within the UAE and maximising Expanding the healthcare business target market from operational synergies.
the GCC to wider emerging markets.
Establish a strategic presence outside the UAE with leading global medical institutions to enhance and FERTILITY TO BE DEVELOPED AS A GLOBAL BUSINESS expand technological know-how and medical expertise.
Fertility to be developed as a global business taking Increase NMCs footprint in Saudi Arabia and the broader advantage of substantial growth opportunities.
GCC via organic initiatives and acquisitions.
RAPID ADOPTION AND DEPLOYMENT OF TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATION Rapid adoption and deployment of technological innovation via both organic initiatives and acquisitions.
4 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. Overview II.
V. Our Growth Story 2014 2017 Growth 1 13 1,200% Number of countries 310 1,539 396% Number of licenced beds 12 129 975% Number of own & managed facilities 4.60 28.85 527% Share price NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 5 Overview At a Glance Where We Operate ENHANCING OUR GEOGRAPHICAL FOOTPRINT Denmark Copenhagen Slovakia Piestany United Arab Italy Emirates Bergamo Abu Dhabi Modena Al Ain Monza Dubai Sharjah Umm Al Quwain Spain Barcelona Madrid Jordan Colombia Brazil Kuwait Egypt Bogota So Paulo Saudi Arabia Al Khobar Jeddah Oman Muscat Yemen Socotra Colombia Denmark Slovakia 1 1 1 Brazil Spain Italy 4 3 3 Key to number of facilities Own and Operation & Management Own Operation & Management 6 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. Overview II.
V. UAE Oman Egypt Kuwait 6 8 2 96 Saudi Arabia Yemen Jordan 2 1 1 JORDAN KUWAIT EGYPT UAE SAUDI ARABIA OMAN YEMEN 129 13 c. 1,400 Facilities Operating in 13 countries Doctors 5.7m c. 14,000 Patients Employees NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 7
