SIG at a glance Our locations UK & IRELAND MAINLAND EUROPE UK & OTHER FRANCE GERMANY IRELAND EUROPE Revenue 1.3bn 661m 426m 387m Branches 234 207 59 85 Principal brands Leading #1 insulation #1 specialist #1 technical #1 insulation market interiors in UK roofing insulation interiors in Poland positions #1 specialist roofing #1 technical #3 structural #1 insulation in UK insulation insulation interiors in Benelux #1 insulation #3 structural #3 interiors European specialist interiors in Ireland insulation market leader in Air Handling #3 interiors Read about Marketplace on pages 12 to 13 04 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six Our products INSULATION & INTERIORS ROOFING & EXTERIORS AIR HANDLING SIG is the largest supplier of SIG is the largest and only national SIG is the largest pure-play insulation products in Europe and also specialist supplier of roofing products specialist distributor of air handling the largest supplier of interiors fit out in the UK and is the largest specialist products in Europe.
Key products: Key products: Key products: AIR HANDLING UNITS AND FANS STRUCTURAL AND TECHNICAL INSULATION TILES, SLATES, MEMBRANES AND DUCTS, COMPONENTS AND FIXINGS BATTEN FOR PITCHED ROOFS CONSTRUCTION ACCESSORIES AND FIXINGS VOLUME AND FIRE SINGLE-PLY FLAT ROOF SYSTEMS SMOKE DAMPERS CLADDING AND FAADE SYSTEMS INDUSTRIAL ROOFING AND DRY LINING CLIMATE CEILINGS AND CONTROLS CLADDING SYSTEMS GRILLS AND DIFFUSERS CEILING TILES AND GRIDS ROOM-IN-ROOF PANEL SYSTEMS PARTITION WALLS AND DOORSETS FLOOR COVERINGS 62% 29% 9% of Revenue of Revenue of Revenue 1,719m 815m 245m 2016: 1,571m 2016: 809m 2016: 207m NUMBER OF TRADING SITES: NUMBER OF TRADING SITES: NUMBER OF TRADING SITES: 311 253 93 of which 72 shared of which 72 shared with Air Handling with Insulation & interiors Market leader Market leader European specialist Market participant Market participant market leader www.
com Read about Performance on pages 24 to 27 05 www.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six BUSINESS O BU five SR IN five IE SW S OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT 06 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six In this section Q&A 08 Our business model 10 Our marketplace 12 Our strategy 14 Our KPIs 22 Performance 24 Financial review 28 Principal risks and uncertainties 42 Sustainability 46 07 www.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six Q&A with the Chief Executive Officer Highly disciplined execution will be key to delivering our strategy.
MEINIE OLDERSMA CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Youve been with SIG for under a year.
What have been your first impressions of the business?
Meinie Oldersma My view of SIG is that it is a very good business with great people and strong market positions.
Of course, the Groups performance has been disappointing over the last couple of years and SIG hasnt made the most of its potential.
Whilst the strategic direction was broadly right during that period, execution proved challenging, and a number of initiatives that were introduced simply added complexity and distraction.
I know that there is a good opportunity to bring this business back to health and, with the help of our people and branches, Im confident we can deliver a significantly improved financial and operational performance over the medium term.
Read more on our Marketplace on page 12 SIG now has its new leadership in place, and recently also a new Chairman.
MO Nick Maddock and I are both relatively new to SIG, but we and our Group Executive Committee are strongly aligned on our strategy for moving SIG forward.
Andrew Allner has also recently joined the business as Chairman and is very supportive of our strategic direction.
Along with the Board, he is fully involved and committed to our ambition to return SIG to financial health and to the way in which were working to deliver on our goal.
We all believe firmly that SIG is a very good business with a great heritage.
Were all clear on how we see the future for the Group and that our strategy is the right one for the future of SIG.
Read more on our Strategy on page 14 08 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six How would you sum up your strategy SIG has introduced new strategic goals for SIG for the medium term?
and a new leadership team a couple MO As we outline on pages 14 and 15 of this report, our of times in recent years, but has still strategy is to build on the potential that clearly exists within continued to face challenging times.
SIG, to deliver a significantly improved operational and What makes you think you will be financial performance.
Well do this by focusing on what we successful this time?
do best as a business, and in particular on customer service, customer value and operational efficiency.
MO Firstly, our strategy is a very simple one.
Were focusing on our core activities the things which our business and our To enable the delivery of our strategy, were working to people are very good at.
We havent introduced numerous improve our IT and our access to effective data.
Instead, were making sure were equipped to going to make sure that our teams have the capability to help deliver excellence across just three simple levers in support us deliver.
Our people and branches are key to our success, of improved performance: customer service, customer value, and so its essential that every employee understands our and operational efficiency.
direction and is engaged with it, and that our leaders and people managers are equipped and empowered to lead and Secondly, were investing in our people and our resources, to guide their teams to deliver the strategy.
equip our teams with the skills, tools, technology and support to enable the successful delivery of the strategy.
And finally, our strategy has been designed bottom up, and not top down.
That is to say that our starting point in putting You say that people and branches are our strategy together was to review the business with the key to the success of the strategy.
How leadership teams in each of our countries and operating will you empower and incentivise them companies.
Each part of the Group developed its own to deliver?
medium term plan, identifying opportunities for significantly improved operational and financial performance in its own MO Each of our countries and operating companies has area of operation.
issued a bespoke branch charter to every one of its branches.
The charter provides a clear framework for branch managers These plans showed numerous synergies, and came together responsibilities and authority levels, and also sets out key to form our overall Group-wide strategy.
From this, weve Group-wide bonus measures, translated into specific targets, developed detailed delivery plans and charters, which enable which can be tailored to suit each part of the business.
The the Group leadership team to ensure highly disciplined charter also identifies the key business levers, which will be execution and to carefully track progress.
So, our strategy is the focus for local delivery of the bonus measures.
not one that has been imposed on the business, and it Setting this out in a straightforward way, and with clarity and is set out in a way that is clear and measurable.
As such, it transparency, is just one way in which we are enabling the has the buy-in of our people, and is perceived as being business to focus on whats really important, empowering genuinely achievable.
people to own the strategy, incentivising them to deliver, and facilitating robust performance management.
Read more on our Business Model on page 10 Read more on our Performance on page 24 09 www.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six STRATEGIC REPORT
