Our business at a glance Delivering our services Investment Management We employ over We manage over Through Rathbone Investment Management, we provide personal discretionary investment management solutions 1,100 39.1bn to private clients with investible assets of 100,000 upwards.
Clients of this service can expect: people for our clients Direct access to their investment manager We operate from We are a An investment manager that understands their requirements and agrees a strategy that meets their objectives 15 FTSE 250 An investment process that aims to provide risk-adjusted 1 UK locations company listed on the returns to meet clients needs today and in the future and Jersey London Stock Exchange Within Investment Management, we have several specialist capabilities including: Charities Our charities business manages 4.7 billion of funds and is the second largest investment management provider to the top 5,000 charities in the UK.
The team is diverse, in both its expertise and experience, and aims to deliver a suitably tailored investment portfolio to meet the complex needs of charity clients and trustees.
Rathbone Greenbank Investments As one of the pioneers in the field of ethically-focused investments, Rathbone Greenbank Investments manages over 1.1 billion in ethical and socially-responsible investment portfolios for private clients, charities and trusts.
The team is highly proactive on ethical and sustainability issues, engaging directly with companies and government to improve business practices.
Rathbone Investment Management International Our offshore discretionary investment services are headquartered in Jersey and are provided by Rathbone Investment Management International.
Rathbone Private Office We have also recently established the Rathbone Private Office to help larger clients with more complex needs to protect, 1.
Includes Vision Independent Financial Planning enhance and organise their wealth across multiple managers, asset classes and investment markets.
2 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Managed Portfolio Service Investment Management funds under A simple and straightforward execution-only investment service management have increased by 102.4 % which gives clients with 15,000 or more the ability to access to33.8bn over the past five years high-quality investments.
The service is delivered at a price that reflects the competitive nature of our sector, but to a standard that clients have come to expect from Rathbones.
Private clients 36 8% ISAs 16 5% We also operate the following additional entities: Charities 13 4% Pensions 12 5% Rathbone Trust Company Trusts 11 4% Client account Other 9 4% Rathbone Trust Company provides UK trust and some legal, type by value estate and tax advice to clients.
Vision Independent Financial Planning Vision Independent Financial Planning is an independent IFA network providing financial advisory solutions to UK private clients.
0-250k 7 3% 250k-500k 11 9% Unit Trusts 500k-750k 9 7% 750k-1 5m 17 8% Rathbone Unit Trust Management is a leading UK fund manager 1 5m-5 0m 24 3% Size of with 5.3 billion of funds under management, providing a range 5 0m-10 0m 9 4% relationship 10m 19 6% of actively-managed specialist and multi asset unit trusts that are by value designed to meet core investment needs in the retail client market.
These funds are distributed primarily through financial advisers in the UK.
Funds can also be accessed by international clients through a Rathbone Luxembourg Funds SICAV Socit dInvestisement Complementary services Capital Variable which allows access to a similar range of actively managed master funds, through a master-feeder structure.
Banking and loan services We offer loans to our existing clients secured against their Unit Trusts funds under management have investment portfolios and, in some cases, other assets.
As a increased by 307.7% to 5.3bn over the past licensed deposit taker, we are also able to offer our clients a range of banking services including currency and payment services, five years and fixed interest term deposits.
These additional services are valued by our clients and are an important point of Rathbone Income Fund 1 433m differentiation from many of our peers.
Rathbone Global Opportunities Fund 1 168m Financial planning Rathbone Ethical Bond Fund 1 100m Rathbone Active We offer in-house financial planning, which provides whole of Income Fund for Charities 173m market advice to clients.
Our in-house financial plannersare 5,367m Rathbone Global Alpha Fund127m experts at thinking ahead andhave long-standing experience of Rathbone Strategic Bond Fund 108m Rathbone Blue Chip Income advising individuals, couplesand families, companies and trusts.
and Growth Fund 78m Rathbone UK Opportunities Fund 61m Unitised Portfolio Service Rathbone Multi Asset Portfolio Funds 736m Other funds 383m Using Rathbone Multi Asset Portfolio Funds, we offer clients with investible assets of 25,000 or more our model-based discretionary investment management services.
This is designed for clients who do not require a fully bespoke investment solution, but still want access to an investment manager who will undertake suitability to ensure investment needs are selected and monitored to suit their individual circumstance, as well as ensuring that their investments are managed in a tax-efficient manner.
com 3 Progress with relationships We place individuality at the centre of our approach and are committed to continuing to offer our clients a personal service.
During the year we have: upgraded our client management systems improved our communication programmes implemented a new way of capturing and evaluating our clients attitude to investment risk.
Read more on our business model on page 8 4 Strategic report Progress with knowledge We use our intellectual capital to set us apart and continue to invest in new skills and capabilities.
During the year we have: improved firm-wide access to research team outputs developed our portfolio monitoring processes and increased the use of asset allocation tools completed an extensive range of training and development courses.
Read more on our business model on page 8 rathbones.
com 5 Progress with advisers We work with a wide range of financial and other professional advisers, helping them navigate changing markets and new regulations.
During the year we have: established a stronger presence in the intermediary market continued growth in Vision Independent Financial Planning invested in infrastructure to support our own internal financial planning teams.
Read more on our business model on page 8 6 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 Strategic report We maintain high standards of service delivery by adapting and evolving our processes.
During the year we have: established the infrastructure necessary to support more efficient deployment of IT across the firm implemented the changes necessary to meet the requirements of MiFID II Markets in Financial Instruments Directive continued to improve our data management capabilities.
Read more on our business model on page 8 Progress with advisers Progress with quality rathbones.
