Strategy at a glance Strategic priority Description 2017 achievements Key performance indicators 2018 priorities Risk We anticipate market trends and Sales of new products launched in the Protection of IP Market penetration of SyNovus Research and 1 20% customer requirements to deliver lastfive years was at 20.0% of total Competition improved products with improved revenuefor the second consecutive year.
Market cyclicality Revenue from new Secure site for Asian Innovation centre development marginand product differentiation.
products less than Launch of patented SyNovus, next andtechnical fiveyears old.
 process expertise to acceleratedtomeet market demand.
exploit new Board approval to evaluate a new markets state-of-the-art Innovation centre in Asia.
We operate continuous improvement Utilised value gap analysis to embed Completion of our energy reduction projects Raw material price volatility Driving efficiency 2 176.2m 3.46 across our operations to improve operational excellence tools and drive Accidents or environmental incident production efficiency, sales effectiveness improved performance.
Continued use of our Manufacturing Failure of Plant or systems Underlying EBITDA Energy consumption and excellence and functional excellence.
We seek Excellence Process to drive improved Compliance GJ tonne Begun the roll out of our Customer through toidentify good practice in all areas of performance.
Financial market volatility Relationship Management system across our business and ensure that relevant business totrace new product leads, operations learnings are disseminated throughout 130.0m 0.13 Global roll-out of CRM.
capitalise oncustomers needs and enhance the business.
Underlying PBT Recordable crossselling opportunities.
Introduce Commercial Excellence accident frequency Delivery of strategic procurement initiative rate toprovide resilience to security of supply and leverage our procurement of key rawmaterials.
Our aim is to drive profitability through Debottlenecked our site in Marl Germany Use at value gap methodology to identify Competition Capacity 3 176.2m 130.0m maximum utilisation of our assets.
and unlock hidden capacity in our assets.
Raw material price volatility Thisinvolves identifying the root Failure of Plant or systems Underlying EBITDA Underlying PBT utilisation Disposal of Leuna Germany site and causesof production bottlenecks announcement of rationalisation of Ribcourt andfinding innovative solutions.
France site as part of the development of the 30.7p 1,443.8 manufacturing networkfollowing the Underlying EPS Volume Wet ktes acquisition of PAC Dispersions.
We seek to add capacity, particularly Approved capacity and capability Use of Project Excellence methodology to Failure of projects 4 Investment 176.2m 130.0m ingrowth markets.
expansions at SBR plants in Marl Germany deliver our capacity improvement projects.
Market cyclicality and Oulu Finland and powder coatings in Underlying EBITDA Underlying PBT in capacity SantAlbano Italy.
Use of Project Excellence methodology 30.7p 1,443.8 incapacity expansion projects in Malaysia Underlying EPS Volume Wet ktes and Germany results in projects being on time and on budget.
We actively seek opportunistic boltWe completed the acquisition of Speciality We are highly active in identifying, Availability of suitable opportunities Business 5 176.2m 130.0m onacquisitions in similar chemistries Additives with one new plant, and targetingand reviewing opportunities, Failure of acquisition ortransformational step change introducednew products.
bothin relation to bolt on acquisitions to deliver benefits Underlying EBITDA Underlying PBT growth through transactions not limited by geography andtransformational step change Financial market volatility Agreed to acquire BASFs Pischelsdorf site in orchemistry.
acquisitions Austria, which completed on 31 January 2018.
30.7p Underlying EPS Drive integration and synergies from Delivered PAC Dispersions synergies run Read more on pages 32 37 BASFPischelsdorf rate savings of $12m by end of 2018 likely Read more on pages 24 25 further $2m of run rate savings beyond 2019.
18 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Strategic priority Description 2017 achievements Key performance indicators 2018 priorities Risk We anticipate market trends and Sales of new products launched in the Protection of IP Market penetration of SyNovus Research and 1 20% customer requirements to deliver lastfive years was at 20.0% of total Competition improved products with improved revenuefor the second consecutive year.
