At a glance Spire Healthcare provides diagnostics, in-patient, daycase and out-patient care throughout the UK.
We also own and operate the sports medicine, physiotherapy and rehabilitation brand, Perform.
A well What we provide diversified business Our services Providing high-quality patient care is 2017 Percentage of revenue Consultants our top priority.
To improve our patient Improving the quality of our facilities offering, we invest consistently in a Orthopaedics and providing a wide range of services wide range of services and treatments and highly-trained staff, so that our Gynaecology, 22.8 at each stage of the care pathway: from plastic surgery, experienced consultant body can deliver urology and initial GP referral, through consultation, outstanding healthcare.
others 50.7 diagnosis and treatment, to recovery Working with consultants throughout High acuity and rehabilitation.
their careers to develop their skills and 26.5 services, including their private practices.
cardiology, A growing market cardiothoracic, Diagnostics neurosurgery, Growing and ageing population oncology Investing in the latest scanning and general Driven by a growing and ageing technology, skilled clinicians and surgery population with a higher incidence comprehensive pathology services to In-patient and daycase revenue.
of long-term and chronic conditions, Source: Company information.
provide prompt and accurate diagnoses, such as cancer, obesity and diabetes.
giving patients the reassurance that comes from a clear treatment plan.
2017 Key activities % NHS funding gap Funding and capacity constraints are Treatment and surgery Diagnostic forecast to continue throughout this Offering a wide range of treatment and 15.2 Out-patient Parliament and beyond.
The independent surgery, including good outcomes for services sector can help to bridge the gap.
routine procedures such as knee and hip 14.1 In-patient replacements, and specialist procedures and daycase across our network, providing choice procedures to patients.
70.7 Recovery From high dependency and intensive care units to our injury rehabilitation facilities, Excludes other revenue.
Further details can be found on page 34. getting patients back on their feet as fast Source: Company information.
Primary care Working with GPs to facilitate speedy, convenient and fully informed referrals.
Enabling patients to make a considered choice at the start of the care pathway.
We are investing in our own hospitalbased primary care service to offer patients convenience and to facilitate speedier referrals.
Read more Page 4 and 5 2 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Spire Bristol Spire Leicester Spire Portsmouth Spire Little Aston Good to Spire Healthcare aims to be Operational excellence First choice for Outstanding the best place to practice in everything we do self-paying patients Read more Page 16 Read more Page 24 Read more Page 30 Read more Page 42 Who we serve Our hospitals span the country, serving 39 a diversified patient mix, made up of: hospitals Private medical insurance PMI Self-pay NHS patients 11 clinics Read more Page 4 and 5 1 specialist cancer care centre 1 diagnostic centre 775,000 patients 3,900 consultants 8,380 Service coverage full-time equivalent staff where its needed Our network of hospitals covers major population centres across the country.
Map key Spire Healthcare Hospitals Spire Healthcare Clinics Spire Healthcare Diagnostic Centre Specialist Cancer Care Centre People per sq km 0250 250500 5001,000 1,0001,500 1,5002,500 3 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017
