Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Highlights STRONG PERFORMANCE PROJECT HIGHLIGHTS World-class resource Stage 1 financing complete Commencement of construction Defined the worlds largest US$1.2 billion commitment high-grade deposit of Construction officially Largest UK mining equity polyhalite.
2.66 billion tonnes of highLargest ever convertible Sirius has engaged world grade polyhalite from only 7% note issue by an AIM leading construction partners of the Project area.
to deliver a world-class Largest ever UK royalty operation.
Approvals in place Have all the approvals Sales and marketing required to construct and Global sales commitments for operate the largest mine of its 4.4 Mtpa take-or-pay supply type anywhere in the world in agreements.
Extensive and ongoing global R&D programme.
2.66 billion US$1.2 billion 4.4 Mtpa tonne resource stage 1 financing complete global take-or-pay supply agreements in place 2 2 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 PERFORMANCE AGAINST MILESTONES IN 2017 Complete site preparation works Progress design activities for MTS Expand breadth and depth of the at Woodsmith Mine and Lockwood and front-end design for harbour agronomy programme Beck and MHF Over 260 trials on 32 crops Site access works complete.
MTS scope of work at in 17countries.
advanced commercial Haul road, drainage, Over 80 new trials discussion stage with multiple concrete batch plant and commenced during 2017. contractors.
Design scope for MHF and Seek a Premium Listing and move overland conveyor complete to the Main Market Site welfare facilities installed and out for commercial Premium Listing obtained and operational.
MTS and reinjection pads Port outsourcing opportunities FTSE 250 inclusion complete.
are being negotiated in obtainedat half-year parallel with internal design indexre-weighting.
Substantially complete D-wall and build process.
installation for production and 2017 total shareholder service shafts return of 24% vs 14% for Scope of D-walling activities Execute incremental supply theFTSE 250. agreements was substantially increased Supply agreement signed with the change to wider Preparation work for stage 2 with Wilmar International for foreshafts.
financing execution in late 2018 South East Asia: seven year Progress on production shaft Key advisors appointed term, peaking at 0.75 Mtpa.
has been deferred to allow for and due diligence Commercial discussions in the SM14B drilling programme.
programme well other key regions Europe, advanced.
Brazil, China, Africa progressing well.
On track for stage 2 financing requirements.
3 3 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
