Alfa at a glance We analyse our business in a number of ways geographies, revenue types, customer types and industry verticals Where we operate 246 71 12 Alfa team members Alfa team members Alfa team members at December 2017 at December 2017 at December 2017 Europe USA Rest of World We have 23 customers based in We won our first significant We started our Australasia Europe, including two ongoing US customer in 2010 and operations over 10 years ago implementation customers as since then have grown our and we have three customers at 31 December 2017.
US revenues to 42.2 million in Australia and New Zealand.
Alfa Systems has been implemented and is live in We have six customers, eight European countries, with including three ongoing a further expansion underway implementation customers into 10 countries over the next at December 2017. two years.
The UK contributes the most significant portion of revenue to our European segment, generating 30.7 million in 2017.
Our revenue streams 51% 24% 25% of 2017 revenue of 2017 revenue of 2017 revenue Software Maintenance ODS We have 30 customers paying Ongoing development implementation annual maintenance amounts.
and services We have five ongoing Maintenance includes support implementations.
Alfa ODS represents additional services such as help desk implementations can range services or development and fixes.
from nine months up to five provided to customers with years, depending on the live portfolios.
This work is complexity of the lending undertaken once the customer portfolio, the number of is fully live on Alfa Systems, or systems being replaced in the instance of a customer and the level of change with multiple portfolios, management required.
across different geographies or industry verticals, services During an implementation are rendered from the first there may be a number of go live date.
go live events as different portfolios are migrated.
Services include migration, development of customer specific requirements, testing and training.
2 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Our customer by type 55% 24% 21% of 2017 revenue of 2017 revenue of 2017 revenue Banks OEMs Independents Customers classified as Original Equipment and Independent customers are banking institutions are automotive Manufacturers customers who are neither finance entities associated part of a regulated banking OEMs include both equipment with regulated banking groups.
group nor manufacturers of and automotive manufacturers, the asset being financed.
whose main purpose is the sale of the asset rather than the Independent customers tend provision of financing.
to be smaller, both in portfolio volumes and personnel using Alfa Systems.
Our verticals 40% 60% of 2017 revenue of 2017 revenue Equipment finance Automotive finance Equipment finance covers a myriad of asset Automotive finance includes types, although at Alfa we predominantly new and used cars.
Our service the lending for agriculture, customers can be banking manufacturing, mining, construction and institutions providing transportation equipment.
finance to dealers, OEMs or independent sellers of Historically lending products on offer have automotive vehicles.
been relatively vanilla yet more recently there has been a visible increase in the appetite for consumption based or subscription models.
Generally lenders classified as equipment financers have a variety of assets under finance in their portfolios and may have some automotive finance as well, but this is not the predominant asset.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 3
