G4S at a glance G4S is the worlds leading global, integrated security We offer a broad range of security products and company specialising in the delivery of security and services on a single, multiservice and integrated basis.
We have been investing in technology, software and systems.
The Groups technologyrelated security revenues were 2.45 billion in 2017 2016: 2.2 billion.
Technology-related security revenues are from the sale of security technology 0.7 billion and security solutions which combine our people with technology technology-enabled security: 1.75 billion.
OUR BUSINESSES SECURITY SERVICES AND TECHNOLOGY 77% SECURE SOLUTIONS 84% OF CORE BUSINESS Market Our approach REVENUES G4S operates an integrated security business in more Against the backdrop of growing demand, we design, than 90 countries across the globe.
The global security market and deliver a wide range of security and related market has structural growth qualities see page 8 for services and our global footprint provides valuable a description of the growth drivers and is highly access to a highly-diversified customer base in markets fragmented: there are few international suppliers and around the world.
Some traditional security markets are our competitors are typically smaller local and regional commoditised and significant price competition exists companies.
The security industry is seeing growing we aim to differentiate G4S by providing industrydemand for technology-enabled and integrated security leading security solutions that are innovative, reliable and solutions which combine people and technology efficient.
Our scale and focus on productivity support, to deliver cost-effective security, especially in our cost competitiveness and our sustained investment developed markets.
in professional staff, technology, software and systems enable us to provide innovative and reliable solutions for our customers on a stand-alone or integrated basis.
CARE & JUSTICE SERVICES 7% Market Our approach G4S Care & Justice Services are concentrated in the We aim to achieve positive outcomes for those in the UK and Australia.
The market for the private provision care and justice system.
G4S will only offer custody, of care and justice services is fairly consolidated with a detention, rehabilitation and care services where we small number of large providers.
Larger companies are can access a qualified talent pool and where the usually better equipped to deliver the highly specialised political, legal, human rights and regulatory framework services in this sector, working with a diverse supply isconsistent with our Group values and results in chain including the voluntary sector.
In the UK the acceptable operational, commercial and reputationalrisk.
market environment is mature with limited growth opportunities.
In the short to medium term we expect the environment to be more positive in Australia.
CASH SOLUTIONS CASH SOLUTIONS 16%OFCORE BUSINESS Market Our approach REVENUES G4S Cash Solutions is one of a small number of large, We transport, process, recycle, store securely and global cash businesses and is the market leader or manage cash, and provide secure international logistics number two in 40 of its 42 markets.
Each market is for cash and valuables.
Our strategy is designed to highly regulated, often by central banks, and the business enable us to aggregate cash-handling volumes through requires significant infrastructure and expertise.
G4S cost leadership and product and service differentiation.
competes with local, national and a small number We invest in technology and sell proprietary of international competitors.
Cash volumes in most cash-management systems which combine skilled developed markets are flat or gradually declining at an professionals with software, hardware and operational aggregate market level.
Cash usage continues to increase support in an integrated, managed service.
To support in emerging markets see page 8 for cash usage trends.
cost leadership we strive for a consistent operating The Group sees significant revenue-growth opportunities model and use shared services to maximise efficiency.
in providing technology solutions to reduce the cost and We operate around the globe, focusing on markets increase the ease of using cash for banks and retailers.
where we are able to build and sustain a material market share in our key service offerings.
Outside the traditional cash market, there remains significant opportunity for retail cash and bank branch automation services that have mainly remained in-house until now.
2 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 SECURING YOUR WORLD Strategic report G4S plays a valuable and an important role in society.
Weprovide direct employment for over half a million people around the world and make a difference by helping people to live and work in safe and secure environments.
G4S takes a fullyintegrated approach to its strategy and Corporate Social Responsibility.
This is reflected in this report and please see page 18 for more information on our CSR approach and impact on society.
OUR STRATEGY Our strategy addresses the positive, We aim to do this by delivering industry longterm demand for security and related leading, innovative solutions and services, and our enduring strategic aim is outstanding service to our customers, by Secure Solutions to demonstrate the values and performance providing engaging and rewarding work for that make G4S the company of choice for employees and by generating sustainable Integrated Managed customers, employees and shareholders.
growth and returns for our shareholders.
Services These aims are underpinned by the key Security Software & Hardware programmes in our strategic plan: Systems Integration Consultancy Services Monitoring & Response Integration Manned & Mobile Security, FM Care & Justice Services PEOPLE AND VALUES CUSTOMERS AND TECHNOLOGY AND SERVICE EXCELLENCE INNOVATION Monitoring technology & Services Custody, Detention & Rehabilitation Secure FM Forensics & Secure Health Patient Transport Integration Secure Transport Please see pages 14 and OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE FINANCIAL AND 15 for moredetails.
AND PRODUCTIVITY COMMERCIAL DISCIPLINE Cash Solutions OUR VALUES Cash Technology and Services Cash Processing Our people and values underpin everything we ATM Services do.
Our One G4S model brings all areas of our business together and is designed to ensure that the International Secure Logistics way we go about our business is consistent across Integration CIT our global operations and is strongly aligned with our strategy and our values.
We believe that this approach will generate significant benefits for our customers, employees and shareholders.
Please see pages 22 to 58 for case studies of our values in action and sustainable development goals.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 3 Margin Margin Margin
