GREGGS AT A GLANCE Becoming the customers favourite for food-on-the-go Greggs is a strong and trusted brand and Our operations Investment to Ownership of our supply chain means that we we draw on our heritage in fresh bakery to reshape our supply can make good, freshly prepared food accessible chain to support compete successfully in the food-on-the-go to everyone at great value in an extremely shop growth: market.
Having made strong progress in competitive market place.
By managing our own recent years, we have set the bar higher logistics operation we can remain focused on the 100m with our vision and strategic plan reflecting customer, delivering what our shops and longer-term ambitions and commitment customers need on time and in full.
Investment to to putting the customer at the heart of modernise and Our target market our strategy.
centralise our Greggs is a brand with universal appeal and we systems and have been working hard to ensure we understand Our purpose processes: our customers and evolve our offer in response to Our business began in the 1930s, serving fresh their changing needs as we continue our journey bakery products to working families in the North 25m to become the customers favourite for food-onEast at prices everyone could afford.
just as keen for Greggs to have a positive impact on peoples lives.
With ambitions to grow to over 2,000 Our market locations shops nationwide and ownership of our supply chain, As the internet changes the way we shop and we are in a unique position to make good, freshly food-on-the go eating habits evolve, we have prepared food accessible to everyone.
built on our existing estate of shops to take Greggs where our customers want us to be.
Our vision As a result, we can now be found in retail parks, In recent years we have shown we can be a winning shopping centres, industrial estates and office brand in the food-on-the-go market and our vision is parks.
We are also located where our customers to become the customers favourite for food-on-theneed us when travelling, with shops in travel go.
To achieve this, we have been working hard to see hubs, roadside locations with parking and now the business through the eyes of our customers.
Through our franchise continue to invest in understanding their needs and partnerships we are also in motorway service ensure we have amazing teams in place to deliver the stations and petrol forecourts.
fast and friendly service our customers know and love.
Insight provided by our award-winning Greggs Rewards app and dedicated customer insight team helps to inform decision making throughout the business and better meet customer needs every day.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 04 Strategic Report Business Model WHAT WE DO WHERE WE OPERATE WHAT WE OFFER Manufacturing Delivery Shopping Travel Quality Convenience Shops Support Work Leisure Value Service Strategy Great tasting, freshly Best customer Competitive First class prepared food experience supply chain support teams Turn to page 08 to find out more.
Risks and uncertainties Business Product quality Food Loss of Market Consumer change and safety scare production pressure trends Turn to page 33 to find out more.
Positive impact Customer Responsible Community Environment People health sourcing We encourage We care about We share our We aim to use We are committed healthier food-onwhere our ingredients success with the energy efficiently to creating a great the-go choices come from people around us and minimise waste place to work Turn to pages 16-23 to find out more.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 05
