02 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT AT A GLANCE VALUE INVESTING Shareholders money is principally invested in UNDERLYING DISCOUNT TO NET ASSET VALUE companies with three key features: Their shares trade at discounts to net asset value 1 % They have high-quality underlying assets and 34.1 strong balance sheets There is likely to be an event that will narrow the discount NUMBER OF INVESTMENTS 2 45 of which 15 are held in Japanese Special Situations see page 30 See information on AVI, page 16 THE INVESTMENTS BENCHMARK Shareholders money is principally invested in three The return of the portfolio is measured against the types of company: MSCI All Country World ex-US Index return.
Investment Holding Companies Investment Companies Asset-backed Companies The Investment Manager can invest anywhere in the world.
In practice, they find most opportunities in Europe and the Far East.
See Investment Managers Review, page 16 See Chart, page 5 PERFORMANCE FEES Over the past ten years, the Company has The Investment Manager charges 0.7% of net assets.
produced a compound average annual net asset There is no performance fee.
The Companys total value total return of 6.3%.
There have been periods annual costs known as Ongoing Charges are 0.87% of underperformance when compared with the of net assets.
benchmark but, over the longer term, the Board believes that the Investment Managers style of investment will provide higher than average returns for investors.
Over the year under review, the level of absolute return was exceptionally strong and the net asset value total return outperformed the 1 Lookthrough benchmark index.
2 These figures treat Fondul Proprietatea See KPIs, page 10 Romanian and See KPIs, page 10 See Investment Managers Review, page 16 London listings as one stock.
British Empire Trust plc 03 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Investment Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information DIVIDENDS DISCOUNTS AND BUY-BACKS The Investment Manager focuses on capital growth, The Companys shares have been trading at a but the Company has either maintained or increased discount to their net asset value.
The Company its ordinary dividends for the past 30 years.
When manages the volatility of the discount through a an exceptionally high payment is received from policy of buying back its own shares.
an investee company, the Company occasionally pays a special dividend.
The Board would expect in future years at least to maintain the level of ordinary dividends.
See Chairmans Statement, page 6 See Chairmans Statement, page 6 GEARING The Company is geared by its Debenture Stock We expect that long-term returns and also by Loan Notes that were issued in January 2016.
A further issue of Loan Notes was announced on equities will exceed the cost after the financial year end and these were issued on of debt and it is expected that 1 November 2017. the portfolio will be fully invested, provided there are attractive opportunities in our universe.
Joe Bauernfreund Chief Investment Officer See Chairmans Statement, page 6 GOVERNANCE AND RISK ACCOUNTS The Company has a Board of Directors which is The Company has net assets of 903.2m and gross responsible for oversight of the Investment Manager investment income of 17.4m.
and also the risks and controls operated by the Company.
The aim is to secure attractive returns without undue risk.
All figures are as at 30 September 2017, See Strategic Report, page 10 or for the year ended on See Financial Statements, page 51 See Governance, page 36 that date, except where stated otherwise.
