At a glance ZPG helps empower smarter property and household decisions We operate a multi-brand, multi-channel approach across the property lifecycle with an unrivalled product proposition providing us with unique cross-sell opportunities.
Our websites and mobile apps attract over 50 million visits per month with a highly engaged audience and over 25,000 business partners engage with our services toreach this audience.
Money is one of the UKs leading financial TechnicWeb is the UKs leading estate agency Our mission is to be the platform services comparison websites, helping website design and hosting business specialising ofchoice for consumers and consumers compare products including in designing and operating fully responsive partners engaged in property mortgages, loans, credit cards, bank accounts websites for the property sector.
and insurance from more than 600 providers.
Ravensworth is the UKs leading provider of Zoopla is the UKs most comprehensive PrimeLocation is one of the UKs leading print solutions to estate agents and offers a property website, helping consumers to comprehensive range of products and services property websites, helping house-hunters in research the market and find their next the middle upper tiers of the market find their for every stage of the property marketing home by combining hundreds of thousands journey from listing through to post-sale.
dream home from the top estate agents, of property listings with market data and letting agents and property developers.
Alto, Jupix and ExpertAgent are some local information.
SmartNewHomes is the UKs leading of the leading cloud-based estate agency uSwitch is the UKs leading comparison website dedicated exclusively to new and property management software systems website for home services switching, helping homes, helping buyers understand the used by thousands of property professionals consumers to find the best deal and save market and search for new build homes across the UK for the day-to-day management money on their gas, electricity, broadband, from all the leading property developers of inventory, marketing and communications.
TV, phone and other products.
PropertyFile and MoveIT are innovative Hometrack is a leading supplier of automated tools used by estate agents to improve communication and efficiency with their property valuations and property market Read more about our new acquisitions on page 09 insights in the UK and Australia to partners customers and to allow them to generate additional revenue streams via referrals.
including mortgage lenders, developers, investors, housing associations and others.
Portfolio of brands and products PROPERTY COMPARISON Marketing Software Data Energy Communications Finance 04 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Y T R E Strategic report P O R P A unique investment opportunity Our key differentiators 1 World-class team with 3 Underlying structural growth 5 Enhanced revenue diversity 7 Strong margin leverage proven track record of creating significant upside with multi-channel strategy with excellent cash innovation and execution opportunities generation conversion 6 Exciting cross-sell opportunity 2 Market-leading brands 4 Successful M&A strategy across consumers and partners 8 Outstanding returns with strong awareness supporting strong balanced with investment and engagement organic growth in growth With a well-diversified revenue profile Energy 22% Marketing 32% A multi-brand, multi-channel approach 16% 8% Communications 8% 14% Software Data Finance Source: 2017 pro forma revenues.
The figures include a full twelve months trading from TechnicWeb, Hometrack, ExpertAgent, Ravensworth and Money in order to give a more meaningful comparative.
