Mitchells & Butlers at a glance CITY FO UR % of total sales Number of sites DI VISIONS 22% 316 Our businesses located in city centre D RIVING and large town locations.
MARKET S HARE PREMIUM % of total sales Number of sites We love building innovative brands and formats and run some of the 26% 400 countrys best-known pubs and Our businesses with high spend per head and food sales.
So whether youre in the mood for the perfect steak close to home, or a pint of real ale and some hearty food in a buzzing town centre pub, weve a business to suit R ESTAURANTS every occasion.
% of total sales Number of sites 30% 478 Our branded food offers with high food sales.
PUBS % of total sales Number of sites 22% 501 Our pub businesses with higher drinks sales as a proportion of total sales.
12 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIALSTATEMENTS 88TO139 OTHERINFORMATION 140TO144 CITY Alex 43 sites All Bar One 55 sites Browns 25 sites Castle 115 sites Nicholsons 77 sites If youre out in a German city From cocktails to a Since the first Browns If you like a place with real Youll feel right at home centre, these classic bars are well-chosen bottle of wine or opened in 1973, its been personality, pull up a chair in these traditional city and the perfect places to stop for an excellent meal, youll find providing delicious food and in one of our urban pubs town centre pubs that have a beer and a bite to eat.
something to suit you in our drink and superb service in serving the best draught been loved since our first stylish city bars.
PREMIUM Miller & Carter 84 sites Premium Country Vintage Inns 189 sites We put everything into We manage some of the best 126 sites pursuing the perfect steak country pubs in the UK, all Our traditional pubs have been at Miller & Carter so only offering modern pub food stylishly refurbished to make the finest cuts make it to and outstanding drinks.
them the perfect place to find a your plate.
cosy corner and take time out.
R ESTAURANTS Crown Carveries Harvester 208 sites Stonehouse 82 sites Toby Carvery 164 sites A welcoming place for Alongside our traditional We lay on a feast of tender, 24 sites families to spend time carvery, we serve up slow-cooked meats, eight We serve a traditional roast together, have fun and handmade pizza made with lots of veg including crispy, dinner with a great choice share the pleasure of good, fresh dough: plus burgers and ruffled roasties and all of delicious joints every day honest food.
pub classics at a great price.
PUBS Ember Inns 147 sites High Street 112 sites Suburban 242 sites Relaxed and welcoming Our High Street pubs are the A collection of the friendliest suburban pubs.
We serve perfect place for decent food pubs.
What unites these the best cask ales and classic and quality beer and at pubs is unbeatable value pub food with a twist in prices that put other pubs for money, generosity, stylish environments.
Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 13
