About Us Bellway at a glance Building value at a local and national level Our office locations our Group structure We are proud of our heritage in the north east of England and our base in Newcastle upon Tyne, where the business 11 was founded over 70 years ago.
It is from our headquarters in Newcastle upon Tyne that we currently operate through 19 divisions covering the main population centres across England, Scotland and Wales, as shown on the map to the right.
Our divisional structure allows local management teams to respond to specific demands in their area and, through their detailed local knowledge, acquire land on which to design and build homes that meet or exceed the expectations of our customers and contribute to creating strong local communities.
The divisional teams are supported by our Regional Chairmen and by our specialist Head Office teams.
Building value locally our product and customer mix We build high quality homes designed to complement the style of existing local housing in developments that meet local demand and enhance the community.
With a range that extends from one-bedroom apartments to sixbedroom family homes, we offer an extensive choice from which customers can choose a property that fits their particular requirements.
We also provide homes to housing associations for social housing.
Our focus is to provide desirable, traditional family housing across our divisions outside London and apartments within the London boroughs, with our activity in London predominantly in zone 2 and beyond.
Results for 2016 17 During the 2016 17 year we sold 9,644 homes, paid 136.6 million in dividends and employed an average of 2,544 employees.
North London Crossways, Slough, Berkshire.
We continue to focus on our growth strategy to help us build on our success in 2017 18 and beyond.
Our capacity for growth We believe our long-term growth prospects remain compelling: 19 divisions provide capacity of c. 11,000 homes p. a. strong balance sheet and operating capacity provides ability to progress further divisional expansion and volume growth.
a diverse range of product allows divisions to acquire a wide range of sites.
experienced high rise London developer with an affordable price point.
For more information on our strategy see pages 14 and 15.
Thames Gateway Dockside, Canary Wharf, London Borough of Tower Hamlets.
02 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information 11 1 7 2 Scotland 11 Head Office 20 North East Durham 6 9 Yorkshire Manchester North West 19 3 West Midlands 13 East Midlands South Midlands Essex 10 Northern Home North Counties 4 London Wales 8 South West 17 14 Thames Gateway 15 Thames Valley Kent 5 16 12 South Wessex London 18 03 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017
