Strategic Report At a glance Strength and breadth ofcapabilities We help clients to finance, plan, design, We have a breadth of capabilities construct and maintain their assets.
Weare also delivering essential Turn to pages 42-43 every-day services to our clients Property for more information and communities.
Our property development and financing business operates across the UK.
Regional player Non-speculative focus Our vision Top 3 trader developer in the UK Occupier-led strategy 10-year Our vision is to be a world-class, 10-year visibility of pipeline visibility of pipeline customer-focused company that invests Core scheme value 10m-70m in, builds, maintains and renews the places where we live, work and play.
Capabilities Asset management Project investment Our values Bespoke occupier solutions Property development Joint ventures Regeneration Partnerships Structured finance Collaborative We work together: we consult to reach the right solution and as a team achieve more.
Turn to pages 44-45 Residential for more information Kier Living, our residential business, includes affordable mixed tenure and private house building.
Its partners and clients include local authorities, housing associations and the private rented sector.
It is well positioned across all tenures of new Enthusiastic home build.
We make things happen: we are Mixed tenure resourceful problem-solvers, who National coverage enjoy what wedo and get thejob done.
Broad capabilities new 2,200 build and maintenance services new homes built in Private 2016 17 Regional focus Modest sales price range Forward-thinking We look ahead: we positively challenge Capabilities the way we do things to excel, and Affordable housing Private rental sector wecare about our customers and the Mixed tenure housing Private residential housing service we provide.
Mixed-use communities Regeneration 2 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Our unique investment proposition combines a record of performance withstrong market positions, Turn to pages 46-47 established client relationships Construction for more information andcapital recycling.
Construction comprises UK building and UK infrastructure and international construction.
Kier is a sector leader in the education and health markets.
Market positions Building the UKs leading regional builder with UK regional focus with national coverage and revenue of more than 1.8bn complementary Middle Eastern operations Infrastructure one of the leading infrastructure A high-volume of modest value building 50 50 players in the UK with revenue greater than 1.5bn projects public and private Housing a top three provider of mixed tenure Diversified range of contracts sector presence housing and maintenance services with a revenue Track record on national and regional ofover 800m frameworks Public and private sector balance Long-term client relationships Capabilities A broad spectrum of clients across both the public Building small works to Engineering design and private sectors major projects Interiors and refurbishment Established positions on numerous local, regional and Civil engineering Mechanical and electrical national frameworks Construction management Rail services 1bn of revenue derived from clients who work with Design and build two or more parts of the Group Technical services Specialist expertise and collaborative working Turn to pages 48-51 Services for more information Breadth of capabilities that clients can draw upon Ability to provide a unique package of services Services comprises strategic and local authority highways Delivered in collaboration maintenance, utilities, housing maintenance, facilities management and environmental services.
Kier provides essential, every-day services to our clients and communities.
Efficient capital and resource model Specialist provider to the public and A balanced capital model privatesectors Ability to reinvest capital from cash generative Broad client base including Highways businesses into asset-intensive parts of the Group England, Anglian Water and Capacity to invest for the future ThamesWater No.
1 A disciplined approach to capital allocation No.
1 player in strategic highways in strategic highways Top 3 player in the utilities sector Robust financials Track record of stable and reliable earnings Good visibility provided by long-term order book Capabilities andpipelines Highways maintenance Housing maintenance 15% ROCE targeted from all capital investment andmanagement Facilities management A sustainable dividend Utilities services Business services Double-digit profit growth year-on-year on average Waterway services Environmental services to2020 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 3
