Strategic report Hargreaves Lansdown at a glance Empowering people to save andinvest with confidence Our vision is to be a household name Our values put the client at the We want to be the best place for savers and investors in the UK.
heart of everything we do When individuals want to save and invest they will think Hargreaves Lansdown has a strong culture focused around our of Hargreaves Lansdown as the best place to go, to make clients.
This is reflected in our values: ithappen.
Put the client first Do the right thing Do it better Make it easy Go the extra mile Lifelong relationships 06 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Our offering Key inputs Our purpose A lifelong, secure home for peoples savings and Our platform Empowering people to save investments, that offers Our people and invest with confidence great value, an incredible Our technology service and makes their Our marketing financial life easy.
Key to delivering our offering is our platform, Empowering people to save our people, our technology and our marketing.
and invest with confidence We will achieve this through delivering exceptional client service Our We provide a platform through which clients and offering five core attributes: platform can buy, hold and sell their investments within We see the opportunity to create lifelong relationships with tax efficient wrappers such as individual clients by being a one-stop investment service to manage savings accounts ISAs and self-invested their savings and investments: personal pensions SIPPs, or Fund & Share accounts.
We act as an intermediary between We understand that our clients want us to provide a safe and our clients and the fund managers or registrars secure service to look after their assets.
We will maintain our of investments and can also provide advice.
strong financial position and provide capacity to manage theirgrowth: Our Our people lie at the centre of Hargreaves people Lansdown, ensuring we deliver on our values.
We price our services competitively for great value.
We They develop and implement our strategy promote clear and fair prices and use our scale to obtain and and deliver our products and services.
provide better deals for clients: We will ensure we provide clients with an incredible service Our The platform uses our own proprietary systems.
making the best use of information and technology to offer technology This allows us to offer our products and access to the investments that our clients want: and services in a nimble and efficient manner.
We are well positioned to respond to We will make it easy and efficient for our clients to opportunities and develop our service to managetheir savings and investments by offering deliver our promise to clients.
Our We provide a multi-channel marketing marketing approach to engage with new and existing clients ensuring they have high quality information to empower them to save and invest with confidence.
We seek to understand our clients better to tailor our communications to their needs and enhance our lifelong relationship.
07 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017
