Continuing Our Growth Story Creating value by: Clear Strategic Focus Focused Portfolio We have a defined strategy focused on four main drivers: We have a clear portfolio focus and hold strong market portfolio focus, geographical expansion, pipeline delivery and positions in a number of our key therapeutic sectors such as targeted acquisition.
endocrinology, dermatology, anaesthesia and analgesics, and equine medicine.
Development Pipeline We have a strong pipeline of novel pharmaceuticals, generic Recognised Brand pharmaceuticals and specialist pet diets and a track record of Dechra is recognised as a global animal healthcare company pipeline delivery.
We are proactive in recognising and bringing with a strong and growing reputation as a provider of high new development opportunities into the portfolio.
quality, specialist veterinary medicines and related products.
Entrepreneurial and Innovative Expanding International Focus Dechra encourages an entrepreneurial and innovative In line with our strategy we are focused on extending the approach from its management team which is underpinned Dechra brand into new countries.
We are also increasing by appropriate internal controls and robust systems and distribution of our products on a global basis with selected procedures.
partners, currently into over 50 countries.
Manufacturing Flexibility Talented People and Expertise Our manufacturing sites offer a wide range of dosage forms We have attracted and retained a qualified and skilled and packaging capabilities which can be produced in small workforce throughout the organisation.
This stable and to large-scale production batches.
This flexibility is a key motivated team has many years experience within the markets requirement in producing our varied product portfolio.
Our people strategy is underpinned by the Dechra Values.
Growing Animal Health Market The global animal health market continues to demonstrate Strong Balance Sheet growth.
This is driven in developed countries by increased The Group maintains prudent management of its balance sheet medical and surgical capabilities for companion animals.
In and achieves strong cash flows.
This position provides flexibility developing countries the increased demand for high quality to invest in initiatives to drive long term growth.
meat protein drives the FAP market.
Products distributed Employing to more than 50 1,344 people countries Investor Website We maintain a corporate website at www.
com containing a wide range of information of interest to both institutional and private investors including: Latest news and press releases Annual reports and investor presentations Online Report Visit our online Annual Report at: dechra.
com 03 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
com slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
