BRAND HIGHLIGHTS Strengthening our ties with brand partners Our relationship with the adidas group has built on the momentum of FY16 and continued to grow with successful campaigns in football, such as the Speed of Light, Red Limit and Blue Blast boot launches.
Working together to expand on football, we also had great campaigns featuring the Neo footwear in the lifestyle category and Cloudfoam footwear in running.
Through dedicated teamwork and an improved joint business planning process we have been able to deliver significant sales growth with the adidas brand through FY17.
FY17 also saw the continued rollout of adidas elevated in store presence with new HomeCourt concept shop fits being rolled out in key new generation stores alongside new and improved boot room walls.
New generation stores such as Dublin, Sunderland and Solihull have had full shop-fits, which have increased and elevated brand presence in store and given customers a much-improved shopping experience.
To maintain this momentum through FY18, adidas is continuing to invest heavily with us around key marketing campaigns to drive sell through at the point of sale, both online and in-store.
adidas Blue Blast Campaign Store window takeover in 575 doors 415 Boot Room installations Website front-page takeover Social media advertising Print advertising 18 24047 art adidas SDi BlueBlast 100x100 inches Player.
Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 19 24047 art adidas SDi BlueBlast 100x100 inches Player.
BRAND HIGHLIGHTS FY17 has been a resounding success story for Nike Nike has continued to invest heavily in the team with joint elevated marketing campaigns starting in dedicated to the Sports Direct business, which November with the CR7 boot launch which included now numbers more than 20, and working together store window takeovers, TV, print and out of home we deliver exceptional Nike brand spaces in key advertising in London, alongside a full digital and categories such as Training, Football, Lifestyle and social media campaign.
This was followed up by the Running.
Recently we have engaged with Nike on Hypervenom campaign in February 2017 and the the introduction of digital screens in stores such as CR7 Chapter 4 campaign in April 2017.
Oxford Street, Piccadilly, Shirebrook, Glasgow and Dublin with a view to an extended rollout through We continue to focus on elevating our retail FY18.
environments and the Nike brand presentation within them, to provide our customers with great shopping experiences.
20 Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 Nike CR7 Campaign TV Advertising Store window takeover in 593 doors across Europe 413 Boot Room installations Website front-page takeover Out of home advertising in London Social media advertising Print advertising 21 BRAND HIGHLIGHTS ARMOUR BASELAYER ARMOUR BASELAYER IS THE SLEEK, COMFORTABLE, MOISTURE-WICKING SECOND SKIN THAT MAKES ALL ATHLETES BETTER.
SDI Window Campaign 50inx80in 4. indd 2 8 12 16 9:46 AM 22 Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 Under Armour is continuing to work with us to The brand will utilise its global athletes such as expand the brand presence in Europe and has Anthony Joshua, Andy Murray and Jordan Spieth, as delivered two successful campaigns with a multiit continues to grow in Europe and play a major part sport clothing campaign in September 2016, and the in the Sports Direct offering going forward.
Anthony Joshua training campaign in March 2017.
Anthony Joshua Training Campaign The brands presence in-store is continuing Store window takeover in 638 doors to improve with shop-fits in new stores and a rollout plan to improve existing large format Website front-page takeover stores throughout FY18.
Under Armour will see Social media advertising an increased presence in stores, elevated brand executions online and an excellent range of products Print advertising across Training, Running, Football, Golf and Lifestyle.
23 BRAND HIGHLIGHTS Puma remains a key brand partner and FY17 saw Puma continue to invest with the introduction of their new concept shop-fits in key new generation stores.
This year we have had a number of successful campaigns which have included key replica launches around the Euro 2016 championships, Usain Bolt leisurewear around the Rio Olympics, and the Puma Tricks football boot campaign in June of this year.
FY18 is sure to be a growth year with the exciting Velvet Rope womens training campaign and the Puma One football campaign.
Along with in-store and digital presence Puma have also invested in advertising on TV, Billboards and Digital.
24 Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 25 BRAND HIGHLIGHTS No Fear announced a collaboration with grime artist Skepta.
Renowned for his hard-hitting lyrics and unique urban style, Skepta will work closely with us to develop a Motocross-inspired range in the next 12 months.
26 Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 Lonsdale reaffirmed itself as an iconic boxing brand by becoming the official clothing and equipment partner of GB Boxing.
We are thrilled to be working alongside the boxing stars of the future and look forward to supporting them on their journey to the Tokyo Olympic Games in 2020.
27 BRAND HIGHLIGHTS 28 Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 USA Pro global ambassadors Little Mix took the female fitness market by storm with their first sell out co-branded range.
Due to monumental success, the girls are currently working on their second co-branded range, which will launch in summer 2017 and include a junior fitness range.
In addition, the brand has continued to grow across all social channels due to the new focus on influencer content creation, further establishing its position in the fitness market.
29 BRAND HIGHLIGHTS Slazenger continues its long-term partnership with Wimbledon, which has now stood for 115 years, the longest partnership in sporting history.
To celebrate this milestone, Slazenger has created a marketing campaign that aims to capture the prestige and longevity of the brand, whilst highlighting the role Slazenger has played in delivering historic moments on the world stage at The Championships.
The campaign is spearheaded by the first TV advert in the brands history which takes viewers on a journey through the years, starting in 1902, to highlight the history between Slazenger and Wimbledon.
Slazenger released its first co-branded swimming collection with Olympic gold medallist, Becky Adlington.
Due to the success of the range, Slazenger and Becky are currently designing a second range to launch at the end of 2017.
30 Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 31 BRAND HIGHLIGHTS The fitness clubs that are located on our retail sites will increasingly be branded under the banner of Everlast.
The first Everlast-branded gym opened its doors in Southport towards the end of 2016.
It has a premium feel throughout with almost 100 pieces of the latest cardio, resistance and strength equipment.
Since opening, the club has attracted a strong membership and The Everlast Fitness Club brand has been strengthened with further clubs and the recent introduction of Everlast Personal Trainers all with the same objective in mind to help members find their greatness within!
four new Everlast Fitness Clubs scheduled to open in FY18 as we look forward to enhancing the brand and continuing to engage more members of the community in an active lifestyle.
32 Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 33
