SPORTS DIRECT AT A GLANCE Sports Direct is the UKs largest sporting goods retailer by revenue The Group provides a full multi-channel retail approach across its and operates a diversified portfolio of sports, fitness, fashion and fascias in the UK, and increasingly across its fascias in continental lifestyle fascias and brands throughout the UK, and in locations in Europe and the rest of the world.
The Group also wholesales Europe, the U. S. and Asia.
and licenses its Group Brands to partners in the UK, continental Europe, the Americas, and the Far East.
We aspire to be a leading sports and lifestyle retailer internationally and to deliver sustainable growth for our Each year Sports Directs c. 29,000 people work together to shareholders in the medium to long term by offering our serve customers and collaborate with our global wholesale and customers an unrivalled range of high quality leading brands.
licensing partners to promote the Groups brands and our third party brand partners The Groups strategy is to invest in our people and our key third party brand partners in order to elevate our retail proposition to The Group continues to enhance its store portfolio and Sports attain new levels of excellence in our multi-brand, multi-sport Retail now operates c. 757 stores in the UK and internationally.
As part of this strategy, we anticipate that The Group operates through four strategic business segments: the core Sports Direct business will move towards becoming the UK Sports Retail, International Sports Retail, Brands and Selfridges of sport.
Malaysia STORE COVERAGE International No.
of Stores UK Sports Retail Premium Lifestyle Sports Retail 2016 473 281 83 2017 468 289 73 Includes stores in Malaysia FY17: 25 FY16: 20 stores.
36 Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 UK Sports Retail International Retail Brands Premium Lifestyle 37 SPORTS DIRECT AT A GLANCE UK Sports Retail International Sports Retail 65.8% Total Revenue 20.5% Total Revenue 2,136.4m 665.6m Up 6.3% Up 38.0% 468 stores and c. 5.2m sq.
ft. of retail space 289 stores and c. 3.9m sq.
ft. of retail space Includes 53rd week Includes 53rd week Includes full year contribution from Heatons Northern Ireland Includes full year contribution from Heatons Republic of Ireland UK Sports Retail includes the Groups core sports retail store International Sports Retail includes all the Groups sports retail operations in the UK, all of the Groups sports retail online stores, management and operations outside of the UK, including business globally, the Groups Fitness Division, and the Groups the Groups European distribution centres in Belgium and Austria.
Shirebrook campus operations, as well as the Heatons Northern Its headline performance this year is largely attributable to the Ireland stores.
impact of the acquisition of the Heatons business in the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland, the results of which are included Sports Retail offers a full multi-channel retail approach across in UK Sports Retail, which was completed in November 15. multiple fascias, supplying customers with the broadest range of sports and leisure equipment and apparel from the worlds The division spans operations in Europe, the U.
S and Asia, with leading brands.
It increasingly offers a multi-channel retail approach across multiple fascias, and Within UK Sports Retail, the Group also operates 32 fitness gyms, leverages the Groups ability to supply customers with a broad of which five are combined with sports retail destinations, as range of sports and leisure equipment and apparel from the we seek to elevate our retail proposition to include more new worlds leading brands.
During FY17, management determined to change the Groups Our fascias offer a full multi-channel retail approach in the UK and approach to its European stores over the medium term and our store footprint is significant with c. 468 stores plus additional work is underway to further tailor the Groups customer value concessions across the UK, totalling c. 5.2m sq.
propositions to our local markets.
We expect this and other The majority of stores are operated under the SPORTSDIRECT.
COM factors to present further significant challenges from this division fascia.
Our new generation stores include 13 flagship stores in in the medium term.
key locations across the UK and Ireland including Oxford Street in London, Leeds, Southport, Southampton, Dublin, and Glasgow.
38 Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 Premium Lifestyle Brands 6.2% Total Revenue 7.4% Total Revenue 202.2m 241.1m Up 11.6% Up 4.1% Includes 53rd week Includes contribution 53rd week The Groups Premium Lifestyle division offers a broad range The Brands division operates our globally renowned heritage of clothing, footwear and accessories from leading global Group Brands, and our wholesale, licensing and distribution contemporary and luxury retail brands through our fascias in the relationships across the world, as well as our partnerships with UK: Flannels, USC, Cruise and van mildert.
Each fascia operates third party brands that we license-in to sell certain products.
as a multi-brand premium retail destination, and is focused on The Group owns brands that are managed both individually providing fashion conscious shoppers with high-end and on and centrally within this division.
This unique, integrated trend products.
approach to brand management leverages the expertise of our The division offers a full multi-channel retail approach and is people, encourages innovation and ensures consistency across supported by our Group-wide centralised commercial and support our brands.
functions, giving the benefit of scale and operating efficiencies The Group placed a strong focus during the year on its core UK to each fascia.
The division is a significant part of the Groups and International Sports Retail business, in order to prioritise the new generation retail concept and as such, in certain locations, continued development of our relationships with our key third Premium and Lifestyle stores are co-located alongside our Sports party brand partners, as we elevate our sport retail proposition.
Retail stores to benefit from increased customer footfall and The Group has maintained a number of UK-focused brands to operating synergies.
preserve value, and is proud to have a number of high-profile sporting and entertainment personalities, as well as international sporting events and sporting venues, as ambassadors.
39 OUR IMPACT SINCE 2007 We became a listed public company in 2007.
In the ten years since we floated, the Group has greatly contributed to the British economy.
This includes: c. 220 million paid in staff share bonuses c. 100 million paid in sales commission to retail staff Created 4,800 new jobs in the UK, where we currently have 17,400 directly engaged staff Contributed c. 420 million in UK Corporation Tax Contributed c. 1,300 million in VAT and Duty Contributed c. 120 million in NI employer contributions Figure includes shares that become eligible to vest in September 2017.
40 Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 41
