OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS A new generation of stores to showcase the very best brands The elevation of our sports retail proposition is vital to continue to strengthen our relationships with our key third party brand partners, to deliver benefits for our customers, and to drive the Groups long term profitability.
It spans product, stores, online, and marketing, with the critical enabler being the Groups elevation of its property portfolio to facilitate a new generation of stores offering enhanced levels of excellence.
We have continued to invest in rolling out more of our new generation retail destinations, which include one or more of the Groups Sports Retail, Premium, Lifestyle and Fitness fascias, together on a single site.
4 Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 Oxford Street Approximately 50,000 sq.
ft. 5 OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS 6 Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 Dublin Approximately 35,000 sq.
ft. 7 OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS Sunderland Approximately 38,000 sq.
ft. 8 Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 9 OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS Piccadilly Approximately 35,000 sq.
ft. 10 Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 11 OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS 12 Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 Our new Flannels flagship store and premium office facility in Oxford Street in London is due to open in 2018.
The above is a computer-generated image of how we envisage it will look.
13 OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS Brand showrooms completed FY17 saw the completion of new showroom suites at our head office, which were individually developed by our brand partners Nike, adidas, Puma and Under Armour.
Each showroom is a bespoke brand centre, which ensures our third party brand partners are deeply embedded within the DNA of Sports Direct.
14 Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 Proud of our people We are proud of the people who work at Sports Direct and we will continue to make their welfare a priority.
In FY17, our people in the UK elected the Companys first Workers Representative, Alex Balacki, who will attend Board meetings on behalf of the Sports Direct family, which numbers c. 29,000 people.
15 OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS 16 Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 A multi-brand, multi-sport, retail e A multi-brand, multi-sport, retail experience xperience W We hav e have embark e embarked on a number of UK ed on a number of UK- -wide joint mark wide joint marketing initiativ eting initiatives with our third party brand partner es with our third party brand partners s in order t in order to support new product releases o o support new product releases ov ver the y er the year ear.
This has seen our product off.
This has seen our product offering e ering ext xtend further end further t to ow wards enhanced lev ards enhanced levels of e els of ex xcellence as w cellence as we gain access t e gain access to more of the best product o more of the best products on the mark s on the market.
Highlight Highlights in F s in FY17 included the continued Nik Y17 included the continued Nike CR7 campaign and multiple adidas campaigns, including the e CR7 campaign and multiple adidas campaigns, including the Speed of Light boot launch.
Speed of Light boot launch.
