Strategic Report Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Business at a Glance Our sectors Revenue and profit growth with high returns in all sectors.
Contribution Financial highlights to sector total Primary growth drivers Products which protect population growth people and assetsatwork.
Process 167m 17% Specialised interlocks increasing health, safety and Revenue that control critical of revenue environmental regulation Safety processes safely.
Instruments that detect demand for life criticalresources flammable and hazardous 40m 19% gases.
Explosion protection Operating profit of operating profit and pressure relief systems, and corrosion monitoring products.
Read more p30 Products and services that population growth Infrastructure improve the safety and 315m 33% mobility of people and protect urbanisation Revenue of revenue commercially and publicly Safety owned infrastructure.
increasing health, safetyand Firedetection systems, smoke  detectors, specialist fire 65m 30% suppression systems, people Operating profit of operating profit and vehicle flow solutions, security systems and elevator safety products.
Read more p36 Products which enhance the population growth Medical quality of life forpatients and 261m 27% improve the quality of care ageing and increased Revenue delivered by providers.
Devices of revenue lifeexpectancy that assess eye health, assist with eye surgery and primary demand for healthcare, care applications.
Critical particularly in 67m 31% fluidic components used by developingeconomies Operating profit of operating profit medical diagnostic OEMs and laboratories.
Sensor technologies used in hospitals to track assets and support Read more p42 patient and staff safety.
Products and technologies for population growth analysis inenvironmental Environmental 219m 23% safety and life sciences increasing environmental Revenue markets.
Market-leading of revenue regulation & Analysis opto-electronic technology and sensors.
Flow demand for life criticalresources measurement instruments 42m 20% and gas conditioning products.
Operating profit of operating profit Products for environmental data recording, water quality testing and water distribution network monitoring, and UV Read more p48 water treatment.
2 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Contribution Financial highlights to sector total Primary growth drivers Products which protect population growth Revenue by destination people and assetsatwork.
Process 167m 17% Specialised interlocks increasing health, safety and 5 Revenue that control critical of revenue environmental regulation 4 Safety processes safely.
Instruments that detect demand for life criticalresources flammable and hazardous 40m 19% 3 gases.
Explosion protection Operating profit of operating profit and pressure relief 1 systems, and corrosion 2 monitoring products.
1 USA 36% Read more p30 2 Mainland Europe 22% 3 United Kingdom 16% 4 Asia Pacific 16% 5 Other 10% Products and services that population growth Infrastructure improve the safety and 315m 33% mobility of people and protect urbanisation Revenue of revenue commercially and publicly Safety owned infrastructure.
Read more p36 Products which enhance the population growth Employees by location Medical quality of life forpatients and 261m 27% 4 improve the quality of care ageing and increased Revenue 5 delivered by providers.
Devices of revenue lifeexpectancy that assess eye health, assist 3 with eye surgery and primary demand for healthcare, care applications.
Critical particularly in 67m 31% fluidic components used by developingeconomies Operating profit of operating profit medical diagnostic OEMs 2 1 and laboratories.
Sensor technologies used in hospitals to track assets and support 1 United Kingdom 37% Read more p42 patient and staff safety.
2 USA 31% 3 Asia Pacific 17% 4 Mainland Europe 14% 5 Other 1% Products and technologies for population growth analysis inenvironmental Environmental 219m 23% safety and life sciences increasing environmental Revenue markets.
