Strategic Report Burberry Group Overview brand highlights Burberrys brand strength is driven by a unique combination of heritage and innovation.
Burberrys ambition is to bring pioneering British creativity and culture to the world by creating beautifully made products, inspiring with storytelling and shared experiences, delivering impeccable and distinctive services, and continually innovating.
This underpins how Burberry seeks to connect with its customers globally, from runway shows, campaign talent and music to digital platforms, data and insight.
The Burberry brand continues to resonate strongly with luxury consumers around the world, ending the year as one of the best known luxury brands globally.
Key focus areas during the year Digital innovation Burberry is one of the most followed luxury companies Runway shows on social media, with over 48 million followers and the In February 2016, Burberry announced plans to change brand is present on 20 social platforms including Twitter, the way it creates, presents and sells its runway collections Instagram, Facebook, Line, Kakao and WeChat.
In March with the launch of its first see-now-buy-now runway 2017, Burberry was ranked Number 1 Digital Leader in the show.
From September 2016, Burberry replaced its fourContactLab Digital Competitive Map.
Thirty-two major show calendar of two mens and two womens shows, with luxury peers were researched for the study and were two shows.
The September and February shows featured rated across web, email, e-commerce and social media.
both womenswear and menswear collections.
The new show format and calendar were designed with a global During the year, Burberry launched WeChat commerce customer in mind.
More than 300 stores had three runway in China, and created a seamless commerce platform for looks from the February 2017 collection, and the entire Burberry on Facebook Messenger where customers could runway collection was available to purchase in 80 stores purchase Burberry products directly through the social globally immediately following the runway show.
Burberry also launched its first commercial September and February collections were also available to app for iPhone with exclusive and personalised content.
purchase online as the products were shown on the runway.
Burberry partnered with Snapchat for its February show This industry leading change removed the traditional gap by filming rehearsals, backstage activities and the Show between the runway show and retail availability.
For the week following the September and February shows, At the February Makers House show, Burberry built a the public were invited to visit Makers House, the Burberry portrait studio, a set inspired by Henry Moores studio.
In September, Burberry collaborated with The Guests were invited to have their portrait taken in the New Craftsmen, a selection of Britains finest craft makers, studio and share the image and GIF animated image to create a daily changing programme of activities and on social media.
This generated over four million installations showcasing their original works.
In February, impressions on social media in one week.
Burberry partnered with The Henry Moore Foundation to Product and campaign launches create an exhibition of Moores working methods and the Mr. Burberry April 2016 evolution of his iconic sculptural ideas.
The exhibition The Mr. Burberry fragrance campaign launched in April featured over 40 of his sculptures, monumental bronzes, 2016, including TV, print and a directors cut film shot by working models, drawings and maquettes.
Academy Awardwinning director, Steve McQueen.
The Alongside this, a programme of events featured acoustic film featured British actor and musician Josh Whitehouse performances and workshops including life drawing, and British model and actress Amber Anderson, with the maquette and object making, textile printmaking and soundtrack I Wont Complain created by British singertextile design.
Makers House received over 20,000 visitors songwriter and Mercury Music prize-winner Benjamin in September and over 30,000 visitors in February.
Customers were able to personalise their Mr. Burberry bottle with a monogramming service According to research by Morar Consulting.
20 Strategic Report Burberry Group Overview available at Burberry.
com and selected Burberry and explorers and pilots.
The film received 22 million views and wholesale stores.
Users were also able to monogram was shared on social media platforms including YouTube, their own virtual Mr. Burberry bottle using interactive Instagram and Twitter.
The campaign was complemented advertising and to share it on Facebook, Twitter, by Festive events and advertising including Burberrys Pinterest and Instagram.
first-ever festive partnership with Harrods, through which Burberry designed and featured in all street level windows, As part of the Mr. Burberry launch, Burberry became the and a dedicated pop-up space.
first luxury brand to have a dedicated experience in the Discover section of Snapchat.
The Mr. Burberry Discover The cape reimagined February 2017 channel offered access to a wealth of style and fragrance A collection of 78 limited-edition couture capes was content, including tailoring and grooming tips.
presented as part of Burberrys February show finale.
Inspired by the scale and form of Moores elemental My Burberry Black August 2016 sculptures, each design was made using unique Burberry launched My Burberry Black, a new fragrance constructions and referencing elements from the for women, with the brands first Snapchat Lens and Burberry archive.
Each individually named cape was a campaign starring British actress Lily James.
Customers available for special order, and formed part of a travelling were able to watch the campaign unfold as Lily took over exhibition around the world to cities including Milan, Burberrys Snapchat channel.
A unique My Burberry Black Shanghai, Los Angeles, Dubai, New York, Hong Kong Lens was created to immerse users into the aesthetic of and Tokyo.
The takeover culminated with the reveal of the TV campaign across multiple platforms globally, Tropical gabardine February 2017 including on large outdoor screens in Piccadilly, London.
During the February runway show, Burberry launched tropical gabardine, a lightweight version of the Artisans Campaign September 2016 weatherproof fabric found in Burberrys heritage In its September print campaign, Burberry featured the trench coats.
artisans who create key Burberry products, giving the customers the chance to connect with, and understand DK88 bag collection May 2017 the craftsmanship behind these products.
Named after the house code for Burberrys signature honey coloured gabardine, the DK88 bag collection is Kris Wu Edit November 2016 a tribute to the fabric at the heart of Burberrys history.
Burberry revealed the Kris Wu Edit, a collaboration The collection includes top handle, satchel and luggage with the Chinese musician, actor and the brands new inspired styles for men and women.
Each design is made ambassador.
The campaign, which ran in China, featured from Burberrys new trench leather, which is embossed Kris wearing five curated Burberry looks.
Burberrys work with the pattern of gabardine by using special plates with Kris Wu continued at the February 2017 runway show developed to create a unique leather finish.
In May 2017, where he featured in exclusive show content filmed for Burberry partnered with Mr.
Bags, a Chinese influencer, the Asian Burberry social media platforms.
for the exclusive WeChat shop launch of the DK88 in Festive November 2016 bright toffee colour.
Burberry launched its Festive campaign with the film The Tale of Thomas Burberry directed by Academy Awardwinning director, Asif Kapadia.
The film celebrated the life of Burberry founder, Thomas Burberry and starred Sienna Miller, Lily James, Domhnall Gleeson and Dominic West.
Real-life moments re-enacted in the film included Thomas Burberrys invention of the weatherproof fabric gabardine, dressing the military, and outfitting polar 21
