Strategic report At a glance We believe that simple, affordable, reliable and fair connectivity should be available to everyone and we always aim to be the UKs leading value for money connectivity provider of all our products.
Services to consumers Services to businesses We offer customers a range of FLPP that uniquely in the market, allow Our B2B division, TalkTalk Business TTB, is organised around them to fix their connectivity costs for twelve months, 18 months or ourproducts and channels to market.
TTB revenue comprises 24 months whilst also allowing them to switch to new offers even whilst Corporate 397m FY16: 384m, On-net 213m FY16: 182m in contract.
Fast Broadband is our standard fixed price broadband andOff-net 14m FY16: 16m revenues.
plan designed to cater for the needs of individual users or households In the Direct channel, we offer a range of data connectivity solutions, that do not require increased download speeds available via a fibre from business broadband and fibre, through to high-value Ethernet connection.
Broadband connectivity is provided via a standard circuits and Wide Area Networks MPLS IP-VPN.
Across our Voice analogue telephone line using ADSL technology, which allows for portfolio we offer both Legacy Voice and Next Generation Voice download speeds of up to 17Mbps.
The plan also includes i our services e. g. B2B SIP VoIP and Hosted Unified Comms.
Essential SIM feature, providing 200 minutes, unlimited SMS messages and500MB of data: and ii access to the TalkTalk TV Store.
Through our Partner channel which accounts for c. 80% of TTB's revenues we provide both managed and wholesale solutions.
Voice The Faster Fibre Broadband plan is designed for households with a and Data revenues are generated through long term relationships, number of devices that need to be connected to the internet at the several of which are multi-year contracts.
Our managed partners same time.
Fibre broadband connectivity is provided via our Fibre primarily address the consumer and small business market, delivering tothe Cabinet FTTC network using VDSL technology, which allows voice services, broadband and fibre.
Having a wholesale offering allows for download speeds of up to 38Mbps.
The plan also includes us to work with systems integrators, such asFujitsu, which often i ourEssential SIM feature, providing 200 minutes, unlimited SMS combine connectivity and data solutions from multiple providers messages and500MB of data: and ii access to the TalkTalk TV Store.
tooffer large customers such as the PostOffice a bespoke solution.
Customers are able to further enhance their broadband internet TTB also provides voice interconnect services to a range of speed with a fixed fibre speed boost, allowing increased download internationalmobile operators terminating calls in the UK.
In addition to the core fixed line connectivity and mobile products, weoffer customers access to a broad range of free-to-air and paid-for TV content on our YouView platform.
We provide flexible access to over 80free-to-air channels, an advanced interactive programme guide and anextensive range of premium one month subscription and pay-to-view services through commercial relationships with key content suppliers, such as Sky, BT Sport and Netflix.
Our network infrastructure Significant national scale through acombination Exchange backhaul in of owned and leased assets which serve around 110 Gbpsoptical circuits 96% ofthecountry's households.
Owned equipment supplied by BTOpenreach in3,000 exchanges orVirgin Media Last mile supplied For more 05 by BTOpenreach information seeour FY17 business review Ethernet Fibre to thecabinet Home & business Street cabinet Unbundled exchanges 02 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Last mile Rated best performance forpeaktime throughput %, SamKnows uSwitch TV provider of theyearwinner 2017 1 million fixed low price plans Second best innetwork performance, SamKnows, April 2017 Core optical network Twoseparate national networks with 8Tbps Huawei and 3.9 million 1.6Tbps Infinera capacity customers 43,000 Ethernet and EFM lines 3,000 unbundled exchanges 250 million gb customer downloads amonth Owned equipment incollector ring 10 Gbps optical circuit or Manchester dark fibre supplied by BT, SSE, GEO, VMand Eircom London Price-regulated Owned equipment copper inregional collector andethernet nodesto extend core optical network Fibre Core optical network Collector node Dark fibre sourced under long term leases in a competitive market with no capacity constraints Annual Report 2017 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC 03
