18 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategy at a glance Read more on page 22 Strategic priority Performance in 2017 21.2% growth in investment property to 1,344.9 million.
Drive development opportunities to support rental The market is becoming increasingly competitive Focus growth evidence.
but our strongbrand and reputation as a long-term 1.57% rental growth from rent reviews settled in the period.
investor in thesector mean we are well placed to Investment managers to focus on asset We have a deep understanding of the Total Property Return of 9.7%.
economic dynamics of healthcare real estate.
By building on the knowledge and expertise of Continue to seek growth opportunities through our team and engagement with our healthcare acquisitions, andpurchase and leasebacks.
partners we believe we can generate superior Total Property Return through a strategic focus on a highly attractive market.
Delivered two newly constructed, bespoke GP-led Complete developments currently on site.
Further changes to the organisational structures or Expertise medical centres.
policies of the NHS could lead to delays in further Promote benefits of investment in primary investment in primary care infrastructure.
However, Engaged with senior NHS leaders and politicians care infrastructure for the NHS.
Our strong reputation for innovation derives recent publications recommend an increasing to support transforming primary care.
from our bespoke designs for our medical Work with emerging STPs to identify role for primary care service provision.
Our designs have an emphasis development opportunities.
onflexibility and adaptability to ensure that thebuildings can adapt to the changing NHSagenda.
First zero carbon and energy neutral building on site.
Develop more zero carbon medical centres of Sustainable development and building design is an Sustainability the future for the NHS and continue investment area of constant change and we seek to be fully up Both of the two newly constructed medical centres into the highest sustainability standards for to date with the latest technologies and innovations.
achieved Very Good BREEAM rating.
We pride ourselves on our commitment to new developments.
Failure to recruit, develop and retain our team with thehighest possible standards in sustainability, Further investment in our teams development.
the right skills and experience may weaken our the personal development of our teams ability to deliver against our strategic priorities.
andour role in spearheading investment insocial infrastructure.
EPRA Cost Ratio reduced to 13.7% and weighted Seek further opportunities to expand the portfolio.
Maintaining cost discipline as the business expands Effectiveness average cost of debt reduced to 4.06%.
will be crucial in ensuring that we continue to reduce Continue to promote the Company to a wide our overall EPRA Cost Ratio.
Included within this EPRA EPS increased to 2.4 pence.
shareholder base and a diverse group of We are committed to supporting the NHS metric is the cost of vacant space and so letting debt funders.
intackling the major underinvestment in UK Total Accounting Return of 12.0%.
thisavailable space will improve this costmetric.
primary care property and utilising our skills Achieve further scale benefits.
We have been successful in securing both equity and capital in achieving this.
We have the and debt capital for supporting the expansion of rightteam to source and manage these the business although there is no certainty that opportunities and the right plans to leverage future expansion will be supported inthe same way.
our teams skills to maximum advantage.
We believe the fundamentals of the businessremain very strong and attractive to both equityand debt funders.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 19 To see further evidence of our strategy in action turn to page 20 Read more on page 22 Read more on page 28-33 Priorities in 2018 Key risks 21.2% growth in investment property to 1,344.9 million.
