4 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES & MODEL & STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS DELIVERY AGAINST STRATEGIC BUSINESS REVIEW thereby impacting the returns of traditional In 2014 we recruited a team specialising asset classes.
Current macroeconomic in Strategic Secondaries.
The team have uncertainty, including but not limited to the a direct approach to secondaries by leading UKs decision to leave the European Union, restructuring and investment in mature may prolong and enhance the positive private equity funds.
We have made excellent Grow assets trend in favour of alternative asset classes.
progress in raising our first Strategic under management Alternative asset classes are therefore Secondaries fund which is dedicated to the attractive to institutional investors, providing highly complex and structured part of the diversification and targeting returns in secondaries market.
To date, we have raised excess of those achievable in public markets.
$981m, including a $200m investment from our balance sheet, of which $614m was raised The current fundraising environment during the 2017 financial year.
As one of our is attracting new entrants into the newer strategies, with fees charged on Manage portfolios Invest alternative asset management market.
committed capital, the success of this fund to maximise value selectively However, our established investment is a positive contribution to our weighted led approach of focussing on capital average fee rate and our growing fund preservation and yield across mid market management profits.
We expect to close transactions in four strategic asset classes, this fund above its $1bn target in the new We have continued to deliver against our and identifying market opportunities to financial year.
strategic objectives and grow our specialist develop differentiated strategies, remains asset manager franchise.
We are of a size Another area of success was our Australian and scale that enables investors efficiently Senior Loans strategy.
Fundraising was ICG is now a more diversified business to access our range of strategies through initially difficult, but our perseverance and than at any point in its history.
Our ability to mandates tailored to their individual commitment to this attractive strategy has utilise the Groups capital to seed new funds requirements.
Furthermore, our long resulted in AUD$396m being raised in the has supported this success.
For example, standing investment culture means we financial year.
our expansion into the Secondaries asset only fundraise to the extent that there class would not have been as rapid nor Additionally, we closed successor funds is the market opportunity to invest the as successful, had we not been able to for our real estate mezzanine and Asia capital raised.
underwrite the teams early transactions Pacific mezzanine strategies, and raised new in the first fund.
segregated mandates for our Senior Debt Fundraising across all our strategic Partners and capital markets strategies, The market environment continues to offer asset classes which included raising four new CLOs attractive opportunities to grow and further Fundraising in the financial year at 4bn during the year.
expand our range of strategies.
As a result, was in line with our long term target but, the profits of the Fund Management We took an opportunity to sell the entire as expected, lower than in recent years Company, with its predictable, sustainable Recovery Fund 2008, one of our older as our larger strategies had remaining fee streams, will grow relative to those European mezzanine funds.
Consequently we of the Investment Company.
to a secondary fund provided an exit to concentrated on the more challenging task our investors whilst enabling us to retain of fundraising for our smaller and newer Alternative asset market the investment management contract for strategies which diversify our business growing strongly the new fund thereby extending the duration and provide future growth opportunities.
The increasing wealth of developing nations, The breadth of strategies for which we combined with ageing populations, supports raised money during the year, 11 in total, the trend of increasing the absolute size underlines the increased diversification of institutional assets under management.
of our fund management franchise.
At the same time, bond yields remain low, ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 5 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CHRISTOPHE EVAIN BENOT DURTESTE Chief Executive Officer outgoing Chief Executive Officer incoming During the financial year, we extended It is an honour to have been asked to Investment Company portfolio our office network into Luxembourg and succeed Christophe as CEO and Chief performing robustly have applied for a regulatory licence in that Investment Officer of the Company.
Liquidity in the market contributed to a jurisdiction.
This will enable us to retain period of strong realisations.
Capital gains Since joining ICG, I have found Christophes access to our European clients following were particularly strong in the financial year experience and advice, coupled with the UKs departure from the European which, as previously indicated, was due in his commitment to the success of the Union.
We do not anticipate the need for any part to the benefit from the one off recycling business, invaluable.
other significant organisational change and from reserves of a previously recognised have no intention of moving our UK or head unrealised gain, and in part to unrealised The year ahead office operations from London.
gains arising from the year end mark to We have a 4bn per annum rolling market review.
Whilst we expect the pace fundraising target.
With a healthy pipeline Capital deployment on track in a of realisations to remain healthy into the new of new funds and with a number of our competitive investment market financial year, the overall level of capital gains larger strategies expected to be raising Our increasing number of strategies means recognised in the income statement is likely successor funds during the new financial that we operate in a diversified investment to be lower.
year, we anticipate that financial year 2018 market.
Across all of our strategies we will meet or exceed the long term fundraising The performance of our portfolios have seen the investment market remain target.
Fundraising for our Senior Debt remains robust, with only a small number competitive as institutions seek to deploy Partners strategy has already commenced, of assets underperforming.
the increasing amounts of capital raised so and is expected to exceed the 3bn size of as to access the attractive returns available its predecessor fund.
The US private debt Well financed balance sheet in private markets.
strategy and UK real estate strategy are We continued to actively manage the In this environment, the competitive expected to begin raising successor funds Groups sources of financing, extending advantage gained from our local teams, within the next 12 months.
debt facilities and lowering pricing where sector specialisms and ability to deploy possible.
During the financial year, $292m We are working to convert investor interest capital flexibly comes to the fore and has and 74m of US private placements were in our liquid strategies into investor helped us to source attractive deals whilst raised with five, eight and 10 year maturities, commitments during the new financial year.
maintaining our disciplined investment enabling the repayment of maturing culture.
We are pleased to have maintained We continue to size our funds to the market private placements and a reduction in the pace of investment across our direct opportunity and aim to deploy capital existing bank facilities.
Following this debt investment funds during the financial year in line with the required investment run raising, the weighted average life of total which, combined with a solid pipeline rate.
We therefore anticipate maintaining debt at 31 March 2017 was 3.8 years with of investment opportunities, means we our current deployment pace on the back a weighted average cost of 3.9%, in line are confident that each of our funds will of attractive investment opportunities.
with 31 March 2016. deploy their available capital within their We remain committed to not compromising On a personal note, after 23 years at ICG, investment periods.
our disciplined investment culture in this my decision to retire has not been an easy highly competitive market.
I am proud of what we have achieved to date at ICG and I would like to thank my colleagues, our fund investors and shareholders for their continued support and commitment.
I leave the Company in capable hands with Benot and wish the whole ICG team every success in the future.
