Training Babcock at a glance Sector specialists with engineering embedded in our DNA Civil vs defence Technology 52% Marine Aviation 48% Engineering Services Civil Defence Land Cavendish Nuclear UK vs international Global Growth 75% Furthermore, each sector is underpinned Deep sector expertise by deep technical knowledge and 25% In February 2017, we announced that expertise and is already demonstrating we were going to realign the business a willingness to embrace Babcocks around the four core sectors in which transformational change and we operate.
Grouping our business into performance improvement models.
UK International Marine, Land, Aviation and Cavendish Through infrastructure, assets, Nuclearbrings us even closer to our technology or regulation, all four customers and markets, allows our sectorsare characterised by high teams in each sector to really focus on barriers to entry.
Each of our sectors Public vs private the capabilities we offer and makes isnow customerfacing and shares deep the Group easier to understand for all sector technical knowledge, experience our stakeholders.
Most importantly, and understanding of its industry.
it provides us with a better platform Moving to a sectorbased reporting for future growth, both in the UK and 82% structure that ismore closelyaligned globally.
Weare still the same company, with our markets serves to provide doing thesame things, but aligningto 18% clarity and focus.
This resonates with sectors will help us do it better.
our employees, our customers and our The realignment will help us achieve shareholders, creating a stronger base our growth ambitions.
Supported by from which to build future growth.
technology and technical training, Public Private it enables easier identification How to read this report and development of international From 1 April 2017 we formally report opportunities throughGlobal Growth.
the Group in four sectors to reflect how Each sector has a strong base of both we manage the business.
In this years defence and civil customers, with Strategic report we present the Group operations of scale in the UK and as it is today, using the sector alignment, internationally and importantly all pages 125, and report on financial and four have growth opportunities across operational progress over the past year the globe.
using the previous divisional format, pages 2679.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 4 Infrastructure Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Our sectors Our capabilities Historically we have consistently built up our expertise and commercial positions across Over the years we have continued to four key sectors: marine, land, aviation and nuclear.
The realignment into our four new develop our capabilities and specialist sectors provides employees, customers and investors with a clearer, more aligned skills in our four sectors, each of which Babcockand an improvedplatform for growth.
provides good opportunities for growth inboth the UK and, increasingly, internationally.
The realignment will enable us to effectively leverage our capabilities and share expertise across theGroup through four key enablers: Marine Technology Delivers a wide array of complex throughlife We have deep sectorspecific technical marine engineering services ranging from expertise with decades of experience: we supporting UK and international naval understand risk and resilience and are able fleets, commercial marine, engineering to deliver availability with innovation.
We consultancy, weapons handling, equipment are equipmentagnostic which enables support, intelligence and cybersecurity and us to work with any OEM to specify and technicaltraining, all deliveredthrough unique support its products.
We have the ability owned and managed infrastructure to defence to identify and integrate technology into and civil customers across the globe.
Training Technical training is an integral part of our Land engineering offering.
It is a fundamental and Provides largescale critical fleet management ongoing requirement and a core part ofour and training for customerowned defence, expertise.
Driving technical training across emergency services, global airport and the Group allows us to share innovation and commercialvehicle fleets comprising successful methodology across sectors to around 80,000 vehicles while also providing ensure our customers make the best use engineering services and technical training for oftheir critical resources.
Infrastructure We have experience of operating and managing complex and critical infrastructure assets in highly regulated environments, from Aviation unique owned marine facilities, critical Delivers a wide array of critical engineering air and land fleets, nuclear licensed sites, services to defence and civil customers, naval, air and army bases, technical training ranging from technical training of advanced sitestocustomerowned aircraft.
fixed androtary wing pilots, engineering, equipmentsupport and maintenance, airbase management and logistics, to the operation Global Growth of ownedand customerowned aviation A fundamental driver of Babcocks realignment  and offshore is theaimto grow our international servicesacross the globe.
This focus will allow us to recognise international opportunities and support all four sector teams to sell and deliver innovative services and transformation models to targeted Cavendish Nuclear markets and customers.
We will: Delivers complex nuclear engineering on major drive local country business development to nuclear decommissioning programmes and identify and build a pipeline of opportunities projects across the UK and nuclear engineering invest in skills and frameworks needed to services in training, operation support, capture international opportunities newbuild programme management, design and installation and critical safetyto both bring together local and UK sector teams to public and private customers.
In theUK and, support both bidding and delivery increasingly, internationally.
provide skilled people to drive, facilitate and establish newbusiness acrossthe Group.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 5
