58 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS Across all platforms staff are expected to maintain quality hospital care.
Mediclinic believes in building the confidentiality of all medical, financial and long-term relationships with suitable suppliers and administrative patient information of which they may establishing a relationship of mutual trust and respect.
become aware during the course of their duties, and Regular meetings are held with suppliers to ensure are required to sign a confidentiality agreement upon continuity of service.
The Group relies on its suppliers joining.
Access to patient medical records is strictly to deliver products and services of the highest quality controlled, and medical records are not released in line with Mediclinics standards.
Various other criteria outside the relevant platform unless authorised by play an important role in selecting suppliers, such as: the patient.
compliance with applicable international and local quality standards, price, compliance with appropriate For more information on the Companys approach specifications suited for the Groups markets, stability and clinical performance, please refer to the of the organisation and the relevant equipment brand, AR Clinical Services Overview from page 37 and good-quality and cost-effective solutions, support the Clinical Services Report available on the network, technical advice and training philosophy.
CSR Companys website at www.
In South Africa, the BBBEE status of a supplier is also a factor in the selection process.
An enterprise and supplier development strategy specific to procurement PATIENT SATISFACTION AND is being developed in South Africa to enhance EXPERIENCE BBBEE reporting.
In line with its Patients First ethos and to ensure The availability of products and services is imperative operational excellence across all platforms, Mediclinic in enabling the Group to deliver quality care to its monitors its patients experience across the Group.
patients, and therefore an important criterion in its In 2014, the Group created a single, standardised supplier selection process.
Though not always the Patient Experience Index PEI with the objective of case, this often leads to local suppliers being preferred, achieving incremental and sustainable improvement which adds to better and faster service delivery and of the patient experience over time.
The entire survey knowledge of local laws and regulations, particularly process is managed by Press Ganey, an internationally with regard to pharmaceutical products.
recognised leader in patient experience research, providing an in-depth analysis of the data and advising COST OF HEALTHCARE on global best practices.
The Group contributes in various ways to a sustainable The PEI was implemented for inpatients at all healthcare system by, inter alia, focussing on efficiency Mediclinic Southern Africa hospitals and for both and cost-effectiveness, conducting tariff negotiations inand outpatients at all Mediclinic Middle East in a fair and transparent manner, expanding facilities facilities, where it will be introduced during 2017.
The based on need, and actively participating in healthcare survey was implemented at Hirslanden from April 2017. reform.
Refer to the table on page 57 for the patient The Group is focused on streamlining and centralising satisfaction level of Hirslanden based on the its procurement processes to improve efficiency ANQ Swiss National Association for Quality and cost-effectiveness.
During the reporting period, Development : and the PEI of Mediclinic Southern good progress was made on a range of international Africa and Mediclinic Middle East.
procurement initiatives including: the classification and matching of products used PROVIDE AND MAINTAIN HIGHacross all its operating platforms to compare prices QUALITY HOSPITAL INFRASTRUCTURE and drive procurement strategies: FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT better prices through pooling of capital equipment To ensure a safe and user-friendly environment for purchases across the three platforms: both our patients and employees, we strive to provide volume bonus agreements with key capital high-quality healthcare facilities and technology, equipment suppliers: and focusing on capital investments, maintenance of direct importing and distribution of more facilities and optimal use of facilities.
As a result, the cost-effective surgical and consumable products.
Group continuously invests in capital projects and new Refer to the Chief Executive Officers Review, Our equipment to expand and refurbish our facilities and Strategy, Progress and Aims, as well as the Divisional the replacement of existing equipment, as well as on Reviews included in this report, for various examples of AR the repair and maintenance of existing property and initiatives to improve cost-effectiveness.
Refer to Material Issue 3: Create and AR Sustain Shareholder Value on pages 62 to 63 for further detail regarding the Groups investments in ACCREDITATION capital projects and new equipment: replacement of Hospitals are high-risk environments in which complex equipment: and repairs and maintenance.
treatment processes are executed using sophisticated equipment and techniques.
The process of external PROCUREMENT AND SUPPLY CHAIN accreditation ensures that international standards MANAGEMENT are adhered to in all aspects of hospital operations.
For more details on accreditation, please refer to the In order to deliver its services, Mediclinic is dependent Clinical Services Report, available on the Companys CSR on a large and diverse range of suppliers, who form website at www.
an integral part of the Groups ability to provide SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 59 MATERIAL ISSUE 2: ADDRESS SHORTAGE OF HEALTHCARE PRACTITIONERS HIGHLIGHTS Remarkable progress in relation to internationalisation of human resources strategy Continued investment in training and skills development to maintain and improve quality service delivery Introduced standardised employee engagement survey across the Group WHY THIS IS IMPORTANT TO THE LINK TO GROUP STRATEGY BUSINESS Invest in employees Improve safe, quality clinical care The attraction of suitably qualified healthcare professionals is essential in delivering the Groups Improve patient experience Patients First strategy.
For this reason, priority focus is given to a proactive sourcing approach aligned to KEY STAKEHOLDERS workforce planning for the medium term.
Nurses, pharmacists and doctors are categorised as critical Doctors skills and an integrated talent management strategy Employee and trade unions is tailored to each of these categories to ensure the Governments and authorities support of the entire employee life cycle in these roles.
A definite strength is the available talent Industry associations analytics which indicate patterns in candidate and employee behaviour over time.
These provide a strong RISKS TO THE BUSINESS predictive advantage and these insights are incorporated into the talent management strategy for Inability to recruit healthcare practitioners to meet each of these categories.
business demand The focus of attracting and utilising talent in a Limited growth and loss of revenue challenging healthcare market continues to be nurses, Poor clinical outcomes and services emergency room doctors and pharmacists.
Proactive Medical malpractice liability initiatives are implemented in the specific categories Reputational damage and geographical areas of concern.
Delayed new nursing qualifications, as well as the anticipated gap in the education pipeline Ageing nursing workforce and noticeable trend of earlier retirement of nursing professionals SELECTED KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS CONTROLLABLE EMPLOYEE PERCENTAGE OF PAYROLL INVESTED IN TRAINING TURNOVER RATE AND SKILLS DEVELOPMENT Southern 6.3% Southern 3.2% Africa 2016: 6.8% Africa 2016: 3.6% Switzerland 7.2% Switzerland 4.8% 2016: 5.2% 2016: 5.0% UAE 19.8% UAE 0.1% 2016: 12.4% 2016: 0.3% The turnover rate of Mediclinic Middle East has increased from the previous reporting period due to series of retrenchments following the Combination.
60 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS LABOUR RELATIONS AND MITIGATION OF RISKS REMUNERATION Extensive training and skills Employee remuneration development programmes The Group remunerates employees in a manner that Governance of suitable selection processes supports the achievement of the Groups vision and with focus on skills assessments, employment strategic objectives, while attracting and retaining references and verification of credentials scarce skills and rewarding high levels of performance.
Targeted sourcing and recruitment initiatives, This is achieved through establishing remuneration with a strong focus on agile sourcing techniques practices that are fair, reasonable and market-related ensuring that best fit candidate talent is channelled while at the same time maintaining an appropriate to appropriate vacancies, supported by a seamless balance between employee and shareholder interest.
hiring process To encourage a performance-driven organisation, Proactive international recruitment programme the Group rewards employees for achieving strategic supplementing anticipated medium-term objectives as well as individual personal performance skills gaps targets.
Benefits for all employees include a retirement Tailored retention strategies, supporting the fund, medical aid scheme, performance-related retention of priority audiences within each incentives and bonuses and liability insurance for business unit medical staff.
Those managers who receive variable Succession planning and or career management remuneration have a combination of shortand initiatives within scarce skills disciplines, ensuring long-term incentives.
During 2015, the Group proactive development of high-performing introduced a Reward Centre of Expertise, specialising employees with potential to supervisory and in the design and delivery of global reward initiatives.
leadership roles Deployment of integrated talent strategies in Labour relations support of core business areas The Group believes in building sound long-term relations Monitoring of doctor satisfaction with its employees and employee representatives, which supports its goal of being the employer of choice SUMMARISED APPROACH AND in the healthcare industry.
This is measured by the Your Voice employee engagement survey and continuous PERFORMANCE DURING THE YEAR assessment of the Groups employment conditions.
EMPLOYEE RECRUITMENT AND The Group respects and complies with the labour RETENTION legislation in the countries in which it operates, and ensures that the internal policies and procedures The human resources policies and supporting good are evaluated regularly to accommodate continual practice protocols at each platform provide governance amendments to relevant legislation.
The Group guidelines to ensure consistent practices in support continuously strives to ensure that all its employees of the entire employee life cycle.
Good progress was are informed of their benefits, and this information made during the period under review in terms of the is communicated to staff via the intranet, staff internationalisation of the human resources strategy.
newsletters, staff consultation meetings and various The focus remains to address local challenges through other forms of communication media.
tailored human resources strategies at platform level, but to also share global expertise and best practices to the benefit of all.
International and local processes have been defined and priority is given to longer-term system enablement through the implementation of an integrated human resources management system.
The value of comparable and quality data, which is made accessible to all stakeholders will become evident in the medium to longer term.
Talent analytics have always been an important focus and the value of comparable quality Group data will provide a competitive edge in terms of trend and risk identification and the input to proactive strategy.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 61 During the year, there were no incidents of material TRAINING AND SKILLS DEVELOPMENT non-compliance with any laws, regulations, accepted The Group continues to invest significantly in training standards or codes applicable to the Group, with no and skills development to maintain and improve quality significant fines being imposed, concerning the health service delivery.
The percentage of payroll invested in and safety impact of the Groups services.
training and skills development by each of the Groups AR operating platforms is provided on page 59.
EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION AND The Groups commitment to provide quality care ENGAGEMENT for its patients can only be ensured if its staff has appropriate, evolving skill sets, which is reflected in the In 2015, Mediclinic, in partnership with Gallup, number of learning initiatives undertaken each year.
introduced the Your Voice employee engagement A consistent performance management system is programme across all operating platforms to measure applied throughout the Group, which allows us to levels of engagement, identify gaps at a departmental identify and manage training needs of individual level and support line managers in developing action employees, and to discuss career development.
Succession planning is standardised on an Overall, the Group achieved a 71% 2016: 65% participation organisational level in all three operating platforms rate in the Your Voice survey and 36% 2016: 32% of and a Group talent review is performed annually.
employees showed high levels of engagement.
Critical talent such as nurses and pharmacists as well as high-performing individuals with Strengths which the survey highlighted include potential are identified and supported through employees knowing what is expected of them and tailored development initiatives.
An inter-platform having the appropriate materials and equipment to development programme which offers a series of perform at work.
Areas for improvement highlighted secondments across platforms has been designed by the survey include recognition and praise for good to help these individuals excel at Mediclinic.
The work and valuing the opinions of employees.
programme is currently implemented at organisational During 2017, Mediclinic aims to follow a more focused level for talent with the potential to be successors approach by driving central engagement themes and to a key position in their own platform or across ensuring adequate feedback and action planning takes platforms within the larger Mediclinic Group.
The aim place at all localities and departments.
Champions have of the programme is to provide priority talent either been trained to support line managers in facilitating critical talent or high performers with potential, the workshops to address concerns at the departmental opportunity to gain cross-platform exposure.
Champions and line managers will work towards platforms have received the programme with great developing a better understanding of the engagement enthusiasm and the Group is proud to continue to needs of the Mediclinic workforce and addressing grow this amazing development opportunity to the concerns according to the engagement hierarchy.
SUPPORT OF EXTERNAL TRAINING INSTITUTIONS The Group is committed to educational development in all three of its operating platforms and provides financial and other support towards healthcare education.
EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY Health and safety policies and procedures are in place across the Group to ensure a safe working environment for the Groups employees, patients and its visitors.
The health and safety of the Groups employees are essential and contribute to the sustainability of quality care to patients.
The programmes and procedures implemented by the various business units to mitigate health and safety risks are outlined in the Sustainable SDR Development Report.
62 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS MATERIAL ISSUE 3: CREATE AND SUSTAIN SHAREHOLDER VALUE HIGHLIGHTS Total dividend per share of 7.90 pence Continued progress in significant investments to grow capacity at each of the operating platforms Underlying EBITDA margin stable at 18.2% for the Group WHY THIS IS IMPORTANT TO THE KEY STAKEHOLDER BUSINESS Investors As can be seen from its business model on pages 22 to 23, the Group is only able to offer the best possible RISKS TO THE BUSINESS care to its patients with support and investment from its shareholders.
The Group believes that identifying Failure to identify suitable growth opportunities and realising suitable growth opportunities is key to Unattractive investment propositions create and sustain shareholder value over the longer Poor shareholder relations term, as these opportunities enable it to realise tangible Unavailability of capital and financing for growth benefits.
Such benefits include: reduced costs through Solvency and liquidity procurement on a greater scale: the creation of shared operations teams: the combination of existing corporate functions: and the transfer of knowledge MITIGATION OF RISKS and best practices across the Group.
Implementing systems to monitor developments in the economic and business environment of trends LINK TO GROUP STRATEGY and early warning indicators Strategic planning and due diligence processes Improve safe, quality clinical care Improve efficiencies Long-term planning of capital requirements and cash-flow forecasting Continue to grow Scrutiny of cash-generating capacity within the Group Invest in employees Proactive and long-term agreements with banks and other funders relating to funding facilities Monitoring of compliance with requirements of debt covenants SELECTED KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS TOTAL DIVIDEND PER SHARE IN PENCE UNDERLYING EBITDA MARGINS 7.90 Group 18.2% - 2016: 7.90 2016: 20.3% Southern 21.2% REVENUE Africa 2016: 21.4% 2 749m Switzerland 20.0% 2016: 2 107m 2016: 19.7% UAE 11.7% EBITDA 2016: 22.3% 509m 2016: 382m UNDERLYING EBITDA 501m 2016: 428m SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 63 SUMMARISED APPROACH AND PERFORMANCE DURING THE YEAR ACCEPTABLE SHAREHOLDER RETURNS GROWING THE BUSINESS The total dividend per share for the period under During the year, the Group continued to make review is 7.90 pence 2016: 7.90 pence.
significant investments to grow capacity at each of the operating platforms.
The Group is continuously The Groups dividend policy is set out in Financial pursuing opportunities and initiatives to improve AR Review on page 18. the occupancy of existing facilities, expand existing facilities and acquire or establish new facilities.
Refer to the Chief Executive Officers Review, the platforms PROFITABILITY Divisional Reviews and Our Strategy, Progress and The Groups strong focus on efficiencies has ensured Aims included in the Annual Report.
AR that the underlying EBITDA margin remained stable at 18.2%.
For more information, please refer to the Financial AR Review included from page 14.
SELECTED KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS INVESTMENT IN CAPITAL PROJECTS AND NEW EXPENDITURE ON REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT PLATFORMS PLATFORMS Southern R766m Southern R234m Africa 2016: R758m Africa 2016: R275m Switzerland CHF74m Switzerland CHF37m 2016: CHF68m 2016: CHF38m UAE AED188m UAE AED39m 2016: AED171m 2016: AED24m INVESTMENT IN REPLACEMENT OF EQUIPMENT PLATFORMS Southern R515m Africa 2016: R317m Switzerland CHF89m 2016: CHF76m UAE AED57m 2016: AED32m 64 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS MATERIAL ISSUE 4: RESPONSIBLE USE OF NATURAL RESOURCES HIGHLIGHTS Mediclinic Southern Africa included in Global A list for performance in the Carbon Disclosure Project Since January 2014, the entire Hirslanden electricity supply has been generated from 100% sustainable electricity Total energy consumption per bed day reduced in Mediclinic Southern Africa, with Mediclinic Middle East and Hirslandens consumption remaining stable Total water usage decreased throughout the Group WHY THIS IS IMPORTANT TO THE RISKS TO THE BUSINESS BUSINESS Business interruptions due to water shortages Business interruption due to electricity supply The Groups main environmental impacts are the Increased operational costs due to cost utilisation of resources, predominantly energy, through of electricity electricity consumption and water, and the disposal of Healthcare risk waste disposal healthcare risk waste.
The Group is fully aware of the Reputational damage need to use resources responsibly and is committed to minimising its environmental impacts to the extent possible.
LINK TO GROUP STRATEGY The Group recognises the risks that regulatory changes, Improve efficiencies environmental constraints and climate change present to its operations.
Potential impacts include rising costs, reduced access to facilities, interruptions in KEY STAKEHOLDERS service, and incidents of extreme weather events as a result of climate change placing additional stress on Employees and doctors operations.
Additionally, climate change can lead to Suppliers water shortages especially in the UAE and in Southern Governments and authorities Africa and weather-induced pandemics and disease Community outbreaks which can cause high mortality rates.
However, the Group also believes that using resources RISK MITIGATION responsibly can be a source of strategic advantage for the Group, allowing it to manage and contain its Implementation of appropriate environmental operating costs and to ensure ongoing access to water management systems certified by an and energy supplies.
internationally recognised body, where appropriate Corporate Sustainable Water Management Strategy Mediclinics patients are always its first priority, but was implemented without natural resources, especially water, Mediclinic Expansion of the Energy Initiative Committee would not be able to provide a service to its patients.
function to the Natural Resources Committee to The Group takes its policies to reduce its impact include all natural resources on the environment very seriously and its Natural Introduction of renewable energy sources, such Resources Committee is constantly investigating new as solar photovoltaic systems, in order to reduce opportunities to reduce its impact on the environment.
energy consumption and costs SELECTED KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS TOTAL CO EMISSIONS KG BED DAY WATER USAGE KL BED DAY 2 Southern 117kg Southern 0.652kl Africa per CDP 2017 Africa 2016 calendar year CDP 2016: 111kg FY 2015 16: 0.694kl Switzerland 13kg Switzerland 0.629kl per calendar 2015: 13kg per calendar 2015: 0.664kl - year year UAE 178kg UAE 0.654kl per CDP 2017 2016 calendar year CDP 2016: 226kg FY 2015 16: 1.125kl The intensity measures of CO emissions, water usage and energy consumption per day are not appropriate for the UAE, and not comparable with that of Southern Africa and Switzerland, as the total emissions, water usage and energy consumption include only five hospitals, with outpatient consultations and 25 clinics with only outpatient consultation i. e. no bed days.
During the year ahead, a more appropriate intensity measure will be determined for the Group.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 65 CO e using recognised calculation methods, SUMMARISED APPROACH AND 2 emission factors and stating assumptions made, PERFORMANCE DURING THE YEAR where relevant.
The Groups main environmental impacts are the ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT utilisation of resources and waste which have a direct The Group Environmental Policy, available on the effect on carbon emissions.
Items listed in the aspect Companys website at www.
com, aims register relating to regulatory compliance, healthcare to minimise Mediclinics environmental impacts and risk waste, water, electricity, paper, hazardous waste guides the identification and management of all risks and gases not only could have a significant impact on and opportunities relating to water use and recycling, the environment, but also informs strategy on climate energy use and conservation, emissions and climate change related risks and opportunities.
change, and waste management and recycling.
The carbon emissions per platform, for the periods as specified therein, are reported in the Sustainable CARBON EMISSIONS SDR Development Report.
The CDP formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project is a global initiative measuring companies ENERGY EFFICIENCY around the world and their reporting on greenhouse gas emissions and climate change strategies.
It is regarded Electricity is the main contributor to our carbon as a global leader in capturing and analysing data footprint and all our platforms are taking steps to that record the business response to climate change, reduce their electricity consumption intensity through including management of risks and opportunities, the adoption of ISO 14001 management standards, absolute emissions levels, performance over time and leading to improved operational efficiency of technical governance.
Participation and disclosure of the results installations, introduction of various new energyare voluntary.
The project was launched in South Africa efficient and renewable technologies and changes in in 2007 in partnership with the National Business staff behaviour regarding energy use.
Initiative in which JSE-listed companies are measured.
The direct and indirect energy consumption per Mediclinic has participated in the project since 2008, platform, for the periods as specified therein, is initially only in respect of Mediclinic Southern Africa.
SDR reported in the Sustainable Development Report.
Limited information in respect of Mediclinic Middle East has also been included since 2010, although it still remains an initiative focusing mainly on Mediclinic WATER USAGE Southern Africas data.
Mediclinics CDP reports can be The Groups platforms in Southern Africa and in the accessed on the CDP website at www.
net, with the UAE can suffer from significant water shortages so it most recent reports also available on the Companys is critical for the Group to monitor water consumption website at www.
There are various measures in place to minimise The Groups platforms measure, with the assistance water consumption: including reclaiming water, of external consultants, its carbon footprint using the monitoring hot water consumption and installing water meters and control sensors.
GHG Protocol and includes, still in varying degrees: direct emissions, which in the healthcare industry The total water usage has decreased throughout the Group.
The total volume of water withdrawn from will refer mainly to the emissions of anaesthetics gases scope 1 emissions : water utilities throughout the Group, for the periods as specified therein, is reported in the Sustainable indirect emissions from the consumption of SDR Development Report.
electricity scope 2 emissions : indirect emissions from suppliers, which in the healthcare industry will refer mainly to WASTE MANAGEMENT pharmaceutical, bulk oxygen and waste-removal Stringent protocols are followed to ensure that refuse suppliers scope 3 emissions : and removal within the Group complies with all legislation, non-Kyoto Protocol greenhouse gas emissions regulations and by-laws.
The Group regards the such as Freon, which is used in air-conditioning handling of waste in an environmentally sound, legal and refrigerant equipment.
With the assistance and safe manner as its ethical, moral and professional of external consultants, these emissions data duty.
During the reporting period, there were no were converted into a carbon dioxide equivalent incidents at the Groups facilities or offices leading to significant spills.
SELECTED KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ENERGY CONSUMPTION GJ BED DAY WASTE RECYCLED Southern 0.327gj Southern 1 283 tonnes Africa 2016 calendar year Africa 2016 calendar year FY 2015 16 0.333gj bed FY 2015 16: 1 197 tonnes day Switzerland 0.474gj Switzerland 550 tonnes per calendar 2015: 0.447gj bed day per calendar 2015: 630 tonnes year year UAE 0.991gj UAE 72 tonnes 2016 calendar year 2016 calendar year FY 2015 16 0.842gj bed FY 2015 16: 87 tonnes day 66 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS MATERIAL ISSUE 5: GOVERNANCE AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS Anonymous ethics lines at all platforms A three-year compliance monitoring programme was developed to enhance the existing compliance culture Group-wide Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Contributed R11m to the South African Department of Healths Public Health Enhancement Fund WHY THIS IS IMPORTANT TO THE LINK TO STRATEGY BUSINESS Although not directly linked to any particular Group strategic priority, governance and corporate Governance and CSR are integral to Mediclinics social responsibility are regarded as key enablers approach of running a sustainable, long-term business.
and the basis from which the Group conducts In line with the Groups vision statement to be its business.
respected internationally and preferred locally, it: enforces good corporate governance standards KEY STAKEHOLDERS throughout the organisation: acts as a responsible corporate citizen: Suppliers builds constructive relationships with its local Healthcare funders stakeholders: and Governments and authorities acts as a valued member of the community in the Community regions where it operates.
The Group put in place a range of policies, processes RISKS TO THE BUSINESS and standards to support the Groups governance and corporate social investment programmes and provide Fines, prosecution or reputational damage a framework of the standards of business conduct Inability to continue business due to legal and ethics that are required of all business divisions, and regulatory non-compliance or changes in directors and employees within the Group.
regulatory environment Financial and reputational damage caused by poor governance and ethical practices and inadequate risk management Reputational damage at local community level due to inadequate community involvement SELECTED KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS CALLS TO ETHICS LINES CONTRIBUTION TO CSI INITIATIVES Southern 202 Southern ZAR12.3m Africa 2016: 104 Africa 2016: ZAR11.8m Switzerland 20 Switzerland CHF2.5m - 2016: 17 2016: CHF2.5m UAE 6 UAE AED992 000 2016: 1 2016: AED814 000 In relation to Mediclinic Southern Africa, it should be noted that nine of the reported incidents related to fraud or ethics, eleven incidents reported were given high priority, and the majority of incidents reported related to human resources, service or accounts complaints.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 67 MITIGATION OF RISKS SUMMARISED APPROACH AND PERFORMANCE DURING THE YEAR Visible ethical leadership ETHICS AND GOVERNANCE Regular fraud and ethics feedback to management, the Board and relevant Board committees The Groups commitment to ethical standards is set out Ethics lines available to all employees and external in the Groups values, and is supported by the Group parties, with reported incidents monitored and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics the Code, investigated available on the Companys website.
The Code provides a framework for the standards of business conduct Established Group Risk Management department and ethics that are required of all business divisions, and outsourced Group internal audit function directors and employees.
The Code is available to all Compliance risks assessed as part of risk staff and is included in new employee inductions.
management process, with regular internal self-assessments, with necessary advice and Further details regarding the Groups ethics support by the Company Secretarial and management, risk management process and corporate Legal departments governance practices are discussed in detail in Compliance consultant appointed to the report on Risk Management, Principal Risks implement compliance framework and monitor and Uncertainties and the Corporate Governance AR compliance maturity Statement.
Monitoring of corporate social investment initiatives by senior management, with feedback EFFECTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT to the Clinical Performance and Sustainability The Groups Enterprise-wide Risk Management Committee ERM policy follows the international Committee The following policies are in place: of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission COSO framework and defines the risk Enterprise-wide Risk Management Policy management objectives, methodology, risk appetite, and Risk Appetite risk identification, assessment and treatment processes Fraud Risk Management Policy and the responsibilities of the various risk management Regulatory Compliance Policy role-players in the Group.
The ERM policy is subject to Code of Business Conduct and Ethics annual review and any amendments are submitted Anti-bribery Policy to the Audit and Risk Committee for approval.
Adherence to these policies are monitored through The objective of risk management in the Group is to the various Risk Management and Assurance initiatives establish an integrated and effective risk management implemented throughout the Group.
Non-adherence to framework where important and emerging risks are these policies is immediately highlighted as a corrective identified, quantified and managed.
An ERM software action and addressed accordingly.
The Group Risk application supports the Groups risk management Management department regularly monitors the status process in all three operating platforms.
Further details on the Groups risk management These policies are intended to create a culture within approach, as well as principal risks and uncertainties the Group where ethical values are displayed on are included in the report on Risk Management, AR a day-to-day basis.
It further encourages staff to Principal Risks and Uncertainties.
be vigilant and transparent for any suspicious or unethical behaviour.
Finally, these policies provide clear guidelines and frameworks to assist in achieving set objectives, for example, compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
68 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS The number of black employees increased COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND year-on-year from 70.5% to 71.22% of total employees.
REGULATIONS Black management representation increased from 11% Compliance risk was identified as an integral risk in 2006 to 27.7% 2016: 25.7% at year end.
management focus area for the year across the Group.
In light of the large volume of legislative and During the year, Mediclinic Southern Africas regulatory requirements applicable to the Group in transformation department continued with the diversity each of the jurisdictions in which it operates, as well as management interventions through workshops and various industry standards that the platforms should presentations for employees throughout the group.
comply with, compliance risk requires specific focus.
The workshops are designed to help employees have A three-year compliance monitoring programme was a better understanding of diversity to embrace and developed to enhance the existing compliance culture celebrate diversity and be able to recruit, manage and and approach to compliance risk in the Group.
Good retain talented employees from diverse backgrounds.
progress was made to define and integrate relevant Mediclinic Southern Africas current employment laws and potential risks in the risk registers of the equity plan expires in October 2017.
The company is various platforms and departments during the year.
currently in the process of compiling a new plan which Further details on the Groups compliance management will expire in 2022.
A summarised employment equity report EEA2, as submitted to the Department of are included in the report on Risk Management, Principal Risks and Uncertainties, and in the Audit Labour in November 2016, is included in the Sustainable SDR AR and Risk Committee Report.
HUMAN RIGHTS AND RIGHTS OF CORPORATE SOCIAL INVESTMENT CSI INDIGENOUS PEOPLE The Group contributes to the well-being of the communities within which it operates by investing During the year, no material incidents of discrimination, in ongoing initiatives that address socio-economic violations involving rights of indigenous people problems or risks, and it has established Mediclinic as and or human rights reviews or impact assessments an integral member of these communities, enriching were observed or reported throughout the Group.
the lives of many communities throughout Southern Africa, Switzerland and the UAE.
BROAD-BASED BLACK ECONOMIC EMPOWERMENT BBBEE SOUTH The Groups CSI activities are structured around the AFRICA ONLY improvement of healthcare through training and education, sponsorships, donations, staff volunteerism, Mediclinic Southern Africa forms an integral part of public private initiatives and joint ventures.
Many of the the political, social and economic community in South Groups initiatives relate to providing training and to Africa and is committed to sustainable transformation financial support of training.
Due to the socio-economic as part of its business strategy.
Mediclinic Southern conditions in Southern Africa, the majority of our CSI Africas Executive Committee is responsible to ensure contributions are by Mediclinic Southern Africa.
that the appropriate focus is placed on the groups commitment to the development and implementation The CSI spend per platform is provided on page 66.
AR of sustainable BBBEE initiatives.
Mediclinic Southern Africa is assessed annually by an accredited verification agency against the generic scorecard criteria set by the Department of Trade and Industry dti.
During the period under review, Mediclinic Southern Africa was assessed in terms of the new BBBEE Codes of Good Practice, gazetted in 2013, for the first time.
As anticipated, this resulted in Mediclinic Southern Africas total BBBEE score, as measured with regards to ownership, management and control, skills development, enterprise and supplier development and socio-economic development, declining from 73.06 to 51.73 during the year, which score is currently being reviewed.
Mediclinic Southern Africa is further reviewing its BBBEE strategy with a view to increase its BBBEE score in future.
CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 69 GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION Dear Shareholder, The Board and I are committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance, integrity and ethics, which is embedded in our corporate culture and values.
Our corporate governance structures support the effective delivery of Mediclinics strategy and are focused on maintaining and building a sustainable business and supporting our commitment to be a responsible corporate citizen in every country and community in which the Group does business.
The key elements of our governance structures include: ensuring good clinical outcomes and quality healthcare refer to the Clinical Services Overview from page 37, as well as the Clinical Services Report available on the Companys website at www.
com : AR upholding strict principles of corporate governance, integrity and ethics refer to the Corporate CSR Governance Statement from page 73 : maintaining effective risk management and internal controls refer to the report on Risk Management, AR Principal Risks and Uncertainties from page 30 : engaging with our stakeholders and responding to their reasonable expectations refer to the stakeholder SDR engagement section in the Sustainable Development Report available on the Companys website at www.
com : AR managing our business in a sustainable manner refer to the Sustainable Development Highlights from page 54, as well as the Sustainable Development Report available on the Companys website at SDR www.
com : and offering our employees competitive remuneration packages based on the principles of fairness and AR affordability refer to the Directors Remuneration Report from page 85, as well as the Sustainable Development Report available on the Companys website at www.
SDR In the Corporate Governance Statement that follows, feedback is given on the governance framework, Board meetings and the principal activities of the Board, the composition and diversity of the Board and measures to ensure the Boards accountability to our stakeholders.
Every Director demonstrated their commitment to Mediclinic throughout the year, through their meeting attendance and the high quality of their contributions at those meetings.
I am pleased that the Board structure put in place following the Al Noor Combination in February 2016 has operated effectively.
The internal self-evaluation of the Board conducted during the year did not raise any major areas requiring improvement.
With the retirement of Craig Tingle, Chief Financial Officer, and Ian Tyler, Senior Independent Director, during the year, the Nomination Committee and the Board continued to focus on succession planning and targeting diverse pools of talent from which to recruit the right individuals.
I remain confident that the Board, supported by an effective management team and an effective governance structure, is well placed to continue creating long-term value for stakeholders and maintaining Mediclinics leading position in the international healthcare market.
Dr Edwin Hertzog Non-executive Chairman 70 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 71 BOARD OF DIRECTORS The ages of the directors provided herein is as at the Last Practicable Date, being 23 May 2017.
DR EDWIN HERTZOG ALAN GRIEVE SEAMUS KEATING Non-executive Chairman Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Age: 67 Age: 64 Age: 53 Nationality: South African Nationality: British Nationality: British Committee memberships: Clinical Performance and Sustainability Committee Chairman, Investment Committee Chairman, Committee memberships: Audit and Risk Committee memberships: Audit and Risk Nomination Committee Chairman Committee, Disclosure Committee Chairman, Committee, Investment Committee Investment Committee Dr Edwin Hertzog was appointed as the Non-executive Chairman of the Company on 15 February 2016 upon the successful Seamus Keating was appointed as an Independent combination of the businesses of the Company then Al Noor Hospitals Group plc and Mediclinic International Limited.
Non-executive Director of the Company then Alan Grieve was appointed as an Independent Prior to the combination, he served as a director of Mediclinic International Limited since 1983 and as the Chairman since 1992.
Al Noor Hospitals Group plc on 5 June 2013 and Non-executive Director of the Company on As a specialist anaesthetist, he was commissioned by the then Rembrandt group now Remgro in 1983 to undertake a continues to serve as a director of the Company 15 February 2016 upon the successful combination feasibility study on the establishment of a private hospital group, and three years later, in 1986, Mediclinic International Limited following the successful combination of the of the businesses of the Company then Al Noor then Mediclinic Corporation Limited was listed on the JSE.
He was appointed as the fi first Managing Director of Mediclinic International businesses of the Company then Al Noor Hospitals Hospitals Group plc and Mediclinic International Group plc and Mediclinic International Limited in Limited upon its establishment in 1983.
Prior to the combination, he served as an February 2016.
He has over 20 years experience in independent non-executive director of Mediclinic He served as executive Chairman of the company from 1992 until August 2012 when he retired from his executive role, but the global technology sector in both fi finance and International Limited since 2012.
Mr Grieve is a nonremained on the Board as non-executive Chairman.
He also serves as the non-executive Deputy Chairman of Remgro and is operational roles and was a main board director of executive director of Reinet Investments Manager a past non-executive director of the Distell, Total SA and Trans Hex groups: and is also a past Chairman of the Hospital Logica plc from 2002 until April 2012 having joined S. A. having served as Chief Executive Offi cer of Association of South Africa as well as the Council of Stellenbosch University.
Logica as Group Finance Director in 1999.
He was the company from 2012 to 2014 and Chief Financial Chief Financial Offi cer of Logica plc from 2002 until Quali cations: M. B. Ch.
D. honoris causa Offi cer from 2008 to 2011.
He is a former Director 2010 when he became Chief Operating Offi cer and of Corporate Aff airs of Compagnie Financire Dr Edwin Hertzogs non-executive directorships listed above qualify as his other significant commitments, for the purposes of head of its Benelux operations.
Prior to his role at Richemont S. A.
Prior to joining the Richemont group Provision B.
3.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Logica plc, he worked for the Olivetti Group from in 1986, he worked with Price Waterhouse & Co now 1989 until 1999 in senior fi finance roles in the UK  and Arthur Young now and Italy.
Mr Keating was non-executive director Ernst & Young.
and chairman of the audit committee of Mouchel Quali cations: He holds an Honours degree in plc from November 2010 to September 2012.
He is Business Administration from Heriot-Watt University currently Chairman of First Derivatives plc and a B.
A. Hons : and is also a quali ed Chartered non-executive director of BGL Group Limited.
He Accountant with the Institute of Chartered has been chairman of Mi-pay Group plc since April Accountants.
Quali cations: He is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
PROF DR ROBERT LEU NANDI MANDELA DANIE MEINTJES JURGENS MYBURGH Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Chief Executive Offi cer Chief Financial Offi cer Age: 70 Age: 48 Age: 60 Age: 42 Nationality: Swiss Nationality: South African Nationality: South African Nationality: South African Committee memberships: Clinical Performance and Committee membership: Clinical Performance and Committee memberships: Clinical Performance Committee memberships: Disclosure Committee, Sustainability Committee, Nomination Committee, Sustainability Committee and Sustainability Committee, Disclosure Investment Committee Remuneration Committee Committee, Investment Committee Nandi Mandela was appointed as an Independent Jurgens Myburgh was appointed as an Executive Prof Dr Robert Leu was appointed as an Independent Danie Meintjes was appointed as an Executive Non-executive Director of the Company on Director and Chief Financial Offi cer of the Non-executive Director of the Company on 15 Director and Chief Executive Offi cer of the 15 February 2016 upon the successful combination Company on 1 August 2016.
Prior to joining the February 2016 upon the successful combination Company on 15 February 2016 upon the successful of the businesses of the Company then Al Noor Mediclinic Group, he worked at The Standard of the businesses of the Company then Al Noor combination of the businesses of the Company Hospitals Group plc and Mediclinic International Bank of South Africa Limited as Executive Vice Hospitals Group plc and Mediclinic International then Al Noor Hospitals Group plc and Mediclinic Limited.
Prior to the combination, she served as an President of Investment Banking: and, since 2014, Limited.
Prior to the combination, he served as an International Limited.
Prior to the combination, he independent non-executive director of Mediclinic at Datatec Limited, an international information and independent non-executive director of Mediclinic served as the Chief Executive Offi cer of Mediclinic International Limited since 2012.
She is a director of communications technology group, which operates International Limited since 2010.
He is professor International Limited since 2010.
He has served Linda Masinga & Associates, a town planning and in over 60 countries, where he served as the Chief emeritus of the University of Bern in Switzerland.
in various management positions in the Remgro consultancy fi rm since 2003.
Prior to that, she was Financial Offi cer.
Complementary to his academic career as full group, before joining the Mediclinic Group in 1985 as employed by the Tongaat-Hulett Group from 1992 to professor in economics at the Universities of St. Quali cations: He holds an Honours degree in the Hospital Manager of Mediclinic Sandton.
He was 1997, before joining BP where she worked in various Gallen and Bern, he has acted as economic adviser Accounting from the University of Johannesburg appointed as a member of Mediclinics Executive sales and public aff airs positions from 1997 to 2003. to executive and legislative bodies on all policy levels B. Comm.
Hons : and is a quali ed Chartered Committee in 1995 and as a director in 1996.
He in Switzerland and to international institutions, in Quali cations: She holds a Bachelors degree Accountant with the South African Institute of was seconded to serve as a senior executive of the particular to the WHO, the OECD and the World in Social Science from the University of Cape Chartered Accountants.
groups operations in Dubai in 2006 and appointed Bank.
He is a director of Visana AG since 2009 and Town B. Soc.
: completed the Associate as the Chief Executive Offi cer of Mediclinic Middle serves as the Vice-President of the company since in Management programme at the University East in 2007.
2014, President of the Alliance for a Free Health Care of Cape Town: and obtained a Certi cate in System in Switzerland since 2013, and a director of Quali cations: He holds an Honours degree in Strategic Management from the New York New MG Integrated Care Holding AG in Switzerland since Industrial Psychology from the University of the Free School University.
He was a prior director of Hirslanden AG State: and completed the Advanced Management and past President of Arcovita AG.
Program at Harvard Business School.
Quali cations: He holds a Masters degree in Economics: and a Doctorate in Economics Ph.
D., both from the University of Basel.
DESMOND SMITH JANNIE DURAND TREVOR PETERSEN Independent Non-executive Director Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director Age: 61 Age: 69 Age: 50 Nationality: South African Nationality: South African Nationality: South African Committee memberships: Audit and Risk Committee, Committee memberships: Audit and Risk Committee memberships: Disclosure Committee, Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee Committee Chairman, Nomination Committee Investment Committee Chairman Desmond Smith was appointed as an Independent Jannie Durand was appointed as a Non-executive Trevor Petersen was appointed as an Independent Non-executive Director of the Company on Director of the Company on 15 February 2016 upon Non-executive Director of the Company on 15 February 2016 upon the successful combination the successful combination of the businesses of 15 February 2016 upon the successful combination of of the businesses of the Company then Al Noor the Company then Al Noor Hospitals Group plc the businesses of the Company then Al Noor Hospitals Hospitals Group plc and Mediclinic International and Mediclinic International Limited.
Prior to the Group plc and Mediclinic International Limited.
Prior to the combination, he served as an combination, he served as a non-executive director to the combination, he served as an independent nonindependent non-executive director of Mediclinic of Mediclinic International Limited since 2012.
Joining executive director of Mediclinic International Limited International Limited since 2008 and as the Lead the Rembrandt group in 1996, he was appointed as since 2012.
In 1996, he resigned from the University Independent Director since 2010.
He was the the Chief Executive Offi cer of Remgro Limited in of Cape Town UCT to take up a partnership in the merged fi rm of  Inc.
He served Chief Executive Offi cer of the Sanlam Group from 2012, which company holds a 44.56% interest in as a partner of the national fi rm from 1997 to 2009 and April 1993 to December 1997 and of the Reinsurance the Company.
In his current role, with more than served as the Partner-in-Charge of Cape Town and as Group of America South Africa from March 1999 20 years experience in the investment industry, Chairman of the Western Cape Region.
He is the present Chairman of both he acts as a non-executive director of various currently serves as the Chairman of the Finance companies.
During his career, he has served on companies, including Distell Group Limited, Committee of UCT.
He is an independent non-executive various boards and is also a past-president of both FirstRand Limited, Grindrod Limited, RCL Foods director on the boards of Petmin Ltd and Media24 Pty the Actuarial Society of South Africa 1996 and the Limited and RMI Holdings Limited.
Ltd a subsidiary of Naspers Ltd and is currently the International Actuarial Association 2012.
Managing Trustee of the Woodside Village Trust.
Trevor Quali cations: He holds an Honours degree in has served professional membership associations such Quali cations: He holds a Bachelor of Science Accountancy from the University of Stellenbosch as the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants B. SC.
degree: a fellow of the Actuarial Society of B. Acc.
Hons : a Masters of Philosophy in and was elected the Chairman of the national body in South Africa: a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries Management Studies from Oxford University 2006 and 2007.
London : and completed an International Senior M. Phil.
Management Studies : and is also a Quali cations: He holds an Honours degree in Managers Program at Harvard Business School.
quali ed Chartered Accountant with the South Accountancy from the University of Cape Town African Institute of Chartered Accountants.
B. Comm Hons : and is also a quali ed Chartered Accountant with the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Pieter Uys, the Head of Strategic Investment at Remgro Limited, is appointed as the alternate to Jannie Durand since 7 April 2016.
Prior to joining Remgro, he was a founding member and ultimately became the CEO of the Vodacom group, one of the leading mobile networks in Africa.
Qualifications: He holds a M. Eng.
Electrical degree and an MBA from the University of Stellenbosch.
72 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SENIOR MANAGEMENT SENIOR MANAGEMENT The ages of the executive management members provided herein is as at the Last Practicable Date, being 23 May 2017.
The Group Chief Executive Offi cer, Danie Meintjes, is supported by an experienced and capable executive management team, with extensive industry experience and organisational knowledge.
The continued growth of Mediclinic is testament to the strong management team and their ability to successfully execute the Groups strategy.
The biographies of Danie Meintjes, Chief Executive Offi cer, and Jurgens Myburgh, Chief Financial Offi cer are AR provided on page 70 of the Annual Report.
GERT HATTINGH DR DIRK LE ROUX Chief Corporate Services Offi cer Chief Information Offi cer Age: 52 Age: 57 Nationality: South African Nationality: South African Gert Hattingh joined the Mediclinic Group in Dr Dirk le Roux joined Mediclinic in August 2014 as 1991 as group accountant.
He served in various the Group ICT Executive.
Prior to joining Mediclinic, management positions in the Mediclinic Group and he served in various managerial roles including as was appointed as the Company Secretary in 2010 Managing Director of ThinkWorx Consulting, Chief and Group Services Executive in 2011.
Subsequent Information Offi cer at Media24, General Manager to the combination of the businesses of the for IT Strategy and Risk at Absa Bank Limited, as Company then Al Noor Hospitals Group plc and well as the Head of IT at the Development Bank of Mediclinic International Limited in February 2016, Southern Africa.
he no longer serves as the Company Secretary, Quali cations: He holds a D. Com.
Informatics but holds the position of Chief Corporate degree from the University of Pretoria: a Masters in Services Offi cer.
Business Administration cum laude : a Postgraduate Quali cations: He holds an Honours degree in Diploma in Data Metrics: and a Bachelor in Civil Accountancy from the University of Stellenbosch Engineering.
Hons : completed the Advanced Management Program at Harvard Business School: and is also a quali ed Chartered Accountant with the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants.
DR RONNIE VAN DER MERWE DAVID HADLEY Chief Clinical Offi cer Chief Executive Offi cer: Mediclinic Middle East Age: 54 Age: 43 Nationality: South African Nationality: British Dr Ronnie van der Merwe is a specialist anaesthetist David Hadley joined the Mediclinic Group in 1993, who worked in the medical insurance industry and worked in a variety of administrative roles in before joining the Group in 1999 as Clinical Manager.
human resources, fi finance, operations and hospital He established the Clinical Information, Advanced management before being seconded to Dubai in Analytics, Health Information Management and 2007 to oversee the opening of Mediclinic City Clinical Services functions at Mediclinic, and is Hospital.
He was appointed as the Chief Executive currently appointed as the Mediclinic Groups Chief Offi cer of Mediclinic Middle East in 2009 and has Clinical Offi cer since 2007.
He was appointed as a also served as a member of Mediclinics Executive director of Mediclinic International Limited in 2010 Committee since 2011. up to the combination of the businesses of the Quali cations: He holds a Bachelors degree in Company then Al Noor Hospitals Group plc and Commerce from the University of South Africa and a Mediclinic International Limited.
Master in Business Administration with distinction Quali cations: He holds a medical degree from the from the University of Liverpool.
University of Stellenbosch M. B. Ch.
B. : a diploma in anaesthetics from the College of Anaesthetists of South Africa DA SA : the Fellowship of the College of Anaesthetists of South Africa F. C. A. SA : and completed the Advanced Management Programme at Harvard Business School.
KOERT PRETORIUS DR OLE WIESINGER Chief Executive Offi cer: Mediclinic Chief Executive Offi cer: Hirslanden Southern Africa Age: 54 Age: 54 Nationality: German Nationality: South African Dr Ole Wiesinger joined the Hirslanden group in Koert Pretorius joined the Group in 1998 as the 2004 as the Hospital Manager of Klinik Hirslanden.
regional manager of the central region of Mediclinics He was appointed as the Chief Executive Offi cer of operations in South Africa, after which he was the Hirslanden group and also served as a director appointed as the Chief Operating Offi cer of the of Mediclinic International Limited from 2008 up to Mediclinic Group in 2003.
He was appointed as the the combination of the businesses of the Company Chief Executive Offi cer of Mediclinic Southern Africa then Al Noor Hospitals Group plc and Mediclinic in 2008 and also served as a director of Mediclinic International Limited.
Prior to joining Hirslanden, International Limited in 2006 up to the combination he served in various management positions of the of the businesses of the Company then Al Noor MGS Euromed Group in Germany from 1995 and was Hospitals Group plc and Mediclinic International appointed as the Chief Executive Offi cer of MGS Limited.
Quali cations: He holds a Bachelor degree in Quali cations: He holds a doctorate in medicine Accounting Science from the University of the from the University of Erlangen, Germany Ph.
: and a Master of Business and a Postgraduate Diploma in Health Economics Leadership degree from the University of South from the European Business School, Germany.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 73 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT With the exception of this appointment, made INTRODUCTION in accordance with the terms of the relationship agreement, the Nomination Committee leads The Board of Directors is accountable to the Companys the process for Board appointments and makes shareholders for ensuring the sound management recommendations to the Board in accordance with and long-term success of the Group.
No new Board appointments were made be achieved if the Board is supported by appropriate in terms of the Relationship Agreement during the governance processes to ensure that the Group is year under review.
managed responsibly and with integrity, fairness, transparency and accountability.
This Corporate Provision D. 2.1 regarding having at least three Governance Statement describes the key elements of independent non-executive directors serving on the Mediclinics corporate governance framework.
Remuneration Committee A Group Corporate Governance Manual, dealing with Ian Tyler, who served as an independent nonBoard practices and Group policies, provides guidance executive member of the Remuneration Committee, to the company secretaries, boards and management resigned as a Director on 21 February 2017.
From of the Company and its three operating platforms the date of his resignation up to the appointment of in Southern Africa, Switzerland and the United Arab Seamus Keating as an independent non-executive Emirates to ensure that similar corporate governance member of the Remuneration Committee on practices are followed throughout the Group.
17 March 2017, the Remuneration Committee had only two independent non-executive members and did not meet the requirement to have at least COMPLIANCE WITH UK three independent non-executive members.
The Company fully complied with this requirement apart CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE from this short period between 21 February 2017 and AND LISTING RULES 17 March 2017, during which period no committee meetings were held.
The Board is committed to maintaining the highest Provision E. 1.1 regarding the attendance by the standards of corporate governance and the highest Senior Independent Director SID of sufficient standards of integrity and ethics.
The UK Corporate meetings with a range of major shareholders Governance Code the UK Corporate Governance The Company has not met the requirement that the Code or the Code, most recently updated SID should attend sufficient meetings with a range in April 2016 by the Financial Reporting Council of major shareholders to listen to their views in the FRC and available on the FRCs website at order to help develop a balanced understanding of www.
uk, contains a series of broad principles the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
This and specific provisions which embody good practice provision of the Code, supports the main principle in relation to five key areas: leadership, effectiveness, of the Code requiring dialogue with shareholders accountability, remuneration and relations with based on a mutual understanding of objectives and shareholders.
This report, together with the Directors AR that the Chairman should ensure that all Directors Remuneration Report and the various Board are made aware of their major shareholders issues committee reports included in this Annual Report, and concerns, with which the Company complies.
describes how the Board applied the main principles The Board believes that appropriate mechanisms of the Code and complied with its provisions.
are in place to engage with shareholders, without During the year under review and up to the date of this the need for the SID to attend meetings with major report, the Company complied with all the provisions shareholders.
The SID is, however, available to of the UK Corporate Governance Code, other than the attend such meetings if requested by shareholders.
exceptions noted below: Although the SID and any other Non-executive Directors have the opportunity to attend analyst Provision B.
2.1 regarding the Nomination presentations hosted by the Company, the principal Committee leading the process for Board engagement with the capital markets lies mainly appointments and making recommendations with CEO, CFO and the Head of Investor Relations, to the Board who provide regular feedback to the Board on Appointments to the Board are recommended by investor relations matters, including, inter alia, an the Nomination Committee and further details on overview of meetings held with investors.
Refer the Committee and the appointment process can to pages 83 to 84 for more information on the AR AR be found on pages 108 to 110.
In accordance with Companys shareholder engagement.
the Companys relationship agreement with its principal shareholder, Remgro Limited Remgro, In addition to complying with applicable corporate AR further details of which are provided on page 125, governance requirements in the UK in accordance with Remgro is entitled to appoint up to a maximum its primary listing on the LSE, the Board is also satisfied of three Directors to the Board.
Jannie Durand that the Company meets all relevant requirements of represents Remgro on the Board of Directors and the JSE Listings Requirements and the NSX Listings was appointed by Remgro in the previous reporting Requirements as a result of its secondary listings on period on 15 February 2016.
His appointment was the JSE, the South African securities exchange, and the therefore not led by the Nomination Committee.
NSX, the Namibian securities exchange.
