At a glance Everything your pet needs for a happy and healthy life The Group provides a comprehensive range of merchandise and services forcustomers and their pets.
It is the combination of our specialist retail offer, veterinary practices and grooming salons, all within a single pet-focused environment, that represents a uniquely attractive offer to our customers.
Retail Our merchandise offer is provided from Omnichannel capability: our retail store network and website.
Click and collect in-store Within our stores, well-trained colleagues Our extended range of food and provide detailed advice on areas such accessories is available for customers to as pet nutrition and the set-up of home shop online and have their order delivered aquaria.
Investment in our omnichannel to store to be collected when convenient.
capabilities provides additional convenience for customers.
Read more page 19 Services We provide veterinary services through our first opinion network of Joint Venture practices, and our specialist referral centres.
Our first opinion practices are operated mainly under the Vets4Pets brand and are situated in stores and in standalone locations.
Our referral centres provide high level, specialist services to vets working in our own and inother first opinion practices.
Grooming services are provided primarily from salons within our retail stores.
Order with our experts on their PetPads Expert colleagues can order from our extended range using a dedicated PetPad app.
The PetPad is also set up to enable subscription orders of licensed flea prevention products.
11,000 products in our extended online range Read more page 9 Pets at Home Group Plc 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Overview Business model page 14 In-store practices Our network of first opinion small animal veterinary practices, Specialist referral operated in conjunction with our Joint Venture vet partners.
centres 289 practices in stores 4 Standalone referral centres practices Read more page 36 149 standalone practices The Groom Room Our dog and cat grooming salons, located predominantly in-store.
290 grooming salons Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 5
