02 Strategic Report Sainsburys Group at a glance We offer customers choice across our wide range of food, general Our vision is to be the most merchandise, clothing and financial services.
On 2 September 2016 trusted retailer where people we acquired Home Retail Group plc, the owner of Argos and Habitat, creating one of the UKs leading food, general merchandise and love to work and shop clothing retailers a multi-product, multi-channel business with Our goal is to make our customers lives fast delivery networks.
easier by offering great quality products and Sainsburys Bank offers accessible financial services products such service at fair prices.
as credit cards, insurance, travel money and personal loans that reward customer loyalty.
Our 195,000 colleagues, strong culture and values are integral to achieving our vision and driving our success now and in the future.
The new Sainsburys Group Food General Financial Services Sainsburys has sold great quality food at Sainsburys Bank has 1.8m active Merchandise fair prices since 1869.
We offer accessible & Clothing heritage of innovation and were the financial services products such as Our General Merchandise and Clothing first retailer of organic produce credit cards, insurance, travel business is one of the biggest in the in the UK.
We continue to build our money and personal loans that UK and offers customers a wide range strength in food innovation, targeting reward loyalty.
This year Argos of products across home, clothing, growing food markets where we can Financial Services became part technology and leisure.
We have increase our market share, such as of our financial services offer and a market-leading position in key Food to Go and FreeFrom, where we also has approximately 1.8m active product categories such as toys and can be a market leader.
electricals and our Tu clothing brand offers customers high street style at 125 1.9m supermarket prices.
reviews underway covering around 60% visits to Sainsburys Bank website of our food ranges every month 6bn of sales generated by Sainsburys 26m 1,728 General Merchandise and Clothing weekly customer transactions ATMs in our estate business, including Argos.
See more on page 15 See more on page 21 See more on page 18 Strategic Report 03 Our supermarkets offer customers a comprehensive mix of food, general merchandise and clothing.
Our smaller convenience stores are located where our customers live and work, with a product mix designed for regular top-up shopping and to meet their day-today needs.
We have a well-established and growing online offer that allows customers to shop from the comfort of their home, or on the go via The world is changing faster a mobile phone or tablet, opting for either convenient delivery to their home or to Click & Collect from our stores.
than at any time Convenience, speed and flexibility are key Our acquisition of Home Retail Group plc has accelerated our strategy.
Customers now have access to Argos products, marketin todays retail environment.
Our strategy leading Argos digital channels and delivery systems.
Argoss is to sell products whenever and wherever unique Hub and Spoke supply chain network and Fast Track delivery and collection service are points of competitive advantage.
Read more about our market context on page 6 Whenever and wherever 151 605 Groceries Online Click 809 Sainsburys & Collect points Convenience supermarkets stores 59 Argos Digital stores 207 in Sainsburys Digital Collection points supermarkets for Tu clothing, eBay, DPD and, in 90 stores, Argos 11 Habitat stores, including 276,000 four standalone and seven Mini Habitats in Average number of Sainsburys customer orders made through Groceries Online channel per week 10% 26m of Groceries Online weekly customer orders made transactions through new app All numbers are correct at the time of signing the Annual Report and Acounts.
