Directors Remuneration Report At a glance In this section, we summarise: Our Remuneration Policy which applied for the 2016 17 financial year: The actual performance and remuneration outcomes for the 2016 17 financial year: The link between our strategy for 2017 18 and the Remuneration Policy: and The proposed implementation of the Remuneration Policy for 2017 18.
More detail on the Remuneration Policy can be found on the website and further information on this years outcomes is given in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 82-89.
Directors Remuneration policy applied in 2016 17 The Remuneration Policy and strategy is designed to stimulate sustainable, value creating growth and performance for the business and rewards Executives performance accordingly.
The Companys core principles of remuneration are to support: sustainable long-term value creation: profitable growth and strong cash generation: and attraction, retention and motivation of a talented leadership cadre to deliver the business strategy.
The Committee will review annually the remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors and the Executive Team drawing on trends and adjustments made to all employees across the Group and taking into consideration: our business strategy: overall corporate performance: market conditions affecting the Company: the recruitment market where Saga competes for talent: our broader remuneration practices within the Company: and changing views of institutional shareholders and their representative bodies.
Remuneration Policy table summary A summary of the approved Remuneration Policy is outlined below.
There are no changes from the approved Policy.
The full Policy as approved by shareholders on 23 June 2015 is available on our website at http: corporate.
Element Operation of element Salary The Remuneration Committee ensures that maximum salary levels are positioned in line with Benefits companies of a similar size to Saga in the FTSE 250.
Pension When determining an appropriate level of salary, the Remuneration Committee considers: remuneration practices within the Group: the general performance of the Group: salaries within the ranges paid by the companies in the comparator group used for remuneration benchmarking: and the economic environment.
In general, salary rises to Executive Directors will be in line with the rise to employees.
The Executive Directors receive family private health cover, death in service life assurance, a car allowance and subsistence expenses.
They also receive employee discounts in line with other employees.
The maximum contribution to an Executive Directors pension or salary supplement is 20% of grossbasic salary.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 70 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Element Operation of element Annual bonus The Remuneration Committee will determine the maximum annual participation in the Annual BonusPlan for each year, which will not exceed 150% of salary.
The maximum value of deferred shares is 50% of the bonus earned, which vest after a minimumdeferral period of three years based on continued employment.
Long Term Incentive LTIP maximum grant is 200% of salary p. a.
Plan LTIP Awards will vest at the end of three years subject to the achievement of: EPS performance which ensures the achievement of the annual profit performance targeted by theAnnual Bonus Plan flows through to long-term sustainable EPS growth: and TSR performance of the Company compared to the FTSE 250 excluding real estate and equity investment trusts which measures the success of the implementation of the Companys strategy indelivering an above market level of return.
The LTIP contains clawback and malus provisions.
Share Incentive The purpose of the SIP is to encourage all employees to become shareholders in the Company and Plan SIP thereby align their interests with shareholders.
Minimum shareholding The Remuneration Committee has adopted formal shareholding guidelines that will encourage the requirement Executive Directors to build up over a five-year period, and then subsequently hold, a shareholding equivalent to a percentage of base salary.
Group Chief Executive Officer 200% of salary: Group Chief Financial Officer 150% of salary.
Chairman & The fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are set at broadly the median of the Non-Executive comparator group used for Executive Director remuneration.
Directorfees In general, the level of fee increase for the Non-Executive Directors will be set taking account of anychange in responsibility and will take into account the general rise in salaries across the Sagaworkforce.
The Company will pay reasonable expenses incurred by the Chairman and Non-Executive Directorsand may settle any tax incurred in relation to these.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 71
