Strategic report Our strategy at a glance Our strategy KPIs Strategic delivery Profit before tax Number of HACs 1.
Becoming Becoming increasingly increasingly customer-centric Core product holding per HAC 193.3m 9.7% customerLaunch of the Saga membership scheme Put the right team in place to make more of our database and deliver our multi-channel centric 176.2m marketing activities.
Growing profit Identified the core group of HACs who form 20% of Earnings per share our customer base and contribute approximately inour retail 80% of our profits.
insurance and 14.1p 6.0% Delivered new marketing capability with the travel introduction of the Adobe Marketing Cloud that 13.3p allows us the better to identify customers with the businesses characteristics of HACs.
Investing in Profit before tax from core businesses growing future growth Growing profits in our retail 8.5p 18.1% insurance and travel businesses 4.
Maintaining 7.2p Delivered profit growth across our key retail our efficient Available operating broking business.
operating model cash flow Increased profits through passenger growth and improved margins in our tour operating business 5.
Developing and optimum yield of our ships.
217.6m 22.2% our people 178.1m New ship continues to be on track for delivery in Investing in future growth mid-2019 and the first cruises will go on sale later Continued to evolve the design and position Debt ratio this year of the new shipping capacity which will Growth in our portfolio of Saga Money products significantly change the profit trajectory 1.9x of our travel business once delivered.
Continued success of the Saga Healthcare and Developed our Saga Money business.
2.3x Retirement Village pilots Continued the Saga Healthcare and Retirement Villages pilots.
Number of HACs Investment in our new retail insurance platform and Maintaining our efficient 483k our enhanced data capability continues on track operating model Core product holding Deliver cost and efficiency improvements The model continues to generate strong cash flows.
per HAC Successfully launched the quota share arrangement with New Reinsurance Company Limited NewRe, 2.1 and the planned extension of the arrangement by three years.
Invested in our new retail insurance platform and a new claims platform to deliver efficient savings within insurance businesses.
Delivered Group wide cost and procurement efficiencies.
Continued improvement in sustained engagement Developing our people Rollout of the Leadership Development Programme Achieved a sustainable engagement score of 81%.
tothe top 400 leaders within Saga Invested in our leadership capability with the launch of the Leading the Saga Way Leadership Development Programme for our top 100 managers.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 12 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Measuring success Number of HACs Becoming increasingly What's our plan?
customer-centric Core product holding per HAC Launch of the Saga membership scheme Put the right team in place to make more of our database and deliver our multi-channel Our strategic objectives for the coming marketing activities.
year are: Identified the core group of HACs who form 20% of our customer base and contribute approximately 80% of our profits.
1 Becoming increasingly customer-centric Delivered new marketing capability with the We will continue the customer insight work, enhance introduction of the Adobe Marketing Cloud that our data capability and launch membership.
allows us the better to identify customers with the characteristics of HACs.
p14 Profit before tax from core businesses growing Growing profits in our retail 2 Growing profits in our retail insurance and travel businesses insurance and travel businesses As the largest part of the Group, our retail insurance Delivered profit growth across our key retail business remains a vital tool in acquiring and retaining broking business.
The travel business remains at the heart Increased profits through passenger growth and of the Saga brand and we use our customer insights improved margins in our tour operating business to ensure the proposition remains relevant.
and optimum yield of our ships.
p14 New ship continues to be on track for delivery in Investing in future growth mid-2019 and the first cruises will go on sale later Continued to evolve the design and position 3 Investing for future growth this year of the new shipping capacity which will We continue to invest in our core businesses of Growth in our portfolio of Saga Money products significantly change the profit trajectory insurance and travel, and the emerging businesses.
of our travel business once delivered.
p15 Retirement Village pilots Continued the Saga Healthcare and Retirement Villages pilots.
4 Maintaining our efficient operating model We will finalise the delivery of our new claims Investment in our new retail insurance platform and Maintaining our efficient platform and continue on track with our new retail our enhanced data capability continues on track operating model insurance platform.
Deliver cost and efficiency improvements The model continues to generate strong cash flows.
p15 Successfully launched the quota share arrangement with New Reinsurance Company Limited NewRe, and the planned extension of the arrangement by 5 Developing our people three years.
Our people are central to everything we do by Invested in our new retail insurance platform and ensuring that our customers receive the Saga a new claims platform to deliver efficient savings experience throughout the business.
Delivered Group wide cost and procurement p15 efficiencies.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 13
