Strategic report Our business at a glance Saga provides a variety of market leading products and services to the UKs over 50s Operations To find out Our insurance business Retail broking more go to is the largest part of the Underwriting Group, providing award p24-26 winning tailored products and services, ranging from motor to pet insurance, to millions of customers Insurance each year.
Operations To find out Our award winning travel Saga Cruises more go to business is at the heart Saga Holidays of the Saga brand, taking Titan p27 Destinology passengers all over the world on package holidays, escorted tours and cruises.
Travel Operations To find out Emerging businesses Saga Money more go to include our personal finance, Saga Healthcare homecare, publishing and Saga Retirement p29 Villages printing operations as well Saga Publishing as new development areas MetroMail for the long-term growth ofthe business.
Emerging businesses ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 2 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Saga as an investment Saga aims to deliver consistent long-term earnings growth with the right balance between investing for growth, paying down debt and returns to shareholders via dividends Why invest in us?
How we are different The model works Confidence in future delivery Saga focuses on the over 50s, the The Group has an excellent track Our existing strategy is robust.
The fastest growing demographic in the record of delivering consistent earnings in-depth work we have undertaken UK.
This demographic tends to be growth.
The capital efficiency of the to deepen our understanding of our wealthier and more resilient during model means that we are highly cash customers has provided the logical times ofeconomic uncertainty.
This enables us to invest for next step in the evolution of our model.
customer insight allows us to gain future growth, whilst continuing to pay We are now in a position to use our unique insight into the traits of down debt and enhance long-term enhanced insight and data capability our target demographic, helping us returns to shareholders through our through a membership structure to to develop products and services progressive dividend policy.
become a more efficient organisation, that we know will be valuable to our ensuring that we: customers.
We operate across sectors which provide services that people retain and deepen our customer need.
This means that demand for relationships: our products and services remains increase new customer targeting: and consistent amongst a customer generate increased profits at lower base that predominantly spends risk, with lower capital.
This strategic evolution increases our confidence in our ability to generate consistent long-term earnings growth on a sustainable basis.... to deliver profit and dividend growth, strong cash generation and sustainable shareholder return.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 3
