GROUP PERFORMANCE AT A GLANCE A leading global service provider OUR DIVISIONS ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING & PRODUCTION INTEGRATED E&C SERVICES EPS ENERGY SERVICES IES Group revenue contribution Group revenue contribution Group revenue contribution 75% 22% 3% Engineering & Construction delivers onshore Engineering & Production Services brings Integrated Energy Services provides an and offshore engineering, procurement, together our services capability across integrated service for clients under flexible construction, installation and commissioning brownfield projects and operations, greenfield commercial models that are aligned with their services on a lump-sum basis.
We have more projects through concept, feasibility and requirements.
Our projects cover upstream than 35 years of expertise in this area and our front-end engineering and full project delivery developments both greenfield and brownfield, services encompass both greenfield and as well as a range of operations, maintenance related energy infrastructure projects, and can brownfield developments.
and engineering services for onshore and include investment.
Revenue Revenue Revenue US$1,392m US$4,801m US$228m 2016: US$1,725m 2016: US$5,928m 2016: US$271m 1 1 1 Net profit Net profit Net loss US$342m US$90m US$ 21 m 2016: US$311m 2016: US$111m 2016: US$ 42 m 1 Business performance profit attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders before exceptional items and certain re-measurements.
Oil and gas Oil and gas Storage and pipelines Refining and Offshore production Offshore development processing facilities petrochemicals wind and production 2 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Design Build Manage & maintain OPERATIONAL PROGRESS IN 2017 Across our portfolio of lump-sum projects, we delivered more than 217 In IES, we made good progress in re-shaping our portfolio and improving million man-hours, maintained an excellent safety record and secured performance.
By the close of the year, our order backlog stood at US$4.1 billion of new orders.
Meanwhile, in our reimbursable business, US$10.2billion, giving us good revenue visibility.
we secured contract awards and extensions valued at US$1.1 billion.
ABU DHABI, UAE ALGERIA IRAQ OMAN The highlight was progress on An important milestone was the Building on our success in Iraq, On our upstream projects, we the UZ750 offshore project at the completion and commissioning securing several new contract completed Phase 1 of the Khazzan Upper Zakum oil field, our share of of the In Salah southern fields awards and extensions which, central processing facility for BP which is valued at US$3.5 billion.
We also introduced together, are worth more than and were awarded Phase 2.
At the height of the project some gas into the Reggane North US$300 million.
These include We also secured a 10-year EPCm 14,000 workers were involved, Development plant and, by the close engineering, operations and framework agreement with including 5,000 onsite, and it of the year, we were ready for the maintenance services agreements Petroleum Development Oman, reached more than 58 million introduction of gas into the Alrar plant.
with international oil companies, which builds on our work on the man-hours LTI free.
During 2017, plus we extended our long-term Rabab Harweel Integrated project we delivered and installed all of contract with Basra Oil Company and Yibal Khuff project.
In terms the modules, and contract and expanded our scope of downstream projects, the Sohar completion is set for mid-2018.
refinery is now in commercial operation, and we were awarded the Duqm Refinery project, in a 50 50 joint venture with Samsung Engineering.
See page 35 See page 38 See pages 35-36 and 39 MALAYSIA SAUDI ARABIA UK KUWAIT Malaysia continues to be an In Saudi Arabia we continue In September 2017, Petrofac We successfully reached the important market for Petrofac.
to build on our downstream marked 20 years since we first pre-commissioning phase of Production levels remain in line with credentials.
By the close of the year pioneered the outsourced Duty the KNPC Clean Fuels Project expectations at Block PM304, which we had reached commissioning Holder model in the North Sea.
we operate on behalf of PETRONAS, phase for both the Petro Rabigh During the year, we secured a We also secured a lump-sum and we continue to make good petrochemicals plant and the number of contract awards and EPC project with Kuwait Oil progress on the US$500 million Jazan South tank farm project.
extensions, including a three-year Company, valued at US$1.3 billion, Refinery and Petrochemicals extension of a maintenance for GC32, the first sour oil and Integrated Development RAPID services contract with BP and a gas gathering centre in the EPCC project.
12-month extension for engineering Burgan oilfield.
See page 36 and 56 See page 35 See page 38 See page 35 Oil and gas Oil and gas Storage and pipelines Refining and Offshore production Offshore development processing facilities petrochemicals wind and production Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 3
