INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF MEGGITT PLC We have audited the parent company financial statements of Meggitt PLC BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Balance Sheet We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on and the related notes.
These parent company financial statements have Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is and disclosures in the parent company financial statements and the part described as having been audited.
of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an We have reported separately on the group financial statements of Meggitt assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the PLC for the year ended 31 December 2008. directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
AND AUDITORS The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Directors Remuneration Report and the parent company financial and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and Remuneration Report to be audited.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act OPINION 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept In our opinion: or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2008: We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the parent parent company financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes specific information cross referenced from the Principal Activities and Business Review section of the Directors Report to the Business Review.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and  LLP explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Reading 2 March 2009 We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises Meggitt at a Glance, Financial Highlights, Overview, Chairmans Statement, Group Strategic Objectives, Strategy Implementation, Market Review, Business Review, Risks and Uncertainties, Aerospace Equipment, Sensing Systems, Defence Systems, Corporate Responsibility, Board of Directors, Report of the Directors, Directors Statement on Corporate Governance, the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report and the other information listed in the contents to the Annual Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Financial statements 95 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2008
