Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records Directors Remuneration report and the financial statements in that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial accordance with applicable law and regulations.
position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and statements for each financial year.
The Directors are required by other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors report the IAS Regulation to prepare the Group financial statements under and Directors Remuneration report which comply with the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the Companies Act 1985.
The Group financial statements are also The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys in other jurisdictions.
financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events Directors responsibility statement and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge: criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the 1.
The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and with all applicable IFRSs.
However, Directors are also required to: 2.
The Chairmans statement, Chief Executives review and Finance properly select and apply accounting policies: Directors review, which are incorporated into the Directors report present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that include a fair review of the development and performance of the provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable business and the position of the Company and the undertakings information: and included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand By order of the Board the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
GEOFFREY MARTIN SIMON PECKHAM The Directors have elected to prepare the parent Company financial Group Finance Director Chief Operating Officer statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 11 March 2009 Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent Company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
