Notes to the accounts continued Impairment of non-current assets 2 Summary of significant accounting policies Goodwill and intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever continued events or circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts might be Non-current assets and businesses held for sale impaired and at least annually.
Such events and circumstances include Non-current assets and businesses classified as held for sale are the effects of restructuring initiated by management.
measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
To determine whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the Non-current assets and businesses are classified as held for sale if their value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has been carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than allocated.
The value in use calculation requires management to estimate through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as having been met the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or business is and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
The available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must carrying amount of intangible assets at the balance sheet date was be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for 1,279.5 million 2007: 207.4 million.
At 31 December 2008, the recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of Group recognised no impairment loss in respect of these assets.
Retirement benefit obligations In assessing the Groups obligations relating to retirement benefits, 3 Critical accounting judgements management made key assumptions relating to current and future In applying the Groups accounting policies as set out in note 2, mortality, expected returns on plan assets, discount rates and inflation.
management has made critical accounting judgements in the determination of the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired, the Financial instruments quantification of provisions and the impairment of goodwill and Derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and liabilities in intangible assets.
Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making the Groups balance sheet measured at their fair value at the balance assumptions and estimates, actual outcomes will differ from those date.
The fair value of derivatives continually changes in response to assumptions and estimates.
An analysis of the key sources of changes in prevailing market conditions.
Where permissible under IAS estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date that have a significant 39, the Group uses hedge accounting to mitigate the impact of changes risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets in the fair value of derivatives on the income statement but the Groups and liabilities within the next financial year is provided below.
results may be affected by changes in the fair values of derivatives where hedge accounting cannot be applied or due to hedge ineffectiveness.
Fair values at acquisition Following the acquisition of FKI, management have made assumptions Revenue and profit recognition of construction contracts regarding the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired.
These fair value Revenue and profit is recognised for certain construction contracts assumptions are described in note 12. based on the stage of completion of the contract activity.
This is measured by the proportion of costs incurred to estimated whole-life Intangible assets contract costs except where this would not be representative of the The valuation of intangible assets requires management to estimate the stage of completion.
net present value of future cash flows arising from customer relationships after estimating the attrition factor relevant to the customer relationship and other factors such as access to the workforce, which were appropriate to the determination of the additional cash flows.
The valuation of intangible assets in respect of brand names requires management to estimate future cash flows using a relief from royalty model.
Provisions The quantification of certain liabilities within provisions environmental remediation obligations and future legal costs in relation to certain claims have been estimated.
However, such liabilities depend on the actions of third parties and on the specific circumstances pertaining to each obligation, neither of which is controlled by the Group.
