Financial risk management continued Sensitivity analysis - currency risk continued 2008 Equity PBT 000 000 Euro 9,811 1,798 Australian Dollar 2,892 1,465 Hong Kong Dollar 1,520 694 Swiss Franc 1,317 490 Brazilian Real 838 568 United States Dollar 299 320 Other 1,913 415 2007 Equity PBT 000 000 Euro 7,060 4,617 Australian Dollar 1,530 796 Swiss Franc 572 257 Hong Kong Dollar 523 324 Brazilian Real 509 442 United States Dollar 330 3 Other 945 245 A 10 percent weakening of sterling against the above currencies at 31 December would have had the equal but opposite effect on the above currencies to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
Commitments Operating lease commitments At 31 December 2008 the Group was committed to make the following payments in respect of non-cancellable operating leases: Land and buildings Other 2008 2007 2008 2007 000 000 000 000 Leases which expire: Within one year 4,681 2,562 2,412 449 Within two to five years 41,749 29,411 9,354 7,526 After five years 65,034 57,980 111,464 89,953 11,766 7,975 The Group leases various offices under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The Group also leases various plant and machinery under operating lease agreements.
The Group is required to give a varying notice for the termination of these agreements.
Commitments continued Capital commitments The Group had contractual capital commitments of 0.2m as at 31 December 2008 2007: 1.2m relating to property, plant and equipment.
The Group had contractual capital commitments of 0.1m as at 31 December 2008 2007: 3.4m relating to computer software.
Contingent liabilities The Company has provided guarantees to other Group undertakings amounting to 13.4m 2007: 9.7m in the ordinary course of business.
It is not anticipated that any material liabilities will arise from the contingent liabilities.
vAt group registration As a result of group registration for VAT purposes, the Company is contingently liable for VAT liabilities arising in other companies within the VAT group which at 31 December 2008 amounted to 5.0m 2007: 7.6m.
Events after the balance sheet date Between 31 December 2008 and 27 February 2009, 44,853 options were exercised, which has led to an increase of share capital of 449 and an increase in share premium of 62,874.
Related party transactions Identity of related parties The Group has a related party relationship with its Directors and members of the Executive Board, and subsidiaries Note 12. transactions with key management personnel Key management personnel are deemed to be the Directors and members of the Executive Board.
The remuneration of Directors and members of the Executive Board is determined by the Remuneration Committee having regard to the performance of individuals and market trends.
For transactions with Directors see the Remuneration Report on pages 40 to 47. over and above these transactions, equity settled transactions for the year were 0.9m 2007: 2.2m.
Transactions with the remaining members of the Executive Board are disclosed below: 2008 2007 000 000 Short-term employee benefits 2,232 746 Pension costs - defined contribution plans 142 40 The increase in emoluments in the current year represents members being on the Executive Board for a full year and an increase in the bonus award, as well as awards made under the Michael page Executive Share option Scheme.
In addition to their salaries, the Group also provides non-cash benefits to members of the Executive Board, and contributes to a post-employment defined contribution pension plan on their behalf, details of which are given in Note 1.
Transactions between the Group and its subsidiaries, which are related parties of the Company, have been eliminated on consolidation.
Details of transactions between the parent company and subsidiary undertakings are shown below.
Amounts owed by Amounts owed to Dividends received related parties related parties 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 000 000 000 000 000 000 325,264 4,283 381,457 73,516 340,505 302,242 ANNUAl REpoRT 2008 81 Shareholder iNFORMATiON AND ADViSERS Annual General Meeting To be held on 22 May 2009 at 12.00 noon at page House, The Bourne Business park, 1 Dashwood lang Road, Addlestone, Weybridge, Surrey, KT15 2QW.
Every shareholder is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting.
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2008 To be paid if approved on 8 June 2009 to shareholders on the register on 8 May 2009.
Company secretary Kelvin Stagg Company number 3310225 Registered office, domicile and legal form The Company is a limited liability company incorporated and domiciled within the United Kingdom.
The address of its registered office is: page House, The Bourne Business park, 1 Dashwood lang Road Addlestone, Weybridge, Surrey KT15 2QW Tel: 01932 264144 Fax: 01932 264297 Auditors Solicitors Registrars Deloitte llp Herbert Smith llp Capita Registrars ltd Chartered Accountants Exchange House Northern House 2 New Street Square primrose Street Woodsome park london EC4A 3BZ london EC2A 2HS Fenay Bridge Huddersfield West Yorkshire HD8 0lA Joint Corporate Brokers Bankers Citigroup Deutsche Bank HSBC Bank plc ABN AMRo Bank N. V. 33 Canada Square Winchester House West End Business Corporate Clients Canary Wharf 1 Great Winchester Street Banking Centre fide Entree 99 london E14 5lB london EC2N 2DB 70 pall Mall 1101 HE Amsterdam london SW1Y 5GZ The Netherlands Key dates Ex-Dividend date 6 May 2009 Record date 8 May 2009 Annual General Meeting 22 May 2009 payment of proposed final ordinary dividend 8 June 2009 Interim results announcement 17 August 2009 82 michael page international Memorandum and Articles of Association The following summarises certain provisions of the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association and applicable English law.
The summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companies Act 1985 of Great Britain the Act, as amended, and the Companys Articles of Association.
Objects and purposes The Company is incorporated under the name Michael page International plc and is registered in England and Wales with registered number 3310225.
The Memorandum of Association of the Company provides that the Companys principal object is to carry on business as a general commercial company and to carry out the other objects more particularly set out in the Memorandum of Association of the Company.
Share capital The authorised share capital of the Company currently consists of 571,250,000 ordinary shares of 1p each.
As at 31 December 2008, 321,990,067 ordinary shares have been allotted, called-up and fully paid see Note 18, Notes to the Accounts.
Alteration of capital The Company may from time to time by ordinary resolution: a increase its share capital by new shares of such amount as the resolution prescribes: b consolidate and divide all or any of its share capital into shares of larger amount than its existing shares: c subject to the provisions of the Act, sub-divide its shares, or any of them, into shares of a smaller amount than is fixed by the memorandum: d determine that, as between the shares resulting from such a sub-division, any of them may have any preference or advantage as compared with the others: and e cancel shares which, at the date of the passing of the resolution, have not been taken or agreed to be taken by any person, and diminish the amount of its share capital by the amount of the shares so cancelled.
Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Company may by special resolution reduce its share capital, any capital redemption reserve and any share premium account, in any way.
Purchase of own shares Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Company may purchase its own shares, including redeemable shares.
The Company proposes to renew its authority to purchase its own shares for another year in item 10 of the Annual General Meeting notice.
General meetings and voting rights The Directors may call general meetings whenever and at whatever time and location they so determine.
Subject to the provisions of the Act, an annual general meeting and an extraordinary general meeting called to pass a special resolution shall be called by at least 21 clear days notice, and all other extraordinary general meetings shall be called by at least 14 days notice.
Two persons entitled to vote upon the business to be transacted shall be a quorum.
The Articles of Association provide that subject to any rights or restrictions attached to any shares, on a show of hands every member shall have one vote, and on a poll every member shall have one vote for every share of which he is a holder.
on a poll, ANNUAl REpoRT 2008 83 votes may be given either personally or by proxy or in the case of a corporate member by a duly authorised representative.
No member shall be entitled to vote in respect of any share held by him if any call or other sum payable by him to the Company remains unpaid.
If a member or any person appearing to be interested in shares held by a member has been duly served with a notice under Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 previously Section 212 of the Act and is in default for the prescribed period in supplying to the Company information thereby required, unless the Directors otherwise determine, the member shall not be entitled in respect of the default shares to be present or to vote either in person or by representative or proxy at any general or class meeting of the Company or on any poll or to exercise any other right confirmed by membership in relation to such meeting or poll.
In certain circumstances, any dividend due in respect of the default shares shall be withheld and certain certificated transfers may be refused.
A member entitled to more than one vote need not, if he votes, use all his votes or cast all the votes he uses in the same way.
A proxy need not be a member.
A member may appoint more than one proxy to attend on the same occasion.
This does not preclude the member from attending and voting at the meeting or at any adjournment of it.
Limitations and non-resident or foreign shareholders English law treats those persons who hold the shares and are neither UK residents nor nationals in the same way as UK residents or nationals.
They are free to own, vote on and transfer any shares they hold.
variation of rights Subject to the Act, if at any time the capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class of may be varied either: a in such manner if any as may be provided by those rights: or b in the absence of any such provision, with the consent in writing of the holders of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of the class but not otherwise, and may be so varied either whilst the Company is a going concern or during, or in contemplation of, a windingup.
At every such separate general meeting the necessary quorum shall be at least two persons together holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class but at any adjourned meeting any holder of shares of the class present in or by proxy shall be a quorum.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the rights attached to any class of shares, those rights shall be deemed not to be varied by the purchase by the Company of any of its own shares.
Dividend rights Holders of the Companys ordinary shares may by ordinary resolution declare dividends but no such dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
If, in the opinion of the Directors, the profits of the Company available for distribution justify such payments, the Directors may, from time to time, pay interim dividends on the shares of such amounts and on such dates and in respect of such periods as they think fit.
The profits of the Company available for distribution and resolved to be distributed shall be apportioned and paid proportionately to the amounts paid up on the shares during any portion of the period in respect of which the dividend is paid.
The members may, at a general meeting declaring a dividend upon the recommendation of the Directors, direct that it shall be satisfied wholly or fully by the distribution of assets.
No dividend shall be paid otherwise than out of profits available for distribution as specified under the provisions of the Act.
Any dividend unclaimed after a period of twelve years from the date of declaration of such dividend shall, if the Directors so resolve, be forfeited and shall revert to the Company.
Calls on shares Subject to the terms of allotment, the Directors may make calls upon members in respect of any amounts unpaid on their shares whether in respect of nominal value or premium and each member shall pay to the Company as required by the notice the amount called on his shares.
transfer of shares Any member may transfer all or any of his shares in certificated form by instrument of transfer in the usual common form or in any other form which the Directors may approve.
The transfer instrument shall be signed by or on behalf of the transferor and, except in the case of fully-paid shares, by or on behalf of the transferee.
Where any class of share is for the time being a participating security, title to shares of that class which are recorded as being held in uncertificated form, may be transferred by the relevant system concerned.
84 michael page international The Directors may in their absolute discretion and without giving any reason refuse to register any transfer of shares being shares which are not fully paid or on which the Company has a lien, provided that if the share is listed on the official list of the UK listing Authority such refusal does not prevent dealings in the shares from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of shares unless the transfer instrument: a is lodged at the registered office, or such other place as the Directors may appoint, accompanied by the relevant share certificate s : b is in respect of only one class of share: and c is in favour of not more than four persons jointly.
The Directors of the Company may refuse to register the transfer of a share in uncertificated form to a person who is to hold it thereafter in certificated form in any case where the Company is entitled to refuse or is excepted from the requirements under the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 to register the transfer: and they may refuse to register any such transfer in favour of more than four transferees.
Subject to the Uncertificated Securities Regulations, the registration of transfers of shares or of any class of shares may be suspended at such times and for such periods not exceeding thirty days in any year as the Directors may determine.
Directors The Companys Articles of Association provide for a Board of Directors, consisting of unless otherwise determined by the Company by ordinary resolution not fewer than two Directors, who shall manage the business of the Company.
The Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of the Act, the Memorandum of Association, the Articles of Association and any directions given by special resolution.
If the quorum is not fixed by the Directors, the quorum shall be two.
The Directors may delegate any of their powers to: a any managing director, any director holding any other executive office, or any other director: b any committee consisting of one or more directors and if thought fit one or more other persons, but a majority of members of the committee shall be directors and no resolution of the committee shall be effective unless a majority of those present when it is passed are directors: and c to any local board or agency for managing any of the affairs of the Company either in the United Kingdom or elsewhere, and such delegation may include authority to sub-delegate all or any of the powers delegated, may be subject to conditions and may be revoked or varied.
The Directors may also, by power of attorney or otherwise, appoint any person, whether nominated directly or indirectly by the Directors, to be the agent of the Company for such purposes and subject to such conditions as they think fit, and may delegate any of their powers to such an agent.
The Articles of Association place a general prohibition on a Director voting on any resolution concerning a matter in which he has, directly or indirectly, a material interest other than an interest in shares, debentures or other securities of, or otherwise in or through the Company, unless his interest arises only because the case falls within one or more of the following: a the giving to him of a guarantee, security, or indemnity in respect of money lent to, or an obligation incurred by him for the benefit of, the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings: b the giving to a third party of a guarantee, security, or indemnity in respect of an obligation of the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings for which the Director has assumed responsibility in whole or in part and whether alone or jointly with others under a guarantee or indemnity or by the giving of security: c his interest arises by virtue of his being, or intending to become a participant in the underwriting or sub-underwriting of an offer of any shares in or debentures or other securities of the Company for subscription, purchase or exchange: d any arrangement for the benefit of the employees and directors and or former employees and directors of the Company or any of its subsidiaries and or the members of their families or any person who is or was dependent on such persons, including but without being limited to a retirement benefits scheme and an employees share scheme, which does not accord to him any privilege or advantage not generally accorded to employees and or former employees to whom the arrangement relates: e any transaction or arrangement with any other company in which he is interested, directly or indirectly, provided that he is not the holder of or beneficially interested in at least one per cent of any class of shares of that company or of any other company through which his interest is derived, and is not entitled to exercise at least one per cent of the voting rights available to members of the relevant company: and ANNUAl REpoRT 2008 85
