A Director shall be disqualified from holding office if: a he ceases to be a director under the provisions of the Act or he becomes prohibited by law from being a Director: b he becomes bankrupt or makes an arrangement or composition with his creditors generally: c he is, or may be suffering from mental disorder in certain circumstance: d he resigns his office by notice in writing to the Company: e in the case of an Executive Director, his appointment as such is terminated or expires and the Directors resolve that his office be vacated: f he is absent from Directors meetings for more than six consecutive months and the Directors resolve that his office be vacated: or g he is requested in writing by all the other Directors to resign.
No person shall be disqualified from being appointed or re-appointed as a Director and no Director shall be requested to vacate that office by reason of his attaining the age of seventy or any other age.
There is no requirement of share ownership for a Directors qualification.
Amendments to the Articles of Association Subject to the Act and the Memorandum of Association, the Articles of Association of the Company can be altered by special resolution of the members.
winding-up If the Company is wound up, the liquidator may, with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution of the Company and any other sanction required by law: a divide among the members in kind the whole or any part of the assets of the Company and, for that purpose, set such values as he deems fair upon any property to be divided and determine how the division shall be carried out between the members: and b vest the whole or any part of the assets in trustees upon such trusts for the benefit of members as the liquidator shall think fit, but no member shall be compelled to accept any assets upon which there is a liability.
If you have any doubts as to the action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own financial advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your ordinary shares in Michael page International plc, please send this document, together with the accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at page House, The Bourne Business park, 1 Dashwood lang Road, Addlestone, Weybridge, Surrey KT15 2QW on 22 May 2009 at 12.00 noon for the following purposes: 1.
To receive and adopt the reports of the Directors and auditors and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008.
To declare a final dividend on the ordinary share capital of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2008 of 5.12p per share.
To re-elect Stephen puckett as a director of the Company Note 6 4.
To re-elect Hubert Reid as a director of the Company Note 6 5.
To propose the following ordinary resolution: That the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2008 be received and approved.
To re-appoint Deloitte llp as auditors of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting at a remuneration to be fixed by the Directors.
To propose the following ordinary resolution: That in accordance with section 366 and 367 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act the Company, and all companies that are subsidiaries of the Company at the date on which this resolution 7 is passed or during the period when this resolution 7 has effect, be generally and unconditionally authorised to: a make political donations to political parties or independent election candidates, as defined in the 2006 Act, not exceeding 25,000 in total: b make political donations to political organisations other than political parties, as defined in the 2006 Act, not exceeding 25,000 in total: and c incur political expenditure, as defined in the 2006 Act, not exceeding 25,000 in total: during the period commencing on the date of passing this resolution and ending on the date of the AGM of the Company in 2010 provided that the authorised sum referred to in paragraphs a, b and c above, may be comprised of one or more amounts in different currencies which, for the purposes of calculating the said sum, shall be converted into pounds sterling at the exchange rate published in the london edition of the Financial Times on the date on which the relevant donation is made or expenditure incurred or the first business day thereafter or, if earlier, on the day in which the Company enters into any contract or undertaking in relation to the same Note 7.
To propose the following special resolution: That the directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot: a relevant securities within the meaning of section 80 2 of that Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,062,637: and ANNUAl REpoRT 2008 89 b relevant securities comprising equity securities within the meaning of section 94 of that Act up to a further aggregate nominal amount of 1,062,637 provided that they are offered by way of a rights issue to holders of ordinary shares on the register of members at such record date as the directors may determine where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of the ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be practicable to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held, or deemed to be held, by them on any such record date and to other holders of equity securities entitled to participate therein, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any overseas territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or by virtue of shares being represented by depositary receipts or any other matter, provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, on 21 August 2010, save that the Company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors shall be entitled to allot relevant securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired: and all unexercised authorities previously granted to the directors to allot relevant securities be and are hereby revoked.
To propose the following special resolution: That the directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 94 of that Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 8 above as if section 89 1 of that Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of securities but in the case of the authority granted under paragraph b of Resolution 8 by way of rights issue only in favour of the holders of ordinary shares on the register of members at such record date as the directors may determine where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of the ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be practicable to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held or deemed to be held by them on any such record date, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any overseas territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or by virtue of shares being represented by depositary receipts or any other matter: and b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above to any person or persons of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 161,006, and shall expire upon the expiry of the general authority conferred by Resolution 8 above, save that the Company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors shall be entitled to allot equity securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
To propose the following special resolution: That pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association and Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Act of ordinary shares of 1p each in the capital of the Company provided that: a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 48,269,495 representing approximately 14.99% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 28 February 2009: b the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is 1 pence: c the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is in respect of an ordinary share contracted to be purchased on any day, an amount equal to 105% of the average of the mid-market quotations for an ordinary share of the company as derived from The london Stock Exchange Daily official list for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is contracted to be purchased: d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the date of passing this resolution, unless such authority is renewed, varied or revoked prior to such time: and e the Company may conclude a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be exercised wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract as if the authority hereby conferred had not expired Note 10.
Resolution 11 is proposed as a special resolution.
It is proposed that Article 48 of the Articles of Association of the Company be amended by replacing Article 48 in its entirety with the following: Subject to the provisions of the Acts, an annual general meeting and all other general meetings of the Company shall be called by at least such minimum period of notice as is prescribed under the Acts.
The notice shall specify the place, the date and the time of meeting and the general nature of the business to be transacted, and in the case of an annual general meeting shall specify the meeting as such.
Subject to the provisions of these articles and to any rights or restrictions attached to any shares, notices shall be given to all members, to all persons entitled to a share in consequence of the death or bankruptcy of a member and to the directors and auditors of the Company.
Resolution 12 is proposed as a special resolution that a general meeting other than an annual general meeting, may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
The Board consider that all the proposals to be considered at the Annual General Meeting are likely to promote the success of the Company and are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
By order of the Board kelvin Stagg Company Secretary page House, 1 Dashwood lang Road Addlestone, Weybridge, Surrey, KT15 2QW Registered in England No.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint another person s who need not be a member of the company to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the meeting.
A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attaching to different shares held by him.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must attend the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy will vote as you instruct and must attend the meeting for your vote to be counted.
Details of how to appoint the Chairman or another person as your proxy using the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
Appointing a proxy does not preclude you from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
If you attend the Meeting in person, your proxy appointment will automatically be terminated.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons who have been nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated person.
The rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a Nominated person: they can only be exercised by the member.
However, a Nominated person may have a right under an agreement between him and the member by whom he was nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated person does not have such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
In order to be valid an appointment of proxy must be returned together with any authority under which it is executed to the Companys Registrars not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
a pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, only persons entered on the register of members of the Company at 6.00 p. m. on 20 May 2009 or, if the meeting is adjourned, at 6.00 p. m. on the date which is two days prior to the adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote and the number of votes they may cast at the meeting or adjourned meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland limiteds EUI specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID number RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Stephen puckett and Hubert Reid will retire by rotation and are seeking re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting.
Biographical information on each of the Directors is contained on page 27 of the annual report and accounts.
7.2 of the Combined Code, the Chairman confirms that, following formal performance evaluation, the above named individuals performances remain to be effective and demonstrate commitment to the role.
For the purpose of this resolution, political donations, political organisations and political expenditure have the meanings given to them in Section 363-365 of the 2006 Act.
In accordance with its Business principles, it is the Companys policy not to make contributions to political parties.
There is no intention to change it.
However, what constitutes a political party, a political organisation, political donations or political expenditure under the Companies Act 2006 is not easy to decide as the legislation is capable of wide interpretation.
Sponsorship, subscriptions, payment of expenses, paid leave for employees fulfilling public duties, and support for bodies representing the business community in policy review or reform, among other things, may fall within this.
92 michael page international Therefore, notwithstanding that the Company has no intention of making any political donation or incurring any political expenditure in respect of any political party, political organisation or independent election candidate, the Board has decided to put forward Resolution 7 to renew the authority granted by shareholders at the last AGM of the Company.
This will allow the Company to continue to support the community and put forward its views to wider business and Government interests without running the risk of being in breach of the law.
As permitted under the 2006 Act, Resolution 7 has also been extended to cover any of these activities by the Companys subsidiaries.
In December 2008, the Association of British Insurers ABI revised its guidelines on directors authority to allot shares in line with the recommendations of the report issued in November 2008 by the Rights Issue Review Group.
The ABIs guidelines previously stated that the directors general authority to allot shares should be limited to an amount equal to one-third of the Companys issued share capital.
The new guidelines state that ABI members will permit, and treat as routine, resolutions seeking authority to allot shares representing up to two-thirds of the Companys issued share capital.
The guidelines provide that the extra routine authority that is the authority to allot shares representing the additional one-third of the Companys issued share capital can only be used to allot shares pursuant to a fully pre-emptive rights issue.
In light of these revised guidelines, the Board considers it appropriate that directors be granted authority to allot shares in the capital of the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 2,125,275 representing the new guideline limit of approximately 66% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 28 February 2009 the latest practicable date prior to publication of this letter.
of this amount 106,263,732 shares representing approximately 33% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital can only be allotted pursuant to a rights issue.
The power will last until the conclusion of the next AGM in 2010.
The directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
As at the date of this letter the Company does not hold any ordinary shares in the capital of the Company in treasury.
Resolution 9 will give the directors authority to allot shares in the capital of the Company pursuant to the authority granted under Resolution 8 above for cash without complying with the pre-emption rights in the Companies Act 1985 in certain circumstances.
In the light of the new ABI guidelines described in relation to Resolution 8 above, this authority will permit the directors to allot: a shares up to a nominal amount of 2,125,275 representing two-thirds of the companys issued share capital on an offer to existing shareholders on a pre-emptive basis.
However unless the shares are allotted pursuant to a rights issue rather than an open offer, the directors may only allot shares up to a nominal amount of 1,062,637 representing one-third of the companys issued share capital in each case subject to adjustments for fractional entitlements and overseas shareholders : and b shares up to a maximum nominal value of 161,006, representing approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 28 February 2009 the latest practicable date prior to publication of this letter otherwise than in connection with an offer to existing shareholders.
The directors confirm their intention to follow the provisions of the pre-emption Groups Statement of principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling three-year period.
The principles provide that companies should not issue for cash shares representing in excess of 7.5% of the Companys issued share capital in any rolling three-year period, other than to existing shareholders, without prior consultation with shareholders.
This authority is in respect of 14.99% of the issued share capital of the Company and the power given by this resolution will only be exercised if the Directors are satisfied that any purchase will increase the Earnings per Share of the ordinary Share Capital in issue after the purchase and accordingly, that the purchase is in the interests of shareholders.
It is the intention that shares purchased under this authority be cancelled, but in order to respond properly to the Companys capital requirements and prevailing market conditions, the directors will need to reassess at the time of any and each actual purchase whether to hold the shares in treasury or cancel them, provided it is permitted to do so.
To have the right to attend and vote at the meeting or adjourned meeting and also for the purpose of calculating how many votes a person may cast, a person must have his her name entered on the register of members by no later than 6.00pm on 20 May 2009 or if the meeting is adjourned, at 6.00pm on the date which is two days prior to the adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote and the number of votes they may cast at the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Resolution 11 deals with the convening of general meetings and the length of notice required to convene general meetings and is in line with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
In particular, a general meeting other than the annual general meeting to consider a special resolution can be convened on 14 days notice whereas previously 21 days notice was required.
Resolution 12 is a resolution to allow the Company to hold general meetings other than AGMs on 14 days notice.
For general meetings other than AGMs the minimum notice period permitted by the Companies Act 2006 is currently 14 days rather than the 21 days notice previously required by the old articles and the Companies Act 1985.
The 2006 Act provisions relating to meetings are due to be amended with effect from August 2009, as a result of the UK implementation of the EU Shareholder Rights Directive.
one of the amendments to be made will, in accordance with the Directive, increase the minimum notice period for listed company general meetings to 21 days, but with an ability for companies to reduce this period back to 14 days other than for AGMs provided that two conditions are met.
The first condition is that the company offers facilities for shareholders to vote by electronic means.
It is not yet clear what this will require and the details will be set out in the final regulations when published.
The second condition is that there is an annual resolution of shareholders approving the reduction in the minimum notice period from 21 days to 14 days.
The board is therefore proposing Resolution 12 as a special resolution to approve 14 days as the minimum period of notice for all general meetings of the Company other than AGMs.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that the approval be renewed.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
As at 4 March 2009 being the latest business day prior to the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital consists of 322,034,920 ordinary shares.
The Employee Benefit Trust holds 3,020,284 ordinary shares of the Company carrying no voting rights.
No shares are held in treasury.
Therefore the total voting rights in the Company are 319,014,636.
Members satisfying the thresholds in section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a statement on its website setting out any matter relating to a the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the meeting: or b any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the last Annual General Meeting, that the members propose to raise at the meeting.
The Company cannot require the members requesting the publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on the website must also be sent to the Companys auditors no later than the time it makes its statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required to publish on its website.
Copies of the directors service contracts with the Company, and the terms and conditions of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during usual business hours Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted and will be available at the place of the meeting from 9.00am until its conclusion.
94 michael page international Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and have also elected to prepare financial statements for the Company in accordance with IFRS.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each year the companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors report and Directors remuneration report and operating and financial review which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website.
legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Cautionary statement This Annual Report and Accounts has been prepared solely to provide additional information to shareholders to assess the Groups strategies and the potential for those strategies to succeed.
The Annual Report and Accounts should not be relied on by any other party or any other purpose.
This Annual Report and Accounts contains certain forward-looking statements.
These statements are made by the directors in good faith based on the information available to them up to the time of their approval of this report and such statements should be treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties, including both economic and business risk factors, underlying any such forward-looking information.
Statement of Directors responsibilities in accordance with the Disclosure and transparency Rules The Directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: a the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS as issued by the IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and b the Business review section contained in the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
on behalf of the Board S ingham S puckett Chief Executive Group Finance Director 5 March 2009 5 March 2009 ANNUAl REpoRT 2008 95 Our office locations yEAR ENDED 31 DECEMbER 2008 96 michael page international GRowinG entiRely oRGAnicAlly, RAtheR thAn By meRGeRS oR AcquiSitionS, we now hAve oveR 4,900 people in 163 officeS in 28 countRieS woRldwide.
ANNUAl REpoRT 2008 97 Specialists in Global Recruitment 163 offices in 28 countries | www.
