Additional information Directors, Secretary, registered ofce and advisers Directors Auditors Kevin Loosemore Non-executive Chairman  LLP Stephen Kelly Chief Executive officer 9 Greyfriars Road Nick Bray Chief Financial officer Reading David Dominik Non-executive director Berkshire RGl IJG Prescott Ashe Non-executive director United Kingdom David Maloney Non-executive director Tom Skelton Non-executive director Registrars Paul Pester Non-executive director Equiniti Limited Aspect House Company Secretary, registered and head ofce Spencer Road Jane Smithard Lancing The Lawn BN99 6DA 22-30 Old Bath Road United Kingdom Newbury www.
co. uk Berkshire RG14 lQN United Kingdom Brokers www.
com UBS 2 Finsbury Square Legal advisers London EC2 2PP Linklaters United Kingdom One Silk Street London EC2Y 8HQ United Kingdom Forward-looking statements Certain statements contained in this annual report, including those under the captions entitled Chairmans statement, Chief Executive Ofcers statement, finance review, directors report, corporate governance and remuneration report constitute forward-looking statements.
All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this annual report, including, without limitation, those regarding the Companys financial condition, business strategy, plans and objectives, are forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements can be identied by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, intends, may, will or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company, or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions regarding the Companys present and future business strategies and the environment in which the Company will operate in the future.
Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others: the level of expenditure committed to development and deployment applications by organisations: the level of deployment-related revenue expected by the Company: the degree to which organisations adopt web-enabled services: the rate at which large organisations migrate applications from the mainframe environment: the continued use and necessity of the mainframe for business critical applications: the degree of competition faced by Micro Focus: growth in the information technology services market: general economic and business conditions, particularly in the United States: changes in technology and competition: and the Companys ability to attract and retain qualied personnel.
These forward-looking statements speak only as at the date of this annual report.
Except as required by the FSA, or by law, the Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
84 Micro Focus International plc Annual report 2008 Designed and produced by 85four.
Printed in England by Cousin, a CarbonNeutral company.
Micro Focus International plc The Lawn 22-30 Old Bath Road Newbury Berkshire RG14 1QN United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 1635 32646 Fax: 44 0 1635 33966 Registered No.
