notIce oF annuaL GeneraL MeetInG notIce oF annuaL GeneraL MeetInG The 2009 annual general meeting of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc the Company will be held at the Millennium Hotel London Mayfair, Grosvenor Square, London W1K 2HP on Wednesday 6 May 2009 at 10.00 am to consider, and if thought fit, to pass the resolutions set out below.
Ordinary Resolutions Resolution 1 That the Companys accounts, Directors report and auditors report for the year ended 31 December 2008 are received.
Resolution 2 That the Directors Remuneration Report set out in the report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 is approved.
Resolution 3 That the final dividend of 4.17p per ordinary share recommended by the Directors in respect of the year ended 31 December 2008 payable on 20 May 2009 to holders of ordinary shares registered at the close of business on 27 March 2009 is declared.
Resolution 4 That Kwek Leng Peck is re-elected as a Director.
Resolution 5 That Christopher Sneath is re-elected as a Director.
Resolution 6 That Richard Hartman is elected as a Director.
Resolution 7 That KPMG Audit plc is re-appointed as the Companys auditor from the end of this meeting until the end of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company in accordance with the Companies Act.
Resolution 8 That the Directors are authorised to determine the remuneration of the auditor.
Resolution 9 That the provisions of the Co-operation Agreement dated 18 April 1996 as amended be renewed for the period expiring at the conclusion of the Companys annual general meeting in 2010.
Resolution 10 That, in accordance with sections 366 and 367 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, the Company and all companies that are subsidiaries of the Company at the time at which this resolution is passed or at any time during the period for which this resolution has effect are authorised to: a make political donations to political parties or independent election candidates, as defined in sections 363 and 364 of the 2006 Act, not exceeding 100,000 in total: b make political donations to political organisations other than political parties, as defined in sections 363 and 364 of the 2006 Act, not exceeding 100,000 in total: and c incur political expenditure, as defined in section 365 of the 2006 Act, not exceeding 100,000 in total: during the period beginning with the date of the passing of this resolution and ending on 30 June 2010 or, if sooner, the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company to be held in 2010.
In any event, the aggregate amount of political donations and political expenditure made or incurred by the Company and its subsidiaries pursuant to this resolution shall not exceed 150,000.
Resolution 11 That, in substitution for all existing unexercised authorities, the authority conferred on the Directors by article 9.2 of the Companys Articles of Association be renewed unless previously renewed, varied or revoked for a period ending on the earlier of 30 June 2010 or the date of the Companys next annual general meeting and for that period, the Section 80 Amount is 30,225,986.
128 Millennium & copthorne hotels plc annual report & accounts 2008 Millennium & copthorne hotels plc annual report & accounts 2008 129 notIce oF annuaL GeneraL MeetInG notIce oF annuaL GeneraL MeetInG Resolution 12 That, in addition and without prejudice to the authority renewed in resolution 11 above, the Directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all powers of the Company to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the Companies Act 1985 in connection with a rights issue as defined in the Listing Rules of United Kingdom Listing Authority by the Company of ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 30,225,986 provided that this authority shall expire on the earlier of 30 June 2010 or the date of the Companys next annual general meeting save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Board may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
Special Resolutions Resolution 13 That, in substitution for all existing authorities, the authority conferred on the Directors by article 9.3 of the Companys Articles of Association be renewed unless previously renewed, varied or revoked for a period ending on the earlier of 30 June 2010 or the date of the Companys next annual general meeting and for that period, the Section 89 Amount is 4,533,897.
Resolution 14 That, subject to the passing of resolution 12 above, the Directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the said Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 12 above as if sub-section 1 of Section 89 of the said Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall expire on the earlier of 30 June 2010 or the date of the Companys next annual general meeting save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Board may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
Resolution 15 That the Company is generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases as defined in section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 30p each in the capital of the Company on the following terms: a the maximum number of ordinary shares which may be purchased is 30,225,986 representing 10 per cent of the Companys issued share capital as at 17 February 2009 : b the minimum price, exclusive of costs, which may be paid for each ordinary share is 30p: c the maximum price, exclusive of costs, which may be paid for each ordinary share is an amount equal to not more than 105 per cent of the average of the market value for the share as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is contracted to be purchased: d this authority expires unless previously renewed, varied or revoked on the earlier of 30 June 2010 or the date of the Companys next annual general meeting: and e before this authority expires, the Company may make a contract to purchase its own shares under this authority which would or might involve the Company purchasing its own shares after this authority expires.
Resolution 16 That a general meeting other than an annual general meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice until the earlier of 30 June 2010 or the date of the Companys next annual general meeting.
By order of the Board Adrian Bushnell COMPANY SECRETARY 17 February 2009 Registered Office Victoria House Victoria Road Horley Surrey RH6 7AF United Kingdom 128 Millennium & copthorne hotels plc annual report & accounts 2008 Millennium & copthorne hotels plc annual report & accounts 2008 129 notIce oF annuaL GeneraL MeetInG notIce oF annuaL GeneraL MeetInG NOTES 1.
A member of the Company entitled to attend, speak and vote at the meeting convened by the notice set out above may appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of his her rights to attend, speak and vote at the meeting on his her behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Appointment of a proxy will not subsequently preclude a member from attending and voting at the meeting in person if he or she so wishes.
A member may appoint more than one proxy provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares held by the member.
To appoint more than one proxy you should contact the Companys Registrar at the following address: Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6ZL.
A form of proxy for use at the meeting is enclosed.
To be valid, the form of proxy must be received by post or during normal business hours only by hand at the office of the Companys Registrar, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6ZL not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the annual general meeting.
Information regarding electronic and CREST voting is shown below.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communications from the Company in accordance with section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the registered shareholder who holds the shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting, and for the purposes of determining how many votes the member may cast, members must be entered in the Companys register of members at 6 pm on 4 May 2009 or in the event of any adjournment 6 pm on the date which is two days before the time of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries in the register of members after that time are disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
As at 17 February 2009 being the last business day prior to the publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 302,259,861 ordinary shares carrying one vote each.
Therefore the total voting rights in the Company as at 17 February 2009 are 302,259,861.
Copies of all service contracts between the Directors and the Company and the terms and conditions of appointment of non executive Directors may be inspected during business hours at the Corporate Office, Scarsdale Place, Kensington, London W8 5SR and at the Companys registered office on a weekday public holidays excluded until the time of the meeting and at the place of the annual general meeting from 15 minutes before the meeting until the end of the meeting.
Members who wish to communicate with the Company in relation to the meeting should do so using the following means: i by writing to the Company Secretary at the registered office address: ii by writing to the Registrar at Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6ZL: or iii by using the Shareholder Helpline: 0871 3842343.
No other methods of communication will be accepted.
In particular you may not use any electronic address provided either in this notice of meeting or in any related documents to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
130 Millennium & copthorne hotels plc annual report & accounts 2008 Millennium & copthorne hotels plc annual report & accounts 2008 131 notIce oF annuaL GeneraL MeetInG notIce oF annuaL GeneraL MeetInG INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Electronic Proxy Voting You may, if you wish, register the appointment of a proxy or voting instructions for the meeting electronically by logging on to www.
You will need your Reference Number this is the 25-digit number printed on the face of the accompanying Form of Proxy.
Full details of the procedure are given on the website.
The proxy appointment and or voting instructions must be received by Equiniti not later than 10.00am on 4 May 2009.
Please note that any electronic communication sent to the Company or the Registrar that is found to contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
The use of the internet service in connection with the annual general meeting is governed by the Registrars conditions of use set out on the website, www.
co. uk, and may be read by logging on to that site.
If you are not planning to come to the meeting and wish to vote on any of the resolutions the Form of Proxy Voting Instruction Form must be returned to Equiniti, Aspect house, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6ZL to arrive no later than 10.00am on 4 May 2009.
If the card is posted in the UK, IOM or Channel Islands there is no postage to pay.
CREST Voting CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the annual general meeting to be held on 6 May 2009 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclears specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA19 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST Personal Member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
130 Millennium & copthorne hotels plc annual report & accounts 2008 Millennium & copthorne hotels plc annual report & accounts 2008 131 MILLennIuM & copthorne hoteLS WorLDWIDe MILLennIuM & copthorne hoteLS WorLDWIDe ASIA AUSTRALASIA China New Zealand Copthorne Hotel Qingdao Copthorne Hotel Christchurch Durham Street Grand Millennium Beijing Copthorne Hotel Christchurch Central Millennium Harbourview Hotel Xiamen Copthorne Hotel & Resort Queenstown Lakefront Millennium Hongqiao Hotel Shanghai Copthorne Hotel & Resort Solway Park Wairarapa West Coast Resort Hainan Copthorne Hotel & Resort Bay of Islands Copthorne Hotel Auckland Anzac Avenue Hong Kong Copthorne Hotel Auckland Harbour City Hotel Nikko Hong Kong Copthorne Hotel Commodore Christchurch Airport JW Marriott Hotel Hong Kong Copthorne Hotel Grand Central New Plymouth Indonesia Copthorne Hotel and Resort Hokianga Millennium Hotel Sirih Jakarta Copthorne Hotel Marlborough Copthorne Hotel Taupo Korea Copthorne Hotel Wellington Oriental Bay Millennium Seoul Hilton Kingsgate Hotel Greymouth Malaysia Kingsgate Hotel Autolodge Paihia Copthorne Orchid Hotel Penang Kingsgate Hotel Brydone Oamaru Grand Millennium Kuala Lumpur Kingsgate Hotel Dunedin Kingsgate Hotel Hamilton Philippines Kingsgate Hotel Palmerston North The Heritage Hotel Manila Kingsgate Hotel Parnell Auckland Singapore Kingsgate Hotel Portland Wellington Copthorne Kings Hotel Singapore Kingsgate Hotel Rotorua Copthorne Orchid Hotel Singapore Kingsgate Hotel Te Anau Grand Copthorne Waterfront Hotel Singapore Kingsgate Hotel Terraces Queenstown M Hotel Singapore Kingsgate Hotel The Avenue Wanganui Orchard Hotel Singapore Kingsgate Hotel Whangarei Millennium Hotel Christchurch Taiwan Millennium Hotel Queenstown Grand Hyatt Taipei Millennium Hotel Rotorua Thailand Millennium Hotel & Resort Manuels Taupo Grand Millennium Sukhumvit Bangkok Millennium Resort Patong, Phuket MIDDLE EAST Egypt Millennium Oyoun Hotel, Sharm el Sheikh Kuwait Al-Jahra Copthorne Hotel & Resort Qatar Millennium Hotel Doha United Arab Emirates Copthorne Hotel Dubai Grand Millennium Dubai Kingsgate Abu Dhabi Millennium Airport Hotel Dubai Millennium Hotel Abu Dhabi Millennium Hotel Sharjah 132 Millennium & copthorne hotels plc annual report & accounts 2008 Millennium & copthorne hotels plc annual report & accounts 2008 133 MILLennIuM & copthorne hoteLS WorLDWIDe MILLennIuM & copthorne hoteLS WorLDWIDe EUROPE France Millennium Hotel Paris Charles fide Gaulle Millennium Hotel Paris Opra Germany Copthorne Hotel Hannover Millennium Hotel & Resort Stuttgart UK Copthorne Hotel & Resort, Effingham Park, London Gatwick Copthorne Hotel Aberdeen Copthorne Hotel Birmingham Copthorne Hotel Cardiff-Caerdydd Copthorne Hotel London Gatwick Copthorne Hotel Manchester Copthorne Hotel Merry Hill-Dudley Copthorne Hotel Newcastle Copthorne Hotel Plymouth Copthorne Hotel Slough-Windsor Copthorne Hotel Reading Copthorne Hotel at Chelsea Football Club Copthorne Tara Hotel London Kensington Millennium Baileys Hotel London Kensington Millennium Gloucester Hotel & Conference Centre London Kensington Millennium Hotel Glasgow Millennium Hotel London Knightsbridge Millennium Hotel London Mayfair Millennium Hotel at Chelsea Football Club Millennium Madejski Hotel Reading USA Best Western Lakeside Comfort Inn Beaver Creek Eldorado Hotel & Spa Millenium Hilton Millennium Airport Hotel Buffalo Millennium Biltmore Hotel Los Angeles Millennium Bostonian Hotel Boston Millennium Alaskan Hotel Anchorage Millennium Harvest House Boulder Millennium Hotel Cincinnati Millennium Hotel Durham Millennium Hotel Minneapolis Millennium Broadway Hotel New York Millennium UN Plaza Hotel New York Millennium Hotel St. Louis Millennium Knickerbocker Hotel Chicago Millennium Maxwell House Nashville Millennium Resort Scottsdale McCormick Ranch Pine Lake Trout Club Wynfield Inn Orlando Convention Center Closed in February 2009 132 Millennium & copthorne hotels plc annual report & accounts 2008 Millennium & copthorne hotels plc annual report & accounts 2008 133 CORPORATE OFFICES INTERNATIONAL RESERVATIONS NUMBERS EUROPE EUROPE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Please dial the following toll free number: 00 800 86 86 8086 for the Corporate Headquarters following countries: Scarsdale Place Austria Kensington Belgium London, W8 5SR Denmark UK Tel 00 [44] 0 20 7872 2444 Finland please dial prefix 990, rather than 00 Fax 00 [44] 0 20 7872 2460 Germany answered by Alliance Partner Maritim Hotels Email marketing@millenniumhotels.
co. uk Ireland Italy USA Netherlands Millennium Hotels & Resorts Norway 6560 Greenwood Plaza Blvd, Suite 300 Portugal Greenwood Village, CO 80111 Spain USA Sweden Tel 00 [1] 303 7779 2000 Switzerland Fax 00 [1] 309 7779 2001 France 0 800 90 95 86 Email mhrmarketing@mill-usa.
com USA AUSTRALASIA Please dial 1 866 866 8086 for the following countries: Millennium & Copthorne Hotels New Zealand Limited Canada Level 13 Puerto Rico 280 Centre United States 280 Queen Street US Virgin Islands Auckland New Zealand ASIA Tel 00 [64] 9 309 4411 Hong Kong 800 96 2541 Fax 00 [64] 9 968 8970 Indonesia 001 803 65 6541 Email sales.
com Reservations may also be made through your travel planner, GDS Chain code: MU, or direct with the hotel.
AUSTRALASIA Sydney 00 [61] 2 9358 5080 Millennium Hotels and Resorts Dedicated Line Australia sales@millenniumhotels.
au NEW ZEALAND Auckland 00 [64] 9 309 4411 Christchurch 00 [64] 3 365 1111 Wellington 00 [64] 4 473 3750 134 Millennium & copthorne hotels plc annual report & accounts 2008
