AccoUNtiNG poLicies Basis of preparation fair value.
it also specifies that all cancellations, whether by the the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with entity or by other parties, should receive the same accounting international Financial Reporting standards iFRss and treatment.
Management do not expect this amendment to have international Financial Reporting interpretations committee a material impact on the Group results or financial position.
iFRic interpretations as adopted by the european Union eU and with those parts of the companies Act 1985 that are iFRs 3 Revised Business combinations: was issued in January applicable to companies reporting under iFRs.
2008. it addresses the guidance for applying the acquisition method of accounting.
it is required to be implemented the following iFRss and iFRic interpretations and amendments prospectively to business combinations on or after 1 June 2010. have been adopted in the financial statements.
None had any impact on the Group results or financial position: Amendment to iAs 27 Revised consolidated and separate Financial statements: was issued in January 2008. the iFRs 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures and the related amendments relate primarily to accounting for non-controlling amendment to iAs 1 presentation of Financial statements interests and the loss of control of a subsidiary.
it is required to capital Disclosures be implemented by the Group from 1 June 2010. iFRic 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under iAs 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary economies iFRs 8 operating segments: which will replace iAs 14 iFRic 8 scope of iFRs 2 segmental Reporting adopts a management approach under iFRic 9 Reassessment of embedded Derivatives which segmental information is presented on the same basis as iFRic 10 interim Financial Reporting and impairment that used for internal reporting purposes.
it is effective from iFRic 11 iFRs 2 Group and treasury share transactions 1 January 2009.
Whilst the standard will not impact the financial position of the Group it is possible that future segment reporting the following iFRss, iFRic interpretations and amendments have disclosures may change.
been issued by the international Accounting standards Board but are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group: Amendment to iAs 23 Borrowing costs: removes the option of immediately recognising as an expense, borrowing costs that relate iFRic 12 service concession Arrangements: effective for annual to assets that take a substantial period of time to get ready for use periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008.
the revised standard applies to borrowing costs relating to not expect this interpretation to impact the Group.
qualifying assets for which the commencement date is on or after 1 January 2009. it is not anticipated that this amendment will have iFRic 13 customer Loyalty programmes: effective for annual a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008.
Management does not expect this interpretation to impact the Group.
the financial effect of iFRs 3 Revised and iAs 27 Revised will be dependent on the circumstances surrounding the future iFRic 14 iAs 19 the Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum transactions to which they will apply, that are at present unknown.
Funding Requirements and their interaction: was issued in July 2007 and is effective for the Group from 1 June 2008. the A summary of the Groups accounting policies is given below.
interpretation aims to clarify how to determine the amount of pension scheme surpluses to be recognised as a defined benefit Accounting convention asset in the balance sheet and when a funding requirement may the consolidated financial information has been prepared under the oblige recognition of additional liabilities.
Management does not historical cost convention, except for certain items which are expect this interpretation to have a material impact on the Group measured at fair value, as disclosed in the accounting policies below.
Basis of consolidation iFRic 15 Agreements for the construction of Real estate: was the Groups financial statements consolidate the financial issued in July 2008 and is effective for periods beginning on or statements of Misys plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
after 1 January 2009. it applies to the construction of real estate.
on acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities it clarifies when an agreement meets the definition of a of a subsidiary are measured at their fair value at the date construction contract, with revenue being recognised under iAs of acquisition.
11 construction contracts and when an agreement constitutes a sale of goods, with revenue being recognised under iAs 18 Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the Revenue.
though specifically addressing construction of real identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any estate the basis for conclusions suggests that it might be applied deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of more widely by analogy.
Management does not expect this identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is interpretation to have a material impact on the Group results credited to income in the period of acquisition.
subsidiary undertakings acquired during the period have been iAs 1 Revised presentation of Financial statements: was issued included in the financial statements from the date of acquisition.
in January 2008. it affects the presentation of owner changes in subsidiary undertakings disposed of are included in the financial equity and of comprehensive income.
it does not change the statements up to the date of disposal.
Accordingly, the consolidated recognition, measurement or disclosure of specific transactions income statement, the consolidated statement of recognised and other events required by other iFRss.
it is required to be income and expense and the consolidated cash flow statement implemented by the Group from 1 June 2009.
Management does include the results and cash flows for the period of ownership.
not expect this interpretation to have a material impact on the Group results or financial position.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are Amendment to iFRs 2 share-based payment: clarifies that based on historical experience and other factors, including vesting conditions are service conditions and performance expectation of future events that are believed to be reasonable conditions only.
other features of a share-based payment are not under the circumstances.
Due to inherent uncertainty involved in vesting conditions and would need to be included in the grant date making estimates and assumptions, actual outcomes could differ 58 | Misys plc Annual Report 2008 salterbaxter 7925 Misys Annual Report Acc 07 August 2008 account manager vw designer sc setting lm PROOF 4 final............. proofreader final............. a c manager from those assumptions and estimates.
the critical judgements when a signed contract exists, delivery to a customer has occurred that have been made in arriving at the amounts recognised in the with no significant vendor obligations remaining and where the Groups financial statements and the key sources of estimation collection of the resulting receivable is considered probable.
uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying values of assets and liabilities within Where these circumstances exist but no invoice to the customer the next financial year are discussed below.
has been raised, under the terms of the contract, revenue is recognised as normal but the corresponding receivable is shown Revenue recognition as accrued income on the balance sheet.
the revenue and profit of fixed price contracts is recognised on a percentage of completion basis when the outcome of a contract initial licence fees from sales of standard, unmodified software can be estimated reliably.
Management exercises judgement are recognised when a signed contract exists, delivery to a in determining whether a contracts outcome can be estimated customer has occurred with no significant vendor obligations reliably.
Management also makes some estimates in the remaining and where the collection of the resulting receivable is calculation of future contract costs, which are used in considered probable.
in instances where a significant vendor determining the value of amounts recoverable on contracts.
obligation exists, revenue recognition is delayed until the estimates are continually revised based on changes in the facts obligation has been satisfied.
No revenue is recognised for relating to each contract.
multiple deliveries or multiple element products if an element of the contract remains undelivered and is essential to the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets functionality of the elements already delivered.
Goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment and other intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes Licence and installation fees from sales of standard software sold in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be on an Application service provider Asp model are recognised recoverable.
An impairment review requires an estimate to be over the expected life of the contract.
made of the value in use or the fair value less costs to sell as appropriate.
the value in use calculation includes estimates about Revenue from professional services, such as implementation, the future financial performance of the cash generating units, training and consultancy, is recognised as the services are including managements estimates of long-term operating performed.
in certain circumstances, the percentage of margins and long-term growth rates.
completion method is used to determine the degree of completion of a contract.
this involves a comparison of the costs incurred on onerous property contracts the contract to date with the total expected costs of the contract.
the property provisions require an estimate to be made of the net Losses on contracts are recognised as soon as a loss is foreseen present value of the future costs of vacant and sublet properties.
by reference to the estimated costs of completion.
the calculation includes estimates of future cost involved, including managements estimates of the long-term letting initial licence fees on sales of bespoke or heavily customised potential of the properties.
software, together with revenue from the associated professional services contract are recognised on a percentage of completion taxation basis over the period from the commencement of performance on the Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
the contract to customer acceptance.
Management is required to exercise significant judgement in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes.
certain Maintenance fees are recognised rateably over the period of the transactions require the use of estimates and judgements to contract.
Revenue from electronic Data interchange eDi and determine the financial effect where the ultimate tax determination remote processing services transaction processing is recognised is uncertain.
When the final outcome of such matters is different, as the services are performed.
or expected to be different, from previous estimates, such differences will impact on the income tax in the period in which the Share incentive schemes determination is made.
the Group operates several equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
the fair value of the employee services the Group recognises deferred tax assets on temporary received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as differences where it is probable that future profits will be an expense.
the total amount to be expensed over the vesting available against which the deferred tax asset can be utilised.
period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options Where the future results differ from expectations, such granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting differences will impact on the deferred tax asset recognised in the conditions for example, profitability and sales growth targets.
period in which the determination is made.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
Business combinations the Group recognises transaction costs in prepayments at the At each balance sheet date, a revised estimate is made of the balance sheet date, in respect of costs incurred on acquisitions number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
or disposals of subsidiaries where it is considered probable that if the revised estimate differs from the original estimate, the the transaction will complete after the balance sheet date.
charge to the income statement is adjusted over the remaining Management must exercise judgement in determining the vesting period of the options.
probability that the transaction will complete.
should circumstances change and the transactions not complete as Pensions envisaged, the costs on the balance sheet would require to be the Group operates a number of defined contribution pension charged to the income statement.
schemes covering the majority of its employees.
the costs of these pension schemes are charged to the income statement as Revenue recognition incurred.
in addition, the Group has a closed funded defined Revenue represents the fair value of consideration received or benefit pension scheme in the UK, as well as a number of other receivable from clients for goods and services provided by the smaller defined benefit arrangements outside the UK.
Group, net of discounts and sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised Misys plc Annual Report 2008 | 59 salterbaxter 7925 Misys Annual Report Acc 07 August 2008 account manager vw designer sc setting lm PROOF 4 final............. proofreader final............. a c manager AccoUNtiNG poLicies the remaining active members of the closed UK defined benefit each subsidiary translates foreign currency transactions into their scheme now contribute to a defined contribution section of the own functional currency at rates ruling at the date of each scheme.
Full independent actuarial valuations are carried out on a transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are regular basis and updated to each balance sheet date.
the assets retranslated at rates ruling at the balance sheet date and currency of the schemes are held separately from those of the Group.
translation differences are recognised in the income statement.
pension scheme assets are measured using market values.
on consolidation, the results of overseas operations are pension scheme liabilities are measured using a projected unit translated to sterling at the average exchange rate for the period.
method and discounted at the current rate of return on a highAssets and liabilities of overseas operations are translated at quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
the pension scheme surplus to the extent that it is currency translation differences arising on both elements are recoverable or deficit is recognised in full on the balance sheet.
recognised in the translation reserve.
Any current or past service cost is recognised in the income statement.
the net of the expected increase in the present value of exchange gains and losses on foreign currency borrowings used the schemes liabilities, and the Groups long-term expected return to finance an equity investment in an overseas operation are on its schemes assets, are included in the income statement.
Any offset in reserves against the exchange differences arising on the difference arising from experience or assumption changes and retranslation of the net investment, up to the level of the differences between the expected return on assets and those investment.
the exchange differences on any ineffective portion actually achieved are charged or credited to the statement of total are recognised in the income statement.
recognised income and expense as they arise.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a Leases foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of entity and translated at the closing rate.
the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as When a foreign operation is disposed of the cumulative translation operating leases.
differences that relate to it, including changes to any long-term intra-group borrowing, are removed from equity and recognised property, plant and equipment held under finance leases is in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
capitalised in the balance sheet at the lower of cost or present value of the minimum lease payments and is depreciated over its the Group hedges its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks useful life.
the capital elements of future obligations under using derivatives and foreign currency borrowings.
leases are included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
Details of the accounting policies in respect of these are given in the interest elements of the lease obligations are charged to the derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting section.
income on an actuarial basis over the period of the lease.
Business combinations Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to income on Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the consideration, a straight line basis over the lease term.
net of costs, less the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is recognised Taxation as an intangible asset.
it is not amortised but is reviewed for taxation is that chargeable on the profits for the period, together impairment annually and whenever there is a potential indicator with deferred taxation.
Deferred taxation is recognised, using the of impairment.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the liability method, in respect of all temporary differences that have income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in on the disposal of a previously acquired subsidiary, the an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, tax in the future.
attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the gain or loss on disposal.
Resultant deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that there will be sufficient taxable profits from Transaction costs which the underlying temporary differences can be deducted, or the Group recognises transaction costs in prepayments at the where there are deferred tax liabilities against which the assets balance sheet date, in respect of costs incurred on acquisitions or can be recovered.
disposals of subsidiaries where it is considered probable that the transaction will complete after the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the Contingent consideration related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability Where part or all of the amount of purchase consideration is is settled based on tax rates and laws enacted at the balance contingent on future events, the cost of acquisition initially sheet date.
recorded is a reasonable estimate of the fair value of amounts expected to be payable in the future.
current and deferred tax is recognised in the income statement except when the tax relates to items charged or credited directly the cost of acquisition is adjusted when revised estimates are to equity, in which case the tax is also recognised in equity.
made, with corresponding adjustments continuing to be made to goodwill until the ultimate outcome is known.
these liabilities are Foreign currencies reported under provisions in the balance sheet.
items included in the financial statements of Group companies are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment Discontinued operations and assets held for sale in which each entity operates, their functional currency.
the Where the Group expects to recover the carrying amount of a consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling.
group of assets through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use, and a sale is considered highly probable at the 60 | Misys plc Annual Report 2008 salterbaxter 7925 Misys Annual Report Acc 07 August 2008 account manager vw designer sc setting lm PROOF 4 final............. proofreader final............. a c manager balance sheet date, the assets are classified as held for sale and For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at measured at lower of cost and fair value less costs to sell.
No the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash depreciation or amortisation is charged in respect of non current flows cash generating units.
assets classified as held for sale.
An asset is derecognised upon disposal or when no future if the group of assets constitutes a separate major line of economic benefits are expected from its future use or disposal.
business it is classified as a discontinued operation.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is included Other intangible assets and research and development in the income statement in the year the asset is derecognised.
expenditure Research expenditure, including the cost of in-house software Financial assets research, is expensed in the period in which it is incurred.
Financial assets are classified in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables and available expenditure on developed software is capitalised when the for sale.
Group is able to demonstrate all of the following: the technical feasibility of the resulting asset: the ability and intention to Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial complete the development and use or sell it: how the asset will assets held for trading.
Derivatives are also classified as held for generate probable future economic benefits: and the ability to trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Gains and losses measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the asset arising from changes in fair value of financial assets at fair value during its development.
through profit or loss are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Financial assets at fair value through Development costs which do not meet these criteria are profit or loss are subsequently held at fair value.
recognised in the income statement as incurred and are not subsequently capitalised.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active capitalised expenditure on developed software is normally market and are carried at amortised cost.
amortised on a straight line basis over the useful economic life, once the related software product is available for use.
intangible Available for sale financial assets are measured at fair value.
assets purchased separately, such as software licences that do not Unrealised gains and losses are recognised in equity except for form an integral part of related hardware, are capitalised at cost impairment losses, interest and dividends arising from those and amortised over their useful economic lives.
intangible assets assets, which are recognised in the consolidated income acquired through a business combination are initially measured at statement.
fair value and amortised over their useful economic lives.
Trade and other receivables estimated useful lives by major class of assets are as follows, trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and with amortisation made on a straight line basis: subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
Acquired intangibles 4-10 years Where there is objective evidence that there is an impairment Developed software 3-5 years loss, the amount of loss is measured as the difference between third party software 3-5 years the carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate.
the amount of loss is recognised in the income statement within administrative Property, plant and equipment and other operating charges.
the carrying amount of a receivable property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated is reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable depreciation.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis amounts through the use of an allowance account for trade so as to write off the cost, less estimated residual value of receivables.
Amounts charged to the allowance account are each asset, over its expected useful life.
the residual values written off when there is no expectation of further recovery.
and useful economic lives of property, plant and equipment are subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are reviewed annually.
credited against administrative and other operating charges in the income statement.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
the useful lives by major class of asset applied from the date of purchase are: Investments investments in associate companies and equity instruments that Freehold and leasehold property 50 years do not have a quoted market price in an active market and whose short leasehold property over lease term fair value cannot be reliably measured are stated at cost, subject computer and other equipment 4-10 years to review for impairment.
impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not subsequently reversed through the income statement.
Impairment of assets Assets that are subject to depreciation or amortisation are reviewed Financial liabilities and equity for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences Goodwill and developed software not yet brought into use are a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of reviewed for impairment annually.
An impairment loss is its liabilities.
recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
the recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Misys plc Annual Report 2008 | 61 salterbaxter 7925 Misys Annual Report Acc 07 August 2008 account manager vw designer sc setting lm PROOF 4 final............. proofreader final............. a c manager AccoUNtiNG poLicies Bank loans and overdrafts conversely if the item being hedged is a financial asset or liability, Bank loans and overdrafts are initially recognised at fair value any amounts arising from changes in fair value that are deferred less directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently in equity are subsequently recognised in the income statement measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate in the same accounting period in which the hedged item affects method.
the difference between the proceeds net of transaction net income.
costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings.
Borrowings are Hedge accounting of a transaction is discontinued when the classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an hedging instrument is sold, terminated, or exercised, or when the unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least hedging instrument no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
12 months after the balance sheet date.
Under these circumstances any cumulative gain or loss on the Trade payables hedging instrument, which has already been recognised in equity, trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and is retained in equity until the transaction occurs.
However, if a subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, any net interest method.
cumulative gain or loss that has already been recognised in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Equity instruments ordinary shares are classified as equity.
incremental costs A derivative that is embedded in another financial instrument, or directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are in a host contract, is treated as a separate derivative if its risks shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract.
Under these circumstances the host contract is not Where any Group company purchases the companys equity share carried at fair value but any unrealised gains or losses on the capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any derivative are reported in the income statement.
directly attributable costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to the companys equity holders until the Provisions shares are cancelled or re-issued.
provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events and it is Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a the obligation: and if this amount is capable of being reliably derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently estimated.
if such an obligation is not capable of being reliably remeasured at fair value.
the method of recognising the resulting estimated no provision is recognised and the item is disclosed as gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a a contingent liability where material.
hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments, where Onerous property contracts they are not designated as hedging instruments, are recognised in provision for onerous lease commitments on property contracts the income statement.
is based on an estimate of the net unavoidable lease and other payments in respect of these properties.
these comprise rental Hedge accounting and other property costs payable, plus any termination costs, less the business activities of the Group expose it to financial risks any income expected to be derived from the properties being that arise from changes in both foreign exchange rates and sublet.
the provisions are discounted at an appropriate rate to interest rates.
the Group uses forward currency contracts and take into account the effect of the time value of money.
interest rate caps to hedge these exposures.
in accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not enter into derivatives for Exceptional items speculative purposes.
Where certain expense or revenue items recorded in a period are material by their size or incidence, these are disclosed as the Group designates certain derivatives as either: exceptional within a separate line on the income statement.
examples of items classified as exceptional include: a hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedges : a profit or loss on the disposal of a business b hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised b restructuring costs associated with the turnaround asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction programme cash flow hedge : or c acquisition integration costs c hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
Cash and cash equivalents changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that cash and cash equivalents include cash held at bank and in hand, are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are together with short-term highly liquid investments with an recognised directly in equity and any ineffective portion is original maturity of less than three months that are readily recognised immediately in the income statement.
convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to an insignificant change in value.
if the item being hedged is a non-financial asset or liability then the gains or losses on the associated derivative that had Segmental reporting previously been recognised in equity are included in the the Groups primary segmental analysis is by business sector measurement of the asset or liability at the time it is recognised.
which reflects the basis on which operations are managed.
the business sectors are defined by distinctly separate product offerings or markets.
Geographical reporting is the secondary segmental analysis.
62 | Misys plc Annual Report 2008 salterbaxter 7925 Misys Annual Report Acc 07 August 2008 account manager vw designer sc setting lm PROOF 4 final............. proofreader final............. a c manager
