FiNANciAL stAteMeNts STATEMENT oF DIRECToRS RESPoNSIBIlITIES IN RESPECT oF ThE ANNuAl REPoRT, ThE DIRECToRS REMuNERATIoN REPoRT AND ThE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS the Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors confirm that they have complied with the above the Directors Remuneration Report and the Group and parent requirements in preparing the financial statements.
company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the company law requires the Directors to prepare financial financial position of the company and the Group and to enable statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with the companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the iAs Regulation and international Financial Reporting standards iFRss as adopted by the parent company financial statements and the Directors the european Union, and the parent company financial statements Remuneration Report comply with the companies Act 1985. they and the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting standards United and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting practice.
the Group and prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the the Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial in preparing those financial statements, the Directors are statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state that the Group financial statements comply with iFRss as adopted by the european Union, and with regard to the parent company financial statements, that applicable United Kingdom Accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the Group and parent company financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
Misys plc Annual Report 2008 | 53 salterbaxter 7925 Misys Annual Report Acc 07 August 2008 account manager vw designer sc setting lm PROOF 4 final............. proofreader final............. a c manager
