OPerAtiOnAl review TREASURy & BUSINESS SUMMARy CAPITAL MARkETS Total revenue 141m up 13% Total order intake 73m up 16% Operating profit 32m up 10% Grew revenues in high-growth segments and geographies Launched strategic partnerships and new revenue-generating services Global Treasury & Capital Markets TCM market ED HO resilient with a positive outlook executive vice President and General Manager, treasury & capital Markets Our business opportunities to help address concerns we are one of the worlds leading providers around market and credit risk by enhancing in our market, creating comprehensive compliance, regulation and internal control integrated solutions and services that help functionality in our solutions.
we also customers manage their capital market continue to benefit from strong demand for activities across all asset classes.
This year we have grown Our customers We are expanding rapidly through our presence in emerging we have an established installed base in partnerships and direct sales markets and developed europe and north America, a strong we provide customers with everything from presence in Asia, and a fast-growing simple licensing relationships to complete winning partnerships.
We have presence in the Middle east, Africa and solutions providing integrated applications, delivered strong performance.
customers margins are technologies, processes and services.
this Our services revenues grew dependent on speed to market or volume year we made significant investments in by 41%, and we will continue so our focus is on developing fast, agile and our direct sales and distribution capability, to increase investment interoperable solutions that are innovative, and we extended our reach even further scalable and flexible.
Our market-leading through a series of new technology, in this growth area.
tcM products enabled us to win 20 new software development and customer Ed Ho, Executive Vice President and name customers during the year in a strong service partnerships.
General Manager, Treasury & Capital Markets global market.
Partnering enables us to meet high levels Priorities and actions of demand faster and provides us with access to both specialist expertise and Did you know We are building a high-growth business proven commercial relationships in We serve more than 1,000 customers resilient to short-term pressures regional markets.
Partnerships will in 85 countries we have been conscious of the change to generate a substantial proportion of our 50% of the Fortune global top 50 the macro-economic climate with the credit revenue over the next 12 months.
corporations and 70% of the worlds crunch and liquidity issues affecting banks top 50 banks use our solutions and other financial institutions in western We took our market-leading solutions The top five banks in China all use europe and north America.
however, many to the next level Misys solutions banks and institutions in high-growth All of our key applications are now 13 of the top 20 Syndicated Loan markets such as the emerging markets, available, or due for launch, as hosted Bookrunners use Loan IQ, accounting remain unaffected by wider issues and we solutions, or software as a service.
this for over one third of the worlds have benefited from strong demand for our means customers can benefit from faster syndicated loans solutions here.
time to market, improved operating source: Thomson Financial efficiencies, rapid scalability and reduced Six of the top 10 US Lead Arrangers we are focusing on growing our market risk when launching new services.
hosted use Loan IQ share in established markets by solutions also help simplify the transition source: Reuters capitalising on moderate expected it from old to new standards, as we Seven of the top 10 US Loan Trading spending growth while also seeking to demonstrated this year when we enabled Desks use Loan IQ capitalise on expected increased it 800 customers to adjust seamlessly to new source: Loan Market Week spending in higher-growth and emerging swift message formats.
we have identified immediate financial performance measures reported on a like-for-like basis in the operational review.
see page 27 for a reconciliation to statutory measures.
14 | Misys plc Annual report 2008 Delivery update What we promised What weve achieved Get fit Achieved during March 2007-May 2008 Expand distribution to cover more opportunities achieved Enter new segments achieved Win more 1-2 years Boost services capability and capacity and achieve 10-13% growth good progress Increase usage of partnerships good progress Lead 2-4 years Extend into higher-value service offerings good progress Extend product portfolio coverage and functionality good progress this year we also: China Everbright Bank l aunched a double-byte version of our Chinas first nationwide joint-stock commercial bank has the government as its controlling commercial lending solution Misys loan shareholder and equity investment from international financial institutions.
This year iQ for Asian markets.
the bank selected Misys Summit FT and Eagleye to help deliver increased trading volumes Added equity derivatives and structured and stronger risk monitoring and controls in response to a fast-growing market and bonds functionality to our trading and risk increasingly complex regulation.
A spokesperson from China Everbright Bank commented: management solution Misys summit ft.
The Misys Summit and Eagleye solutions will provide sophisticated front to back e xtended coverage of asset classes and integrated support for our derivatives business and well benefit from more streamlined risk management in our trading solution operations, better risk management across all sectors and the ability to handle Misys Opics Plus.
r ebranded Misys treasury Plus as Misys confirmation Matching service to reflect Geographic mix by % its market leadership in confirmation matching.
We are adding value to customers through enhanced services and support Western Europe 50% Our services teams are helping customers Americas 28% to achieve better results and faster Asia 17% execution.
we grew our services revenues Middle East & Africa 4% by 41%, increased services headcount and Eastern Europe 1% will continue to increase investment in this growth area over the next 12 months.
We have increased our development capability significantly we have increased headcount within our Awards New partnerships development teams in new york, us, Number one solution provider for trading in Key strategic partnerships launched Bangalore, india and Bucharest, romania, rates and IAS39 compliance this year: helping us to respond to our customers 2007 Risk Magazine rankings SAP enhanced sales and distribution December 2007 needs better, faster and at lower cost.
we globally are focused on developing new software as Technology Provider of the Year, 2007 Wipro Technologies enhanced sales and a service solutions and improving Structured Products Europe Awards distribution in the Middle East November 2007 interoperability.
HCL enhanced development, sales and Best Trade Processing Solution distribution in India, Singapore and Malaysia European Banking Technology Readers we are supporting the Misys Open source NumeriX integration of pricing and risk Choice Awards carbon world Portal initiative and see information to add value to solutions Misys Treasury Plus numerous potential benefits here for November 2007 Pricing Partners integration of Price-it our customers and for Misys.
we intend valuation libraries and analytics with to maintain our leadership position in Misys Summit FT, improving accuracy of this area.
information for customers Misys plc Annual report 2008 | 15
