415 Overview 1641 Operating and financial review 4264 Reports 65110 Financial statements 111112 Shareholder information 113 Glossary Glossary Glossary Amenity Incremental pre-tax returns Design, dcor, furniture and facilities that contribute to the Growth in annual pre-tax operating profit expressed as a percentage environment and atmosphere of a pub.
of the associated capital investment.
For sites which do not have 12 months post-investment trading, incremental return is estimated based AWT Average Weekly Take on an annualisation of actual post-investment trading.
The average sales per pub per week, calculated as total sales divided by the average number of pubs trading during the period divided IFRS by the number of weeks in the period.
Brands Formats National Minimum Wage The Brand or format reflects the type of consumer offer in a pub.
The minimum amount an employer must pay its employees as defined There is a spectrum of branding in our pubs from: by law.
outlets where to the customers eye the business trades without any overt branding or badging but the customer offer and operating Off-trade template are managed to defined standards e. g. our Classic pubs to Any retail outlet which has a licence to sell alcohol for consumption off those that trade to a consistent design, drinks range, menu, the premises.
service style and promotional programme either under their own individual names but as part of an externally recognised group ONS e. g. Ember Inns or Office for National Statistics.
under a common name with more overt consistent branding e. g. All Bar One.
On-trade Any retail outlet which has a licence to sell alcohol for consumption on Cash flow from operations the premises e. g. pubs, restaurants, nightclubs, clubs.
The cash generated from the operations of the Company generally defined as revenues less all operating expenses.
Operating profit Earnings before interest and tax.
CAGR Compound Annual Growth Rate.
Original Acquired Sites 239 Pub Restaurant sites acquired from Whitbread PLC in July 2006.
Covers The number of main meals sold.
Outlet employment ratio Pub employment costs divided by total sales, expressed Cover turn as a percentage.
The total number of main meals sold divided by the number of main meals that could be sold in one sitting.
Productivity Sales less hourly paid wages divided by the number of hours worked.
EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and Refinancing exceptional items.
The repayment of an existing loan with the proceeds from a new loan.
External costs REIT Costs influenced by outside factors, i. g. regulatory and energy costs.
Gross margin Same outlet like-for-like sales growth Gross profit divided by sales, expressed as a percentage.
The increase in sales performance of all managed pubs that were trading for the two periods being compared, expressed as a Gross profit percentage.
Sales less cost of goods sold.
Securitisation HMRC A means of raising finance secured on a particular group of assets and Her Majestys Revenue and Customs.
the associated cash flows derived from those assets.
Uninvested like-for-like sales growth The increase in sales performance of those managed pubs that have not received expansionary investment of more than 30,000 in either period being compared, expressed as a percentage.
Design and production CarnegieOrr Print Royle Print The paper used in this Report is derived from sustainable sources Mitchells & Butlers 113 Annual report and accounts 2008 Mitchells & Butlers online Visit our websites for the latest updates Mitchells & Butlers' comprehensive website gives you fast, direct access to a wide range of information about the Company, including the latest Annual report, investor news and press releases, brand information and links through to the brand websites, and our policy on responsible retailing.
You can also quickly find your nearest Mitchells & Butlers pub, wherever you are in the country.
com ecomms Annual report Find a pub www.
com CSR Our brands Many of our popular brands now have their own websites, helping our customers to find the information they need straight away.
The latest menus, the most up-to-date news and the best food and drink offers are all available, plus the details of any new openings.
Harvester Toby Carvery Vintage Inns www.
co. uk Premium Country Dining We operate many individual pubs and Pub Restaurants, offering customers a great choice of food and drink.
Our Premium Country Dining pubs are often beautiful, historic buildings where the modern, tasteful dcor, the fresh, contemporary menu and wellchosen beers and wines combine to offer customers the best in high Crown Carvery Ember Inns quality casual dining.
co. uk has its own website, for example www.
