Glossary of terms The Mondi Group Extrusion-coated Semi-chemical uting Net segment assets This report contains Mondi is an international paper and Substrate material e. g. paper, Net segment assets are segment Fluting manufactured primarily a number of terms, board, aluminium coated with a from virgin bre.
assets, consisting of property, packaging group and in 2008 had revenues some of which are molten web of resin polymer to plant and equipment, intangibles, Testliner particular to the enhance its barrier properties forestry assets, retirement bene t of 6.3 billion.
Its key operations and Containerboard manufactured e. g. to make it waterproof.
surplus, inventories and operating paper and packaging primarily from recycled product.
receivables less segment liabilities interests are in western Europe, emerging industry, which are Flexible packaging consisting of non-interest-bearing Uncoated ne paper Papers, cellulose lms and explained below: Uncoated wood-free paper, current liabilities, restoration and Europe, Russia and South Africa.
aluminium foils primarily used, decommissioning provisions and produced from chemical pulp and Annual allowable cut separately or in combination, for used, for example, in of ce papers.
provisions for post-retirement Volume of timber which can be retail food and non-food packaging bene ts.
The Group is principally involved in the harvested annually, subject to e. g. pet food, hygiene product Virgin bre government regulations and the overwrap, detergents and other Fibre derived directly from wood Operating margin manufacture of packaging paper and principles of sustained yield.
It is a specialist uses such as medical, pulp.
Underlying operating pro t divided key part of the management model pharmaceutical and tobacco.
converted packaging products: uncoated Wood pulp by which forests can be sustained Fluting Principal raw material of paper Return on capital employed from generation to generation.
ne paper: and speciality products including Raw material used for the rippled and containerboard.
The suitability ROCE Cartonboard middle layer of corrugated board.
of certain types of wood pulp for Underlying operating pro t, coatings and consumer exibles.
Paperboard used to produce speci c products depends upon including share of associates net Industrial bags folding cartons and graphic the type of wood used and the earnings, divided by average Flexible bags made of paper, products like cards and covers.
Pulp produced trading capital employed and for typically used to package between Mondi is fully integrated across the paper from hardwood trees e. g. segments has been extracted Chemical pulp 10 and 50 kilograms of powdered, eucalyptus, aspen, birch and from management reports.
Wood pulp or bres obtained by granular or coarse products.
and packaging process, from the growing acacia has short bres and is digesting and bleaching of wood Shareholders funds Kraftliner better suited to coated packaging chips, to remove lignin and other of wood and the manufacture of pulp and Share capital, share-premium, Containerboard manufactured boards, coated and uncoated ne organic materials surrounding retained pro ts and other reserves primarily from virgin bre.
Softwood e. g. cellulose bres and isolate them paper including recycled paper to the attributable to equity holders.
pine and r has long bres and is for papermaking.
Kraft paper generally used for strengthening.
Special items conversion of packaging papers into Strong paper made from virgin Containerboard Those non-recurring financial items bre.
Collective term for kraftliner and or which the Group believes should corrugated packaging and industrial bags.
Financial terms testliner and uting, the two basic Mechanical pulp be separately disclosed on the face components used to make the EBITDA Pulp produced by mechanically of the combined and consolidated walls of corrugated boxes and Operating pro t of subsidiaries and grinding debarked wood to income statement to assist in Mondi has production operations across cases.
joint ventures before special items, separate the wood bre.
understanding the underlying depreciation and amortisation.
35 countries and had an average of financial performance achieved by Converting Of ce paper the Group and its businesses.
Process of transforming paper EBITDA interest cover Uncoated ne paper in cut sizes 33,400 employees in 2008. and containerboard into value EBITDA divided by net debt e. g. A4, A3 and other converted Total equity added products: e. g. wood-free finance charges before special products e. g. forms, computer Shareholders funds and minority reels into cut-size, or folding nancing items.
sheets, coloured papers and interests in equity.
Gearing Trading capital employed cartons.
The ratio of net debt to total capital Plantations Net segment assets plus Corrugated board employed.
Selected species of tree planted in investment in associates, deferred Packing material produced by regimented lines to maximise yield tax, and other non-operating Group revenue gluing outer layers of and ease of management.
assets and liabilities excluding Total turnover of subsidiaries and containerboard to a rippled middle financial investments.
proportionate share of joint Recovered bre layer of uting.
Used paper and board separately Underlying earnings Corrugated boxes collected for re-use as bre raw Net pro t after tax before special Headline earnings Boxes produced from corrugated material in paper and board items attributable to equity holders JSE listing measure, calculated in board.
accordance with Circular 8 2007, Corrugated packaging Headline Earnings, as issued by Recycled bre Underlying operating pro t Packaging materials made from the South African Institute of Fibre derived from the collection Operating pro t of subsidiaries corrugated board.
and treatment of waste paper.
and joint ventures before special items.
fide-inked pulp Net debt Release liners Waste-paper pulp produced from A non-GAAP measure, comprising Protective backing of selfused printed paper from which the shortand medium-term adhesive products, the ink has been removed.
borrowings and bank overdrafts prerequisite for modern pressureless cash and cash-equivalents sensitive adhesive technology e. g. and current financial asset for self-adhesive tapes, labels, investments.
advertising lms, diaper tapes, roo ng membranes, etc..
Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group 137 Mondi Group Annual report and accounts 2008 For further information, please see: Putting sustainability Mondi Limited Mondi Group Annual report Sustainability at the heart of and accounts 2008 summary report 2008 our business Targets and performance Reports and publications Forestry Contact Safety and health at work Governance People Products Society Mondi Limited Mondi Group www.
com Annual report Sustainability and accounts summary report 2008 2008 Design by SAS www.
co. uk Printed by Fulmar Colour Printing Company Ltd on FSC certi ed 250gsm and 120gsm Mondi Color Copy and 80gsm IQ color.
This report has been produced using Enviro-lam which is accredited with DIN EN 13432, the internationally recognised standard for compostability and biodegradation.
