General Shareholder Information Registered office and registered number Alternatively, if you have internet access, you can access the Groups shareholder portal at www.
com Moneysupermarket House St Davids Park where you can, amongst other things, view details of your shareholding, set up or amend a dividend mandate and update Ewloe Chester CH5 3UZ your address details.
6160943 Telephone: 44 0 1244 665700 Investor relations website The investor relations section of our website, Website: www.
com, provides further information for anyone interested in the Group.
In addition to the Annual Report Company Secretary Darren Drabble and Accounts and share price, Company announcements including the half year and full year results announcements and associated Financial advisors stockbrokers presentations are also published there.
Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited One Cabot Square Dividend mandates If you wish to have dividends paid directly into a bank or building London E14 4QJ society account, you should contact our registrar see contact details on the left for a dividend mandate form or visit the Groups UBS Limited 1 Finsbury Avenue shareholder portal at www.
com where you can set up or amend a dividend mandate.
This method of London EC2M 2PP payment removes the risk of delay or loss of dividend cheques in the post and ensures that your account is credited on the due date.
Auditors KPMG Audit Plc Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP St James Square Manchester M2 6DS You can now choose to reinvest dividends received to purchase further shares in the Company through a DRIP.
A DRIP application Solicitors form is available from our registrar see contact details on the left.
Herbert Smith Exchange House Share dealing service You can buy or sell the Companys shares in a simple and Primrose Street London EC2A 2HS convenient way via the Capita share dealing service either online www.
Principal bankers Please note that the Directors of the Company are not seeking to Lloyds TSB Bank plc City Office encourage shareholders to either buy or sell shares in the Company.
Shareholders in any doubt about what action to take are PO Box 1000, BX1 1LT recommended to seek financial advice from an independent financial advisor authorised by the Financial Services and Markets Financial PR Tulchan Communications Act 2000.
Sixth Floor Kildare House Electronic communications You can elect to receive shareholder communications electronically 3 Dorset Rise London EC4Y 8EN by writing to our registrar, Capita Registrars, Shareholder Administration Services, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, Registrar BR3 9ZA.
This will save on printing and distribution costs, creating environmental benefits.
When you register, you will be sent a Capita Registrars Northern House notification to say when shareholder communications are available on our website and you will be provided with a link to that information.
Woodsome Park Fenay Bridge Huddersfield HD8 0LA Telephone: 0871 200 1536 UK Calls cost from 10p per minute plus network extras 44 0 208 639 3399 overseas E-mail: moneysupermarket@capitaregistrars.
com Enquiring about your shareholding If you want to ask, or need any information, about your shareholding, please contact our registrar see contact details above.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2008
