Glossary and Definitions Chilean Peso Business, Financial and Accounting Chilean currency.
ADASA Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Combined Code or 2006 Combined Code Group incorporated in Chile and operating the water concession The revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance in Chiles Antofagasta Region acquired from ESSAN.
published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 and applicable to listed companies for reporting years beginning on ADR or after 1 November 2006.
Companies Act 1985 and Companies Act 2006 AIFR Principal legislation for United Kingdom company law.
Compaa Minera Milpo AMSA Compaa Minera Milpo S. A. of Peru is a former owner of a Antofagasta Minerals S. A. a wholly-owned subsidiary of the 18.5% interest in Caracoles, acquired by the Group in February Group incorporated in Chile which acts as the corporate centre 2009 see Note 40. for the mining division.
Copper project located approximately 45 kilometres east of CONAMA Michilla.
Comisin Nacional del Medio Ambiente fide Chile Chilean Antomin National Environmental Commission.
Antomin Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group Desalant incorporated in Jersey a 51%-owned subsidiary until 25 August Desalant S. A. former owner of a desalination plant located 2008. in Antofagasta and acquired by the Group through ADASA see Note 40.
ATI Antofagasta Terminal Internacional S. A. a 30%-owned DIA associate of the Group incorporated in Chile and operating Declaracin fide Impacto Ambiental, or Environmental Impact the port in the city of Antofagasta.
Annual Report Directors The Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 of The Directors of the Company.
EBIT Earnings Before Interest and Tax.
EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation.
Banco fide Chile Banco fide Chile S. A. a subsidiary of Quienco.
EIA Estudios fide Impacto Ambiental, or Environmental Impact Barrick Gold Assessment.
Barrick Gold Corporation, the joint venture partner of the Group in Tethyan.
El Tesoro Minera El Tesoro, a 70%-owned subsidiary of the Group Board incorporated in Chile a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group The Directors of Antofagasta plc who collectively have until 25 August 2008, before the Marubeni transaction see responsibility for the conduct of the Groups business.
Capex EMS Capital expenditure s. Environmental Management System.
Caracoles ENAP Empresa Nacional del Petrleo, the 40% joint venture partner Compaa Contractual Minera Caracoles, a wholly-owned of the Group in Energa Andina.
subsidiary of the Group incorporated in Chile 81.5% owned prior to February 2009 see Note 40.
Energa Andina S. A. Energa Andina S. A. a 60%-owned joint venture entity of the Cash Costs Group incorporated in Chile.
A measure of the cost of operational production expressed in terms of cents per pound of payable copper produced.
Cash EPS costs are stated net of by-product credits and include tolling Earnings per share.
charges for concentrates for Los Pelambres.
Cash costs exclude depreciation, financial income and expenses, hedging gains and Equatorial losses, exchange gains and losses and corporation tax.
Equatorial Mining Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group incorporated in Australia.
CCU Esperanza Compaa fide Cerveceras Unidas S. A. an associate of Minera Esperanza, a 70%-owned subsidiary of the Group Quienco.
incorporated in Chile a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group CGU until 25 August 2008, before the Marubeni transaction see Cash Generating Unit.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 144 FURTHER INFORMATION FURTHER INFORMATION IVA ESSAN Empresa fide Servicios Sanitarios S. A. the Chilean state-owned Impuesto al Valor Agregado, or Chilean Value Added Tax company which formerly operated the regulated and Chilean VAT.
non-regulated water distribution business in Chiles Antofagasta Key Management Personnel Region.
Persons with authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group.
FCA Empresa Ferroviaria Andina S. A. a 50%-owned subsidiary of LIBOR the Group incorporated in Bolivia.
London Inter Bank Offer Rate.
FCAB LME Ferrocarril fide Antofagasta a Bolivia, the Chilean name for the London Metal Exchange.
Antofagasta Railway Company plc, a wholly-owned subsidiary Los Pelambres of the Group incorporated in the United Kingdom and operating Minera Los Pelambres, a 60%-owned subsidiary of the Group a rail network in Chiles Antofagasta Region.
FSA LSE Financial Services Authority.
FTSE-100 Index LTIFR A  weighted index representing the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate.
performance of the 100 largest UK-domiciled blue chip companies.
Madeco Madeco S. A. a subsidiary of Quienco.
FTSE All-Share Index A  weighted index representing the Marubeni performance of all eligible companies listed on the London Marubeni Corporation, the Groups 30% minority partner in Stock Exchanges main market.
El Tesoro and Esperanza GAAP Minera Metallica Resources Chile Limitada Minera Metallica Resources Chile Limitada, a subsidiary of Generally Accepted Accounting Practice or Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
New Gold Inc. formerly Metallica Resources Inc., a company with exploration interests in the Ro Figueroa Project.
GDP Michilla Gross Domestic Product.
Minera Michilla S. A. a 74.2%-owned subsidiary of the Group Government incorporated in Chile.
The Government of the Republic of Chile.
Mirador Copper prospect located in the Sierra Gorda district.
Guanaco South American animal, similar to the llama.
Mulpn Coal gasification project located near Valdivia in southern Chile.
Group Antofagasta plc and its subsidiaries companies.
OHSAS 18.001 Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series standards Hedge Accounting for occupational health and safety management systems.
Accounting treatment for derivatives financial instrument permitted under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition Provisional Pricing and Measurement, which recognises the offsetting effects A sales term in several copper and molybdenum concentrate on profit or loss of changes in the fair values of a hedging sale agreements and cathodes sale agreements which provides instrument and the hedged item.
for provisional pricing of sales at the time of shipment, with final pricing being based on the monthly average LME copper IAS price or monthly average molybdenum price for specific future International Accounting Standards.
periods, normally ranging from 30 to 180 days after delivery to the customer.
For the purposes of IAS 39, the provisional IASB sale is considered to contain an embedded derivative i. e. the International Accounting Standards Board.
forward contract for which the provisional sale is subsequently IFRIC adjusted which is separated from the host contract i. e. the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
sale of metals contained in the concentrate or cathode at the provisional invoice price less tolling charges deducted.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
Quienco Quienco S. A. a Chilean financial and industrial conglomerate IRR under the control of the Luksic family and listed on the Santiago Internal Rate of Return.
ISO 9.001 Realised Prices An international quality management system standard published Effective sale price achieved comparing revenues grossed up by the International Organisation for Standardisation.
for tolling charges for concentrate with sales volumes.
ISO 14.001 Ro Figueroa An international environmental management system standard Ro Figueroa, an exploration project located in Chiles Atacama published by the International Organisation for Standardisation.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 145 Glossary and Definitions continued ROCE Contained Copper Return on Capital Employed.
The proportion or quantity of copper contained in a given quantity of ore or concentrate.
SENCE Servicio Nacional fide Capacitacin y Empleo fide Chile Chilean Cut-off Grade National Training and Employment Service.
The lowest grade of mineralised material considered economic to process and used in the calculation of ore reserves and Severity Rate mineral resources.
Number of lost days during the year in relation to the number of hours worked.
Grade A Copper Cathode Sierra Gorda district Highest quality copper cathode LME registered and certificated Copper district located in the Antofagasta Region of Chile, in the case of Michilla and El Tesoro.
where El Tesoro and Esperanza are located.
Greenfield Project Sterling The development or exploration of a new project not previously United Kingdom currency.
SVS Flotation Superintendencia fide Valores y Seguros fide Chile, the Chilean A process by which chemicals are added to materials in a securities regulator.
solution which are attracted to bubbles and float, whilst other materials sink, resulting in the production of concentrate.
TEAL Teal Exploration & Mining Incorporated, a company listed on the Heap Leaching Toronto Stock Exchange with exploration and project interests A process for the recovery of copper from ore.
The crushed on the Zambian Copper belt in Africa.
material is laid on a slightly sloping, impermeable pad and Telgrafo leached by uniformly trickling gravity fed chemical solution Copper prospect located in the Sierra Gorda district held through the beds to ponds.
The metal is then recovered from through Esperanza.
the solution through the SX-EW process.
Tethyan JORC Tethyan Copper Company Limited, a 50%-owned joint venture Joint Ore Reserves Committee of Australia.
entity of the Group incorporated in Australia.
Leaching TSR The process by which a soluble mineral can be economically Total Shareholder Return, being the movement in the recovered by dissolution.
Companys share price plus reinvested dividends.
LOM or Life Of Mine Turnbull Guidance The remaining life of a mine expressed in years, calculated by The revised guidance on internal control for directors on reference to scheduled production rates i. e. comparing the rate Combined Code issued by the Turnbull Review Group in at which ore is expected to be extracted from the mine to October 2005. current defined reserves.
UF Unidad fide Fomento, an inflation-adjusted unit of account Mineral Resources used in Chile.
Material of intrinsic economic interest occurring in such form and quantity that there are reasonable prospects for eventual UK economic extraction.
Mineral resources are stated inclusive United Kingdom.
of ore reserves, as defined by JORC.
UKLA MW United Kingdom Listing Authority.
Open Pit Mine working or excavation which is open to the surface.
US Dollars United States currency.
Ore Rock from which metal s or mineral s can be economically and legally extracted.
Mining Industry Brownfield Project Ore Grade A development or exploration project in the vicinity of an The relative quantity, or the percentage, of metal content in an existing operation.
ore body or quantity of processed ore. By-products credits in copper concentrates Ore Reserves Products obtained as result of copper processing.
The Los Part of Mineral Resources for which appropriate assessments Pelambres mine produces molybdenum concentrate and also have been carried out to demonstrate at a given date extraction receives credit for the gold and silver content in the copper could be reasonably justified and which include consideration of concentrate sold.
and modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and Cathode Copper governmental factors.
Refined copper produced by electrolytic refining of impure copper by electro-winning.
Oxide and Sulphide Ores Different kinds of ore containing copper.
Oxide ore occurs on Concentrate the weathered surface of ore-rich lodes and normally results The product of a physical concentration process, such as in the production of cathode copper through a heap-leaching flotation or gravity concentration, which involves separating process.
Sulphide ore comes from unweathered parent ores ore minerals from unwanted wasted rock.
Concentrates require process and normally results in the production of concentrate subsequent processing such as smelting or leaching to break through a flotation process which then requires smelting and down or dissolve the ore minerals and obtain the desired refining to produce cathode copper.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 146 FURTHER INFORMATION FURTHER INFORMATION Payable Copper Currency Abbreviations The proportion or quantity of contained copper for which US cents Cents of US Dollars.
payment is received after metallurgical deduction.
Porphyry A large body of rock which contains disseminated chalcopyrite US$m Million US Dollars.
Such a deposit is mined in bulk on 000 Thousand Pounds Sterling.
a large scale, generally in open pits, for copper and its by-product m Million Pounds Sterling.
Price Participation Ch$ Chilean Peso.
Part of the tolling charges for copper concentrate under a CH$000 Thousand Chilean Pesos.
sales agreement, usually in addition to TC RCs and calculated a Ch$m Million Chilean Pesos.
percentage of the difference between the copper price at final A$ Australian Dollars.
pricing and an agreed reference copper price, and which may A$000 Thousand Australian Dollars.
result in an increase or decrease to TC RCs.
Price Sharing Tolling charges calculated under a sales agreement as an Definitions and Conversion of agreed percentage of the price for the metal contained in Weights and Measures copper concentrate, as an alternative to TC RCs and or price participation.
Stockpile Ounce or oz a troy ounce.
Material extracted and piled for future use.
Solvent Extraction and Electro Winning.
A process for extracting 1 kilogramme 2.2046 pounds.
metal from an ore and producing pure metal.
First the metal is 1 metric tonnes 1,000 kilogrammes.
leached into solution: the resulting solution is then purified in 1 kilometre 0.6214 miles.
the solvent extraction process: the solution is then treated in an 1 troy ounce 31.1 grammes.
electro chemical process electro winning to recover cathode copper.
Chemical Symbols Tailings Dam Construction used to deposit the rock waste which remains as Cu Copper.
a result of the concentrating process after the recoverable Mo Molybdenum.
minerals have been extracted in concentrate form.
TC RC Treatment and refining charges, being terms used to set the smelting and refining charge or margin for processing copper concentrate and normally set either on an annual basis or on a spot basis.
Tpd Tonnes per day, normally with reference to the quantity of ore processed over a given period of time expressed as a daily average.
Tolling Charges Charges or margins for converting concentrate into finished metal.
These include TC RCs, price participation and price sharing for copper concentrate and roasting charges for molybdenum concentrate.
Underground Mine Natural or man-made excavation under the surface of the Earth.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 147
