QXD 5 3 09 10:04 Page 55 Consolidated financial statements Consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2008 Restated 2008 2007 Notes m m Non current assets Property, plant and equipment 9 32.7 23.8 Goodwill 10 183.3 183.3 Other intangible assets 10 23.4 32.5 Investments in equity accounted joint ventures 1, 11 53.0 38.1 Investments 0.1 0.1 Deferred tax assets 18 2.7 5.0 295.2 282.8 Current assets Inventories 12 171.3 128.8 Amounts due from construction contract customers 14 189.2 209.1 Trade and other receivables 13 209.0 238.3 Cash and cash equivalents 28 120.3 218.9 689.8 795.1 Total assets 1 985.0 1,077.9 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 15 675.2 798.1 Amounts received in advance on construction contracts 14 78.3 67.4 Current tax liabilities 8.5 10.6 Finance lease liabilities 16 1.9 1.4 763.9 877.5 Net current liabilities 74.1 82.4 Non current liabilities Trade and other payables 15 0.1 8.9 Retirement benefit obligation 17 3.0 3.3 Finance lease liabilities 16 7.4 3.2 Provisions 19 18.3 19.3 28.8 34.7 Total liabilities 1 792.7 912.2 Net assets 192.3 165.7 Equity Share capital 22, 23 2.2 2.1 Share premium account 23 26.6 26.3 Capital redemption reserve 23 0.6 0.6 Own shares 23 6.4 5.5 Hedging reserve 23 2.3 2.2 Retained earnings 23 171.6 144.4 Total equity 192.3 165.7 The financial statements were approved by the Board of directors and authorised for issue on 24 February 2009 and signed on its behalf by: Paul Smith David Mulligan 55 83067 Accounts Section1.
QXD 5 3 09 10:04 Page 56 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2008 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense for the year ended 31 December 2008 2008 2007 m m Actuarial losses arising on defined benefit plan 0.2 0.9 Deferred tax on retirement benefit obligation recognised directly in equity 0.3 Movement on cash flow hedges in equity accounted joint ventures 0.1 1.4 Net expense recognised directly in equity 0.3 2.0 Profit for the year 44.8 39.4 Total recognised income and expense for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent company 44.5 37.4 56 83067 Accounts Section1.
QXD 5 3 09 10:04 Page 57 Consolidated financial statements Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2008 2008 2007 Notes m m Net cash outflow inflow from operating activities 25 65.5 158.1 Cash flows from investing activities Interest received 9.2 8.4 Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.8 0.6 Purchases of property, plant and equipment 8.4 8.0 Payments to acquire interests in joint ventures 12.4 5.0 Payment for the acquisition of a subsidiary 25.5 Net cash acquired on acquisition of a subsidiary 14.2 Net cash outflow from investing activities 10.8 15.3 Cash flows from financing activities Net payments to acquire own shares 0.9 2.1 Dividends paid 16.9 12.6 Repayments of obligations under finance leases 4.9 4.7 Proceeds on issue of share capital 0.4 0.1 Net cash outflow from financing activities 22.3 19.3 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 98.6 123.5 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 218.9 95.4 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year Bank balances and cash 120.3 218.9 57 83067 Accounts Section1.
QXD 5 3 09 10:04 Page 58 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2008 Significant accounting policies for the year ended 31 December 2008 Reporting entity Morgan Sindall plc the Company, is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of the registered office is given on page 127.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in note 1 and in the business review on pages 4 to 21.
The report and accounts includes the consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries collectively referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in joint ventures and separate financial statements for the Company.
Basis of preparation a Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as discussed in the business review on page 7 and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
At the time of the approval of the financial statements the following pronouncements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not been adopted by the EU and have not been applied in these financial statements: IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations IFRS 8 Operating Segments International Accounting Standard IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements IAS 39 Revised Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: Eligible Hedged Items International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation IFRIC 17 Distribution of Non-cash Assets to Owners IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers.
These pronouncements are not anticipated to have any material impact on the Groups consolidated income statement or balance sheet except for additional disclosures in relation to IFRS 8. b Basis of measurement The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except where otherwise indicated.
c Functional and presentation currency These consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the Groups functional currency.
All financial information, unless otherwise stated, has been rounded to the nearest 0.1m.
d Restatement of comparative balances As was stated in note 23 on page 76 of the 2007 annual report and accounts, the fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of Amec Developments Limited and certain assets and business carried on by Amec Investments Limited and the assets, liabilities and contracts relating to the Design and Project Services division of Amec plc were provisional and subject to finalisation in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
The fair value exercise has been completed and the final acquisition balance sheet and related fair value adjustments are disclosed in note 24.
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations the affected financial statement balances have been restated.
None of the restatements have had an impact on gross profit, profit from operations or net assets.
There was no impact on recognised income or expense as previously stated.
QXD 5 3 09 10:04 Page 59 Consolidated financial statements Significant accounting policies for the year ended 31 December 2008 Certain comparatives have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation.
In the 2007 comparative balance sheet, amounts of 19.3m previously shown as trade and other payables are now classified as provisions.
e Use of estimates and judgments The preparation of financial statements under IFRS requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expense.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis and any revision to estimates or assumptions are recognised in the period in which they are revised.
The estimates and judgments that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows: i Accounting for construction and service contracts Recognition of revenue and margin involves making estimates of the costs and value of work performed to date and to be performed in bringing contracts to completion, including satisfaction of maintenance responsibilities.
These estimates are made by reference to recovery of pre-contract costs, surveys of progress against the construction programme, changes in work scope, the contractual terms under which the work is being performed, costs incurred, and external certification of the work performed.
The Group has appropriate control procedures to ensure all estimates are determined on a consistent basis and subject to appropriate review and authorisation.
The same estimating principles were used in determining the fair value of certain construction contract related provisions relating to the July 2007 acquisition from Amec plc.
ii Recognition and measurement of intangible assets The Group recognises certain intangible assets in respect of secured customer contracts, other contracts and related relationships, software, a non-compete agreement and goodwill.
The recognition and subsequent measurement of these intangible assets required management to make certain assumptions and estimates, particularly in respect of the future potential benefits to be derived and the estimated useful lives over which the future economic benefits are expected to flow to the Group.
To assist in making these judgments, the directors engaged an independent expert to assist in the determination of the fair values and the estimated useful lives of these assets.
Full details of the intangible assets are set out in note 10. iii Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets Goodwill and other intangible assets are subject to an impairment test on an annual basis or earlier where any event or change in circumstance is identified that indicates that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Testing for impairment requires a comparison of the carrying amount of goodwill and other intangible assets against the recoverable amount, which is the value-in-use of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill and other intangible assets are allocated.
Value-in-use requires estimation of the future cash flows expected from the cash-generating unit as well as an appropriate growth factor and discount rate to calculate the present value of the cash flows, and the assumptions used are set out in full in note 10. iv Impairment of work in progress In assessing whether work in progress is impaired, estimates are made of future sales revenue, timing and build costs.
The Group has controls in place to ensure that estimates of sales revenue are consistent, and external valuations are used where appropriate.
QXD 5 3 09 10:04 Page 60 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2008 Significant accounting policies for the year ended 31 December 2008 e Use of estimates and judgments continued v Accounting for the Groups defined benefit plan The directors engage an independent and qualified actuary to calculate the Groups liability in respect of the defined benefit plan.
In order to arrive at this valuation, certain assumptions in respect of discount rates, salary escalations, expected return on the plans assets and future pension increases have been made.
Estimates and judgments regarding future mortality are derived using published statistics and mortality tables.
As the actual rates of increase and mortality may differ from those assumed, the actual pension liability may differ from that recognised in these financial statements.
Assumptions used and full details of the Groups liability are set out in note 17. vi Insurance provisions In valuing the provision for the Groups retained insurance risks, estimates are made of the rate of occurrence and severity of events for which the Group will bear liability and external valuations are used where appropriate.
vii PFI PPP derivative financial instruments Certain Group joint ventures use swaps to hedge interest rate and RPI risk to which PFI PPP concessions are exposed.
These are initially recognised, and subsequently re-measured at each year end, at fair value derived from current market rates.
Details of derivative financial instruments are set out in note 28. viii Financial receivables In assessing the fair value of certain financial receivables, including trade receivables and those held by joint ventures, estimates are made of future cash flows and the appropriate discount rate to be used.
ix Taxation Judgments are required in establishing the Groups liability to pay taxes where tax positions are uncertain.
Details of deferred tax are set out in note 18. x Share-based payments Recognition and measurement of share-based payments requires estimation of the fair value of awards at the date of grant and, for cash-settled awards, re-measurement at each reporting date.
Judgment is also exercised when estimating the number of awards that will ultimately vest.
These judgments have a significant impact on the amounts recognised in the income statement and the balance sheet.
To assist in determining each awards fair value, the directors engage a qualified and independent valuation expert.
Estimation of the number of awards that will ultimately vest is based on estimates at the reporting date of the extent to which performance conditions are anticipated to be satisfied, anticipated future lapses by leavers and the current intrinsic value of those awards.
Details on share-based payments are set out in note 26.
The accounting policies as set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
QXD 9 3 09 12:59 Page 61 Consolidated financial statements Significant accounting policies for the year ended 31 December 2008 Basis of consolidation The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured as the fair values, at the date of acquisition, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets including previously unrecognised intangible assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is immediately recognised in the income statement.
a Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities that are controlled by the Group.
Control is exerted where the Group has the power to govern, directly or indirectly, the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain economic benefits from its activities.
Typically a shareholding of more than 50% of the voting rights is indicative of control, however, the impact of potential voting rights currently exercisable is taken into consideration.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements of the Group from the date that control commences to the date that control ceases.
The accounting policies of new subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to align them with those of the Group.
b Joint ventures A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control, which requires unanimous consent for strategic financial and operating decisions.
A jointly controlled entity is a joint venture that involves the establishment of a corporation, partnership or other entity in which each venturer has an interest.
The results, assets and liabilities of jointly controlled entities are incorporated in the financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Construction contracts carried out in joint venture without the establishment of a legal entity are jointly controlled operations.
The Groups share of the results and net assets of these jointly controlled operations are included under each relevant heading in the income statement and balance sheet.
Goodwill relating to a joint venture which is acquired directly is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not amortised.
After application of the equity method, the Groups investments in joint ventures are reviewed to determine whether any additional impairment loss in relation to the net investment in the joint venture is required.
When there is a change recognised directly in the equity of the joint venture, the Group recognises its share of any change and discloses this, where applicable, in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Where the Groups share of losses exceeds its equity accounted investment in a joint venture, the carrying amount of the equity is reduced to nil and the recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations.
Appropriate adjustment is made to the results of joint ventures where material differences exist between the joint ventures accounting policies and those of the Group.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
QXD 5 3 09 10:04 Page 62 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2008 Significant accounting policies for the year ended 31 December 2008 c Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expense arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity accounted investments are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in that investment.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Revenue and margin recognition Revenue and margin are recognised as follows: a Construction contracts Revenue comprises the fair value of construction carried out in the year based on an internal assessment of work carried out.
This assessment is carried out by reference to the construction programme, the construction contract, costs incurred, and external certification of the work performed.
Once the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, margin is recognised in the income statement on a stage of contract completion basis by reference to costs incurred to date and total forecast costs on the contract as a whole.
Losses expected in bringing a contract to completion are recognised immediately in the income statement as soon as they are forecast.
Where houses for open market sale are included in a construction contract as part of a mixed tenure development, revenue on open market sales is recognised on sale completion and margin is recognised using the same principle as for the construction contract element of the development.
b Service contracts Revenue comprises the fair value of work performed in the year based on an internal assessment of work carried out.
This assessment is carried out by reference to the service contract, costs incurred, surveys of work performed and external certification of work performed.
c Sale of development properties Revenue from the sale of development properties is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer, there is no continuing management involvement with the properties and the amount of revenue can be estimated reliably.
The transfer of risks and rewards vary depending on the individual terms of the contract of sale.
For properties, transfer usually occurs when the ownership has been legally transferred to the purchaser.
Revenue from the sale of properties taken in part exchange is not included in revenue.
d Pre-contract costs Pre-contract costs incurred prior to the appointment as preferred bidder for a contract are expensed.
Finance income and expense Finance income comprises bank and other interest.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues in the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
Finance expense comprises interest on bank overdrafts, unwinding of the discounts on provisions, impairment losses recognised on financial assets and losses on hedging instruments recognised through the income statement.
The finance charge component of minimum lease payments made under finance leases is also recognised as a finance expense using the effective interest rate method.
Borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement on an effective interest rate method in the period in which they are incurred.
QXD 5 3 09 10:04 Page 63 Consolidated financial statements Significant accounting policies for the year ended 31 December 2008 Income tax The income tax expense represents the current tax and deferred tax charges.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity.
Current tax is the Groups expected tax liability on taxable profit for the year using tax rates enacted, or substantively enacted at the reporting date and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Taxable profit differs from that reported in the income statement because it is adjusted for items of income or expense that are assessable or deductible in other years and is adjusted for items that are never assessable or deductible.
Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the corresponding tax bases used in tax computations.
Deferred tax is not recognised for the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and affects neither accounting nor taxable profit, or differences relating to investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures to the extent that it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is not recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of goodwill.
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences which result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at the tax rates expected to apply when they reverse based on the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted and are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities.
Property, plant and equipment Freehold and leasehold properties, plant, machinery and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets, other than land, over their estimated useful lives using the straight-line method on the following bases: plant, machinery and equipment between 10% and 33% per annum freehold property 2% per annum leasehold property over the period of the lease Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
Residual values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed and updated annually.
Assets under construction are not depreciated until they become available for productive use.
Gains and losses on disposal are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal against the carrying amount and are recognised in other income in the income statement.
The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying amount only where it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the part will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably.
The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised.
Intangible assets a Goodwill i Initial recognition Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and other business assets and liabilities.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree.
Where that excess is negative i. e. negative goodwill, it is immediately recognised in the income statement.
QXD 5 3 09 10:04 Page 64 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2008 Significant accounting policies for the year ended 31 December 2008 a Goodwill continued i Initial recognition continued Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
ii Subsequent measurement Goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
In respect of equity accounted investments, goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment.
iii Impairment Goodwill is subject to an impairment review on an annual basis or earlier where a factor or change in circumstance has been identified which may indicate impairment.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the cash-generating units of the Group at acquisition.
The cash-generating units to which the goodwill has been allocated is the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is lower than the carrying amount of the unit, then the impairment loss is first applied to the goodwill allocated to the cash-generating unit and then to the other assets of the unit on a pro-rata basis based on the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Any such impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
b Other intangible assets Other intangible assets, such as those identified on acquisition by the Group that have finite useful lives, are recognised at fair value and measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
The Group has the following significant classes of finite life intangible assets: i Secured customer contracts On acquisition, value is attributable to customer contracts to the extent that future economic benefits are expected to flow from the contracts.
The fair value of customer contracts recognised in the Group financial statements has been determined with the assistance of an independent expert.
Secured customer contracts are amortised over their expected useful lives at a rate to match the expected future economic benefits.
ii Other contracts and related relationships On acquisition, value is attributed to non-contractual relationships and other contracts with long-standing or valued clients to the extent that future economic benefits are expected to flow from the relationships.
The fair value of other contracts and related relationships recognised in the Group financial statements has been determined with the assistance of an independent expert.
Other contracts and related relationships are amortised over their expected useful lives at a rate to match the expected future economic benefits.
iii Software Software acquired on acquisition is valued on a replacement cost basis and is amortised over its expected useful life on a straight-line basis.
iv Non-compete agreements Value is attributable to contractual non-compete agreements acquired through acquisition to the extent that they ensure that the value paid for a business is not diminished by the previous owner or its employees taking away revenue through competition.
Non-compete agreements are amortised over their useful lives on a straight-line basis.
The estimated useful lives for the Groups finite life intangible assets are: secured customer contracts 1-3 years other contracts and related relationships 1-16 years software 1-3 years non-compete agreements 3 years 64
