QXD 5 3 09 09:21 Page 104 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2008 Independent auditors report for the year ended 31 December 2008 We have audited the parent company financial statements of Morgan Sindall plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the balance sheet, the combined statement of movements in reserves and shareholders funds, the statement of significant accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 14.
These parent company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Morgan Sindall plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 and on the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the report of the directors is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
The information given in the report of the directors includes that specific information presented in the business review that is cross referred from the business review and principal activities section of the report of the directors.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
