QXD 5 3 09 09:18 Page 51 Corporate governance statement Health, safety and environment the guidance in the Turnbull Report and was in place for the Monthly reporting to the Board includes a report on the year under review, and up to the date of approval of the Groups performance in relation to health and safety matters annual report and accounts.
The key features of the Groups system of internal control Risk management The Board has reserved to itself specific responsibility for the are as follows: formulation of the risk management strategy of the Group.
Group structure A formal process is in place through which the Group identifies The Groups operating structure comprises Group Activities the significant risks attached to its strategy and objectives, and five operating divisions, each with its own management confirms the control strategy for each risk and identifies the board which is given authority and responsibility for managing appropriate early warning mechanisms and actions required.
its division within a framework of overarching Group policies, Internal control and risk management systems are embedded reporting lines and detailed delegated authorities, which ensure in the operations of the divisions.
A consolidated report of that decisions and approvals are made at the appropriate level.
each of the divisional risk reviews together with risks identified Whilst responsibility for managing each division is delegated at Group level are compiled in a Group risk register, which is to the individual management team as far as practicable, updated and reviewed by the Board twice yearly.
The principal responsibility for certain of the Groups key functions, including risks identified as facing the Group are highlighted in the treasury, pensions and insurance, is retained at Group level.
business review on pages 7 to 8.
Financial information Audit and assurance The Board recognises that an essential part of the responsibility The group head of audit and assurance, who reports to the for running a business is the effective safeguarding of assets, chief executive and to the audit committee, is responsible for the proper recognition of liabilities and the accurate reporting managing the audit and assurance function, overseeing the of profits.
The Group has a comprehensive budgeting and divisional heads of internal audit and assisting with risk forecasting system in place which is regularly reviewed and management practices.
Internal audit and assurance work updated, together with a management reporting system carried out during the year included operational, project and established in each division for monthly reporting to the Board.
financial reviews across the key business units within the Group.
In addition, the internal audit plan for the year includes specific The results of these reviews were recorded in audit reports financial reviews to validate the integrity of the divisions and presented to the audit committee.
The status of agreed management accounts.
management actions to address identified operational Investment and capital expenditure weaknesses is actively tracked until implementation.
There are detailed procedures and defined levels of authority The audit and assurance team has been extended during the in relation to investment, capital expenditure, significant cost year across the key operating divisions.
The team will focus commitments and asset disposals with approvals required from its attention in 2009 on the higher risk business areas and the Board, the executive directors or divisional boards depending major projects, whilst ensuring a balanced level of review on the value or nature of the investment or contract.
Tenders and project selection The internal audit process is supplemented by a rolling Individual tenders or projects are subject to detailed review, programme of peer group reviews within the divisions, which with approvals required at relevant levels at various stages from assist in the professional development of the individual staff commencement of the bidding process through to contract concerned while at the same time providing a mechanism for award.
As part of this process, the financial standing of both the cross-fertilisation of ideas and best practice throughout clients and key sub-contractors is assessed.
These reviews are overseen by the divisional Contract controls heads of internal audit and tracking of agreed management Robust procedures exist to manage the ongoing risks actions is included within the overall internal audit process.
associated with contracts with monthly reviews at an The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the appropriate level of each contracts performance covering system of internal control for the year ended 31 December 2008 both financial and operational issues.
and for the period to the date of this report.
The process Working capital management included a formal review conducted by the Board of the Group The Group continually monitors current and forecast cash risk register, referred to under risk management above, as and working capital balances through a regime of daily and well as a review of the results of internal audit work and the monthly reporting.
overall effectiveness of the process.
