QXD 5 3 09 09:21 Page 123 Notice of annual general meeting 9.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with the specifications set out by Euroclear UK and Ireland Limited Euroclear, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by 12.00 noon on 28 April 2009.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.
Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders appear in the Companys register of members in respect of the joint holding the first-named being the most senior.
If you submit more than one valid proxy appointment, the appointment received last before the latest time for the receipt of proxies will take precedence.
Copies of the service contracts and letters of appointment of the directors of the Company are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during usual business hours excluding weekends and English public holidays and will be available at the annual general meeting from 15 minutes prior and during the meeting.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting to follow the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives.
uk for further details of this procedure or contact the Companys Registrar on 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
If calling from overseas please call 44 20 8639 3399.
Any electronic address provided either in this Notice of annual general meeting or any related documents including the proxy form may only be used for the limited purposes specified herein and not to communicate with the Company by electronic means or for any other more general purpose.
Explanatory notes on the items of special business to be proposed at the annual general meeting can be found on pages 124 to 125 following this Notice.
QXD 5 3 09 09:21 Page 124 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2008 Explanatory notes to the special business to be proposed at the annual general meeting Increase in authorised share capital Resolution 8 An ordinary resolution will be proposed to increase the Companys authorised share capital from 3,000,000 to 3,750,000 by the creation of 15,000,000 shares an increase of 25%.
If passed, this will give the directors the ability to allot shares in accordance with the authorities given in resolution 9 referred to below, but subject always to the restrictions contained in resolutions 9 and 10 and consistent with the Association of British Insurers guidelines.
Authority to allot shares Resolution 9 An ordinary resolution will be proposed to renew the directors authority to allot share capital in the Company in accordance with section 80 of the Companies Act 1985.
Paragraph A of this resolution would give directors the authority to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to 716,731 representing 14,334,618 shares.
This amount represents approximately one third of the total issued share capital of the Company as at 23 February 2009, the latest practicable date prior to the date of this Notice.
In line with recent guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers, paragraph B of this resolution would give the directors the authority to allot shares, in connection with a rights issue, up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to 1,433,462 representing 28,669,236 shares, as reduced by the nominal amount of any shares issued under paragraph A of this resolution.
This amount before any reduction represents approximately two thirds of the total issued share capital of the Company as at 23 February 2009, the latest practicable date prior to the date of this Notice.
The authorities sought under paragraphs A and B of this resolution will expire at the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company to be held in 2010.
The directors currently have no intention of issuing further shares or granting rights over shares other than in connection with the Companys employees share option and share incentive schemes.
Disapplication of pre-emption rights Resolution 10 This resolution will be proposed as a special resolution, which requires a 75% majority of the votes to be cast in favour.
It would give the directors the authority to allot shares for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
As in previous years, this authority would be limited to allotments or sales in connection with pre-emptive offers or otherwise up to an aggregate nominal amount of 107,510 representing 2,150,192 shares.
This aggregate nominal amount represents approximately 5% of the total issued share capital of the Company as at 23 February 2009, the latest practicable date prior to the date of this Notice.
In respect of this aggregate nominal amount, the directors confirm their intention to follow the provisions of the Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling three year period where the Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% should not take place without prior consultation with shareholders.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company to be held in 2010.
Share repurchase authority Resolution 11 A special resolution will be proposed to authorise the Company to buy back its shares in the market, either for cancellation or to be held in treasury.
Whilst the directors have no current intention of using this authority, it would give them the flexibility to make purchases of shares if they considered such purchases to be in the best interests of the Company and shareholders and expected such purchases to result in an increase in earnings per share.
QXD 9 3 09 15:41 Page 125 Notice of annual general meeting Under the terms of the resolution, the Company will be generally authorised to make market purchases of up to 4,300,385 shares with an aggregate nominal value of 215,019, representing approximately 10% of the current issued share capital of the Company.
The maximum price payable per share would be based on the market price of a share as set out in more detail in the special resolution itself.
As at 23 February 2009, the number of outstanding options to subscribe for shares granted by the Company was 1,955,831 shares.
This figure represents 5% of the total issued share capital of the Company at that date and would represent 6% of the total issued share capital if full authority to purchase shares both the existing authority and that sought at the 2009 AGM was used.
The authority will expire on the date falling 12 months after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company to be held in 2010.
Notice of general meetings Resolution 12 This resolution is required to reflect the proposed implementation in August 2009 of the Shareholders Rights Directive.
The regulation implementing this Directive will increase the notice period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days.
The Company is currently able to call general meetings other than AGMs on 14 clear days notice and would like to preserve this ability.
In order to be able to do so after August 2009, shareholders must have approved the calling of meetings on 14 days notice.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next annual general meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
Recommendation The directors consider that each resolution to be proposed at the meeting is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and recommend that you vote in favour of all resolutions.
QXD 5 3 09 09:21 Page 126 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2008 Financial calendar 2009 Annual general meeting 30 April 09 Final dividend: Ex-dividend date 15 April 09 Record date 17 April 09 Payment date 8 May 09 Interim results announcement August 09 Registrar All administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings, such as lost certificates, changes of address, change of ownership or dividend payments and requests to receive corporate documents by email should, in the first instance, be directed to the Companys Registrars and clearly state the shareholders registered address and, if available, the full shareholder reference number.
Please write to: Capita Registrars, Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield, West Yorkshire HD8 0LA, Telephone 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
Alternatively you can email them at ssd@capitaregistrars.
Registering on the Registrars website enables you to view your shareholding in Morgan Sindall plc including an indicative share price and valuation, a transaction audit trail and dividend payment history.
If you wish to view your shareholding, please log on to www.
com and click on the link shareholder services then follow the instructions.
Dividend mandates Shareholders who do not currently have their dividends paid directly to a bank or building society account and wish to do so should complete a mandate instruction available from the Companys Registrars on request or at www.
Multiple accounts Shareholders who receive more than one copy of communications from the Company may have more than one account in their name on the Companys register of members.
Any shareholder wishing to amalgamate such holdings should write to the Companys Registrars giving details of the accounts concerned and instructions on how they should be amalgamated.
Telephone share dealing service A telephone dealing service has been arranged with Stocktrade which provides a simple way for buying or selling Morgan Sindall plc shares.
Basic commission is 0.5% up to 10,000, reducing to 0.2% thereafter subject to a minimum commission of 15.
Sales are carried out on a 10 day settlement basis with purchases on a 5 day basis.
When purchasing shares payment must be made by debit card at the time of dealing.
For further information please call 0845 601 0995 and quote reference Low Co140.
Unsolicited mail The Company is obliged by law to make its share register publicly available and as a consequence some shareholders may receive unsolicited mail, including from unauthorised investment firms.
For more information on unauthorised investment firms targeting UK investors, visit the website of the Financial Services Authority at http: www.
If you wish to limit the amount of unsolicited mail you receive, contact The Mailing Preference Service, FREEPOST 29 LON20771, London W1E 0ZT or visit the website at www.
QXD 9 3 09 11:09 Page 2 Shareholder information Morgan Sindall is a leading UK construction and regeneration business employing over 8,500 people and operating in the Website and electronic communications public and commercial sectors.
Its five main operating divisions The 2008 annual report and other information about the Company are available on its website, www.
The Company are Fit Out, Construction, Infrastructure Services, Affordable operates a service whereby you can register to receive notice by email of all announcements released by the Company.
The Companys share price 15 minutes delay is displayed on the Companys website.
Shareholder documents are now, following changes in Company law and shareholder approval, primarily made available via the Companys website at www.
co. uk investors unless a shareholder has requested to continue to receive hard copies of such documents.
If a shareholder has registered their up-to-date email address, an email will be sent to that Fit Out Page 12 Construction Page 14 address when such documents are available on the website.
If shareholders have not provided an up-to-date email address and have not elected to receive documents in hard copy, a letter will be posted to their address on the register notifying them that the documents are available on the website.
Shareholders can continue to receive hard copies of shareholders documents by contacting Capita Registrars see details on page 126.
If you have not already registered your current email address, you can do so at www.
Investors who hold their shares via an intermediary should contact the intermediary regarding the receipt of shareholder documents from the Company.
co. uk Brokers RBS Hoare Govett Limited Telephone: 020 7307 9200 Solicitors Slaughter and May Wragge & Co LLP Bankers Lloyds TSB Bank plc Registered office The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Kent House, 1417 Market Place, London, W1W 8AJ Independent Auditors Deloitte LLP Registered in England and Wales, No: 521970 Design: www.
co. uk Printed by Folium Financial & Security Printers, Birmingham 127 report and accounts 2008 83067 Cover.
QXD 9 3 09 11:09 Page 1 the construction and regeneration group report and accounts 2008 50% recycled stock Morgan Sindall plc, Kent House 1417 Market Place, London W1W 8AJ Tel: 020 7307 9200 Fax: 020 7307 9201 Visit our website at www.
