QXD 9 3 09 12:59 Page 52 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2008 Independent auditors report for the year ended 31 December 2008 We have audited the Group financial statements of Morgan Sindall plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, the consolidated statement of cash flows, the statement of significant accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 29.
These Group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the directors' remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Morgan Sindall plc for the year ended 31 December 2008.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors' responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the directors' remuneration report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the statement of directors' responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and whether the part of the directors' remuneration report described as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the report of the directors is consistent with the Group financial statements.
The information given in the report of the directors includes that specific information presented in the business review that is cross referred from the business review and principal activities section of the report of the directors.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Company's compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
