Shareholder Information Mouchel Group plc ShareGift Registered in England and Wales If you hold only a few shares and feel that it would be uneconomical Company number: 95369 or not worthwhile to sell them, you could consider giving them to charity.
ShareGift is a free service for shareholders wishing to give small holdings Auditors of shares to charitable causes.
There are no capital gains tax implications  LLP on gifts of shares to charity and it is also possible to obtain income tax relief.
1 Embankment Place London WC2N 6RH Further information can be obtained at www.
org or from our Registrars, Equiniti.
Financial PR Finsbury Duplicate accounts Tenter House If you receive two or more copies of the Annual Report and Accounts 45 Moorfields and or multiple cheques for each dividend payment, it means that you London EC2Y 9AE have more than one shareholder account.
Financial Advisors and Joint Brokers To receive just one Annual Report and Accounts and one cheque RBS Hoare Govett for each dividend payment, please contact Equiniti on 0871 384 2651 250 Bishopsgate and ask for your accounts to be amalgamated.
London EC2M 4AA Individual Savings Accounts ISAs Joint Brokers Single Company ISAs both Maxi and Mini for Mouchel are available JPMorgan Cazenove Limited from Equiniti.
Further information and brochures may be obtained 20 Moorgate by calling 0870 600 3970.
London EC2R 6DA Financial calendar Lawyers Ex-dividend date 22 October 2008 Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP Record date 24 October 2008 65 Fleet Street Annual General Meeting 11 December 2008 London EC4Y 1HS Final dividend payment date 19 December 2008 Registrars Unsolicited investment advice Equiniti Be wary if you receive unsolicited phone calls regarding your Mouchel Aspect House shares.
Whilst some communications may be genuine, others may Spencer Road be an example of a boiler room fraud specifically designed to elicit Lancing monies from you by convincing you to buy overpriced, untradable or West Sussex BN99 6DA non-existent shares.
Company Secretary and Registered Office To reduce the potential risk of fraud happening to you, please consider Amanda Massie the following: Mouchel West Hall If you are buying or selling shares, only deal with brokers registered Parvis Road in the UK West Byfleet Ensure all your certificates are kept in a safe place Surrey KT14 6EZ Keep all correspondence from the Registrars which contains your shareholder reference number in a safe place.
Destroy E-communications correspondence by shredding As an alternative to receiving documents through the post, Mouchel If you change your address inform the Registrars.
If you receive offers shareholders the option to receive communications from the a letter from the Registrars regarding a change of address and Company electronically.
have not recently moved house, please contact them immediately.
You may be the victim of identity theft Please register with www.
com and follow the instructions Know when the dividends are paid.
Consider having your dividend on screen.
paid directly into your bank to reduce the risk of cheques being intercepted or lost in the post.
If you change your bank account, If you require assistance with Shareview, please contact our Registrars, inform the Registrar of the details of your new account.
Respond Equiniti, on 0871 384 2651. to any letters the Registrar sends you about this.
Group Financial Statements 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 104 Mouchel Group plc Who we are Mouchel is a consulting and business services group that improves day-to-day life for millions of people by providing the many design, management and operational skills needed to transform essential public services and to sustain vital infrastructure.
We provide safer, more reliable roads and railways, better teaching and learning environments, more sustainable energy and waste solutions, cleaner drinking water and more accessible public services.
We help our clients find better ways to run their own services and to reap the rewards of better investment in technology and systems.
We go the extra mile and more to do the right thing for our clients, lead the way in our markets, keep our promises to our people and offer a fair return to our investors.
This is the way we do business.
Building great relationships Mouchels business is built upon great relationships with our customers, our stakeholders and our people.
They enable us to provide services that help our clients improve day-to-day life for millions of people Acknowledgements Mouchel would like to thank all those who participated in producing this report, particularly the members of staff, for their contributions.
Cover and main case study photography by Arnhel fide Serra.
Designed and produced by The College www.
com Printed in the UK by Royle Corporate Print, a carbon-neutral printing company which is ISO 14001 and FSC certified.
This report is printed on Think4 Bright paper, which is FSC certified, 100% ECF Elemental Chlorine Free and totally recyclable.
Contents This report is available on our website: www.
com 01 Highlights 56 Consolidated Income 60 Company Statement If you have finished reading the report and no longer wish to retain it, 02 Mouchel at a Glance Statement of Recognised Income please pass it on to other interested readers, return it to Mouchel or dispose 04 Chairmans Statement 57 Group and Company and Expense of it in your recycled paper waste.
06 Business Review Balance Sheets 61 Independent Auditors Report 40 Board of Directors 58 Consolidated Cash 62 Notes to the Financial Thank you.
43 Directors Report Flow Statement Statements 46 Corporate Governance Report 59 Consolidated Statement 103 Five-year Financial Summary 51 Remuneration Report of Recognised Income 104 Shareholder Information and Expense TT-COC-002228 Introduction Report and Accounts 2008 Mouchel Group plc Mouchel Group plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Building great relationships 2008 Annual Report and Accounts www.
