Overview Pages 01 p 03 Critical accounting policies Operating and Financial Review Pages 04 p 35 Governance Pages 36 p 56 Financial statements Pages 58 p 130 Shareholder information Pages 131 p 132 Provisions Using information available at the balance Key accounting judgements Basis of preparation sheet date, the Group makes judgements, based on experience, on the level of Taking into account this analysis of risks This financial information has been prepared provision required.
Information subsequent and uncertainties, the key accounting in accordance with IFRS.
The comparative to the balance sheet date may impact judgements which could impact future information for 2007 has been amended to the level of provision required: financial performance include the following: reflect the final fair value adjustments relating Impairment to the acquisition of Continental Auto and Going concern The Group has reviewed the carrying value Kings Ferry, together with reclassification This is a fundamental accounting concept of tangible and intangible assets and, from of Dot2Dot as a discontinued operation.
that underlies the preparation of accounts time to time, may impair certain asset values Details are contained in the notes to the in the UK.
In adopting the going concern on a value in use basis.
Future changes in Financial Statements.
approach, the Directors have considered the performance or disposals could impact uncertainties that could impact the Group these values.
including the impact of the challenging In addition to these key accounting trading environment on profitability, the judgements, the Group has significant Cautionary statement limited availability of new debt funding in accounting policies in respect of revenue current market conditions and its objective recognition, foreign currencies, property, This Operating and Financial Review is to reduce net debt in order to maximise plant and equipment, intangible assets and intended to focus on matters which are the likelihood of maintaining debt covenant derivative financial instruments and hedge relevant to the interests of shareholders of compliance.
Given the Groups plans accounting, which are set out in the notes the Company.
The purpose of the OFR and potential mitigations, its opportunities to the financial statements.
is to assist shareholders in assessing the and core funding relationships, in the opinion strategies adopted and performance of the Directors, there are currently no delivered by the Company and the potential material uncertainties that lead to significant for those strategies to succeed.
It should doubt upon the Groups ability to continue not be relied on by any other party or for as a going concern: any other purpose.
Pensions Forward looking statements are made Movement in asset markets, interest rates in good faith, based on a number of and life expectancy could materially affect assumptions concerning future events the funding of the Groups pension and information available to Directors at schemes.
The key assumptions used the time of their approval of this report.
to value pension liabilities are set out These forward looking statements should in the notes to the financial statements: be treated with caution due to the inherent Tax uncertainties underlying any such forward The Group carries out tax management looking information.
The user of these consistent with a business of its size and accounts should not rely unduly on these makes appropriate provision, based on best forward looking statements, which are not estimates, until tax computations are agreed a guarantee of performance and which are with the tax authorities: subject to a number of uncertainties and other facts, many of which are outside the Companys control and could cause actual events to differ materially from those in these statements.
No guarantee can be given of future results, levels of activity, performance Stansted Express is part of National Express East Anglia or achievements.
National Express Group PLC 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
