Notes to the Consolidated Accounts For the year ended 31 December 2008 1 Corporate information The consolidated accounts of National Express Group PLC and its subsidiaries the Group for the year ended 31 December 2008 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 26 February 2009 and the balance sheets were signed on the Boards behalf by S R Bowker and J K Maiden.
National Express Group PLC is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The principal activities of the Group are described in the Operating and Financial Review OFR that accompanies these accounts.
2 Accounting policies Statement of compliance These accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and interpretations of the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC as adopted by the European Union EU, and with those parts of the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Group is required to comply with international accounting requirements under IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Information except in extremely rare circumstances where management concludes that compliance would be so misleading that it would conflict with the objective to present fairly its accounts.
On this basis, the Group has departed from the requirements of IAS 19 Employee Benefits and has accounted for its constructive but not legal obligations for the Railways Pension Scheme RPS under the terms of its UK rail franchise agreements.
Details of the background and rationale for this departure are provided in note 35, including the impact on the Groups reported financial performance and position of adopting the accounting treatment as required by IAS 1.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the recognition of derivative financial instruments, available for sale investments and accounting for pensions detailed below.
As noted above, the Group has taken the extremely rare decision to depart from the requirement of IAS 19 Employee Benefits so as to present fairly its financial performance, position and cash flows in respect of its obligation for the RPS.
The details of this departure and impact on the Groups accounts are set out in note 35.
A summary of the Groups accounting policies applied in preparing the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 is set out below.
The preparation of accounts in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are the measurement and impairment of indefinite life intangible assets including goodwill and measurement of defined benefit pension obligations.
The measurement of intangible assets other than goodwill in a business combination involves estimation of future cash flows and the selection of a suitable discount rate.
The Group determines on an annual basis whether indefinite life intangible assets are impaired and this requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the intangible assets are allocated.
This requires estimation of future cash flows and choice of a suitable discount rate see note 14.
Measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires estimation of future changes in salaries and inflation, as well as mortality rates, the expected return on assets and the choice of a suitable discount rate see note 35.
Key accounting judgements which may impact future financial performance are described in the OFR.
The consolidated accounts are presented in pounds sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand pounds 0.1m except where otherwise indicated.
During 2007, the Group acquired the entire share capital of Continental Auto SLU Continential Auto and The Kings Ferry Limited.
The allocations of the consideration paid in respect of the acquisitions to the fair value of the net assets acquired were completed during 2008.
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 have been restated to reflect the final fair value and amortisation adjustments relating to Continental Auto and the goodwill adjustment relating to The Kings Ferry Limited.
Further details are contained in note 19.
On 24 October 2008, the Group announced that it planned to exit the Dot2Dot business.
On 9 January 2009, the Group completed the sale of the Dot2Dot business and it has been classified as a discontinued operation for the year ended 31 December 2008, and the results for the year ended 31 December 2007 restated for the presentation of Dot2Dot as a discontinued operation.
Further details are contained in note 11.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts comprise the accounts of National Express Group PLC and all its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 December each year.
Adjustments are made to bring any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist into line with the Groups accounting policies.
On acquisition of a business, the purchase method of accounting is adopted, and the Group income statement includes the results of subsidiaries and businesses purchased during the year from the date control is assumed.
The purchase consideration is allocated to assets and liabilities on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition.
On the sale of a business, the Group income statement includes the results of that business to the date of disposal.
Intragroup transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between group companies are eliminated.
Minority interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not attributable to the parent Company shareholders and is presented separately from parent shareholders equity in the consolidated balance sheet.
62 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 2 Accounting policies continued Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except as follows: The Group has adopted the following amendments and IFRIC interpretations as of 1 January 2008.
IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions.
This interpretation requires arrangements whereby an employee is granted rights to an entitys equity instruments to be accounted for as an equity-settled scheme, even if the entity buys the instruments from another party, or the shareholders provide the equity instruments needed.
There was no impact on the financial performance or position of the Group.
This interpretation applies to service concession operators and explains how to account for the obligations undertaken and rights received in service concession arrangements.
This interpretation is not applicable to any member of the Group and therefore has no impact on the Group.
Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 7.
This amendment was issued during the year effective immediately.
Interests in joint ventures The Group has a number of contractual arrangements with other parties to share control of other entities which represent joint ventures.
The Group recognises its interest in the entitys assets and liabilities using the equity method of accounting.
The Group balance sheet includes the appropriate share of these joint ventures net assets or liabilities and the income statement includes the appropriate share of their results after tax.
Accounts of jointly controlled entities are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group.
Adjustments are made in the Groups accounts to eliminate the Groups share of unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its jointly controlled entities.
The Group ceases to use the equity method from the date it no longer has joint control over the entity.
Interests in associates Companies, other than subsidiaries and joint ventures, in which the Group has an investment representing not less than 20% of the voting rights and over which it exerts significant influence are treated as associates.
The Group accounts include the appropriate share of these associates results and net assets based on their latest accounts under the equity method.
Income statement presentation The income statement has been presented in a columnar format to enable users of the financial statements to view the normalised results of the Group.
Normalised results are defined as the statutory results before the following as appropriate: profit or loss on the sale of businesses, exceptional profit or loss on the sale of non-current assets and charges for goodwill impairment, amortisation of intangible assets, exceptional items and tax relief on qualifying exceptional items and intangibles.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are material items of income or expenditure which, in the opinion of the Directors, due to their nature and infrequency require separate identification on the face of the income statement to allow a better understanding of the financial performance in the year, in comparison to prior years.
Revenue recognition Rendering of services Revenue comprises income from road passenger transport, train passenger services, airport operations and related activities in the UK, North America and Europe.
Where appropriate, amounts are shown net of rebates and sales tax.
Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the customers travel or services provided under contractual arrangements as a proportion of total services to be provided.
UK Trains revenue includes amounts attributed to the train operating companies TOCs, based principally on agreed models of route usage, by Railway Settlement Plan Limited which administers the income allocation system within the UK rail industry, in respect of passenger receipts.
In addition, franchise agreement receipts from the Department for Transport Rail Division DfT Rail and local Passenger Transport Executives PTEs are treated as revenue.
Franchise agreement payments to DfT Rail are recognised in operating costs.
UK Coach revenue comprises amounts receivable generated from ticket sales.
UK Bus and European Coach & Bus revenue comprises amounts receivable generated from ticket sales and revenue generated from services provided on behalf of local transport authorities, which is recognised as the services are provided.
For all the divisions noted above, the relevant share of season ticket or travelcard income is deferred within liabilities and released to the income statement over the life of the relevant season ticket or travelcard.
North American Bus revenue from school boards and similar contracts is recognised as the services are provided.
Rental income Rental income is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Finance income Revenue is recognised using the effective interest method.
Government grants Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are included in liabilities as deferred income and are credited to the income statement over the expected useful economic life of the assets concerned.
Other grants are credited to the income statement as the related expenditure is expensed.
National Express Group PLC 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 2 Accounting policies continued Segmental reporting Each of the Groups business and geographical segments provides services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of the other business segments.
Due to the nature of the Groups operations the distinct business segments align directly with geographical segments which are operating in separate economic environments.
The Groups segments comprise: UK Bus: UK Coach: UK Trains: North American Bus: European Coach & Bus: and Central functions.
These segments are described in more detail in the OFR accompanying these accounts.
Leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, are capitalised in the balance sheet as property, plant and equipment.
Finance leases are capitalised at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The capital element of future obligations under hire purchase contracts and finance leases is included as a liability in the balance sheet.
The interest element of rental obligations is charged to the income statement over the period of the lease and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases of property, plant and equipment where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Incentives received under operating leases and initial direct costs in negotiating the lease are amortised to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
All material arrangements and transactions entered into by the Group are reviewed to check whether they contain elements that meet the accounting definition of a lease, although they may not follow the legal form of a lease.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense when incurred in accordance with the benchmark accounting treatment under IAS 23 Borrowing Costs.
Current tax and deferred tax Current tax is provided on taxable profits earned according to the local tax rates applicable where the profits are earned.
Income taxes are recognised in the income statement unless they relate to an item accounted for in equity, in which case the tax is recognised directly in equity.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the current tax are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full in respect of all material temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes, apart from the following exceptions: where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill: where an asset or liability is recognised in a transaction that is not a business combination and that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the temporary differences reverse based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised where their recovery is considered more likely than not that there will be taxable profits from which the future reversal of underlying temporary differences can be deducted.
Their carrying amount is reviewed at each balance sheet date on the same basis.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and when the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately that meet the recognition criteria of IAS 38 Intangible Assets, are capitalised at cost and when acquired in a business combination are capitalised at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, finite life assets are amortised on a straight-line basis and indefinite life assets are not amortised.
The amortisation expense is taken to the income statement through operating expenses.
The existing finite life intangible assets have a residual value of nil and are amortised over their estimated useful lives as follows: Customer contracts over the life of the contract between 1 and 33 years Right to operate TOC franchises over the life of the franchise between 1 and 7 years Intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested annually for impairment and the useful lives of finite life intangible assets are examined on an annual basis and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Finite life assets are reviewed for impairment where indicators of impairment exist.
The Groups indefinite life intangible assets include customer relationships and goodwill.
Customer relationship intangible assets are recognised only on contracts where historical experience has shown that these contracts are consistently renewed.
64 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 2 Accounting policies continued Software Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised separately as an intangible asset and is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Costs include software licences, consulting costs attributable to the development, design and implementation of the computer software and internal costs directly attributable to the development, design and implementation of the computer software.
Costs in respect of training are expensed as incurred.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method so as to charge the cost of the computer software to the income statement over its estimated useful life seven years.
The carrying value of intangibles is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Goodwill IFRS 3 Business Combinations, has been applied to the accounting for business combinations from 1 January 2004.
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is stated at historic cost less any accumulated impairment.
If an acquisition gives rise to an excess of the acquirers interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over cost previously referred to as negative goodwill, this is credited immediately to the income statement.
In accordance with IFRS 3, goodwill is not amortised.
All goodwill is subject to an annual test of impairment and an impairment charge recognised as required.
Fair value accounting adjustments are made in respect of acquisitions.
Fair value adjustments based on provisional estimates are amended within one year of the acquisition if required, with a corresponding adjustment to goodwill, in order to refine adjustments to reflect further evidence gained post acquisition.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and all or part of that unit is disposed of, the associated goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on the disposal of the operation.
Property, plant and equipment All property, plant and equipment is stated at historic cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Under the transitional arrangements of IFRS 1 the Group elected to deem the fair value of certain revalued assets to be equivalent to cost.
Land and buildings comprise mainly vehicle depots and garages, and offices.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: Freehold buildings 30 to 50 years Long leasehold property improvements 15 to 40 years Public service vehicles 8 to 15 years Plant and equipment, fixtures and fittings 3 to 15 years Useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on the derecognition of the asset is included in the income statement in the period of derecognition.
Impairment of non-financial assets All non-current assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, except for indefinite life intangible assets and goodwill which are reviewed annually.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount which is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement in expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
Except for goodwill impairments, a review is made at each reporting date of any previous impairment losses to assess whether they no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated and any previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to assess the recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased, subject to a limit of the assets net book value had no previous impairment loss been recognised.
Such reversal is recognised in the income statement.
Future depreciation or amortisation is then adjusted to allocate the assets revised carrying amount over its remaining useful economic life.
Impairments to goodwill cannot be reversed.
Financial instruments The Group determines the classification of its financial instruments at initial recognition.
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, and available-for-sale.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
National Express Group PLC 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 2 Accounting policies continued Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets.
Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in the income statement.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the financial assets at fair value through profit or loss category are presented in the income statement within finance costs in the period in which they arise.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
The Groups investments in entities that are not subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures are classified as available-for-sale financial assets.
After initial recognition these assets are measured at fair value with gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment is derecognised or the investment is determined to be impaired, at which time the previously reported cumulative gain or loss is included in the income statement.
Where there is no active market for the Groups investments, fair value is determined using valuation techniques including recent commercial transactions and discounted cash flow analyses.
In the absence of any other reliable external information, assets are carried at cost or amortised cost as appropriate.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as available for sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered as an indicator that the securities are impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as foreign currency forward exchange contracts, fuel price swaps and interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency, fuel price and interest rate fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently remeasured to fair value for the reported balance sheet.
The fair value of foreign currency forward exchange contracts, interest rate and fuel price swaps is calculated by reference to market exchange rates, interest rates and fuel prices at the period end.
The Groups fuel price swaps and interest rate swaps are designated as cash flow hedges.
The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity, and the ineffective portion in the income statement.
The gains or losses deferred in equity in this way are recycled through the income statement in the same period in which the hedged underlying transaction or firm commitment is recognised in the income statement.
Foreign currency forward currency contracts are used to hedge the Groups net investment in foreign currency denominated operations and to the extent they are designated and effective as net investment hedges are matched in equity against foreign exchange exposure in the related assets and liabilities.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, gains or losses are taken directly to the income statement in the period.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value on a FIFO basis, after making due allowance for obsolete or slow moving items.
Pre-contract costs Pre-contract costs associated with securing new rail franchises are expensed as incurred up to the point when a franchise is awarded.
From this point in time, they are recognised as an asset and are expensed to the income statement over the life of the franchise.
Costs associated with the commencement of all new contracts other than rail franchises are expensed as incurred.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectible amounts.
Doubtful debts are provided for when collection of the full amount is no longer probable, whilst bad debts are written off when identified.
66 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 2 Accounting policies continued Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents as defined for the cash flow statement comprise cash in hand, cash held at bank with immediate access, other short-term investments and bank deposits with maturities of three months or less from the date of inception and bank overdrafts.
In the consolidated balance sheet cash includes cash and cash equivalents excluding bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts that have no legal right of set-off against cash and cash equivalents are included within borrowings in current liabilities.
Trade and other payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at cost being the net fair value of the consideration received plus transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issue of the financial asset or liability.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Insurance The Groups policy is to self-insure high frequency claims within the businesses.
To provide protection above these types of losses the Group purchases insurance cover from a selection of proven and financially strong insurers.
The insurance provision is based on estimated exposures at the year end principally for claims arising in the UK and North America prior to the year end date, subject to the overall stop loss within the Groups insurance arrangements.
The majority of provisions will be utilised within six years, and the provision has been discounted to take account of the expected timing of future cash settlements.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits The Group has a number of pension schemes, both of a defined benefit and defined contribution nature.
Full details are provided in note 35 including the departure from IAS 19 required for the Groups RPS obligations as outlined in the Statement of Compliance.
The balance sheet position in respect of defined benefit schemes comprises the net value for each scheme of the present value of the relevant defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets.
The trustees complete a full actuarial valuation triennially, separately for each plan, but the obligation is updated annually for financial reporting purposes by independent actuaries, using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the obligation is determined by the estimated future cash outflows discounted using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds which have terms to maturity equivalent to the terms of the related liability.
The current service cost and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments are recognised in staff pension costs within operating costs in the income statement.
Past service costs are included in operating costs where the benefits have vested, otherwise they are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The finance elements of the pension cost, comprising the expected return on assets of funded defined benefit schemes and the interest on pension scheme liabilities, are also included in operating costs.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to the statement of recognised income and expense in the period in which they arise.
Our TOCs participate in the RPS, a defined benefit scheme which covers the whole of the UK Rail industry.
This is partitioned into sections and the Group is responsible for the funding of these sections whilst it operates the relevant franchise.
In contrast to the pension schemes operated by most businesses, the RPS is a shared cost scheme, which means that costs are formally shared 60% by the employer and 40% by the employee.
A liability is recognised in line with other defined benefit schemes in the Group, although this is offset by a franchise adjustment so that the net liability represents the deficit that the Group expects to fund during the franchise term.
This represents a departure from IAS 19 so as to present fairly the Groups financial performance, position and cash flow in respect of its obligations for the RPS.
The charges in respect of defined contribution schemes are recognised when they are due.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions into a defined contribution scheme if the fund has insufficient assets to pay all employees benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
Share-based payment The Group awards equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees, under which the Group receives services from employees as consideration for equity instruments options of the Group.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market service and performance vesting conditions for example, profitability, sales growth targets and remaining an employee of the entity over a specified time period.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest.
The total amount expensed is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the non-marketing vesting conditions.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material using a pre-tax discount rate.
The amortisation of the discount is recognised as a finance cost.
Contingent liabilities are obligations that arise from past events that are dependent on future events.
They are disclosed in the notes to the accounts where the expected future outflow is not probable.
National Express Group PLC 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 2 Accounting policies continued Share capital, share premium and dividends Where either the Company or employee share trusts purchase the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any transaction costs, is deducted from total shareholders equity as Own shares until they are cancelled or reissued.
Any consideration subsequently received on sale or re-issue is included in shareholders equity.
Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements on the date when dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised in the period they are paid.
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction and a sale is considered highly probable.
They are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group that has been disposed of, or is classified as held for sale and it either represents a separate major line of business or geographical area: is part of a plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area: or was an acquired subsidiary intended for resale.
The resulting profit or loss from discontinued operations is reported separately in the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets once classified as held for sale are not depreciated or amortised.
Foreign currencies The trading results of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are translated into sterling, the presentation currency of the Group and functional currency of the parent, using average rates of exchange for the year as a reasonable approximation to actual exchange rates at the dates of transactions.
The balance sheets of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the year end and exchange differences arising are taken directly to the translation reserve in equity.
On disposal of a foreign currency denominated subsidiary, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in the translation reserve since 1 January 2004 under the transitional rules of IFRS 1 relating to that entity is recognised in the income statement.
All other translation differences are taken to the income statement, with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings and forward foreign currency contracts which are used to provide a hedge against the Group net investments in foreign enterprises.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in the income statement.
New standards and interpretations not applied The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards, interpretations and amendments with an effective date after the date of these financial statements.
IAS 1 Revised Presentation of financial statements effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The new standard separates owner and non-owner changes in equity.
The statement of changes in equity will include only details of transactions with owners, with non-owner changes in equity presented as a single line.
In addition, the Standard introduces the statement of comprehensive income which presents all items of recognised income and expense, either in one single statement, or in two linked statements.
The Group will apply this revision to IAS 1 from 1 January 2009 and is currently evaluating whether it will present one or two statements.
IAS 23 Amendment Borrowing costs effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
This amendment requires an entity to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset, removing the option to immediately expense those borrowing costs.
The Group will apply this amendment to IAS 23 from 1 January 2009 and will evaluate its impact from this date.
IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and separate financial statements effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The revised standard was issued in January 2008 and requires that a change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary without loss of control is accounted for as an equity transaction.
Therefore, such transactions will no longer give rise to goodwill, nor will they give rise to a gain or loss.
Furthermore, the amended standard changes the accounting for losses incurred by the subsidiary as well as the loss of control of a subsidiary.
The Group will apply this revised standard from 1 January 2010 and does not anticipate any impact on the financial statements.
IAS 32 Amendment Financial instruments: Presentation, and IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of financial statements Puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
These amendments were issued in February 2008.
The revisions provide a limited scope exception for puttable instruments to be classified as equity if they fulfil a number of specified features.
The amendments to the standards will have no impact on the financial position or performance of the Group, as the Group has not issued such instruments.
IAS 39 Amendment Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible Hedged Items effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
These amendments to IAS 39 were issued in August 2008.
The amendment addresses the designation of a onesided risk in a hedged item, and the designation of inflation as a hedged risk or portion in particular situations.
It clarifies that an entity is permitted to designate a portion of the fair value changes or cash flow variability of a financial instrument as hedged items.
The Group has concluded that the amendment will have no impact on the financial position or performance of the Group, as the Group has not entered into any such hedges.
68 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 2 Accounting policies continued IFRS 1 Amendment First-time adoption of IFRSs and IAS 27 Amendment Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The amendments to IFRS 1 allows an entity to determine the cost of investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities or associates in its opening IFRS financial statements in accordance with IAS 27 or using a deemed cost.
The amendment to IAS 27 requires all dividends from a subsidiary, jointly controlled entity or associate to be recognised in the income statement in the separate financial statements.
The Group will apply these amendments from 1 January 2009.
The new requirements will not have an impact on the consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 2 Amendment Share-based payment effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
This amendment clarifies that vesting conditions are service conditions and performance conditions only and that all cancellations, whether by the entity or by other parties, should receive the same accounting treatment.
The Group will apply this amendment to IFRS 2 from 1 January 2009 and is currently in compliance with this amendment.
IFRS 3 Revised Business combinations effective for business combinations occurring in accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
This standard continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations.
However, it introduces a number of changes that will impact the amount of goodwill recognised, the reported results in the period that an acquisition occurs, and future reported results.
The Group will apply the revised IFRS 3 for all business combinations from 1 January 2010.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14 and aligns segment reporting with the requirements of the US standard SFAS 131, Disclosures about segments of an enterprise and related information.
The Group will apply IFRS 8 from 1 January 2009 and is currently evaluating its impact.
Improvements to IFRSs effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
In May 2008 the Board issued its first omnibus of amendments to its standards, primarily with a view to remove inconsistencies and clarify wording.
The Group will apply the improvements from 1 January 2009 and is currently evaluating the impact.
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008.
IFRIC 13 clarifies that where goods or services are sold together with a customer loyalty incentive, the arrangement is a multiple-element arrangement and the consideration receivable from the customer should be allocated between the components of the arrangement in proportion to their fair values.
The Group will apply IFRIC 13 from 1 January 2009 and is currently evaluating its impact.
IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008.
IFRIC 1 provides guidance on assessing the limit in IAS 19 on the amount of the surplus that can be recognised as an asset and how the pension asset or liability may be affected by a statutory or contractual minimum funding requirement.
The European Union endorsed IFRIC 14 in December 2008 and therefore the Group will adopt IFRIC 14 from 1 January 2009 as permitted by the special transitional provisions introduced by the EU.
The Group is currently evaluating its impact.
IFRIC 15 Agreement for the Construction of Real Estate effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRIC 15 clarifies when and how revenue and related expenses from the sale of a real estate unit should be recognised if an agreement between a developer and a buyer is reached before the construction of the real estate is completed.
IFRIC 15 will not have an impact on the consolidated financial statements because the Group does not conduct such activity.
IFRIC 16 Hedges of Net Investment in a Foreign Operation effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 October 2008.
IFRIC 16 provides guidance on the accounting for a hedge of a net investment.
As such it provides guidance on identifying the foreign currency risks that qualify for hedge accounting in the hedge of a net investment, where within the Group the hedging instruments can be held in the hedge of a net investment and how an entity should determine the related amount of foreign currency gain or loss.
The Group will apply IFRIC 16 from 1 January 2009 and is currently assessing which accounting policy to adopt for the recycling on disposal of a net investment.
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IFRIC 17 provides guidance on how an entity should account for distributions other than cash non-cash assets to owners.
The Group will apply IFRIC 17 from 1 January 2010 and does not anticipate it will have an impact on the financial position or performance of the Group, as the Group does not distribute non-cash assets to owners.
IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers effective for transfers of assets on or after 1 July 2009.
IFRIC 18 clarifies the requirements for agreements in which an entity receives from a customer an item of property, plant and equipment that the entity must then use either to connect the customer to a network or to provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods or services such as a supply of electricity, gas or water.
The Group will apply IFRIC 18 from 1 July 2009 and it will not have an impact on the consolidated financial statements because the Group does not conduct such activities.
National Express Group PLC 69 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 3 Exchange rates The most significant exchange rates to UK sterling for the Group are as follows: 2008 2008 2007 2007 Closing rate Average rate Closing rate Average rate US dollar 1.46 1.85 1.98 2.00 Canadian dollar 1.78 1.96 1.98 2.15 Euro 1.05 1.26 1.36 1.46 If the results for the year to 31 December 2007 had been retranslated at the average exchange rates for the year to 31 December 2008, North America would have achieved normalised operating profit of 40.8m on revenue of 334.2m, compared to normalised operating profit of 37.7m on revenue of 308.0m as reported, and Europe would have achieved a normalised operating profit of 59.0m on revenue of 345.3m, compared to normalised operating profit of 50.9m on revenue of 298.0m as reported.
4 Revenue 2008 2007 m m Rendering of services 2,755.2 2,604.1 Rental income 11.8 8.2 Revenue 2,767.0 2,612.3 Finance income 17.4 17.0 Total revenue from continuing operations 2,784.4 2,629.3 During the year, franchise agreement receipts from DfT Rail and PTEs in 2007 amounted to 24.0m 2007: 340.8m in UK Trains.
5 Segmental analysis The operating businesses are organised and managed separately according to the nature of the public transport services they provide and the geographical market they operate in.
Due to the nature of the services the Group provides, the primary and secondary segments coincide.
Commentary on the segments is included in the OFR.
Inter-segment trading is undertaken on standard arms length commercial terms.
Due to the nature of the Groups businesses, the origin and destination of revenue is the same.
70 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 5 Segmental analysis continued Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued Goodwill Goodwill impairment, impairment, intangible intangible amortisation amortisation Normalised and Normalised and operating exceptional Segment Segment operating exceptional Segment Segment profit items result result profit items result result 2008 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 2007 m m m m m m m m UK Bus 40.0 3.5 36.5 43.5 1.2 42.3 UK Trains 81.3 13.2 68.1 63.3 2.9 60.4 UK Coach 27.0 2.3 24.7 27.9 0.3 27.6 UK operations 148.3 19.0 129.3 134.7 4.4 130.3 North American Bus 32.5 15.8 16.7 37.7 13.3 24.4 European Coach & Bus 83.3 51.3 32.0 50.9 28.2 22.7 Central functions 10.2 10.2 12.9 2.8 15.7 Result from continuing operations 253.9 86.1 167.8 210.4 48.7 161.7 Result from discontinued operations 12.8 4.8 Total result 167.8 12.8 161.7 4.8 Profit on disposal of non-current assets 5.1 16.2 Profit from operations 172.9 12.8 177.9 4.8 Share of post tax results from associates and joint ventures 0.4 Loss on sale of discontinued operations 2.9 Net finance costs 63.0 29.0 Profit loss before tax 109.9 12.8 149.3 7.7 Tax expense 23.2 0.6 37.4 1.4 Profit loss for the year 133.1 13.4 111.9 6.3 Intangible asset amortisation and operating exceptional items can be analysed by class and geography of business as follows: Intangible asset Exceptional amortisation items Total 2008 2008 2008 m m m UK Bus 0.5 3.0 3.5 UK Trains 1.0 12.2 13.2 UK Coach 0.3 2.0 2.3 North American Bus 4.7 11.1 15.8 European Coach & Bus 48.7 2.6 51.3 Total continued operations 55.2 30.9 86.1 Discontinued operations note 11 3.8 3.8 Total 55.2 34.7 89.9 National Express Group PLC 71 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 5 Segmental analysis continued Intangible asset Exceptional amortisation items Total 2007 2007 2007 m m m UK Bus 1.1 0.1 1.2 UK Trains 1.1 1.8 2.9 UK Coach 0.3 0.3 North American Bus 5.1 8.2 13.3 European Coach & Bus 25.6 2.6 28.2 Central functions 2.8 2.8 Total 32.9 15.8 48.7 In the year to 31 December 2008 exceptional costs of 4.3m for UK Integration were incurred in UK Bus, UK Trains, UK Coach and Central functions.
Mobilisation costs of 0.1m were incurred in National Express East Coast.
Integration costs of 2.6m were incurred in Continental Auto.
Business transformation costs of 11.1m were incurred in North America.
In addition, exceptional costs of 12.8m were incurred in the UK relating to a reorganisation announced at the end of 2008.
In the year to 31 December 2007 exceptional costs of 4.2m for UK Integration were incurred in UK Bus, UK Trains, UK Coach and Central functions.
Mobilisation costs of 0.8m were incurred in National Express East Coast.
Business transformation costs of 8.2m were incurred in North America In 2008 non-operating exceptional items comprise 5.1m of profit on disposal of businesses owned by Alsa note 19b.
In 2007 non-operating exceptional items comprise 16.2m of profit on disposal of the trade and business of Stewart International Airport.
In addition, software intangible assets of 8.2m 2007: nil were acquired and disclosed in note 14.
72 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 5 Segmental analysis continued Unallocated assets and liabilities comprise the following items: Unallocated Unallocated Unallocated Unallocated assets liabilities assets liabilities 2008 2008 2007 2007 m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 105.9 157.2 Other debt receivable 0.9 Current tax 4.0 32.5 9.5 24.7 Available for sale investments 9.2 7.2 Derivative financial assets liabilities 4.0 138.6 15.3 23.1 Borrowings, excluding finance leases 1,152.7 966.7 Dividend payable 0.6 0.5 Deferred tax 20.0 124.9 158.1 Total 144.0 1,449.3 189.2 1,173.1 6 Operating costs 2008 2007 m m Materials and consumables 84.3 107.2 Staff costs including exceptional cost of 15.3m 2007: 5.0m 894.2 816.0 Depreciation Owned assets 75.6 66.6 Leased assets 20.4 13.0 Amortisation of leasehold property prepayment 0.1 0.1 Amortisation of fixed asset grants 1.8 1.3 Operating lease charges Rolling stock: capital element 131.8 150.5 Rolling stock: non-capital element 57.3 61.1 Public service vehicles 4.6 3.8 Other 9.6 10.6 Plant and equipment 203.3 226.0 Fixed track access 304.1 330.6 Other 68.8 79.6 Land and buildings 372.9 410.2 Pre-contract bid costs: UK Trains 4.6 7.5 Foreign exchange differences 2.1 0.3 Other charges including exceptional expense of 15.6m 2007: 10.8m 892.5 772.7 Operating costs before intangible asset amortisation 2,544.0 2,417.7 Intangible asset amortisation 55.2 32.9 Total operating costs continuing operations 2,599.2 2,450.6 The TOCs have fixed track access contracts with Network Rail Infrastructure Limited for access to the railway infrastructure tracks, stations and depots.
The TOCs also have contracts under which rolling stock is leased.
The capital element of the rolling stock lease charge is based on the purchase price, capital funded refurbishments and modifications.
The non-capital element of the lease charge includes heavy maintenance charges and charges based on mileage.
National Express Group PLC 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 6 Operating costs continued An analysis of fees paid to the Groups auditors is provided below: 2008 2007 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the consolidated and parent Company accounts 0.6 0.4 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries 1.2 1.3 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.1 Tax services 0.6 0.5 Corporate finance services 0.2 Other services 0.1 2.5 2.5 Included in the above fees paid to the Groups auditors are nil 2007: 508,000 of fees capitalised with respect to acquisitions.
Fees charged to the income statement for other services are 55,000 2007: 44,000.
7 Employee benefit costs a Staff costs 2008 2007 m m Wages and salaries 773.8 709.3 Social security costs 92.6 76.1 Pension costs note 35 23.5 27.5 Share-based payment note 8 4.3 3.1 894.2 816.0 Included within wages and salaries are exceptional costs of 15.3m 2007: 5.0m.
The average number of employees, including Executive Directors, during the year was as follows: 2008 2007 Managerial and administrative 4,250 4,123 Operational 40,760 37,431 45,010 41,554 Included in the above costs are the following costs related to the Groups key management personnel who comprise the Directors of the parent Company.
2008 2007 m m Fees 0.4 0.4 Basic salaries 1.1 1.2 Benefits 0.4 0.4 Performance-related bonuses 0.5 1.2 Post-employment benefits 0.1 Share-based payment 1.0 0.6 3.4 3.9 Information concerning Directors emoluments, shareholdings and share options is disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
b Share schemes Details of options or awards outstanding as at 31 December 2008 under the Groups share schemes are as follows: Number of Number of share options share options Future exercise 2008 2007 Exercise price periods Executive Share Option Plan 114,400 216,925 398p963p 20092014 Long Term Incentive Plan 891,365 1,054,170 nil 20092011 Share Matching Plan 247,957 222,676 nil 20092011 Deferred Annual Share Bonus Plan 302,533 237,509 nil 20092011 WMT Long Service Option Scheme 165,269 177,527 398p1163p 20092018 Sharesave Scheme 1,099,322 922p 20092012 2,820,846 1,908,807 74 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 7 Employee benefit costs continued b Share schemes continued i Executive Share Option Plan The Company operates tax approved and unapproved executive share option schemes open to Group employees in senior management positions and formerly Executive Directors.
Options granted by this Plan have a maximum term of ten years.
The options vest after three 1 years subject to the satisfaction of certain performance criteria based on the achievement of a target growth in earnings per share.
If the performance criteria are not met when initially tested, in some instances they may be reassessed during the term of the option.
From 2005 executive share option grants have been replaced by awards made under the Long Term Incentive Plan, as described in ii.
There are no cash settlement alternatives.
ii Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP was introduced in 2005 on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee to replace the annual award under the Executive Share Option Plan to Executive Directors and to certain senior employees.
Under the LTIP a Performance Award to acquire a specified number of free shares may be made to the employee or Director.
In addition a Matching Award may be made, as described in iii.
Performance conditions are attached to the vesting of Performance and Matching Awards based on both the achievement of target growth in earnings per share and the relative total shareholder return TSR of the Company against a comparator group of companies.
If the performance conditions are met Performance and Matching Awards vest on the third anniversary of the grant date and remain exercisable for a period of up to six months following the vesting date.
There are no cash settlement alternatives at present.
iii Share Matching Plan the Plan The Share Matching Plan was introduced in 2005 as part of the new Long Term Incentive Plan arrangements described in ii.
Under the Plan a Matching Award to acquire a specified number of shares for free may be made if the employee pledges a number of shares as investment shares which are then matched by the Company on either a 1:1 or 2:1 basis with the number of shares that could have been purchased with the pre-tax equivalent of the amount invested.
The Matching Awards vest on the third anniversary of the grant date and remain exercisable for a period of up to six months following the vesting date.
iv Deferred Annual Share Bonus Plan The Deferred Annual Share Bonus Plan is a discretionary scheme which forms part of the bonus arrangements for certain senior employees.
Under the scheme part of any bonus may be received in cash whilst the remainder is used to make an award of nil cost options which vest three years after the award date.
The options must be exercised within six months of vesting.
v West Midlands Travel Ltd WMT Long Service Option Scheme The WMT Long Service Option Scheme utilises a fixed amount of shares set aside for this purpose following the acquisition of WMT in 1995 and is open to all WMT employees who have been in service for more than 25 years.
The options are exercisable between three and ten years following the grant date.
vi TWM Share Incentive Plan the SIP The TWM SIP exists for the benefit of WMT employees.
At the end of the year, 1,439 2007:1,540 National Express Group PLC shares were held for the benefit of the Trustee.
Dividends on shares held in the SIP forfeited shares account are waived.
vii Savings Related Share Option Scheme Sharesave Scheme The National Express Group approved Sharesave Scheme enables eligible UK employees, including Executive Directors, to acquire shares in the Company through monthly savings over a three-year period, at the end of which they also receive a tax free bonus.
The savings and bonus may be used to purchase shares at a discounted option price set at the beginning of the savings contract.
The options mature three years after the grant date and may be exercised for a period of up to six months after this date.
1 Performance criteria for Executive Share Option Plan: a Options granted under the 2002 National Express Group Executive Share Option Plan Part 2 Unapproved.
b The performance condition is as follows: a for awards up to 50% of salary: EPS growth of RPI 4% pa, b for awards between 51% of salary and up to 100% of salary: EPS growth of RPI 6% pa, c for awards between 101% of salary and up to 150% of salary: EPS growth of RPI 8% pa, d for awards between 151% of salary and up to 200% of salary: EPS growth of RPI 10% pa. Parts a and b are initially tested over years 03 with a facility to retest over years 04 and 05.
Parts c and d are not subject to retesting.
Straight-line vesting occurs between EPS levels.
c The performance condition is as follows: a for awards up to 50% of salary: EPS growth of RPI 4% pa, b for awards between 51% of salary and up to 100% of salary: EPS growth of RPI 5% pa, c for awards between 101% of salary and up to 150% of salary: EPS growth of RPI 6% pa, d for awards between 151% of salary and up to 200% of salary: EPS growth of RPI 10% pa.
Performance is tested over years 03.
8 Share-based payment The charge in respect of share-based payment transactions included in the Groups income statement for the year is as follows: 2008 2007 m m Expense arising from share and share option plans continuing operations 4.3 3.1 The share-based payment charge in respect of discontinued operations was 0.1m 2007: 0.1m.
During the year ended 31 December 2008, the Group had seven share-based payment arrangements, which are described in note 7 b.
National Express Group PLC 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 8 Share-based payment continued For the following disclosure, share options with a nil exercise price have been disclosed separately to avoid distorting the weighted average exercise prices.
The number of share options in existence during the year was as follows: 2008 2007 Weighted Weighted average average Number exercise Number exercise of share price of share price options p options p Options without a nil exercise price: At 1 January 394,452 814 1,385,998 738 Granted during the year 1,130,599 923 19,343 1,108 Lapsed during the year 70,219 846 62,908 762 Exercised during the year 75,841 746 947,981 713 1 Outstanding at 31 December 1,378,991 906 394,452 814 Exercisable at 31 December 221,904 794 307,795 773 Options with a nil exercise price: At 1 January 1,514,355 nil 1,424,804 nil Granted during the year 651,199 nil 497,584 nil Lapsed during the year 323,727 nil 347,557 nil Exercised during the year 399,972 nil 60,476 nil Outstanding at 31 December 1,441,855 nil 1,514,355 nil Exercisable at 31 December 3,647 nil Total outstanding at 31 December 2,820,846 1,908,807 Total exercisable at 31 December 225,551 307,795 1 Included within this balance are options over 112,760 2007: 180,920 shares for which no expense has been recognised in accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 as the options were granted before 7 November 2002 and have not been subsequently modified.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2008 had exercise prices that were between 398p and 1163p 2007: between 398p and 1224p excluding options with a nil exercise price.
Options were exercised regularly throughout the year and the weighted average share price at exercise was 891p 2007: 1153p.
The weighted average fair value of the share options granted during the year was calculated using a stochastic model, with the following assumptions and inputs: Share options without nil exercise price Share options with nil exercise price 2008 2007 2008 2007 Risk free interest rate 4.2%4.9% 5.0%5.2% Expected volatility 26.8%27.2% 27.0%27.3% 25.1%32.0% 19.0% Peer group volatility 30.8% 25.7%25.9% Expected option life in years 36 years 6 years 3 years 3 years Expected dividend yield 3.4%4.0% 3.1% 3.8%7.2% 2.7%2.8% Weighted average share price 884p1135p 1071p1175p 547p972p 1236p1295p Weighted average exercise price 922p1163p 1093p1153p 0p 0p Weighted average fair value of options granted 140p211p 215p262p 166p868p 684p1194p 76 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 8 Share-based payment continued Experience to date has shown that approximately 15% 2007: 15% of options are exercised early, principally due to redundancies.
This has been incorporated into the calculation of the expected option life for the share options without nil exercise price.
Expected volatility in the table above was determined from historic volatility over the last nine years, adjusted for one-off events that were not considered to be reflective of the volatility of the share price going forward.
The expected dividend yield represents the dividends declared in the 12 months preceding the date of the grant divided by the average share price in the month preceding the date of the grant.
For share options granted during the year under the LTIP, the TSR targets have been reflected in the calculation of the fair value of the options above.
9 Net finance costs Normalised Exceptional Total Normalised Exceptional Total 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 m m m m m m Bank interest payable 59.0 11.5 70.5 37.9 37.9 Finance lease interest payable 6.7 6.7 5.0 5.0 Other interest payable 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Unwind of provision discounting 3.1 3.1 3.0 3.0 Finance costs 68.9 11.5 80.4 46.0 46.0 Finance income: Bank interest receivable 17.4 17.4 17.0 17.0 Net finance costs 51.5 11.5 63.0 29.0 29.0 Of which, from financial instruments: Cash and cash equivalents 17.4 17.4 17.0 17.0 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 62.7 62.7 43.4 43.4 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 2.3 5.8 8.1 0.9 0.9 Derivatives used for hedging 1.1 5.7 6.8 0.3 0.3 Loan fee amortisation 1.6 1.6 0.9 0.9 The 2008 exceptional charge of 11.5m relates to interest rate swaps that ceased to qualify for hedge accounting, as the underlying currency borrowings which the interest rate swaps were hedging were switched into sterling.
10 Taxation a Analysis of taxation charge credit in the year 2008 2007 m m Current taxation: UK corporation tax 19.0 24.9 Overseas taxation 10.5 9.7 Current income tax charge 29.5 34.6 Adjustments with respect to prior years UK 4.8 2.0 Total current income tax 34.3 32.6 Deferred taxation note 27 : Origination and reversal of temporary differences continuing operations 56.9 Total tax credit charge 22.6 32.6 The tax credit charge in the income statement is disclosed as follows: Income tax expense on continuing operations 23.2 37.4 Income tax charge credit on discontinued operations 0.6 4.8 22.6 32.6 The tax expense on continuing operations is disclosed as follows: Tax charge on profit before intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items 52.3 49.5 Tax credit on intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items 75.5 12.1 23.2 37.4 National Express Group PLC 77 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 10 Taxation continued b Tax on items charged to equity 2008 2007 m m Current taxation: Credit on exchange movements offset in reserves 16.1 14.3 Credit on share-based payment 0.9 16.1 15.2 Deferred taxation: Deferred tax charge on share-based payment 1.6 0.5 Deferred tax credit charge on actuarial gains 7.0 3.5 Deferred tax credit on exchange movements offset in reserves 1.5 Deferred tax credit charge on cash flow hedges 24.8 6.1 31.7 10.1 c Reconciliation of the total tax charge 2008 2007 m m Profit from continuing operations before income tax 109.9 149.3 Loss from discontinued operations before income tax 12.8 11.1 Accounting profit before income tax 97.1 138.2 Notional charge at UK corporation tax rate of 28.5% 2007: 30% 27.7 41.5 Non-deductible goodwill impairment and intangible amortisation 0.9 0.8 Utilisation of unrecognised tax losses 0.6 Prior year adjustments within current and deferred tax 6.4 0.4 Spanish reinvestment relief 4.3 4.3 Effect of overseas tax rates 3.7 1.3 Effect of rate reductions 0.3 Deferred tax on Spanish goodwill and intangibles note 10d 66.6 Effect of removal of Industrial Buildings Allowances note 10e 14.4 Non-taxable profit on sale of non-current assets 4.2 Overseas financing deduction 6.8 1.8 Non-deductible expenditure 2.0 0.6 Total tax charge reported in the income statement note 10a 22.6 32.6 On 1 April 2008 the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK was changed to 28%.
For the year ended 31 December 2008 the average corporation tax rate was therefore 28.5%.
Deferred tax has been provided at 28%.
d Deferred tax on Spanish goodwill and intangibles A reorganisation of the Spanish group structure during the year gave rise to future goodwill amortisation for tax purposes on which a deferred tax asset has been recognised to the extent that the realisation of the deferred tax benefit against future tax profits is probable.
In addition, a deferred tax liability in relation to intangible asset amortisation, set up on acquisition of Continental Auto, has been released.
e Removal of Industrial Buildings Allowances Industrial Buildings Allowances IBAs are being phased out from April 2008 to March 2011.
As a result, deferred tax on future IBAs has been adjusted to its new future value, resulting in a cost to the group of 14.4m.
f Temporary differences associated with Group investments No deferred tax 2007: nil is recognised on the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, as the Group has determined that these undistributed profits will not be distributed in the near future.
The temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised, aggregate to 86.9m 2007: 51.1m.
g Unrecognised tax losses Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry-forwards to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit against future taxable profits is probable.
Overseas deferred tax assets that the Group has not recognised in the accounts amount to 52.2m 2007: 36.6m, which arise in tax jurisdictions where the Group does not expect to generate sufficient suitable future profits.
In addition, there are capital losses of 34.2m 2007: 22.3m which have not been recognised, recoverability of which is dependent on capital gains arising.
78 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 10 Taxation continued h Deferred tax included in the income statement 2008 2007 m m Accelerated capital allowances 19.7 3.3 Short-term temporary differences 79.4 3.4 Utilisation of losses 2.8 6.7 56.9 Details on the balance sheet position of deferred tax are included in note 27.
11 Discontinued operations On 24 October 2008, the Group announced that it planned to exit the Dot2Dot business.
The 2008 results include a charge to the income statement in respect of the discontinued operations of Dot2Dot of 9.7m.
In addition, a deferred tax asset of 3.7m recognised in relation to the North America Public Transit liability note 26 has been written off.
The results of the Groups discontinued operations in 2008 are presented below together with the comparative data for 2007 and arise solely from Dot2Dot and North America, together with the taxation charges in respect of North America: Dot2Dot North America Public Transit Total 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m m m Revenue 5.1 3.1 5.1 3.1 Operating costs, before goodwill impairment, intangible amortisation and exceptional items 13.4 7.9 13.4 7.9 Normalised operating loss 8.3 4.8 8.3 4.8 Normalised loss before tax 8.3 4.8 8.3 4.8 Tax credit on normalised loss 2.8 1.4 2.8 1.4 Normalised loss from discontinued operations 5.5 3.4 5.5 3.4 Goodwill impairment 0.7 0.7 Exceptional items 3.8 6.3 3.8 6.3 4.5 6.3 4.5 6.3 Tax on exceptional items 0.3 3.7 3.4 3.4 3.4 4.2 3.7 2.9 7.9 2.9 Loss from discontinued operations 9.7 3.4 3.7 2.9 13.4 6.3 Loss per share Basic from discontinued operations 8.9p 4.1p Diluted from discontinued operations 8.7p 4.1p Net cash outflow from: Operating activities 10.2 3.2 10.2 3.2 Investing activities 0.6 0.7 6.1 1.9 6.7 2.6 The Group acquired the entire share capital of Hotelink Limited in March 2007, and subsequently renamed the business National Express Dot2Dot Limited.
Goodwill recognised on the acquisition totalled 0.7m.
The goodwill impairment of 0.7m noted above reduces the carrying value of this goodwill to nil as no value was recovered on the sale of Dot2Dot.
The exceptional items of 3.8m reflect the charge the Group has incurred in order to complete the disposal of the business.
Assets in disposal group classified as held for sale of 0.7m represent trade and other receivables.
Liabilities directly associated with disposal group assets classified as held for sale of 2.2m consist of provisions 2.1m and trade payables 0.1m.
National Express Group PLC 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 12 Dividends paid and proposed 2008 2007 m m Declared and paid during the year Ordinary final dividend for 2007 paid of 26.40p per share 2006: 24.00p per share 40.2 36.4 Ordinary interim dividend for 2008 paid of 12.72p per share 2007: 11.56p per share 19.4 17.6 59.6 54.0 Proposed for approval not recognised as a liability at 31 December Ordinary final dividend for 2008 of 10.00p per share 2007: 26.40p per share 15.2 40.2 13 Earnings per share 2008 2007 Basic earnings per share continuing operations 86.8p 73.3p Basic loss per share discontinued operations 8.9p 4.1p Basic earnings per share total 77.9p 69.2p Normalised basic earnings per share 94.3p 84.4p Diluted earnings per share continuing operations 86.1p 72.8p Diluted loss per share discontinued operations 8.7p 4.1p Diluted earnings per share total 77.4p 68.7p Normalised diluted earnings per share 93.6p 83.9p Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to equity shareholders of 118.8m 2007: 105.1m by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held by employee share ownership trusts and those held as treasury shares which are both treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year is adjusted to include the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
The reconciliation of basic and diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares is as follows: 2008 2007 Basic weighted average shares 152,457,518 151,914,241 Adjustment for dilutive potential ordinary shares 1,077,289 976,000 Diluted weighted average shares 153,534,807 152,890,241 The normalised basic and normalised diluted earnings per share have been calculated in addition to the basic and diluted earnings per shares required by IAS 33 since, in the opinion of the Directors, they reflect the underlying performance of the businesss operations more appropriately.
The reconciliation of the earnings and earnings per share to their normalised equivalent is as follows: 2008 2007 Basic EPS Diluted EPS Basic EPS Diluted EPS m p p m p p Profit attributable to equity shareholders 118.8 77.9 77.4 105.1 69.2 68.7 Loss from discontinued operations 13.4 8.9 8.7 6.3 4.1 4.1 Profit from continuing operations attributable to equity shareholders 132.2 86.8 86.1 111.4 73.3 72.8 Intangible asset amortisation 55.2 36.2 36.0 32.9 21.7 21.6 Exceptional items 30.9 20.3 20.1 15.8 10.4 10.3 Profit on disposal of non-current assets 5.1 3.3 3.3 16.2 10.7 10.6 Finance cost 11.5 7.5 7.5 Tax relief on goodwill and exceptional items 75.5 49.5 49.2 12.1 8.0 7.9 Normalised profit from continuing operations 149.2 98.0 97.2 131.8 86.7 86.2 Normalised loss from discontinued operations 5.5 3.7 3.6 3.4 2.3 2.3 Normalised profit attributable to equity shareholders 143.7 94.3 93.6 128.4 84.4 83.9 80 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14 Intangible assets Customer Finite Contractual Indefinite contracts Rail franchise Software life assets relationships Goodwill life assets Total m m m m m m m m Cost: At 1 January 2008 356.5 9.9 366.4 42.0 952.6 994.6 1,361.0 Additions through business combinations 7.9 7.9 4.8 8.7 13.5 21.4 Additions internally generated 8.2 8.2 8.2 Reclassification from tangible fixed assets 2.3 2.3 2.3 Impairment 0.7 0.7 0.7 Foreign exchange 107.2 2.6 109.8 10.8 245.2 256.0 365.8 At 31 December 2008 471.6 9.9 13.1 494.6 57.6 1,205.8 1,263.4 1,758.0 Amortisation and impairment: At 1 January 2008 63.7 3.6 67.3 86.8 86.8 154.1 Charge for year 54.1 1.1 55.2 55.2 Foreign exchange 29.1 29.1 29.1 At 31 December 2008 146.9 4.7 151.6 86.8 86.8 238.4 Net book value: At 31 December 2008 324.7 5.2 13.1 343.0 57.6 1,119.0 1,176.6 1,519.6 At 1 January 2008 292.8 6.3 299.1 42.0 865.8 907.8 1,206.9 The software intangible assets are expected to become operational in 2009 and have not been amortised during the year.
The annual impairment charge in 2008 of 0.7 million related to the goodwill arising on the acquisition of Dot2Dot.
The net book value of this goodwill is nil note 11.
Customer Finite Contractual Indefinite contracts Rail franchise life assets relationships Goodwill life assets Total m m m m m m m Cost: At 1 January 2007 190.8 11.7 202.5 18.0 596.7 614.7 817.2 Additions through business combinations 142.7 142.7 20.8 302.2 323.0 465.7 Disposals 0.6 1.8 2.4 2.4 Foreign exchange 23.6 23.6 3.2 53.7 56.9 80.5 At 31 December 2007 356.5 9.9 366.4 42.0 952.6 994.6 1,361.0 Amortisation and impairment: At 1 January 2007 28.5 4.3 32.8 86.8 86.8 119.6 Charge for year 31.8 1.1 32.9 32.9 Disposals 0.6 1.8 2.4 2.4 Foreign exchange 4.0 4.0 4.0 At 31 December 2007 63.7 3.6 67.3 86.8 86.8 154.1 Net book value: At 31 December 2007 292.8 6.3 299.1 42.0 865.8 907.8 1,206.9 At 1 January 2007 162.3 7.4 169.7 18.0 509.9 527.9 697.6 National Express Group PLC 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 14 Intangible assets continued The allocation of the consideration paid to acquire Continental Auto and The Kings Ferry Limited to the fair value of the net assets acquired was completed during the year see note 19.
The 2007 amortisation charge on the Kings Ferry intangible assets acquired was immaterial.
Indefinite life intangible assets and goodwill have been allocated to individual cash-generating units for annual impairment testing on the basis of the Groups business operations.
The carrying value of indefinite life intangible assets by cash-generating unit is as follows: 2008 2007 Contractual 2008 Contractual 2007 relationships Goodwill Total relationships Goodwill Total m m m m m m UK Bus 13.2 13.2 13.2 13.2 UK Coach 13.2 13.2 13.9 13.9 North American Bus 37.8 279.3 317.1 26.6 211.9 238.5 European Coach & Bus 19.8 813.3 833.1 15.4 626.8 642.2 57.6 1,119.0 1,176.6 42.0 865.8 907.8 The useful economic lives of contractual relationships in North America and Spain are deemed to be indefinite where historical experience has shown that these contracts are consistently renewed.
The customer contract and rail franchise intangible assets are amortised over the finite duration of the contract or franchise as appropriate.
All amortisation charges in the year have been charged to operating costs.
The recoverable amount of indefinite life intangible assets has been determined based on a value in use calculation using cash flow projections based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior management covering a three year period.
Growth has then been extrapolated forward from the end of the forecasts.
The assumptions used for the cash-generating units, are as follows: Growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows Discount rate applied to beyond three year period cash flow projections of management plan 2008 2007 2008 2007 UK Bus 12.5% 10.4% 2.0% 2.0% UK Coach 12.5% 10.4% 2.0% 2.0% North American Bus 12.5% 11.212.3% 2.0% 2.0% European Coach & Bus 10.5% 11.3% 2.0% 2.0% The discount rates represent the pre-tax risk adjusted weighted average cost of capital appropriate for the cash flow generated.
The calculation of value in use for each cash-generating unit is most sensitive to the assumptions over operating profit margin, discount rates and revenue growth rates.
The value in use of the North American division exceeds its carrying amount by 34m.
Sensitivity analysis has been completed on each key assumption in isolation, and this indicates that the value in use of the division will be equal to its carrying amount following a reduction in operating profit margin of 75 basis points, an increase in the discount rate of 50 basis points and a reduction in revenue growth rates of 100 basis points.
The value in use of the Spain division exceeds its carrying amount by 233m.
Sensitivity analysis has been completed on each key assumption in isolation, and this indicates that the value in use of the division will be equal to its carrying amount following a reduction in operating profit margin of 230 basis points, an increase in the discount rate of 145 basis points and a reduction in revenue growth rates of 260 basis points.
It is believed that any reasonably possible movement on assumptions will not lead to an impairment in the indefinite life intangible assets allocated to UK Bus and UK Coach.
The Directors consider the assumptions used to be consistent with the historical performance of each unit and to be realistically achievable in light of economic and industry measures and forecasts.
82 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15 Property, plant and equipment Plant and Long leasehold equipment, Freehold land property Public service fixtures and buildings improvements vehicles and fittings Total m m m m m Cost: At 1 January 2008 88.8 4.1 683.7 166.8 943.4 Additions 6.61.0105.1 28.3 141.0 Acquisitions of businesses 1.8 6.4 0.1 8.3 Disposals 3.3 0.7 57.5 6.8 68.3 Attributable to assets held for sale 1.4 1.4 Reclassifications 2.3 2.3 Foreign exchange 15.6 1.7 164.8 7.3 189.4 At 31 December 2008 109.5 6.1 902.5 192.0 1,210.1 Depreciation: At 1 January 2008 7.0 1.2 170.0 68.8 247.0 Charge for the year 1.8 0.6 68.5 25.1 96.0 Disposals 0.6 0.1 28.1 4.1 32.9 Attributable to assets held for sale 0.3 0.3 Foreign exchange 1.7 1.1 51.1 4.9 58.8 At 31 December 2008 9.9 2.8 261.5 94.4 368.6 Net book value: At 31 December 2008 99.6 3.3 641.0 97.6 841.5 At 1 January 2008 81.8 2.9 513.7 98.0 696.4 Plant and equipment held for sale relates to Dot2Dot.
Plant and Long leasehold equipment, Freehold land property Public service fixtures and buildings improvements vehicles and fittings Total m m m m m Cost: At 1 January 2007 55.7 3.3 503.4 166.6 729.0 Additions 4.90.4103.2 49.5158.0 Acquisitions of businesses 25.2 0.5 88.0 3.0 116.7 Disposals 0.7 0.2 30.5 53.3 84.7 Foreign exchange 3.7 0.1 19.6 1.0 24.4 At 31 December 2007 88.8 4.1 683.7 166.8 943.4 Depreciation: At 1 January 2007 5.9 0.9 128.9 91.4 227.1 Charge for the year 1.3 0.5 54.3 23.5 79.6 Disposals 0.2 0.2 17.2 46.4 64.0 Foreign exchange 4.0 0.3 4.3 At 31 December 2007 7.0 1.2 170.0 68.8 247.0 Net book value: At 31 December 2007 81.8 2.9 513.7 98.0 696.4 At 1 January 2007 49.8 2.4 374.5 75.2 501.9 National Express Group PLC 83 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 15 Property, plant and equipment continued Property, plant and equipment held under finance lease agreements are analysed as follows: 2008 2007 m m Land and buildings cost 1.9 1.4 depreciation 0.1 Net land and buildings 1.8 1.4 Public service vehicles cost 265.5 217.7 depreciation 85.9 64.9 Net public service vehicles 179.6 152.8 Plant and equipment cost 1.8 2.4 depreciation 1.5 2.0 Net plant and equipment 0.3 0.4 Total net book value 181.7 154.6 Finance leased assets and assets under hire purchase contracts are pledged as security for the related finance lease and hire purchase liabilities.
16 Subsidiaries The companies listed below include all those which principally affect the result and net assets of the Group.
A full list of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates will be annexed to the next Annual Return to Companies House.
The principal country of operation in respect of the companies below is the country in which they are incorporated.
National Express Group PLC is the beneficial owner of all the equity share capital, either itself or through subsidiaries, of the companies.
The Groups train passenger services in the UK are operated through franchises awarded by DfT Rail, as delegated by the UK Government.
Incorporated in England and Wales National Express Limited Administration and marketing of express coach services in Great Britain Eurolines UK Limited Administration and marketing of express coach services to Europe Airlinks Airport Services Limited Operation of coach services National Express Rail Replacement Limited Operation of coach services The Kings Ferry Limited Operation of coach services West Midlands Travel Limited Operation of bus services Travel London Limited Operation of bus services Travel London West Limited Operation of bus services Travel London Middlesex Limited Operation of bus services c2c Rail Limited Operation of train passenger services Central Trains Limited Operation of train passenger services ceased operating on 10 November 2007 Gatwick Express Limited Operation of train passenger services ceased operating on 22 June 2008 London Eastern Railway Limited trading as Operation of train passenger services National Express East Anglia Maintrain Limited Provision of train maintenance services ceased operating on 10 November 2007 Midland Main Line Limited Operation of train passenger services ceased operating on 10 November 2007 National Express Trains Limited Holding company for train operating companies NXEC Trains Limited trading as National Express Operation of train passenger services commenced trading on 9 December 2007 East Coast Silverlink Train Services Limited Operation of train passenger services ceased operating on 10 November 2007 Shares held by the Company.
All other shares held by subsidiaries.
These businesses ceased operating train passenger services or maintenance services on the dates noted above.
However the companies continue to trade as going concerns.
84 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 16 Subsidiaries Incorporated in Scotland Tayside Public Transport Co Limited Operation of bus services trading as Travel Dundee Incorporated in the USA Durham School Services LP Operation of school bus services Incorporated in Canada Stock Transportation Limited Operation of school bus services Incorporated in Spain Dabliu Consulting SLU Holding company for operating companies Tury Express SA Holding company for operating companies General Tecnica Industrial SLU Holding company for operating companies Continental Auto SLU Holding company for operating companies The main holding companies of the Alsa Group.
17 Financial assets 2008 2007 m m Available for sale investments Unlisted ordinary shares 9.2 7.2 Derivative financial instruments Interest rate swaps 1.5 1.7 Derivative financial instruments Fuel price swaps 3.6 Financial assets included in non-current assets 10.7 12.5 Derivative financial instruments Interest rate swaps 1.5 1.5 Derivative financial instruments Fuel price swaps 1.0 8.5 Financial assets included in current assets 2.5 10.0 Further information on the Groups use of fuel price swaps, interest rate swaps and foreign exchange forward contracts is included in note 31.
Available for sale investments 2008 2007 m m Cost or valuation: At 1 January 8.0 19.3 Disposals 0.1 12.0 Foreign exchange 2.1 0.7 At 31 December 10.0 8.0 Accumulated impairment: At 1 January 0.8 5.8 Disposals 5.0 At 31 December 0.8 0.8 Net carrying amount: At 31 December 9.2 7.2 At 1 January 7.2 13.5 National Express Group PLC 85 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 17 Financial assets continued Available for sale investments continued The principal available for sale investments are as follows: Proportion held Name Country of registration Class of share % London & Continental Railways LCR England and Wales Ordinary shares 21 Prepayment Cards Limited PCL England and Wales Ordinary shares 23.5 Metros Ligeros fide Madrid, S. A. MLM Spain Ordinary shares 15 Various investments within Alsa and Continental Auto Spain Ordinary shares 416 Disposals during the year relate to investments held by Alsa and Continental Auto.
Disposals during 2007 reflect the receipt of the final preference share dividend from Union Railways South Limited, and the subsequent redemption of these preference shares.
Although the Group holds more than 20% of the ordinary shares of PCL, it does not have a presence on the Board and is not in a position to exert significant influence over this investment.
Although the Group holds more than 20% of the ordinary shares of LCR, it is not in a position to exert significant influence, as the companys debt holders are effectively in control of the company.
The investment is held at nil value and the Group has no obligation to make further investments.
18 Investments accounted for using the equity method Investments accounted for using the equity method are as follows: 2008 2007 m m Joint ventures 2.2 2.1 Associates 5.7 9.7 Total investments accounted for under the equity method 7.9 11.8 The Groups share of post tax results from associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method is as follows: 2008 2007 m m Share of joint ventures profit loss 0.1 0.2 Share of associates loss profit 0.1 0.6 Total share of results from associates and joint ventures 0.4 a Investments in joint ventures The Groups interests in joint ventures are as follows: Proportion held Name Country of registration Activity % Ibero Eurosur SL Spain Holding company of Deutsche Touring 20 The financial information of this joint venture is summarised below: Ibero Movelia Total 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 Share of joint ventures balance sheet m m m m m m Non-current assets 4.2 3.2 0.5 4.2 3.7 Current assets 0.3 0.3 0.8 0.3 1.1 Share of gross assets 4.5 3.5 1.3 4.5 4.8 Non-current liabilities 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 Current liabilities 0.3 0.7 0.3 0.7 Share of gross liabilities 2.3 2.0 0.7 2.3 2.7 Share of net assets 2.2 1.5 0.6 2.2 2.1 86 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 18 Investments accounted for using the equity method continued a Investments in joint ventures continued Ibero Movelia Total 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 Share of joint ventures revenue and results m m m m m m Revenue 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Profit loss 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 The carrying amount of the investment in joint ventures matches the Groups share of the net assets.
Due to an increase in the Groups shareholding from 42% to 76%, Movelia Tecnologias SL, is now consolidated as a subsidiary.
b Investments in associates The Groups interests in associates are as follows: Proportion held Name Country of registration % Inter-Capital and Regional Rail Limited England and Wales 40 Spain associates Spain 2050 Inter-Capital and Regional Rail Limited ICRRL is contracted to manage the operations of Eurostar UK until 2010.
In 2006, an onerous contract provision was recognised in relation to the Groups obligation to fund the losses of ICRRL note 26.
As a result, the Group has ceased to recognise the share of results of ICRRL.
Spains associates are generally involved in the operation of coach and bus services, management of bus stations and similar operations.
The associates financial information is summarised below: Held by Spain 2008 2007 Share of associates balance sheets m m Non-current assets 6.1 11.6 Current assets 8.7 12.6 Share of gross assets 14.8 24.2 Non-current liabilities 3.7 4.6 Current liabilities 5.4 9.9 Share of gross liabilities 9.1 14.5 Share of net assets 5.7 9.7 The Groups net investment in associates is 5.7m 2007: 9.7m which comprises associates held by Spain only.
The decrease in the year stems from the acquisition of the remaining 75% share capital of Transportes Colectivos SA, which is now consolidated as a subsidiary note 19.
Revenue Profit loss 2008 2007 2008 2007 Share of associates revenue and results m m m m Spain associates 18.2 14.4 0.1 0.6 National Express Group PLC 87 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 19 Business combinations a Acquisitions 2008 Acquisitions Transportes Colectivos SA On 21 November 2008 the Group acquired the remaining 75% share capital of Transportes Colectivos, S. A. TCSA, a coach company based in Spain, which operates regional services in the Basque Country.
Consideration of 21.4m was satisfied by cash, and in addition the Group had already paid 5.1m in 2006 for the initial investment in 25% of the share capital.
Fair value Fair value Book value adjustments total Net assets at date of acquisition: m m m Intangible assets 6.2 6.2 Property, plant and equipment 6.7 0.2 6.5 Inventories 0.7 0.3 0.4 Trade and other receivables 6.5 6.5 Current tax 0.1 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents 22.0 22.0 Trade and other payables 10.7 0.3 11.0 Provisions 5.3 4.0 1.3 Net financial liabilities 5.1 5.1 Deferred tax liability 1.9 1.9 Net assets 14.9 7.5 22.4 Goodwill on acquisition 4.1 Total consideration 26.5 Less: initial investment of the 25% made in 2006 5.1 Less: net cash acquired 22.0 Net cash inflow 0.6 The acquisition balance sheet has been adjusted to reflect fair value adjustments.
The adjustments represent: a the recognition of a customer contract acquired with TCSA 6.2m which reflects the expected renewal of this contract in Spain.
The customer contract is amortised over the life of the contract: b a decrease in the value of passenger transportation fleet 0.2m and spare parts inventories 0.3m : c an increase in payables in relation to accrued holiday pay: d an adjustment in provisions to reflect only liabilities existing as at the acquisition date, such as agreed redundancy payments 1.3m : e the deferred tax liability associated with the contract acquired.
From the date of acquisition, TCSA has contributed 0.4m to the operating profit of the Group.
If the combination had taken place at the beginning of the year, the operating profit for the Group would have been 168.2m and revenue from continuing operations would have been 2,808.5m.
Included in the goodwill recognised above are certain intangible assets that cannot be separately identified and measured due to their nature.
This includes control over the acquired businesses and assembled workforce and increased scale in our Spanish regional operations.
Management believes that goodwill represents value to the Group for which the recognition of a discrete intangible asset is not permitted.
88 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 19 Business combinations continued a Acquisitions continued Other 2008 acquisitions During the year ended 31 December 2008, in Canada, the Group acquired the entire share capital of school bus operators Alouette North Bay Alouette Bus Lines Inc on 7 January 2008.
In the United States, the Group acquired the entire share capital of school bus operators A&E A&E Transport Services Inc on 28 February 2008.
Book value Fair value Fair value Alouette A&E Total adjustments Total Net assets at date of acquisition: m m m m m Intangible assets 0.1 0.1 6.4 6.5 Property, plant and equipment 0.1 1.6 1.7 0.1 1.8 Trade and other receivables 1.2 1.2 1.2 Cash and cash equivalents 0.6 0.6 0.6 Trade and other payables 0.3 0.3 0.3 Deferred tax liability 1.8 1.8 Net assets acquired 0.2 3.1 3.3 4.7 8.0 Goodwill on acquisition 4.6 Total consideration 12.6 Net consideration 12.5 Acquisition costs 0.1 Total consideration 12.6 Less: net cash acquired 0.6 Net cash outflow 12.0 The acquisition balance sheets have been adjusted to reflect fair value adjustments.
The adjustments represent: a the elimination of the book value of Alouettes intangible assets 0.1m, the recognition of customer contracts acquired with A&E 1.7m, and customer relationships acquired with Allouette 4.2m and A&E 0.6m.
The customer contracts are amortised over the life of the contracts, whilst customer relationships are not amortised, but are tested for impairment on an annual basis: b a 0.1m increase in the value of property, plant and equipment at Alouette following a review of the vehicle fleet: c the deferred tax liability associated on the customer contracts acquired with A&E 0.5m, and the customer relationships acquired with Alouette 0.2m and A&E 1.1m.
Total consideration was 0.9m for Alouette including 0.1m acquisition costs and 11.7m for A&E.
From their respective dates of acquisition Alouette and A&E have contributed 0.3m and 1.6m respectively to operating profit of the Group.
If these combinations had taken place at the beginning of the year the Group operating profit would have been 168.2m and revenue from continuing operations would have been 2,769.4m.
This includes control over the acquired businesses and assembled workforce and increased scale in our North American school bus operations.
The majority of the value was assessed to comprise of synergy benefits expected to be achieved by merging the businesses acquired into the Groups North American operations.
National Express Group PLC 89 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 19 Business combinations continued a Acquisitions continued 2007 acquisitions Continental Auto The project to allocate the consideration paid on 4 October 2007 to purchase Continental Autos entire share capital to the fair value of assets acquired was completed in the first half of 2008 and reported in the interim financial statements.
However, the fair values of the contracts acquired have been updated.
Fair value Provisional Book value adjustments fair value as reported as reported as reported Final Final 31 December 31 December 31 December fair value fair value 2007 2007 2007 adjustments Total Net assets at date of acquisition: m m m m m Intangible assets 92.2 92.2 154.6 154.6 Property, plant and equipment 87.5 1.9 85.6 17.7 103.3 Investments accounted for under the equity method 1.9 1.9 1.9 Inventories 1.51.5 1.5 Trade and other receivables 17.0 17.0 17.0 Cash and cash equivalents 4.1 4.1 4.1 Trade and other payables 16.7 16.7 16.7 Provisions 1.4 1.4 1.4 Fixed asset grants 3.0 3.0 3.0 Net financial liabilities 22.8 22.8 22.8 Current tax 1.3 1.3 1.3 Deferred tax liability 11.7 0.6 11.1 51.7 62.8 Net assets 147.3 93.5 53.8 120.6 174.4 Goodwill on acquisition 409.4 120.6 288.8 Total consideration 463.2 463.2 Net consideration 459.8 Acquisition costs 3.4 Total consideration 463.2 Less: net cash acquired 4.1 Net cash outflow 459.1 The adjustments represent: a the recognition of customer contracts 140.1m and contractual relationships 14.5m acquired with Continental Auto which reflects the expected renewal of these contracts in Spain.
The customer contracts are amortised over the life of the contracts, whilst contractual relationships are not amortised, but are tested for impairment on an annual basis: b an increase in the value of property, plant and equipment following a valuation of the assets acquired: c the deferred tax liability associated on the contracts acquired, as well as on the revaluation of the property.
From the date of acquisition, Continental Auto has contributed 5.8m to the normalised operating profit of the Group.
If the combination had taken place at the beginning of the year, the normalised operating profit for the Group would have been 220.9m and revenue from continuing operations would have been 2,708.4m.
90 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 19 Business combinations continued a Acquisitions continued In accordance with IFRS3, the Group income statement for 2007 has been restated to reflect the amortisation of customer contracts now recognised in the updated fair value review, as follows: Audited Adjustments Restated Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December Total Total Total 2007 2007 2007 Continuing operations Revenue 2,615.4 2,615.4 Operating costs before intangible asset amortisation & exceptional items 2,409.8 2,409.8 Intangible asset amortisation 27.5 5.4 32.9 Exceptional items 15.8 15.8 Total operating costs 2,453.1 5.4 2,458.5 Group operating profit 162.3 5.4 156.9 Profit on disposal of non-current assets 16.2 16.2 Profit from operations 178.5 173.1 Share of post tax results from associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method 0.4 0.4 Finance income 17.0 17.0 Finance costs 46.0 46.0 Profit before tax 149.9 5.4 144.5 Tax expense 37.6 1.6 36.0 Profit after tax for the period from continuing operations 112.3 3.8 108.5 Loss for the period from discontinued operations 2.9 2.9 Profit for the period 109.4 3.8 105.6 Profit attributable to equity shareholders 108.9 3.8 105.1 Profit attributable to minority interests 0.5 0.5 109.4 3.8 105.6 Earnings per share Basic 71.7p 2.5 p 69.2p Earnings per share Diluted 71.2p 2.5 p 68.7p This restated position represents the 2007 results before Dot2Dot was classified as a discontinued operation.
National Express Group PLC 91 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 19 Business combinations continued a Acquisitions continued 2007 acquisitions In accordance with IFRS3 the Group balance sheet as at December 2007 has been restated to reflect the fair value and amortisation adjustments relating to Continental Auto and the goodwill adjustment relating to The Kings Ferry Limited as follows: Continental Audited Kings Ferry Continental Auto intangible Foreign Restated 30 December goodwill value Auto fair value assets exchange on 31 December 2007 adjustment adjustments amortisation adjustments 2007 m m m m m m Non-current assets Intangible assets 1,173.9 3.0 34.0 5.4 1.4 1,206.9 Property, plant and equipment 678.7 1.0 17.7 1.0 696.4 Financial assets Available for sale 7.2 7.2 Financial assets Derivative financial instruments 5.3 5.3 Investments accounted for using the equity method 11.8 11.8 Other receivables 10.0 10.0 1,886.92.051.7 5.4 2.4 1,937.6 Current assets 469.1 469.1 Total assets 2,356.0 2.0 51.7 5.4 2.4 2,406.7 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities Borrowings 652.3 652.3 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments 5.4 5.4 Deferred tax liability 104.0 1.3 51.7 1.6 2.7 158.1 Other non-current liabilities 3.7 3.7 Defined benefit pension liability 29.8 29.8 Provisions 43.5 43.5 838.7 1.3 51.7 1.6 2.7 892.8 Current liabilities 1,076.2 0.7 1,076.9 Total liabilities 1,914.9 2.0 51.7 1.6 2.7 1,969.7 Net assets 441.1 3.8 0.3 437.0 Shareholders equity Called up share capital 7.7 7.7 Share premium account 195.3 195.3 Capital redemption reserve 0.2 0.2 Own shares 16.3 16.3 Other reserves 30.7 0.3 30.4 Retained earnings 219.6 3.8 215.8 Total shareholders equity 437.2 3.8 0.3 433.1 Minority interest in equity 3.9 3.9 Total equity 441.1 3.8 0.3 437.0 92 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 19 Business combinations continued a Acquisitions continued Other 2007 acquisitions During the year ended 31 December 2007, in Canada, the Group acquired the entire share capital of school bus operators Dundas Dundas Bus Service Ltd on 30 March 2007 and Hogan Hogan Bus Service Ltd on 31 May 2007.
In the United States, the Group acquired the entire share capital of school bus operators Murphy Murphy Transportation Inc on 30 July 2007.
The Group also acquired the entire share capital of Hotelink Limited now renamed National Express Dot2Dot Limited on 31 March 2007 and The Kings Ferry Limited on 8 November 2007.
These acquired entities operate coach services in the UK.
The fair value of the net assets of The Kings Ferry Limited have been updated in the year ended 31 December 2008.
Book value Fair value Fair value Dundas Hogan Murphy Hotelink Kings Ferry Total adjustments Total Net assets at date of acquisition: m m m m m m m m Intangible assets 8.9 8.9 Property, plant and equipment 0.5 0.2 4.9 8.5 14.1 0.7 13.4 Inventories 0.20.1 0.3 0.3 Trade and other receivables 1.5 0.2 1.2 2.9 2.9 Cash and cash equivalents 0.6 0.2 0.8 0.8 Trade and other payables 0.4 0.2 1.7 2.3 0.8 3.1 Financial liabilities Borrowings 5.0 5.0 5.0 Deferred tax liability 3.7 3.7 Net assets acquired 0.5 0.2 6.8 0.2 3.1 10.8 3.7 14.5 Goodwill on acquisition 13.4 Total consideration 27.9 Net consideration 27.6 Acquisition costs 0.3 Total consideration 27.9 Less: deferred consideration 1.1 Less: acquisition costs accrued 0.1 Less: net cash acquired 0.8 Net cash outflow 25.9 The acquisition balance sheets have been adjusted to reflect fair value adjustments.
The adjustments represent: a the recognition of customer contracts acquired with Murphy 1.8m and The Kings Ferry Limited 0.8m, and customer relationships acquired with Dundas 1.0m, Hogan 0.3m and Murphy 5.0m which reflects the expected indefinite renewal of these school bus contracts in North America.
The customer contracts are amortised over the life of the contracts, whilst customer relationships are not amortised, but are tested for impairment on an annual basis: b following a review of the vehicle fleet, the value of the property, plant and equipment was increased in Murphy and decreased in The Kings Ferry Limited: c an increase in payables of 0.1m at Hotelink: and d the deferred tax liability associated on the customer contracts acquired with Murphy 0.5m and The Kings Ferry Limited 0.2m, the customer relationships acquired with Dundas 0.3m, Hogan 0.1m and Murphy 1.5m and finance leases acquired with The Kings Ferry Limited 1.1m.
Consideration was 1.5m for Dundas including 0.1m deferred consideration, 0.6m for Hogan, 16.3m for Murphy including 0.1m acquisition costs and 1.0m deferred consideration, 0.9m for Hotelink Limited including 0.1m acquisition costs, and 8.6m for The Kings Ferry Limited including 0.1m acquisition costs.
From their respective dates of acquisition to 31 December 2007, Dundas, Hogan, Murphy, Hotelink Limited and The Kings Ferry Limited have contributed 0.3m, 0.1m, 1.4m, a loss of 4.8m and 0.1m respectively to the operating profit of the Group.
If these combinations, excluding Hotelink Limited, had taken place at the beginning of 2007 the Group operating profit would have been 163.5m, and revenue from continuing operations would have been 2,627.2m.
Hotelink Limited would have contributed 3.5m of revenue and an operating loss of 5.0m.
This includes control over the acquired businesses and assembled workforce and increased scale in our North American school bus operations and UK Coach operations.
The majority of the value was assessed to comprise of synergy benefits expected to be achieved by merging the businesses acquired into the Groups operations.
National Express Group PLC 93 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 19 Business combinations continued b Disposals In 2008, the Group disposed of the Portuguese transport business and one Spanish concession held by Alsa within the European Coach & Bus division.
The disposal proceeds were 8.3m comprising of 5.4m cash received in 2008 and 2.9m deferred consideration to be received in 2009 and 2010.
The net assets were 3.2m resulting in 5.1m profit on disposal.
In 2007, the Group disposed of the trade and business of Stewart International Airport for gross proceeds of 36.4m resulting in 16.2m profit on the sale of the business.
20 Non-current assets Other receivables 2008 2007 m m Prepayments and accrued income 2.8 4.6 Other receivables 4.2 5.4 7.0 10.0 21 Inventories 2008 2007 m m Raw materials and consumables 24.4 20.0 The movement on the provision for slow moving and obsolete inventory is immaterial.
22 Current assets Trade and other receivables 2008 2007 m m Trade receivables 227.7 170.3 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 11.8 6.5 Trade receivables net 215.9 163.8 Amounts due from associates and joint ventures 1.4 3.7 Amounts owed by other related parties 1.2 1.0 Other receivables 45.0 42.8 Prepayments and accrued income 68.8 61.1 332.3 272.4 An analysis of the provision for impairment of receivables is provided below: 2008 2007 m m At 1 January 6.5 5.6 Provided in the year 5.3 0.9 At 31 December 11.8 6.5 Credit risk with respect to trade receivables is low as a large proportion of the Groups trading is with public or quasi-public organisations.
94 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 23 Cash and cash equivalents 2008 2007 m m Cash at bank and in hand 52.0 68.0 Overnight deposits 3.5 14.6 Other short term deposits 50.4 74.6 Cash and cash equivalents 105.9 157.2 Cash and cash equivalents include restricted balances of 49.7m 2007: 55.2m held by the UK Train subsidiaries.
Under the terms of the train franchise agreements, cash can only be distributed by the TOCs either up to the amount of retained profits or the amount determined by prescribed liquidity ratios.
The restricted cash represents that which is not available for distribution or the amount required to satisfy the liquidity ratio at the balance sheet date.
Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short term deposit rates.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is equal to the carrying value.
24 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 2008 2007 m m Trade payables 228.6 218.8 Amounts owed to associates and joint ventures 1.2 1.4 Amounts owed to other related parties 0.7 0.6 Other tax and social security payable 28.8 34.1 Accruals and deferred income 185.0 196.7 Other payables 113.0 122.4 557.3 574.0 Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30 day terms and other payables are non-interest bearing and have an average term of two months.
Included within other payables are deferred fixed asset grants from government or other public bodies of 3.4m 2007: 5.0m.
25 Other non-current liabilities 2008 2007 m m Other liabilities 20.7 3.7 Other non-current liabilities comprise deferred fixed asset grants of 6.0m 2007: 2.9m and other liabilities of 14.7m 2007: 0.8m.
National Express Group PLC 95 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 26 Provisions Eurostar onerous Insurance contract a b c claims provision Other Total m m m m At 1 January 2008 42.1 27.9 18.3 88.3 Charged to income statement 16.4 6.8 23.2 Utilised in the year 20.8 8.4 10.9 40.1 Acquired in business combinations 1.3 1.3 Amortisation of discount 1.1 2.0 3.1 Exchange difference 4.5 3.0 7.5 At 31 December 2008 43.3 21.5 18.5 83.3 Current 31 December 2008 17.5 8.6 18.2 44.3 Non-current 31 December 2008 25.8 12.9 0.3 39.0 43.3 21.5 18.5 83.3 Current 31 December 2007 18.1 8.4 18.3 44.8 Non-current 31 December 2007 24.0 19.5 43.5 42.1 27.9 18.3 88.3 a The insurance claims provision arises from estimated exposures at the year end, the majority of which will be utilised in the next six years, and comprises provisions for existing claims arising in the UK and North America.
b A provision was recognised in 2006 for the Groups onerous contract for Eurostar with ICRRL.
8.4m 2007: 8.4m was paid to ICRRL during the year.
The provision will be utilised over the period to the end of the Groups contract in 2010, with the final payment being made in February 2011. c The following items are included within other provisions: i.
A provision was recognised for the expected liabilities in relation to the discontinued North American Public Transit business as disclosed in note 11.
These liabilities have arisen as the Group is a party to an industry-wide litigation in respect of working time regulations.
A provision has been recognised for the expected value of the settlement, but the total amount of the provisions recognised by the Group is not disclosed as this may prejudice the Groups position in this matter.
The whole provision is expected to be paid in 2009. ii.
A provision was recognised in the year in the UK for redundancy costs as a result of a significant restructuring exercise undertaken at the end of 2008.
The provision is expected to be fully paid in 2009. iii.
All other remaining provisions are expected to be paid within 2009.
When the effect is material, the provisions are discounted to their net present value.
96 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 27 Deferred tax 2008 2007 m m Net deferred tax liability brought forward 158.1 73.7 Acquisition of subsidiaries 3.7 66.5 Credit to income statement 56.9 Credit charge to reserves 31.7 10.1 Goodwill value adjustment 1.3 Exchange differences 31.7 6.5 Net deferred tax liability at 31 December 104.9 158.1 Based on current capital investment plans, the Group expects to be able to claim capital allowances in excess of depreciation in future years at a similar level to the current year.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities within the same jurisdiction have been offset.
2008 2007 Deferred tax assets m m Accelerated tax depreciation 26.2 Losses carried forward Other short-term temporary differences 46.2 Total 20.0 2008 2007 Deferred tax liabilities m m Accelerated tax depreciation 87.9 61.9 Losses carried forward 15.1 2.6 Other short-term temporary differences 52.1 98.8 Total 124.9 158.1 28 Financial liabilities 2008 2007 m m Non-current Bank loans 1,132.7 562.9 Finance lease obligations 81.5 89.4 Other debt payable 0.8 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1,215.0 652.3 Fuel price swaps 28.2 Interest rate swaps 18.3 5.4 Foreign exchange forward contracts 12.8 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments 59.3 5.4 Non-current financial liabilities 1,274.3 657.7 Current Loan notes 0.8 0.8 Bank loans 18.1 384.5 Finance lease obligations 52.4 30.4 Other debt payable 0.3 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 71.6 415.7 Fuel price swaps 52.0 Interest rate swaps 14.9 3.2 Foreign exchange forward contracts 12.4 14.5 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments 79.3 17.7 Current financial liabilities 150.9 433.4 An analysis of interest-bearing loans and borrowings is provided in note 29.
Further information on derivative financial instruments is provided in note 31.
National Express Group PLC 97 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 29 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings The effective interest rates on loans and borrowings at the balance sheet date were as follows.
2008 2007 m Maturity Effective interest rate m Maturity Effective interest rate Sterling loan notes 0.8 On demand LIBOR 1.0% 0.8 On demand LIBOR 1.0% Loan notes 0.8 0.8 Sterling bank loans 17.9 20122015 LIBOR 0.2% 17.5 20122015 LIBOR 0.2% Sterling bank loans 600.0 June 2011 LIBOR 0.5% Short term Sterling bank loans 10.0 2009 LIBOR 0.5% Short term US dollar bank loans 5.0 January 2008 LIBOR 1.0% US dollar bank loans subject to interest rate hedge 50.0 June 2011 7.3% US dollar bank loans unhedged 25.0 June 2011 LIBOR 0.4% Euro bank loans unhedged 8.0 20092015 EURIBOR 0.6% 8.7 2008 EURIBOR 0.5% Euro bank loans unhedged 216.8 April 2008 EURIBOR 0.5% Euro bank loans subject to interest rate hedge 150.7 April 2008 4.6% Euro bank loans subject to interest rate hedge 514.9 September 2010 4.9% 473.7 June 2011 4.6% Bank loans 1,150.8 947.4 US dollar finance leases at fixed rate 40.3 20092012 4.0%18.1 20092012 3.6% US dollar finance leases at floating rate 26.1 November 2009 LIBOR 0.3% 21.9 20092012 LIBOR 0.3% Euro finance leases at floating rate 36.9 20092016 EURIBOR 0.5% 40.3 20082013 EURIBOR 0.5% Sterling finance leases at fixed rate 30.6 20092018 5.4%34.1 20082018 5.4% Sterling finance leases at floating rate 5.4 2008 LIBOR 3.0% Finance leases 133.9 119.8 Euro loans 1.1 20092011 Other debt payable 1.1 Total 1,286.6 1,068.0 During the year 604.0m and $150.0m of debt were exchanged for 600.0m of sterling debt to reduce the Groups exposure to changing foreign exchange rates.
Additionally, the euro facility was further extended to September 2009, with a one year extension to September 2010 at the Groups option.
Details of the Groups interest rate management strategy and interest rate swaps are included in notes 30 and 31.
The Group is subject to a number of covenants in relation to its borrowing facilities which, if contravened, would result in its loans becoming immediately repayable.
These covenants specify maximum net debt to EBITDA and minimum EBITDA to interest.
The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity of the Groups financial instruments that are exposed to interest rate risk.
1 year 12 years 23 years 34 years 45 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2008 m m m m m m m Fixed rate Bank loans 514.9 514.9 Finance leases 10.4 9.8 11.2 7.2 6.8 25.5 70.9 Net interest rate swaps 13.4 11.4 2.0 3.4 30.2 Other debt payable 0.3 0.6 0.2 1.1 Floating rate Cash assets 105.9 105.9 Loan notes 0.8 0.8 Bank loans 18.1 6.3 607.6 2.4 0.7 0.8 635.9 Finance leases 42.0 10.2 5.6 2.1 1.1 2.0 63.0 98 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 29 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings continued 1 year 12 years 23 years 34 years 45 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2007 m m m m m m m Fixed rate Bank loans 155.7 523.6 679.3 Finance leases 9.5 5.7 5.3 4.6 3.3 23.8 52.2 Net interest rate swaps 1.7 4.5 0.8 5.4 Floating rate Cash assets 157.2 157.2 Loan notes 0.8 0.8 Bank loans 228.8 4.9 2.7 27.6 2.6 1.5 268.1 Finance leases 20.9 14.4 10.0 6.9 4.5 10.9 67.6 30 Financial risk management objectives and policies Financial risk factors and management The Groups multinational operations and significant debt financing expose it to a variety of financial risks, the most material of which are the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and changes in fuel prices.
The Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to limit the adverse effects of these risks on the financial performance of the Group by using financial instruments including borrowings, forward exchange contracts, fuel price and interest rate swaps.
The Board of Directors have delegated to a sub-committee, the Treasury committee, the responsibility for implementing the risk management policies laid down by the Board.
The policies are implemented by the central treasury department that receives regular reports from all the operating companies to enable prompt identification of financial risks so that appropriate actions may be taken.
The treasury department has a policy and procedures manual that sets out specific guidelines to manage foreign currency exchange risk, interest rate risk and credit risk including the use of financial instruments.
Foreign currency The Group has major operations in the US, Canada, Spain and residual assets in Australia and as a result is exposed to foreign exchange risks on translation of net assets and on earnings denominated in foreign currency.
The Group finances overseas investments mainly through the use of foreign currency borrowings to hedge the net asset investment and from time to time enters into foreign exchange forward contracts.
During the year, the Group closed out all foreign currency borrowings and foreign exchange forward contracts except for a 540.0m Euro facility and a cross-currency swap of $85.0m.
The swap contract term runs for a period up to 2.5 years.
At the end of the year, the Groups policy is to hedge 0% to 50% its foreign currency denominated net assets 2007: 50% and 100%.
At 31 December 2008, 14% 2007: 81% of the Groups exposure to US dollar assets were hedged, nil% 2007: 71% of the exposure to Canadian dollar assets, nil% 2007: nil% of the exposure to Australian dollar assets and 39% 2007: 97% of the exposure to euro assets.
The table below demonstrates the sensitivity of the Groups financial instruments to a reasonably possible change in foreign currency exchange rates, with all other variables held constant.
This would affect the Groups profit before tax and translation reserve.
The effect on the translation reserve represents the movement in the translated value of the foreign currency denominated loans and change in fair value of forward contracts.
These movements would be offset by an opposite movement in the translated value of the Groups overseas net investments.
2008 2007 Effect Effect on Effect Effect on Strengthening on profit translation on profit translation weakening in before tax reserve before tax reserve As at 31 December currency m m m m US dollar 10% 5.3 19.9 Euro 10% 46.9 87.2 Canadian dollar 10% 8.8 Australian dollar 10% US dollar 10 % 5.3 19.9 Euro 10 % 46.9 87.2 Canadian dollar 10 % 8.8 Australian dollar 10 % National Express Group PLC 99 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 30 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on both interest-bearing assets and interest-bearing liabilities.
It is the Groups policy to maintain an appropriate balance between fixed and floating interest rates on borrowings in order to provide certainty as to the level of interest expense in the short term and to reduce the year on year impact of interest rate fluctuations over the medium term.
Interest on the Groups floating interest rate debt is based on LIBOR or EURIBOR and, to achieve the above objectives, the Group has entered into a series of interest rate swaps that have the effect of converting floating rate debt to fixed rate debt.
The net effect of these transactions was that as at 31 December 2008 the Group was hedged against interest rate movements on 525.6m 2007: 731.5m of gross debt for an average of 2.5 2007: 3.0 years.
The table below demonstrates the sensitivity of the Groups financial instruments to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, on the Groups profit before tax and on the Groups hedging reserve.
The effect on profit before tax arises through movements in interest on floating rate financial instruments.
The effect on the hedging reserve represents the movement in the fair value of the Groups interest rate swaps which are accounted for as hedging instruments under IAS 39.
The sensitivity analysis covers all floating rate financial instruments, including the interest rate swaps.
2008 2007 Increase Effect on Effect on Effect on Effect on decrease profit before hedging profit before hedging in basis tax reserve tax reserve As at 31 December points m m m m Sterling 100 5.6 1.0 US dollars 50 0.5 0.2 0.6 Euro 75 0.2 8.2 1.9 9.5 Sterling 100 5.6 1.0 US dollars 50 0.5 0.2 0.6 Euro 75 0.2 8.2 1.9 9.5 Commodity prices The Group is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of fuel usage.
It is the Groups policy to hedge this exposure in order to provide certainty as to the level of costs in the short term and to reduce the year on year impact of price fluctuations over the medium term.
This is achieved by entering into fuel swaps and purchase contracts which are expected to be highly effective.
As at 31 December 2008, the Group had hedged approximately 100% of its 2009 expected usage and 23.4% of its expected usage in 2010 and 2011.
The table below demonstrates the sensitivity of the Groups financial instruments to a reasonably possible change in fuel prices, with all other variables held constant, on the Groups profit before tax and on the Groups hedging reserve.
The sensitivity analysis includes all fuel price swaps.
The effect on the hedging reserve arises through movements on the fair value of the Groups fuel price swaps.
2008 2007 Effect on Effect on Effect on Effect on Increase profit before hedging profit before hedging Decrease tax reserve tax reserve As at 31 December in price m m m m Sterling denominated ULSD 20% 7.2 5.5 US dollar denominated gasoil 20% 5.6 2.2 Euro denominated ULSD 20% 3.2 6.2 Sterling denominated ULSD 20% 7.2 5.5 US dollar denominated gasoil 20% 5.6 2.2 Euro denominated ULSD 20% 3.2 6.2 Credit risk The maximum credit risk exposure of the Group is the gross carrying value of each of its financial assets.
This risk is mitigated by a number of factors.
The majority of the Groups receivables are public or quasi-public bodies, both national DfT Rail and Network Rail in the UK and local school boards in North America, municipal authorities in Spain and Morocco, Transport for London and Centro in the UK.
The Group does not consider these counterparties to pose a significant credit risk.
Outside of this the Group does not consider it has significant concentrations of credit risk.
The Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence.
The counterparties for financial assets other than investments and trade receivables are subject to pre-approval by the Treasury Committee and such approval is limited to financial institutions with an A rating or better.
The amount of exposure to any individual counterparty is subject to a limit, which is reassessed annually by the Treasury Committee.
100 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 30 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Credit risk continued The only element of the Groups financial assets which are not impaired but are past due are certain trade receivable items.
An ageing of the assets which are past due is included below.
Of which: not impaired and past due in the following periods Of which: Between Between Carrying neither impaired Less than 30 and 60 61 and 90 amount nor past due 30 days days days Over 90 days m m m m m m Trade receivables at 31 December 2008 215.9 129.7 26.3 23.0 14.5 22.4 Trade receivables at 31 December 2007 163.8 94.5 15.3 19.2 9.0 25.8 Liquidity risk The Group actively maintains a mixture of long term and short term committed facilities that are designed to ensure the Group has sufficient available funds to meet current and forecast financial requirements as cost effectively as possible.
As at 31 December 2008 the Group had committed borrowing facilities of 1,363.8m 2007: 1,167.5m of which 143.8m 2007: 199.4m were undrawn.
The Groups primary bank facilities expire in September 2009 with an option to extend to September 2010 at the Groups discretion and June 2011 and the lease facilities at various times in line with their terms.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December 2008 and 2007 based on the contractual undiscounted payments.
On demand Less than 1 year 15 years 5 years Total Year ended 31 December 2008 m m m m m Loan notes 0.8 0.8 Bank loans 52.3 1,182.0 0.8 1,235.1 Finance lease obligations 57.8 63.3 29.3 150.4 Other debt payable 0.3 0.8 1.1 Net Interest rate swaps 8.9 11.5 20.4 Fuel price swaps 49.7 32.1 81.8 Foreign exchange forward contracts 15.9 14.9 30.8 Trade and other payables 439.2 14.7 453.9 ICRRL onerous contract obligation 8.6 15.7 24.3 0.8 632.7 1,335.0 30.1 1,998.6 On demand Less than 1 year 15 years 5 years Total Year ended 31 December 2007 m m m m m Loan notes 0.8 0.8 Bank loans 421.5 619.8 1,041.3 Finance lease obligations 37.5 68.3 34.9 140.7 Net interest rate swaps 2.4 5.6 8.0 Foreign exchange forward contracts 14.2 14.2 Trade and other payables 464.4 0.8 465.2 ICRRL onerous contract obligation 8.4 24.4 32.8 0.8948.4718.9 34.91,703.0 National Express Group PLC 101 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 31 Financial instruments including cash, trade receivables and payables Fair values The fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts, fuel price swaps and interest rate swaps has been determined by the third party financial institution with which the Group holds the instrument, in line with the market value of similar financial instruments.
The fair value of the Groups financial assets and liabilities is equal to the carrying value, except for available-for-sale investments where there is no active market.
In the absence of any other reliable external information, these assets are carried at cost or amortised cost.
The Group has no current plans to dispose of these assets.
AvailableDerivatives Liabilities At fair value Loans and for-sale used for measured at through Classification of financial instruments receivables assets hedging amortised cost profit or loss Total As at 31 December 2008 m m m m m m Assets Investments 9.2 9.2 Interest rate swaps 3.0 3.0 Fuel price swaps 1.0 1.0 Cash and cash equivalents 105.9 105.9 Trade and other receivables 308.0 308.0 413.9 9.2 1.0 3.0 427.1 Liabilities Loan notes 0.8 0.8 Bank loans 1,150.8 1,150.8 Finance lease obligations 133.9 133.9 Other debt payable 1.1 1.1 Interest rate swaps 17.5 15.7 33.2 Fuel price swaps 80.2 80.2 Foreign exchange forward contracts 25.2 25.2 Trade and other payables 453.9 453.9 ICRRL onerous contract obligation 21.5 21.5 122.9 1,762.0 15.7 1,900.6 AvailableDerivatives Liabilities At fair value Loans and for-sale used for measured at through Classification of financial instruments receivables assets hedging amortised cost profit or loss Total As at 31 December 2007 m m m m m m Assets Investments 7.2 7.2 Interest rate swaps 3.2 3.2 Fuel price swaps 12.1 12.1 Cash and cash equivalents 157.2 157.2 Trade and other receivables 240.6 240.6 397.87.215.3 420.3 Liabilities Loan notes 0.8 0.8 Bank loans 947.4 947.4 Finance lease obligations 119.8 119.8 Interest rate swaps 7.7 0.9 8.6 Foreign exchange forward contracts 14.5 14.5 Trade and other payables 465.2 465.2 ICRRL onerous contract obligation 27.9 27.9 22.2 1,561.1 0.9 1,584.2 The financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are held for trading.
There is no difference between the fair value and the amount that would be required to settle the liability.
Other receivables and other payables are to be settled in cash in the currency they are held in.
In accordance with IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, the Group has reviewed all contracts for embedded derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for.
No embedded derivatives have been identified.
102 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 31 Financial instruments including cash, trade receivables and payables continued Hedging activities The movement on derivative financial instruments is detailed below: Foreign exchange Interest rate forward swaps contracts Fuel swaps Total m m m m Net liability asset at 1 January 2008 5.4 14.5 12.1 7.8 Cash settlements 1.1 33.0 16.0 18.1 Revaluation through income statement 6.0 6.0 Revaluation through SORIE 19.0 0.2 63.8 83.0 Exchange differences 0.9 43.5 11.5 55.9 Net liability at 31 December 2008 30.2 25.2 79.2 134.6 During the year a 2.1m finance charge was incurred on the close out of euro interest rate swaps.
In addition, fuel swap put options were sold.
The gain of 3.6m was recognised in the hedging reserve and will be transferred to the income statement in 2009.
Foreign exchange Interest rate forward swaps contracts Fuel swaps Total m m m m Net liability asset at 1 January 2007 6.0 6.6 6.9 6.3 Cash settlements 0.2 0.8 1.0 Revaluation through income statement 0.9 0.9 Revaluation through SORIE 1.6 0.4 19.5 21.5 Exchange differences 0.1 21.5 0.3 21.1 Net liability asset at 31 December 2007 5.4 14.5 12.1 7.8 The movement on the hedging reserve is detailed below: 2008 2007 m m At 1 January 5.4 9.0 Transferred to income statement operating costs 16.0 0.7 Transferred to income statement net finance costs 6.8 0.3 Revaluation, net of tax 54.6 15.4 At 31 December 58.4 5.4 Interest hedges The Group has a number of interest rate swaps in place to hedge the cash flow risk in relation to interest rates.
These instruments are summarised below: a An interest rate swap of US$100m that was entered into in September 2000 fixed at 6.9% and a separate US$100m interest rate swap that has the effect of fixing the accrued loss on the first swap.
These instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
The cumulative fair value loss in the hedging reserve was transferred to the income statement.
b A cash flow hedge with a total principal of US$100m that was entered into in September 2000 fixed at 6.8545% until September 2010.
The underlying USD debt was exchanged into sterling debt during the year and this instrument ceased to qualify for hedge accounting on 15 December 2008.
The above financial instruments are classified as fair value through the profit or loss.
A total loss of 9.4m was recognised in the income statement comprising 5.7m transferred from the hedging reserve and a 3.7m fair market value loss for the year.
Any future impact on the income statement is expected to be immaterial.
c A cash flow hedge with a principal of 300m that was entered into in November 2007 fixed at 4.26% until August 2010. d A cash flow hedge with a principal of 250m that was entered into in November 2007 fixed at 4.27% until May 2012.
The following swaps were closed out in 2008 with the fair market value of 2.1m being charged to the income statement.
A cash flow hedge with a principal of 150m that was entered into in January 2008 fixed at 3.94%.
A cash flow hedge with a principal of 150m that was entered into in December 2007 fixed at 4.24%.
The conditions of all swaps remaining in place at 31 December 2008 coincide with the material conditions of the underlying loans.
The underlying cash flows are expected to take place periodically from 2009 to 2012 and will affect profit or loss over the same period of time.
The benchmark rate for floating rate financial liabilities is the relevant interbank borrowing rate.
During the year 6.8m 2007: 0.2m has been transferred from the hedging reserve to the income statement in respect of interest rate swaps.
National Express Group PLC 103 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 31 Financial instruments including cash, trade receivables and payables continued Hedge of net investments in foreign entities Included in bank loans are borrowings of US$nil nil 2007: US$150.0m 75.6m, CAN$nil nil 2007: CAN$nil nil and 540m 516.1m 2007: 1,145.0m 841.6m which have been designated as a hedge of net investments in the foreign currency denominated net assets of the Group and are being used to reduce the exposure to foreign exchange risk.
In addition the Group has synthetic debt in the form of foreign exchange forward contracts in place split between US$85.0m 56.7m 2007: US$283.8m 143.0m, CAN$nil nil 2007: CAN$192.1m 97.1m, and nil nil 2007: 160.0m 117.6m to complete the post-tax hedge of the net investment in foreign entities.
The portion of the gain or loss on the foreign exchange forward contracts that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity and, to this extent, offsets any gains or losses on translation of the net investments in the subsidiaries.
No ineffectiveness has been recognised in the income statement.
Fuel price hedges The Group has a number of fuel price swaps in place to hedge the different types of fuel used in each division.
Ultra low sulphur diesel used in the UK Bus, UK Coach and European Coach & Bus divisions and gasoil as used in the UK Trains division are hedged by swaps in the same type of fuel.
Diesel used in the North American division is hedged by heating oil swaps.
The timing of the swap cash flows will match the underlying fuel purchases from 2009 through to 2011.
During the year 16.0m 2007: 0.7m has been transferred from the hedging reserve, of which a 8.5m 2007: 4.3 m debit was recognised in the hedging reserve at 1 January 2008 and the remainder was generated during the year due to the movement in market fuel prices.
Fuel price swaps can be analysed as follows: 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 2008 2007 Fair value Fair value Volume Volume m m million litres million litres Sterling denominated fuel swaps UK Bus, UK Coach and UK Trains 12.8 4.7 111.2 57.0 US dollar denominated fuel swaps North American Bus 10.6 1.5 66.1 23.3 Euro denominated fuel swaps European Coach & Bus 27.6 2.3 94.1 48.8 Fuel price swaps included in current liabilities assets 51.0 8.5 271.4 129.1 Sterling denominated fuel swaps UK Bus, UK Coach and UK Trains 2.8 1.7 32.4 24.0 US dollar denominated fuel swaps North American Bus 16.5 0.4 45.4 11.4 Euro denominated fuel swaps European Coach & Bus 8.9 1.5 48.0 34.5 Fuel price swaps included in non-current liabilities assets 28.2 3.6 125.8 69.9 Total fuel price swaps 79.2 12.1 397.2 199.0 Interest swap at fair value through profit or loss The Group has entered into a series of six month 2007: one year basis swaps, where the Company pays six month EURIBOR less a margin and receives one month EURIBOR.
These swaps were entered into in July 2008 2007: November and expire at various times in the first half of 2009 2007: November 2008.
The Group did not apply hedge accounting for these instruments.
The fair value at 31 December 2008 was a liability of 3.2m 2007: 0.9m.
32 Called-up share capital 2008 2007 m m At 31 December: Authorised: 200,000,000 2007: 200,000,000 ordinary shares of 5p each 10.0 10.0 Issued called-up and fully paid: 154,687,284 2007: 154,627,671 ordinary shares of 5p each 7.7 7.7 Number Movement in ordinary shares during the year: m of shares At 1 January 2007 7.7 153,835,012 Exercise of share options 792,659 At 1 January 2008 7.7 154,627,671 Exercise of share options 59,613 At 31 December 2008 7.7 154,687,284 The total number of share options exercised in the year was 475,813 2007: 1,008,457 of which 59,613 2007: 792,659 exercises were satisfied by newly issued shares and 416,200 2007: 215,798 exercises were satisfied by transferring shares from the National Express Employee Benefit Trust.
104 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 33 Share capital and reserves Capital Other Share Share redemption Own reserves Retained Minority Total capital premium reserve shares note 34 earnings Total interests equity m m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2008 7.7 195.3 0.2 16.3 30.4 215.8 433.1 3.9 437.0 Shares issued 0.4 0.4 0.4 Shares purchased 1.7 1.7 1.7 Own shares released to satisfy employee share schemes 2.8 2.8 Total recognised income and expense 103.3 99.4 202.7 2.2 204.9 Share-based payments 4.4 4.4 4.4 Dividends 59.6 59.6 59.6 Acquisition of minority interest 0.4 0.4 Dividends paid to minority interest 0.4 0.4 At 31 December 2008 7.7 195.7 0.2 15.2 133.7 257.2 579.3 6.1 585.4 Other Capital reserves Share Share redemption Own Retained Minority Total capital premium reserve shares note 34 earnings Total interests equity m m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2007 7.7 189.8 0.2 16.7 7.9 153.3 342.2 3.3 345.5 Shares issued 5.5 5.5 5.5 Own shares released to satisfy employee share schemes 0.4 0.4 Total recognised income and expense 22.5 113.7 136.2 0.7 136.9 Share-based payments 3.2 3.2 3.2 Dividends 54.0 54.0 54.0 Dividends paid to minority interest 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2007 7.7 195.3 0.2 16.3 30.4 215.8 433.1 3.9 437.0 Own shares comprise treasury shares and shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust.
Treasury shares include 1,825,000 2007: 1,825,000 ordinary shares in the Company.
No additional 2007: nil shares have been added as treasury shares within equity for future issue under the Groups share schemes or cancellation.
No shares were cancelled during the year 2007: nil.
The market value of these shares at 31 December 2008 was 9.0m 2007: 22.7m.
Own shares include 185,103 2007: 447,770 ordinary shares in the Company that have been purchased by the Trustees of the National Express Employee Benefit Trust the Trust.
During the year, the Trust purchased 153,533 2007: nil shares and 416,200 2007: 215,798 shares were used to satisfy options granted under a number of the Companys share schemes.
The value of shares within the Trust has been recognised as an investment in treasury shares.
The market value of these shares at 31 December 2008 was 0.9m 2007: 5.6m.
The dividends payable on these shares have been waived.
34 Other reserves Merger Hedging Translation reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m At 1 January 2008 15.4 5.4 9.6 30.4 Hedge movements, net of tax 63.8 63.8 Exchange differences, net of tax 167.1 167.1 At 31 December 2008 15.4 58.4 176.7 133.7 National Express Group PLC 105 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 34 Other reserves continued Merger Hedging Translation reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m At 1 January 2007 15.4 9.0 1.5 7.9 Hedge movements, net of tax 14.4 14.4 Exchange differences, net of tax 8.1 8.1 At 31 December 2007 15.4 5.4 9.6 30.4 The nature and purpose of the other reserves are as follows: The merger reserve includes the premium on shares issued to satisfy the purchase of Prism Rail PLC in 2000.
The reserve is not distributable.
The hedging reserve records the movements on designated hedging items, offset by any movements recognised directly in equity on underlying hedged items.
The translation reserve records exchange differences arising from the translation of the accounts of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries offset by the movements on loans and derivatives used to hedge the net investment in foreign subsidiaries.
35 Pensions and other post-employment benefits a Summary of pension benefits and assumptions The UK Bus and UK Coach divisions operate both funded defined benefit schemes and a defined contribution scheme.
The majority of employees of the UK Trains companies are members of the appropriate shared-cost section of the Railways Pension Scheme RPS, a funded defined benefit scheme.
The assets of all schemes are held separately from those of the Group.
Contributions to the schemes are determined by independent professionally qualified actuaries.
Subsidiaries in North America contribute to a number of defined contribution plans.
The Group also provides certain additional unfunded post-employment benefits to employees in North America and Spain, which are disclosed in section c in the Other category.
The total pension cost for the year was 23.5m 2007: 27.5m, of which 3.9m 2007: 3.2m relates to the defined contribution schemes.
The defined benefit pension liability included in the balance sheet is as follows: 2008 2007 m m UK Bus 3.6 5.1 UK Coach 1.2 4.9 UK Trains 38.7 18.8 Other 1.5 1.0 Total 45.0 29.8 The valuations conducted for financial reporting purposes are based on the triennial actuarial valuations.
A summary of the latest triennial actuarial valuations, and assumptions made, is as follows.
The triennial valuation of the Railways Pension Scheme has taken place during the year, however the results have not yet been finalised.
UK Bus UK Coach UK Train Travel Tayside West Midlands 31 March 31 March 5 April 31 December Date of actuarial valuation 2008 2007 2007 2004 Actuarial method used Attained age Attained age Projected unit Projected unit Rate of investment returns per annum 7.8% 5.4%6.4% 4.7%5.5% 4.8%6.8% Increase in earnings per annum 5.2% 4.6% 4.0% 4.3% Scheme assets taken at market value 40.5m 374.0m 39.8m 638.9m Funding level 92% 93% 77% 86%95% Amounts included in the income statement, statement of recognised income and expense and the balance sheet are calculated using the projected unit method.
The range of funding levels for UK Trains reflects the range of funding levels in the various sections of the RPS.
The plans do not provide medical benefits.
106 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 35 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued a Summary of pension benefits and assumptions continued The most recent triennial valuations are then updated by independent professionally qualified actuaries for financial reporting purposes, in accordance with IAS 19.
The main actuarial assumptions underlying the IAS 19 valuations are: 2008 2007 UK Bus UK Coach UK Trains UK Bus UK Coach UK Trains Rate of increase in salaries 3.8% 3.8% 3.8% 4.3% 4.3% 4.8% Rate of increase of pensions 2.8% 2.8% 2.8% 3.3% 3.3% 3.3% Discount rate 6.5% 6.3% 6.3% 5.8% 5.8% 5.8% Inflation assumption 2.8% 2.8% 2.8% 3.3% 3.3% 3.3% Expected rates of return on scheme assets Equities 8.0% 8.0% 8.0% 8.0% 8.0% 8.0% Bonds 6.1% 6.1% 6.1% 5.8% 5.8% 5.8% Properties 5.9% 5.9% 5.9% 6.3% 6.3% 6.3% Other 1.3% 1.3% 1.3% 4.8% 4.8% 4.8% Post-retirement mortality in years: Current pensioners at 65 male 19.4 21.9 19.4 21.9 17.8 Current pensioners at 65 male, pension under 8,500 pa or pensionable pay under 30,000 pa 19.8 Current pensioners at 65 male others 21.5 Current pensioners at 65 female 22.2 24.8 22.2 24.8 20.1 Current pensioners at 65 female, pension under 3,000 pa or pensionable pay under 30,000 pa 21.7 Current pensioners at 65 female others 22.7 Future pensioners at 65 male 20.4 23.0 20.3 23.0 18.8 Future pensioners at 65 male, pension under 8,500 pa or pensionable pay under 30,000 pa 22.2 Future pensioners at 65 male others 23.7 Future pensioners at 65 female 23.1 25.8 23.1 25.8 21.3 Future pensioners at 65 female, pension under 3,000 pa or pensionable pay under 30,000 pa 23.2 Future pensioners at 65 female others 24.2 The demographic assumptions reflect those included in the most recent triennial valuation.
For the UK Bus and UK Coach schemes improvements in mortality are in line with medium cohort tables.
For the UK Trains scheme, mortality assumptions are based on the recent experience of the scheme with an allowance for future improvements in mortality as follows: Age YearUnder 85 85105 Over 105 Males & females 20082012 3.0% pa 3.0% pa tapering to 0.6% pa 0.6% pa Males 2013 onwards 1.5% pa 1.5% pa tapering to 0.3% pa 0.3% pa Females 2013 onwards 1.0% pa 1.0% pa tapering to 0.2% pa 0.2% pa The Directors regard the assumption around the discount rate to be the key assumption in the IAS19 valuation, and the following table provides an approximate sensitivity analysis of the impact of a 0.1% change in the discount rate assumption.
UK Bus UK Coach UK Trains m m m Defined benefit pension liability at 31 December 2008 3.6 1.2 38.7 Effect of a 0.1% increase in the discount rate 5.5 0.9 0.1 Current service cost for the year ended 31 December 2008 4.8 1.2 21.0 Effect of a 0.1% increase in the discount rate 0.1 0.4 Scheme assets are stated at their market values at the respective balance sheet dates.
The expected rate of return on scheme assets is determined based on market returns on each category of scheme assets.
National Express Group PLC 107 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 35 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued b Accounting for the Railways Pension Scheme The majority of employees of the UK Train companies are members of the appropriate section of the RPS, a funded defined benefit scheme.
The RPS is a shared cost scheme, which means that costs are formally shared 60% employer and 40% employee.
To date, the Group has experienced ten changes of UK Train franchise ownership where the current owner has funded the scheme during the franchise term and the pension deficit at franchise exit has transferred to the new owner, without cash settlement.
However, although the Groups past experience has proven otherwise, our legal advisors have opined that in certain situations, the liability for the deficit on the relevant sections of the RPS could theoretically crystallise for funding by an individual TOC at the end of the franchise.
By entering into the franchise contract, the TOC becomes the designated employer for the term of the contract and under the rules of the RPS must fund its share of the pension liability in accordance with the schedule of contributions agreed with the Scheme trustees and actuaries and for which there is no funding cap set out in the franchise contract.
To comply with IAS 19, the Group is required to account for its legal obligation under the formal terms of the RPS and its constructive obligation that arises under the terms of each franchise agreement.
In determining the appropriate accounting policy for the RPS to ensure that the Groups accounts present fairly its financial position, financial performance and cash flows, management has consulted with TOC industry peers and has concluded that the Groups constructive but not its legal RPS defined benefit obligations should be accounted for in accordance with IAS 19.
This accounting policy, which in all other respects is consistent with that set out in this note for the Groups other defined benefit schemes, means that the Groups accounts reflect that element of the deficits anticipated to be settled by the Group during the franchise term and will prevent gains arising on transfer of the existing RPS deficits to a new owner at franchise exit.
In calculating the Groups constructive obligations in respect of the RPS, the Group has calculated the total pension deficits in each of the RPS sections in accordance with IAS 19 and the assumptions set out above.
These deficits are reduced by a franchise adjustment which is that portion of the deficit projected to exist at the end of the franchise and for which the Group will not be required to fund.
The franchise adjustment, which has been calculated by the Groups actuaries, is offset against the present value of the RPS liabilities so as to fairly present the financial performance, position and cash flows of the Groups obligations.
The franchise adjustment increased from 2.3m at 31 December 2007 to 28.2m at 31 December 2008.
The increase is caused by interest on the franchise adjustment of 0.2m, net actuarial movements of 25.2m and 0.5m relating to the franchise exit.
In the prior year, the franchise adjustment decreased by 42.1m from 44.4m at 1 January 2007 to 2.3m at 31 December 2007.
The decrease was caused by interest on the franchise adjustment of 2.1m offset by net actuarial movements in scheme liabilities of 29.4m and by 14.8m relating to franchise exits.
If the Group had accounted for its legal obligation in respect of the RPS instead of the constructive obligation, the following adjustments would have been made to the financial information: 2008 2007 m m Balance sheet Defined benefit pension deficit 28.2 2.3 Deferred tax asset 6.5 Intangible asset 2.4 3.0 Net reduction increase in net assets 19.3 0.7 Statement of recognised income and expense Actuarial losses gains 25.2 29.4 Tax on actuarial gains and losses 6.4 9.8 Net decrease increase in actuarial gains 18.8 19.6 Income statement Interest on franchise adjustment 0.2 2.1 Curtailment gain on franchise exit 0.5 14.8 Intangible asset amortisation 0.5 0.3 Deferred tax credit charge 0.1 3.8 Net decrease increase in income 1.1 8.6 108 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 35 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued c Financial results for pension benefits The amounts charged to the Group income statement and Group statement of recognised income and expense for the years ended 31 December 2008 and 2007 are set out in the following tables.
The restriction on surplus in 2008 arose on the Travel West Midlands UK Bus scheme and in 2007 arose on the Tayside UK Bus scheme.
UK Bus UK Coach UK Trains Other Total 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 Group income statement m m m m m Amounts charged to normalised operating profit: Current service cost 4.8 1.2 21.0 0.5 27.5 Past service cost 0.4 0.4 Expected return on pension scheme assets 3.0 28.0 57.4 Interest on pension liabilities 23.4 2.8 23.1 49.3 Interest on franchise adjustment 0.2 0.2 Total charge to income statement 2.2 1.0 15.9 0.5 19.6 Actual return on plan assets 36.4 4.8 93.4 134.6 UK Bus UK Coach UK Trains Other Total 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 Group statement of recognised income and expense m m m m m Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 62.8 7.8 121.4 192.0 Other actuarial gains and losses 61.7 8.7 101.1 171.5 Adjustment for unrecognised surplus 4.3 4.3 Actuarial losses gains 5.4 0.9 20.3 24.8 UK Bus UK Coach UK Trains Other Total 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 Group income statement m m m m m Amounts charged to normalised operating profit: Current service cost 5.1 1.5 30.2 0.3 37.1 Past service credit 0.7 0.7 Expected return on pension scheme assets 25.2 2.6 31.9 59.7 Interest on pension liabilities 21.1 2.7 25.9 49.7 Interest on franchise adjustment 2.1 2.1 Total charge to income statement 0.3 1.6 22.1 0.3 24.3 Actual return on plan assets 20.0 2.0 35.1 57.1 UK Bus UK Coach UK Trains Other Total 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 Group statement of recognised income and expense m m m m m Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 5.2 0.6 3.2 2.6 Other actuarial gains and losses 12.6 7.5 2.6 17.5 Adjustment for unrecognised surplus 3.2 3.2 Actuarial gain 4.2 6.9 0.6 11.7 National Express Group PLC 109 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 35 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued c Financial results for pension benefits continued The amounts recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December are: UK Bus UK Coach UK Trains Other Total 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 As at 31 December 2008 m m m m m Equities 152.3 20.8 370.9 544.0 Bonds 202.1 20.8 39.7 262.6 Property 3.1 34.1 37.2 Other 5.3 0.5 5.8 Fair value of scheme assets 362.8 42.1 444.7 849.6 Present value of scheme liabilities 357.4 43.3 554.9 1.5 957.1 Franchise adjustment 28.2 28.2 Defined benefit obligation 357.4 43.3 526.7 1.5 928.9 Restriction on surplus 9.0 9.0 Members share of deficit 43.3 43.3 Defined benefit pension deficit 3.6 1.2 38.7 1.5 45.0 UK Bus UK Coach UK Trains Other Total 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 As at 31 December 2007 m m m m m Equities 228.021.4510.0 759.4 Bonds 175.021.962.4 259.3 Property 4.047.4 51.4 Other 5.00.40.5 5.9 Fair value of scheme assets 412.0 43.7 620.3 1,076.0 Present value of scheme liabilities 412.4 48.6 655.4 1.0 1,117.4 Franchise adjustment 2.3 2.3 Defined benefit obligation 412.4 48.6 653.1 1.0 1,115.1 Restriction on surplus 4.7 4.7 Members share of deficit 14.0 14.0 Defined benefit pension deficit 5.1 4.9 18.8 1.0 29.8 The movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligation in the year is as stated below.
For UK Trains, the RPS is a shared cost scheme, which means that costs are formally shared 60% employer and 40% employee.
The Groups defined benefit obligation comprises 927.4m 2007: 1,114.1m arising from plans that are wholly or partly funded and 1.5m 2007: 1.0m from unfunded plans.
UK Bus UK Coach UK Trains Other Total m m m m m Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 2008 412.4 48.6 653.1 1.0 1,115.1 Current service cost 4.8 1.2 21.0 0.5 27.5 Past service cost 0.4 0.4 Franchise exit 25.6 25.6 Benefits paid 23.3 1.0 21.0 45.3 Contributions by employees 1.4 0.4 11.0 12.8 Finance charge 23.4 2.8 23.1 49.3 Interest on franchise adjustment 0.2 0.2 Members share of movement on liabilities 33.6 33.6 Actuarial gain recognised in statement of recognised income and expense 61.7 8.7 101.1 171.5 Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2008 357.4 43.3 526.7 1.5 928.9 110 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 35 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued c Financial results for pension benefits continued UK Bus UK Coach UK Trains Other Total m m m m m Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 2007 421.8 52.6 808.2 1.7 1,284.3 Current service cost 5.1 1.5 30.2 0.3 37.1 Past service credit 0.7 0.7 Franchise entry 277.6 277.6 Franchise exit 419.3 419.3 Curtailment 55.9 55.9 Benefits paid 23.7 1.1 21.5 1.0 47.3 Contributions by employees 1.4 0.4 13.7 15.5 Finance charge 21.1 2.7 25.9 49.7 Interest on franchise adjustment 2.1 2.1 Members share of movement on liabilities 6.3 6.3 Actuarial gain loss recognised in statement of recognised income and expense 12.6 7.5 2.6 17.5 Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2007 412.4 48.6 653.1 1.0 1,115.1 The movement in the fair value of scheme assets is as follows: UK Bus UK Coach UK Trains Total m m m m Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 2008 412.0 43.7 620.3 1,076.0 Expected return on plan assets 26.4 3.0 28.0 57.4 Franchise exit 25.6 25.6 Cash contributions Employer 9.1 3.8 16.3 29.2 Cash contributions Employee 1.4 0.4 11.0 12.8 Benefits paid 23.3 1.0 21.0 45.3 Members share of return on assets 62.9 62.9 Actuarial loss recognised in statement of recognised income and expense 62.8 7.8 121.4 192.0 Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 2008 362.8 42.1 444.7 849.6 UK Bus UK Coach UK Trains Total m m m m Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 2007 406.0 39.9 743.4 1,189.3 Expected return on plan assets 25.2 2.6 31.9 59.7 Franchise entry 277.6 277.6 Franchise exit 419.3 419.3 Curtailment 55.9 55.9 Cash contributions Employer 8.3 2.5 23.8 34.6 Cash contributions Employee 1.4 0.4 13.7 15.5 Benefits paid 23.7 1.1 21.5 46.3 Members share of return on assets 23.4 23.4 Actuarial gain loss recognised in statement of recognised income and expense 5.2 0.6 3.2 2.6 Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 2007 412.0 43.7 620.3 1,076.0 National Express Group PLC 111 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 35 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued c Financial results for pension benefits continued The Group expects to contribute 24.9m to its defined benefit pension plans in 2009.
2008 2007 2006 2005 History of experience gains and losses: m m m m UK Bus Fair value of scheme assets 362.8 412.0 406.0 385.8 Present value of defined benefit obligation 357.4 412.4 421.8 423.6 Restriction on surplus 9.0 4.7 1.5 Deficit in the scheme 3.6 5.1 17.3 37.8 Experience adjustments arising on liabilities 3.3 4.6 3.0 3.3 Experience adjustments arising on assets 62.8 5.2 7.5 35.3 UK Coach Fair value of scheme assets 42.1 43.7 39.9 35.7 Present value of defined benefit obligation 43.3 48.6 52.6 50.6 Deficit in the scheme 1.2 4.9 12.7 14.9 Experience adjustments arising on liabilities 2.2 1.6 Experience adjustments arising on assets 7.8 0.6 2.5 UK Trains Fair value of scheme assets 444.7 620.3 743.4 796.4 Present value of defined benefit obligation 526.7 653.1 808.2 900.7 Members share of deficit 43.3 14.0 43.7 70.1 Deficit in the scheme 38.7 18.8 21.1 34.2 Experience adjustments arising on liabilities 16.9 5.3 25.5 53.8 Experience adjustments arising on assets 121.4 3.2 32.6 54.4 Other Fair value of scheme assets Present value of defined benefit obligation 1.5 1.0 1.7 1.9 The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense since 1 January 2004 is 26.8m loss 2007: 2.0m loss.
The Directors are unable to determine how much of the pension scheme deficit recognised on transition to IFRSs and taken directly to equity of 51.9m is attributable to actuarial gains and losses since inception of those pension schemes.
Consequently the Directors are unable to determine the amount of actuarial gains and losses that would have been recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense before 1 January 2004.
36 Commitments and contingencies Operating lease commitments The Groups total operating lease commitments are as follows: 2008 2007 m m Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases: Within one year: Land and buildings 212.7 364.8 Plant and equipment 206.3 198.4 419.0 563.2 After one year but not more than five years: Land and buildings 401.1 1,031.4 Plant and equipment 575.9 563.6 977.0 1,595.0 More than five years: Land and buildings 12.1 13.5 Plant and equipment 1.0 121.6 13.1 135.1 1,409.1 2,293.3 112 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 36 Commitments and contingencies continued Operating lease commitments continued The majority of the Groups commitments arise in the UK Trains division.
Trains division companies have contracts with Network Rail Infrastructure Limited for access to the railway infrastructure tracks, stations and depots.
They also have contracts under which rolling stock is leased.
The TOCs obligations to fulfil these commitments exist only as part of their franchise agreement.
The table below reflects the commitments up to the current franchise end dates unless an extension or new franchise agreement has been signed.
The commitments are based on charges advised by the Rail Regulator for the period starting on 1 April 2004.
Commitments for future minimum rental payments under these contracts are shown below: Land and buildings Plant and equipment 2008 2007 2008 2007 UK Trains division commitments m m m m Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases: Within one year: Fixed track access 148.9 302.9 Rolling stock 200.6 191.9 Other 49.6 50.3 1.5 1.8 198.5 353.2 202.1 193.7 After one year but not more than five years: Fixed track access 253.1 866.5 Rolling stock 563.7 551.6 Other 118.9 139.2 3.7 3.9 372.0 1,005.7 567.4 555.5 More than five years: Fixed track access Rolling stock 120.8 Other 0.4 0.1 0.7 0.4 0.1 121.5 570.9 1,358.9 769.6 870.7 Fixed track access agreements have an average remaining life of 4.1 years 2007: 4.2 years, other land and buildings have an average duration of 4.0 years 2007: 3.6 years.
Rolling stock agreements have an average life of 3.6 years 2007: 5.1 years and other plant and equipment 4.2 years 2007: 4.8 years.
Outside of the UK Trains division the Group has entered into operating leases on certain properties, public service vehicles and various items of plant and equipment.
Commitments for future minimum rental payments under cancellable operating leases are shown below: Land and buildings Public service vehicles Other 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 Other divisions commitments m m m m m m Within one year 14.2 11.6 3.9 3.6 0.3 1.1 After one year but not more than five years 29.1 25.7 6.9 6.5 1.6 1.6 More than five years 11.7 13.5 0.9 0.1 55.0 50.8 11.7 10.2 1.9 2.7 The average remaining life of operating lease commitments in the Other Divisions is 5.8 years 2007: 7.6 years for land and buildings, 3.3 years 2007: 2.8 years for public service vehicles and 1.4 years 2007: 2.9 years for other plant and equipment.
Operating lease agreements where the Group is the lessor The Group receives rent on properties as follows: 2008 2007 m m Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases: Within one year 9.1 2.5 After one year but not more than five years 8.2 9.1 More than five years 2.8 17.3 14.4 The leases have an average unexpired duration of 2.5 years 2007: 5.7 years.
National Express Group PLC 113 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 36 Commitments and contingencies continued Finance lease commitments The Group has finance leases for public service vehicles and various items of plant and equipment.
These leases have terms of renewal but no purchase options and escalation clauses.
Renewals are at the option of the specific entity that holds the lease.
2008 2007 Present Present Minimum value of Minimum value of payments payments payments payments m m m m Within one year 57.8 52.4 37.5 30.4 After one year but not more than five years 63.3 54.0 68.3 54.7 More than five years 29.3 27.5 34.9 34.7 Total minimum lease payments 150.4 133.9 140.7 119.8 Less future financing charges 16.5 20.9 Present value of minimum lease payments 133.9 133.9 119.8 119.8 Capital commitments 2008 2007 m m Contracted 42.7 34.2 The Group is committed to vehicle purchases and various land and buildings improvements.
Contingent liabilities Bonds and letters of credit In the ordinary course of business, the Group is required to issue counter-indemnities in support of its operations.
As at 31 December 2008, there were UK Train performance bonds of 57.2m 2007: 78.3m and UK Train season ticket bonds of 86.0m 2007: 79.4m.
The Group has other performance bonds which include the 16.1m 2007: 15.5m performance bond in respect of Inter-Capital and Regional Rail Limited, performance bonds in respect of businesses in the US of 76.6m 2007: 63.4m and the rest of Europe of 24.7m 2007: 19.7m.
Letters of credit have been issued to support insurance retentions of 86.2m 2007: 74.8m.
Claims The Directors Report discloses that Ray OToole is a defendant in proceedings being brought before the Supreme Court of New South Wales.
These proceedings relate to a period of time when Ray OToole was a director of Bosnjak Holdings Pty Ltd, which was a subsidiary of the Group.
The Company is also a defendant to these proceedings.
The Directors believe no liabilities will arise from these proceedings and therefore no provision has been made at 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007.
37 Related party transactions Amount of transactions Amounts due from related parties Amounts due to related parties 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m m m Associates ICRRL 8.4 8.4 Spain associates 2.5 1.1 1.4 2.0 1.2 1.2 Joint ventures Spain joint ventures 0.6 1.7 0.2 Trade investments Spain trade investments 2.6 1.5 0.8 0.7 0.5 0.1 Property transactions Stock 0.3 0.3 Spain 3.4 3.7 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.5 Durham 0.3 0.3 Total associates and joint ventures 10.9 10.1 1.4 3.7 1.2 1.4 Total other related parties 6.6 5.8 1.2 1.0 0.7 0.6 Total 17.5 15.9 2.6 4.7 1.9 2.0 Amounts due to ICRRL are included in provisions as disclosed in note 26.
A provision of 0.6m 2007: nil has been booked against amounts due from Spain associates, which are presented net.
114 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 37 Related party transactions continued Property transactions Brian Stock was appointed as Chief Executive of the Groups North American operations in October 2004.
Stock Transportation Limited, a school bus operator in North America, was acquired in July 2002.
As part of the Sale and Purchase Agreement, the Group entered into leases for eight properties at market rents and on standard terms and conditions.
The rental payments of 0.3m 2007: 0.3m are made to Stock Properties Limited and Stock Realty Limited, of which Brian Stock is a related party.
A number of Spain companies have leased properties from companies related to the Cosmen family.
Jorge Cosmen is a Non Executive Director of the Group and was appointed as Deputy Chairman in October 2008.
These leases were in place before the Groups acquisition of Alsa and are for appropriate market rates.
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group 2008 2007 m m Total compensation paid to key management personnel note 7 3.4 3.9 Directors interests in employee share plans are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
38 Cash flow statement The net cash inflows from operating activities include outflows of 27.6m 2007: 11.3m from continuing operations which are related to exceptional costs.
a Reconciliation of Group profit before tax to cash generated from operations 2008 2007 Total Operations m m Net cash inflow from operating activities Profit before tax from continuing operations 109.9 149.3 Loss before tax from discontinued operations 12.8 4.8 Net finance costs 63.0 29.0 Profit on disposal of non-current assets 5.1 16.2 Share of post tax results under the equity method 0.4 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment continuing operations 96.0 79.6 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment discontinued operations 0.3 Amortisation of leasehold property prepayment 0.1 0.1 Goodwill impairment 0.7 Intangible asset amortisation 55.2 32.9 Amortisation of fixed asset grants 1.8 1.3 Profit on disposal of non-current assets in operating profit 2.0 4.3 Share-based payments continuing operations 4.3 3.1 Share-based payments discontinued operations 0.1 0.1 Increase in inventories 1.0 2.1 Increase decrease in receivables 0.2 17.7 Decrease increase in payables 69.4 5.9 Decrease in provisions 19.1 16.5 Cash generated from operations 218.2 272.1 National Express Group PLC 115 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 38 Cash flow statement continued b Analysis of changes in net debt Net debt at 31 December 2008 comprises cash and cash equivalents of 105.9m 2007: 157.2m as disclosed in note 23, other debt receivables of 0.9m 2007: nil, current interest-bearing loans and borrowings of 71.6m 2007: 415.7m and non-current interestbearing loans and borrowings of 1,215.0m 2007: 652.3m as disclosed in note 28.
At At 1 January Acquisitions Exchange Other 31 December 2008 Cash flow disposals differences movements 2008 m m m m m m Cash 68.0 24.2 8.2 52.0 Overnight deposits 14.6 11.9 0.8 3.5 Other short term deposits 74.6 24.2 50.4 Cash and cash equivalents 157.2 60.3 9.0 105.9 Other debt receivables 0.9 0.9 Borrowings: Loan notes 0.8 0.8 Bank loans 947.4 19.0 220.8 1.6 1,150.8 Finance lease obligations 119.8 32.8 5.1 26.0 15.8 133.9 Other debt payable 0.9 0.2 1.1 Total borrowings 1,068.0 50.9 5.1 247.0 17.4 1,286.6 Net debt 910.8 8.5 5.1 238.0 17.4 1,179.8 Short term deposits included within liquid resources relate to term deposits repayable within three months.
Changes in cash and cash equivalents arising from acquisitions and disposals in the year are disclosed separately on the face of the cash flow statement.
The 19.0m cash outflow 2007: 424.9m inflow within bank loans comprises of 33.0m 2007: nil of payments for the maturity of foreign currency swaps and 14.0m of net loans advanced 2007: 424.9m to the Group.
Other non-cash movements in net debt represent finance lease additions of 15.8m 2007: 0.2m and 1.6m 2007: 0.9m amortisation of loan arrangement fees.
At At 1 January Acquisitions Exchange Other 31 December 2007 Cash flow disposals differences movements 2007 m m m m m m Cash 43.722.41.9 68.0 Overnight deposits 21.6 7.0 14.6 Other short term deposits 78.3 4.9 1.2 74.6 Cash and cash equivalents 143.6 10.5 3.1 157.2 Borrowings: Loan notes 0.8 0.8 Bank loans 478.1 424.9 14.1 57.6 0.9 947.4 Finance lease obligations 103.1 26.3 41.9 0.9 0.2 119.8 Total borrowings 582.0 398.6 27.8 58.5 1.1 1,068.0 Net debt 438.4 388.1 27.8 55.4 1.1 910.8 The 2007 balances for bank loans and finance leases have been restated with a reclassification of 18.5m from bank loans to finance leases.
116 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 38 Cash flow statement continued c Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 2008 2007 m m Decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents in the year 60.3 10.5 Cash outflow from movement in other debt receivables 0.9 Cash outflow inflow from movement in debt and finance leases 50.9 398.6 Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 8.5 388.1 Change in net debt resulting from acquisitions and disposals 5.1 27.8 Change in net debt resulting from non-cash movements 255.4 56.5 Movement in net debt in the year 269.0 472.4 Opening net debt 910.8 438.4 Net debt 1,179.8 910.8 39 Post balance sheet events On 24 October 2008, the Group announced that it planned to exit the Dot2Dot business.
On 9 January 2009, the Group completed the sale of the Dot2Dot business and it has been classified as a discontinued operation for the year ended 31 December 2008.
National Express Group PLC 117 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of National Express Group PLC We have audited the parent company financial statements of National Express Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 19.
These parent company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of National Express Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2008.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the parent company Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes the specific information presented in the Operating and Financial Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the directors report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the Operating and Financial Review, the Corporate Governance Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report and the Directors Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2008: the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor London 26 February 2009 118 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Company Balance Sheet At 31 December 2008 2008 2007 Note m m Fixed assets Tangible assets 4 1.2 0.9 Financial assets Investments 5 873.0 873.0 874.2 873.9 Current assets Debtors 7 1,631.3 1,385.0 Financial assets Derivative financial instruments 6 3.0 3.2 Cash at bank and in hand 8 3.0 11.1 1,637.3 1,399.3 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 9 1,009.3 1,245.0 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments 6 27.3 17.7 Current tax liabilities 5.7 Net current assets 595.0 136.6 Total assets less current liabilities 1,469.3 1,010.5 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 10 1,114.9 548.6 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments 6 31.1 5.4 Provisions for liabilities and charges 11 24.9 31.1 Net assets 298.3 425.4 Shareholders equity Called-up share capital 14 7.7 7.7 Share premium account 15 195.7 195.3 Capital redemption reserve 15 0.2 0.2 Own shares 15 15.2 16.3 Hedging reserve 15 11.9 3.0 Profit and loss account 15 121.8 241.5 Shareholders equity 298.3 425.4 S R Bowker CBE Group Chief Executive J K Maiden Group Finance Director 26 February 2009 National Express Group PLC 119 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Company Accounts 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation The separate accounts of the parent Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.
The accounts have been prepared under the historic cost convention, except for the recognition of derivative financial instruments and available for sale investments detailed below, and in accordance with applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom.
In applying these policies management is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
No profit and loss account is presented by the Company as permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
The retained loss of the Company for the year is 59.0m 2007: 45.8m.
Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for the following: The Group adopted UITF 44 FRS 20 Group and Treasury Share Transactions as of 1 January 2008.
This abstract requires arrangements whereby an employee is granted rights to an entitys equity instruments to be accounted for as an equity-settled scheme, even if the entity buys the instruments from another party, or the shareholders provide the equity instruments needed.
There was no impact on the financial performance or position of the Company.
Leases Leases of tangible fixed assets where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Company, are classified as finance leases and the assets are capitalised in the balance sheet as plant and equipment.
Finance leases are capitalised at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The interest element of rental obligations is charged to the profit and loss account over the period of the lease and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Assets acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Leases of assets where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Incentives received under operating leases and initial direct costs in negotiating the lease are amortised to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, or to the first review if shorter.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at historic cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment.
Tangible fixed assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: Plant and equipment 3 to 5 years The carrying value of fixed assets is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the current carrying value may not be recoverable, and are written down immediately to their recoverable amount.
Repairs and maintenance are charged to the profit and loss account during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments are held at historic cost less any provision for impairment.
Available for sale investments Available for sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such, or that are not classified as a loan or receivable, held to maturity or at fair value through profit or loss.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings Loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, net of issue costs.
Hedge accounting is adopted where derivatives such as fixed to floating interest rate swaps are held as fair value hedges against fixed interest rate borrowings.
Under fair value hedge accounting, fixed interest rate borrowings are revalued at each balance sheet date by the change in fair value attributable to the interest rate being hedged.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
Where the Company expects a provision to be reimbursed the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when reimbursement is virtually certain.
120 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 1 Accounting policies continued Pensions The Company participates in both the National Express Group multi-employer funded defined benefit scheme and a defined contribution scheme.
The Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the multi-employer scheme on a consistent and reasonable basis, and therefore has accounted for the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme under the requirements of FRS 17, Retirement Benefits.
Share-based payment In accordance with the transition provisions, FRS 20 has been applied to all grants after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005.
The Company awards equity-settled share-based payment to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant by an external valuer using a stochastic model.
Non-market-based performance-related vesting conditions are not taken into account when estimating the fair value: instead those non-market conditions are taken into account in calculating the current best estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest and at each balance sheet date before vesting.
The cumulative expense is calculated based on that estimate.
Market-based performance conditions are taken into account when determining the fair value and at each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated irrespective of whether or not the market conditions are satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are met.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all material timing differences that have originated, but not reversed, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences reverse based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised where their recovery is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Foreign currencies Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the year end.
Foreign currency transactions arising during the year are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange ruling on the date of the transaction.
Any exchange differences so arising are dealt with through the profit and loss account.
Derivative financial instruments The Company uses derivative financial instruments such as foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps is calculated by reference to market exchange rates and interest rates at the period end.
In relation to cash flow hedges which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity, and the ineffective portion in the profit and loss account.
The gains or losses deferred in equity in this way are recycled through the profit and loss account in the same period in which the hedged underlying transaction or firm commitment is recognised in the profit and loss account.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, including the foreign currency contracts, gains or losses are taken directly to the profit and loss account in the period.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 29 for parent company accounts.
The disclosures are included within the Group accounts.
2 Exchange rates The most significant exchange rates to the pound for the Company are as follows: 2008 2008 2007 2007 Closing rate Average rate Closing rate Average rate US dollar 1.46 1.85 1.98 2.00 Canadian dollar 1.78 1.96 1.98 2.15 Euro 1.05 1.26 1.36 1.46 3 Directors emoluments Detailed information concerning Directors emoluments, shareholdings and options is shown in the Directors Remuneration Report.
National Express Group PLC 121 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Company Accounts continued 4 Tangible fixed assets Plant and equipment m Cost: At 1 January 2008 3.1 Additions 0.6 Disposals 0.5 At 31 December 2008 3.2 Depreciation: At 1 January 2008 2.2 Charge for the year 0.2 Disposals 0.4 At 31 December 2008 2.0 Net book value: At 31 December 2008 1.2 At 31 December 2007 0.9 Tangible fixed assets held under finance lease agreements are analysed as follows: 2008 2007 m m Plant and equipment cost 0.2 0.2 depreciation 0.2 0.2 Leased assets and assets under hire purchase contracts are pledged as security for the related finance lease and hire purchase liabilities.
5 Financial assets: Investments Investments in Available for sale subsidiaries investments Total m m m Cost or valuation: At 1 January 2008 and at 31 December 2008 1,271.9 0.8 1,272.7 Provisions: At 1 January 2008 and at 31 December 2008 398.9 0.8 399.7 Net carrying amount: At 31 December 2008 873.0 873.0 At 31 December 2007 873.0 873.0 122 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 5 Financial assets: Investments continued The information provided below is given for the Companys principal subsidiaries.
A full list of subsidiaries and investments will be annexed to the next Annual Return to Companies House.
National Express Group PLC is the beneficial owner of all the equity share capital, either itself or through subsidiary undertakings, of the companies, unless indicated otherwise.
The following holdings are 100% held directly by the Company: Incorporated in England and Wales National Express Holdings Limited Holding company for UK Coach operating companies National Express Group Holdings Limited Holding company for US operating companies National Express Overseas Limited Holding company for discontinued Australian business National Express Trains Limited Holding company for UK Train operating companies National Express Transport Holdings Limited Holding company for UK Bus and Canadian operating companies National Express European Holdings Limited Holding company for Spanish operating companies Incorporated in Guernsey National Express Guernsey Limited Insurance captive Other investments include: Proportion held Name Country of registration Class of share % Inter-Capital and Regional Rail Limited ICRRL England and Wales Ordinary shares 40 London & Continental Railways Limited England and Wales Ordinary shares 21 Prepayment Cards Limited England and Wales Ordinary shares 23.5 6 Derivatives 2008 2007 m m Interest rate swaps 1.5 1.7 Financial assets due over one year 1.5 1.7 Interest rate swaps 1.5 1.5 Financial assets due under one year 1.5 1.5 Interest rate swaps 18.3 5.4 Foreign exchange forward contracts 12.8 Financial liabilities due over one year 31.1 5.4 Interest rate swaps 14.9 3.2 Foreign exchange forward contracts 12.4 14.5 Financial liabilities due under one year 27.3 17.7 Full details of the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies can be found in note 30 of the Group accounts.
As the holding company for the Group, the Company faces similar risks over foreign currency and interest rate movements.
National Express Group PLC 123 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Company Accounts continued 7 Debtors 2008 2007 m m Trade debtors 0.3 0.9 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 1,622.9 1,368.4 Corporation tax recoverable 11.8 Deferred tax asset see note 12 5.6 0.9 Other debtors 1.4 1.7 Prepayments and accrued income 1.1 1.3 1,631.3 1,385.0 Included within prepayments is 0.5m 2007: 0.5m which is recoverable after more than one year.
8 Cash at bank and in hand 2008 2007 m m Other short-term deposits 8.1 Cash at bank 3.0 3.0 3.0 11.1 Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Company, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
The fair value of cash equals the carrying value.
9 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 2008 2007 m m Bank overdraft 74.8 37.7 Bank loans 10.0 367.5 Trade creditors 7.8 1.9 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 898.3 819.6 Accruals and deferred income 8.8 9.0 Other creditors 9.6 9.3 1,009.3 1,245.0 Trade creditors are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30 day terms and other creditors are non-interest bearing and have an average term of six months.
10 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 2008 2007 m m Bank loans 1,114.9 548.6 124 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 11 Provisions for liabilities and charges Eurostar Exceptional Insurance onerous redundancy claims a contract b provision c Total m m m m At 1 January 2008 1.7 27.9 1.5 31.1 Provided in the year 1.9 1.9 Amortisation of discount 2.0 2.0 Utilised in the year 0.2 8.4 1.5 10.1 At 31 December 2008 3.4 21.5 24.9 a The insurance claims provision arises from estimated exposures at the year end, the majority of which will be utilised in the next six years and comprise provisions for existing claims arising in the UK and North America.
b A provision was recognised in 2006 for the Companys onerous contract for Eurostar with ICRRL.
8.4m was paid to ICRRL during the year.
The provision will be utilised during the period up to the end of our contract in 2010, with the final payment being made in February 2011. c This provision stems from the reorganisation of the Groups operations in the UK, announced in 2007 which settled during 2008.
12 Deferred tax The major components of the provision for deferred taxation are as follows: 2008 2007 m m Accelerated capital allowances 0.2 Other timing differences 5.8 0.9 Net deferred tax asset at 31 December 2008 5.6 0.9 The reconciliation of deferred tax balances is as follows: m Deferred tax asset at 1 January 2008 0.9 Credited to profit and loss 2.6 Credited to equity in relation to cash flow hedges 2.1 Deferred tax asset at 31 December 2008 5.6 Timing differences associated with Group investments No deferred tax 2007: nil is recognised on the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and associates, as no dividends have been accrued as receivable, and no binding agreement to distribute the past earnings in future has been entered into by the subsidiaries.
National Express Group PLC 125 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Company Accounts continued 13 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings The effective interest rates at the balance sheet date were as follows: 2008 2007 m Maturity Effective interest rate m Maturity Effective interest rate Current Bank overdraft 74.8 On demand BASE 1.0% 37.7 On demand BASE 1.0% Short term sterling bank loans 10.0 2009 LIBOR 0.5% Euro bank loans unhedged 216.8 April 2008 EURIBOR 0.5% Euro bank loans subject to interest hedge 150.7 April 2008 4.6% Bank loans 10.0 367.5 Total current 84.8 405.2 Non-current Sterling bank loans 600.0 June 2011 LIBOR 0.5% US dollar bank loans subject to interest rate hedge 50.0 June 2011 7.3% US dollar bank loans unhedged 25.0 June 2011 LIBOR 0.4% Euro bank loans subject to interest rate hedge 514.9 September 2010 4.9% 473.6 June 2011 4.6% Bank loans 1,114.9 548.6 Total non-current 1,114.9 548.6 During the year 604.0m and $150.0m of debt were exchanged for 600.0m of sterling debt to reduce the Groups exposure to changing foreign exchange rates.
Details of the Companys interest rate management strategy and interest rate swaps are included in note 30 and note 31 of the Group accounts.
14 Called-up share capital 2008 2007 m m At 31 December: Authorised: 200,000,000 2007: 200,000,000 ordinary shares of 5p each 10.0 10.0 Issued called-up and fully paid: 154,687,284 2007: 154,627,671 ordinary shares of 5p each 7.7 7.7 Number Movement in ordinary shares during the year m of shares At 1 January 2007 7.7 153,835,012 Exercise of share options 792,659 At 1 January 2008 7.7 154,627,671 Exercise of share options 59,613 At 31 December 2008 7.7 154,687,284 The total number of share options exercised in the year by employees of the Group was 475,813 2007: 1,008,457 of which 59,613 2007: 792,659 exercises were satisfied by newly issued shares and 416,200 2007: 215,798 exercises were satisfied by transferring shares from the National Express Employee Benefit Trust.
126 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15 Shareholders funds and statement of changes in shareholders equity Capital Share Share redemption Own Hedging Profit and capital premium reserve shares reserve loss account Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2008 7.7 195.3 0.2 16.3 3.0 241.5 425.4 Shares issued 0.4 0.4 Shares purchased 1.7 1.7 Shares utilised 2.8 2.8 Share-based payments 1.6 1.6 Tax on share-based payments credited to reserves 0.1 0.1 Hedge movements 8.9 8.9 Dividends 59.6 59.6 Loss for the year 59.0 59.0 At 31 December 2008 7.7 195.7 0.2 15.2 11.9 121.8 298.3 Own shares comprise treasury shares and shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust.
No additional shares have been added as treasury shares within equity for future issue under the Groups share schemes or cancellation.
Capital Share Share redemption Own Hedging Profit and capital premium reserve shares reserve loss account Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2007 7.7 189.8 0.2 16.7 4.1 339.3 516.2 Shares issued 5.5 5.5 Shares utilised 0.4 0.4 Share-based payments 1.5 1.5 Tax on share-based payments credited to reserves 0.9 0.9 Hedge movements 1.1 1.1 Dividends 54.0 54.0 Loss for the year 45.8 45.8 At 31 December 2007 7.7 195.3 0.2 16.3 3.0 241.5 425.4 16 Retirement benefits The Company participates in both the National Express Group Staff Pension Fund a multi-employer funded defined benefit scheme and the WM Pension Scheme a defined contribution scheme.
Contributions to this scheme are determined by independent professionally qualified actuaries.
The details of the latest actuarial valuation are detailed in note 35 to the Group accounts.
The pension charge for the year amounted to 2.5m 2007: 0.8m.
National Express Group PLC 127 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Company Accounts continued 17 Share-based payment During the year ended 31 December 2008, the Company had the following share-based payment arrangements, which are described in note 7 b to the Group accounts.
For the following disclosure, share options with a nil exercise price have been disclosed separately to avoid distorting the weighted average exercise prices.
The number of share options in existence during the year was as follows: 2008 2007 Weighted Weighted Number average average of share exercise price Number of exercise price options p share options p Options without a nil exercise price: At 1 January 52,131 759 493,123 689 Granted during the year 6,697 922 Lapsed during the year 4,867 630 Group transfers during the year 2,500 863 15,715 710 Exercised during the year 35,803 793 451,840 682 1 Outstanding at 31 December 20,525 742 52,131 759 Exercisable at 31 December 13,828 655 52,131 759 Options with a nil exercise price: At 1 January 815,840 nil 930,791 nil Granted during the year 277,866 nil 247,102 nil Lapsed during the year 284,469 nil 242,411 nil Group transfers during the year 10,733 nil 82,016 nil Exercised during the year 224,084 nil 37,626 nil Outstanding at 31 December 574,420 nil 815,840 nil Exercisable at 31 December 70,815 Total outstanding at 31 December 594,945 867,971 Total exercisable at 31 December 84,643 52,131 1 Included within this balance are options over 3,000 2007: nil shares for which no expense has been recognised in accordance with the transitional provisions of FRS 20, as the options were granted before 7 November 2002 and have not been subsequently modified.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2008 had exercise prices that were between 398p and 922p 2007: between 398p and 862.5p excluding options with a nil exercise price.
The range of exercise prices for options was as follows: Exercise price p 2008 2007 350650 3,191 3,191 650950 17,334 48,940 9501250 20,525 52,131 The options have a weighted average contractual life of two years 2007: two years.
Options were exercised throughout the year and the weighted average share price at exercise was 863p 2007: 1144p.
128 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 17 Share-based payment continued The weighted average fair value of the remaining share options granted during the year was calculated using a stochastic model, with the following assumptions and inputs: Share options without nil exercise price Share options with nil exercise price 2008 2007 2008 2007 Risk free interest rate 4.2%4.9% Expected volatility 26.8%27.2% 25.1%32.0% 19.0% Peer group volatility 30.8% 25.7%25.9% Expected option life in years 36 years 3 years 3 years Expected dividend yield 3.4%4.0% 3.8%7.2% 2.7%2.8% Weighted average share price 884p1135p 547p972p 1236p1295p Weighted average exercise price 922p1163p 0p 0p Weighted average fair value of options granted 140p211p 166p868p 684p1194p There are no 2007 assumptions and inputs because there were no share options without nil exercise price granted during 2007 to Company employees.
Experience to date has shown that approximately 15% 2007: 15% of options are exercised early, principally due to redundancies.
18 Commitments and contingencies Operating lease commitments The Company has entered into operating leases on certain properties.
Annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Land and buildings 2008 2007 m m Operating leases which expire: Within two to five years 1.1 0.6 Over five years 0.5 Contingent liabilities a Guarantees The Company has guaranteed credit facilities totalling 129.5m 2007: 76.4m of certain subsidiaries.
b Bonds and letters of credit In the ordinary course of business, the Company is required to issue counter-indemnities in support of its subsidiaries operations.
The Company has other performance bonds which include the 16.1m 2007: 15.5m performance bond in respect of Inter-Capital and Regional Rail Limited and performance bonds in respect of businesses in the United States of America of 76.6m 2007: 63.4m.
c Claims The Directors Report discloses that Ray OToole is a defendant in proceedings being brought before the Supreme Court of New South Wales.
These proceedings relate to a period of time when Ray OToole was director of Bosnjak Holdings Pty Ltd, which was a subsidiary of the Group.
The Directors believe no liabilities will arise from these proceedings and therefore no provision has been made at 31 December 2008 or 31 December 2007.
19 Related party transactions The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in paragraph 3b of FRS 8, Related party disclosures from disclosing transactions with related parties.
National Express Group PLC 129 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
