National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 37 Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting and Accounts, including the consolidated financial statements records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the and the Company financial statements, in accordance with financial position of the Company on a consolidated and applicable law and regulations.
individual basis and to enable them to ensure that the consolidated financial statements comply with the Companies Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the Company statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. have prepared the consolidated financial statements in They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Company and its subsidiaries and hence for taking reasonable IFRS as adopted by the European Union, and the Company steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other financial statements in accordance with applicable law and irregularities.
United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
In preparing the The Directors are responsible for ensuring that publication of consolidated financial statements, the directors have also financial statements on the website of the Company or of a elected to comply with IFRS, issued by the International related company is in accordance with UK legislation and for Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The consolidated financial maintenance and integrity of that website.
Legislation in other statements and Company financial statements are required by jurisdictions governing the preparation and dissemination of law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the financial statements may differ from UK legislation.
Company on a consolidated and individual basis and of the consolidated profit of the Company for that period.
By order of the Board In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Helen Mahy consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and Company Secretary prudent: 5 June 2008 state that the consolidated financial statements comply with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, and with regard to the Company financial statements that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the consolidated financial statements and Company financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing both the consolidated financial statements and the Company financial statements.
They also confirm that the annual report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Company.
