Accounting policies These revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity are apportioned between regulatory A.
Basis of preparation of regulatory accounting statements businesses using the following arbitrary bases: These regulatory accounting statements have been prepared in accordance with Standard Special Condition A30 the condition of National Grid Gas plcs DN gas transporter licence Corporate costs charged to National Grid Gas by National Grid are apportioned between issued under the Utilities Act 2000 the licence and in accordance with International Financial the regulatory businesses using the same metrics as National Grid uses to determine the Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and as allocated charge to National Grid Gas.
These metrics take into account relative revenue, adopted by the European Union.
They are prepared on the basis of all IFRS accounting operating profit, employees and net assets of the regulatory businesses.
standards and interpretations that are mandatory for periods ending 31 March 2008 and in The non-current amount owed by National Grid Gas Holdings plc is apportioned between accordance with the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and the regulatory businesses in the ratio of their estimated regulatory values.
Article 4 of the European Union IAS regulation.
The 2007 comparative financial information has Net debt at 1 April 2005 the first balance sheet date for this format of regulatory also been prepared on this basis.
accounting statements, which comprises borrowings and bank overdrafts, less cash, cash equivalents and financial investments at that date, was apportioned between regulatory These regulatory accounting statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except businesses in the ratio of estimated regulatory values at that date.
No amounts were for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
apportioned to the fide-minimis business or to other activities.
The amounts at subsequent These regulatory accounting statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the period ends are determined by separately adjusting these initially apportioned amounts by functional currency of National Grid Gas plc.
the cash generated or used by each regulatory business, movements in fair value of net debt allocated to each business and other funding movements.
Movements in fair value The preparation of regulatory accounting statements requires management to make estimates and other funding movements are apportioned between the regulatory businesses relative and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of to the net debt at the start of the period in which the movements occurred.
contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the Interest is apportioned between the regulatory businesses according to the relative level of reporting period.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.
net debt determined according to the principles set out above.
Current and deferred taxation are apportioned between the regulatory businesses relative Attribution of revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity The condition requires that all the revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity of National Grid to the results of undertaking notional current and deferred tax computations for each Gas are attributed to the regulatory businesses reported in the regulatory accounting regulatory business, commencing from 1 April 2005.
Prior year tax adjustments substantially relating to transactions which occurred prior to 1 April 2005 are apportioned statements.
Those revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity which are not directly in the ratio of estimated regulatory values at that date.
The estimated capital allowances attributable to specific regulatory businesses have been apportioned between one or more pools at 1 April 2005 were apportioned between the regulatory businesses in the ratio of regulatory businesses according to whether they are related items or unrelated items.
estimated regulatory values at that date.
Current tax liabilities have been apportioned Related items relative to current tax charges and tax paid or recovered is determined by balance.
Related items comprise all those revenues, costs, assets and liabilities of National Grid Gas Equity dividends primarily funded from profits for the year have been apportioned on the which are not directly attributable to a specific regulatory business, but where there is a basis of profits for the year.
Equity dividends primarily funded from retained earnings have reasonable basis for apportioning those revenues, costs, assets or liabilities between the been apportioned on the basis of relative regulatory values.
These items comprise shared services and certain business services.
The total equity of National Grid Gas at 1 April 2005, comprising called up share capital, share premium account, retained profits and other reserves, was determined as a These revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are apportioned between regulatory businesses in balancing item at that date.
The amounts at subsequent period ends are determined by accordance with the activities giving rise to the income, costs, assets or liabilities.
separately adjusting these initially allocated amounts by the equity movements derived for Unrelated items each regulatory business as a consequence of all other allocations and funding Unrelated items comprise all those revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity of National movements.
Grid Gas which are not directly attributable to a specific regulatory business, and where there is no reasonable basis for apportioning those revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity between the regulatory businesses.
These items mainly comprise corporate activities, financial items, taxation, dividends, share capital and reserves.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 33 Intangible assets under development are not amortised.
Other non-current intangible assets are B.
Basis of consolidation amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives.
The principal These regulatory accounting statements incorporate the financial information of the Company amortisation periods for categories of intangible assets are: and its subsidiaries in respect of the regulatory businesses specified in the condition.
Amortisation periods Years A subsidiary is defined as an entity controlled by the Company.
Control is achieved where the Software 3 to 5 Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Intangible emission allowances are accounted for in accordance with accounting policy P. Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used under UK E. Property, plant and equipment generally accepted accounting principles UK GAAP or other framework used in the individual Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost or deemed cost at the date of transition to financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries into line with those used by the IFRS, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
Company in its consolidated financial statements under IFRS.
Cost includes payroll costs and finance costs incurred which are directly attributable to the construction of property, plant and equipment.
The results of subsidiaries acquired during the year and covered by the accounting requirements of the condition are included in the regulatory accounting statements from the Property, plant and equipment include assets in which National Grid Gass interest comprises effective date of acquisition.
The results of subsidiaries disposed of during the year, or which legally protected statutory or contractual rights of use.
otherwise cease to be covered by the accounting requirements of the condition, are included in Additions represent the purchase or construction of new assets, including capital expenditure the regulatory accounting statements up to the effective date of disposal, or the date when for safety and environmental assets, and extensions to, or enhancements to, or replacement of those accounting requirements cease to apply.
C. Foreign currencies Contributions received towards the cost of property, plant and equipment are included in Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of National Grid Gas plc or the creditors as deferred income and credited on a straight-line basis to the profit and loss account subsidiary concerned are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the over the estimated economic life of the assets to which they relate.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or assets in the course of construction.
Other in foreign currencies are retranslated at closing exchange rates.
Other non-monetary assets are property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis at rates estimated to not retranslated unless they are carried at fair value.
write off their book values over their estimated useful economic lives.
In assessing estimated Gains and losses arising on retranslation of monetary assets and liabilities are included in the useful economic lives, which are reviewed on a regular basis, consideration is given to any income statement.
contractual arrangements and operational requirements relating to particular assets.
Unless otherwise determined by operational requirements, the depreciation periods for the principal On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of overseas financing operations are translated at categories of property, plant and equipment are, in general, as shown below: exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the weighted average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising are Depreciation periods Years classified as equity and transferred to the consolidation translation reserve.
Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 Plant and machinery: D. Intangible assets mains, services and regulating equipment 30 to 100 Identifiable intangible assets are recorded at cost less accumulated amortisation and any Motor vehicles and office equipment 3 to 10 provision for impairment.
Internally generated intangible fixed assets, such as software, are recognised only if an asset is F. Impairment of assets created that can be identified: it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic Impairments of assets are calculated as the difference between the carrying value of the asset benefits: and that the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Where no and its recoverable amount, if lower.
Where such an asset does not generate cash flows that internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recorded are independent from other assets, the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
that asset belongs is estimated.
34 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 Recoverable amount is defined as the higher of fair value less costs to sell and estimated value The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and in use at the date the impairment review is undertaken.
reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be recovered.
Unrecognised deferred tax Value in use represents the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted using a assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that is has pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities, when they relate to income taxes levied Tests for impairment are carried out only if there is some indication that the carrying value of the by the same taxation authority and it is intended to settle current tax asset and liabilities on a assets may have been impaired.
Impairments are recognised in the income statement and, where material, are disclosed separately.
H. Inventories Inventories, which comprise raw materials and consumables, are stated at cost less provision G. Taxation for damage and obsolescence.
Cost comprises acquisition cost and those costs that have been Current tax incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws I.
Revenues used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the Revenue principally represents the sales value derived from the transmission of gas during the balance sheet date.
It excludes value added tax and intra-group sales.
Current tax assets and liabilities arising from transfer pricing adjustments, which are expected The sales value for the transmission of gas is largely determined from the amount of system to be fully recovered through group relief, are initially recognised when tax returns are submitted capacity sold for the year and the amount of gas transported in the year, evaluated at to the tax authorities.
contractual prices on a monthly basis.
Where revenue for the year exceeds the maximum amount permitted by regulatory agreement and adjustments will be made to future prices to Deferred tax reflect this over-recovery, a liability for the over-recovery is not recognised as such an Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method and is recognised on adjustment to future prices relates to the provision of future services.
Similarly, an asset is not temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial recognised where a regulatory agreement permits adjustments to be made to future prices in statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised on all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that is probable that taxable profits will be J.
Pensions available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and The substantial majority of National Grid Gas employees are members of the defined benefit liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition other section of the National Grid UK Pension Scheme.
There is no contractual arrangement or than a business combination of assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost of the scheme to National Grid Gas.
accounting profits nor the taxable profits.
Accordingly National Grid Gas accounts for the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme.
The pension charge for the year represents the contributions payable to the scheme Deferred tax liabilities are recognised on taxable temporary differences arising on investments for the period and a share of the assets and liabilities, or the actuarial gains and losses of the in subsidiaries except where the Company is able to control the reversal of the temporary Scheme are not recognised.
difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
K. Leases Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the Rentals under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on the tax rates and tax laws that have been the term of the relevant lease.
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 35 An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the consolidated L. Financial instruments assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities and is recorded at the proceeds Financial assets, liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of received, net of direct issue costs with an annual amount equal to the nominal amount of the the contractual arrangements entered into, and recognised on trade date.
Available-for-sale shares issued included in the share capital account and the balance recorded in the share financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified premium account.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of financial instruments measured at fair value Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised that are quoted in active markets are based on bid prices for assets held and offer prices for cost, less any appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
When independent prices are not available, fair values are determined by established for irrecoverable amounts when there is objective evidence that amounts due under using valuation techniques which are consistent with techniques commonly used by the relevant the original payment terms will not be collected.
Indications that the trade receivable may market.
The techniques use observable market data.
become irrecoverable would include financial difficulties of the debtor, likelihood of the debtors insolvency, and default or significant failure of payment.
Trade payables are initially recognised M. Hedge accounting at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
National Grid Gas enters into both derivative financial instruments derivatives and nonLoans receivable and other receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest derivative financial instruments in order to manage interest rate and foreign currency rate method.
Interest income, together with gains and losses when the loans and receivables exposures, and commodity price risks associated with underlying business activities and the are derecognised or impaired, are recognised in the income statement.
Other financial investments are recognised at fair value plus directly related incremental Hedge accounting allows derivatives to be designated as a hedge of another non-derivative transaction costs and are subsequently carried at fair value on the balance sheet.
Changes in financial instrument, to mitigate the impact of potential volatility in the income statement of the fair value of investments classified as available-for-sale are recognised directly in equity, changes in fair value of the derivative instruments.
To qualify for hedge accounting until the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired.
At this time, the cumulative documentation is prepared specifying the hedging strategy, the component transactions and gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the net profit or loss for the period.
methodology used for effectiveness measurement.
National Grid Gas uses two hedge Investment income on investments classified as available-for-sale is recognised on an effective accounting methods.
interest rate basis and taken through interest income in the income statement.
Firstly, changes in the carrying value of financial instruments that are designated and effective Borrowings, which include interest-bearing loans, UK retail price index RPI linked debt and as hedges of future cash flows cash flow hedges are recognised directly in equity and any overdrafts, are recorded at their initial fair value which normally reflects the proceeds received, ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts deferred in net of direct issue costs less any repayments.
Subsequently they are stated at amortised cost, equity in respect of cash flow hedges are subsequently recognised in the income statement in using the effective interest rate method.
Any difference between the proceeds after direct issue the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
Where a non-financial asset costs and the redemption value is recognised over the term of the borrowing in the income or a non-financial liability results from a forecasted transaction or firm commitment being statement using the effective interest rate method.
hedged, the amounts deferred in equity are included in the initial measurement of that nonmonetary asset or liability.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or development of qualifying assets being assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their Secondly, fair value hedge accounting offsets the changes in the fair value of the hedging intended use are added to their cost.
Such additions cease when the assets are substantially instrument against the change in the fair value of the hedged item in respect to the risk being ready for their intended use.
These changes are recognised in the income statement to the extent the fair value hedge is effective.
Adjustments made to the carrying amount of the hedged item for fair value Where derivatives are embedded in financial instruments or other contracts that are closely hedges will be amortised over the remaining life, in line with the hedged item.
related to those instruments or host contracts, no adjustment is made with respect to such derivative clauses.
In particular, interest payments on UK RPI debt are linked to movements in Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised the UK retail price index.
The link to RPI is considered to be an embedded derivative, which is in the income statement as they arise, within finance costs.
closely related to the underlying debt instrument based on the view that there is a strong Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, relationship existing between interest rates and inflation in the UK economy.
Consequently, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gains or these embedded derivatives are not accounted for separately from the debt instrument.
losses relating to cash flow hedges recognised in equity are initially retained in equity and subsequently recognised in the income statement, in the same periods in which the previously 36 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 hedged item affects net profit or loss.
For fair value hedges, the cumulative adjustment P. Emission allowances recorded to the carrying value of the hedged item at the date hedge accounting is discontinued, Emission allowances, which relate to the emissions of carbon dioxide, are recorded as an is amortised to the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
intangible asset within current assets and are initially recorded at cost, and subsequently at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
For allocations of emission allowances granted by the If a hedged forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss UK Government, cost is deemed to be equal to fair value at the date of allocation.
Receipts of recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement immediately.
such grants are treated as deferred income and are recognised in the income statement in the N. Share-based payments period in which carbon dioxide emissions are made.
A provision is recorded in respect of the National Grid issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees of National Grid obligation to deliver emission allowances and charges are recognised in the income statement in the period in which carbon dioxide emissions are made.
Income from the sale of emission allowances is reported as part of other operating income.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments, based on an Q.
Cash and cash equivalents estimate of shares that will eventually vest, is recognised on a straight-line basis over the Cash and cash equivalents include cash held at bank and in hand, together with short-term vesting period, as an operating cost and an increase in equity.
Payments made by National Grid highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to Gas to National Grid in respect of share-based payments are recognised as a reduction in an insignificant change in value.
Business performance and exceptional items and The businesses reported in these regulatory accounting statements do not have their own and remeasurements separate share capital or reserves.
Accordingly, equity is reported only in total for each National Grid Gass financial performance is analysed into two components: business business.
performance, which excludes exceptional items and remeasurements: and exceptional items and remeasurements.
Business performance is used by management to monitor financial S. Dividends performance, as it is considered to increase the comparability of our reported financial Dividends are recognised in the financial year in which they are approved.
performance from year to year.
Business performance subtotals, which exclude exceptional items and remeasurements, are presented on the face of the income statement or in the notes T. Areas of judgement and key sources of estimation uncertainty to the financial statements.
The preparation of regulatory accounting statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income and expenditure that, in the contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the judgment of management, should be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, reporting period.
Information about such either by their nature or their size, to an understanding of our financial performance and judgements and estimation is contained in the accounting policies and or the notes to the significantly distort the comparability of financial performance between periods.
regulatory accounting statements, and the key areas are summarised below.
Items of income or expense that are considered by management for designation as exceptional Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the items include such items as significant restructurings, write-downs or impairments of nonregulatory accounting statements: current assets, significant changes in environmental provisions, and gains or losses on disposals of businesses or investments.
The basis of attributing items to the regulatory businesses accounting policy A.
The categorisation of certain items as exceptional and the definition of adjusted profits Costs arising from restructuring programmes primarily relate to redundancy costs.
Redundancy note 3. costs are charged to the income statement in the year in which an irrevocable commitment is The exemptions adopted under IFRS including, in particular, those relating to business made to incur the costs and the main features of the restructuring plan have been announced to combinations accounting policy A. affected employees.
The non-recognition of certain net current tax liabilities expected to arise from transfer Remeasurements comprise gains or losses recorded in the income statement arising from pricing adjustments accounting policy G. changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments to the extent that hedge accounting The recognition of defined benefit pension costs as if the National Grid UK Pension is not achieved or is not effective.
Scheme was a defined contribution scheme accounting policy J.
Hedge accounting and derivative financial instruments accounting policy M. National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 37 Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year: Review of residual lives, carrying values and impairment charges for other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment accounting policies D, E and F. Valuation of financial instruments and derivatives notes 11, 14 and 16.
Revenue recognition and assessment of unbilled revenue accounting policy I.
38 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08
