Adoption of new accounting standards New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations adopted in 2007 08 IFRIC 13 on customer loyalty Clarifies that the sale of goods or services together with customer During the year ended 31 March 2008, National Grid Gas adopted the following amendments to programmes award credits for example, loyalty points or the right to free products is accounted for as a multiple-element transaction.
The consideration International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, International Accounting Standards IAS received from the customer is allocated between the components of and the International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee pronouncements IFRIC.
the arrangement based on their fair values, which will defer the None of these had a material impact on consolidated results or assets and liabilities.
IFRIC 13 will be adopted on 1 April IFRIC 8 on share-based Addresses the issue of whether IFRS 2 Share-based Payment 2008. payments applies to transactions in which the entity cannot identify specifically IFRIC 14 on defined benefit Considers the limit on the measurement of a defined benefit asset to some or all of the goods or services received.
assets and minimum funding the present value of economic benefits available in the form of IFRIC 9 on the reassessment of Prohibits reassessment of the treatment of embedded derivatives requirements refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan embedded derivatives subsequent to initial recognition unless there is a change in the terms plus unrecognised gains and losses, as set out in IAS 19 Employee of the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows that otherwise Benefits.
The interpretation considers when refunds or reductions in would be required under the contract, in which case reassessment is future contributions should be considered available, particularly when required.
IFRIC 14 will be adopted on 1 April 2008.
IFRIC 10 on interim financial States that any impairment losses on goodwill and certain financial reporting and impairment assets recognised in an interim financial statement may not be Amendment to IAS 1 on the Requires changes to the presentation of financial statements and reversed in subsequent interim or annual financial statements.
presentation of financial adopts revised titles for the primary statements, although companies statements may continue to use the existing titles.
It is expected that the IFRIC 11 on group and Provides guidance on whether share-based transactions involving amendment to IAS 1 will be adopted on 1 April 2009. treasury share treasury shares or involving subsidiary undertakings for instance, transactions options over a parents shares should be accounted for as equityIFRS 3R on business Makes a number of changes to the accounting for business settled or cash-settled, share-based payment transactions.
combinations combinations, including requirements that all payments to purchase a business are to be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with some contingent payments subsequently remeasured at fair value New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations not yet adopted through income: an option to calculate goodwill based on the parents National Grid Gas has yet to adopt the following standards and interpretations, but these are share of net assets only or to include goodwill related to the minority not expected to have a material impact on consolidated results or assets and liabilities.
Further interest: and a requirement that all transaction costs be expensed.
It information is provided in the accounting policies section of the Operating and Financial is expected that IFRS 3R will be adopted on 1 April 2010. Review.
IAS 27R on consolidated and Requires the effects of all transactions with non-controlling interests IFRS 8 on operating segments Sets out the requirements for the disclosure of information about an individual financial statements to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control.
The revised entitys operating segments and about the entitys products and standard also specifies the accounting when control is lost.
It is services, the geographical areas in which it operates and its major expected that IAS 27R will be adopted on 1 April 2010. customers.
IFRS 8 is required to be adopted on 1 April 2009.
Amendment to IFRS 2 on Clarifies the definition of vesting conditions and the accounting Amendment to IAS 23 on Removes the option of immediately recognising as an expense share-based payments treatment of cancellations.
Vesting conditions are defined as either borrowing costs borrowing costs that relate to assets that take a substantial period of service conditions or performance conditions.
Cancellations by time to get ready for use or sale.
The amendment to IAS 23 is employees are accounted for in the same way as cancellations by the required to be adopted on 1 April 2009. company.
It is expected that the amendment to IFRS 2 will be adopted on 1 April 2009.
IFRIC 12 on service concession Applies to contractual arrangements whereby a private sector arrangements operator participates in the development, financing, operation and Amendments to IAS 32 and IAS Addresses the classification as a liability or as equity of certain maintenance of infrastructure for public sector services, for example, 1 on puttable financial puttable financial instruments and instruments, or components under private finance initiative PFI contracts.
IFRIC 12 will be instruments and obligations thereof, which impose upon an entity an obligation to deliver a pro adopted on 1 April 2008. arising on liquidation rata share of net assets on liquidation.
The amendment to IAS 32 and IAS 1 are required to be adopted on 1 April 2009.
42 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08
