National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 39 Accounting policies for the year ended 31 March 2008 The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the A.
Basis of preparation of consolidated year are included in the consolidated income statement from financial statements under IFRS the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of National Grid Gass principal activities involve the transmission disposal, as appropriate.
and distribution of gas and the provision of gas metering services within Great Britain.
The Company is a public limited C. Foreign currencies company incorporated and domiciled in England with its Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of registered office at 1-3 Strand, London WC2 5EH.
the Company or subsidiary concerned are recorded at the rates These consolidated financial statements were approved for of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each issue by the Board of Directors on 5 June 2008. balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at closing These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in exchange rates.
Other non-monetary assets are not accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards retranslated unless they are carried at fair value.
IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and as adopted by the European Union.
They are Gains and losses arising on retranslation of monetary assets prepared on the basis of all IFRS accounting standards and and liabilities are included in the income statement.
interpretations that are mandatory for periods ending 31 March On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of overseas financing 2008 and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 operations that have a functional currency different from the applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and Article 4 of Companys functional currency of sterling are translated at the European Union IAS regulation.
The 2007 comparative exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income financial information has also been prepared on this basis.
and expense items are translated at the weighted average The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising are historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain classified as equity and transferred to the consolidated financial instruments.
These consolidated financial statements are presented in D. Intangible assets pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company.
Identifiable intangible assets are recorded at cost less accumulated amortisation and any provision for impairment.
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported Internally generated intangible fixed assets, such as software, amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent are recognised only if an asset is created that can be identified: assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and it is probable that the asset created will generate future expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ economic benefits: and that the development cost of the asset from these estimates.
Where no internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recorded as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial Intangible assets under development are not amortised.
Other statements of the Company and its subsidiaries.
non-current intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives.
The principal A subsidiary is defined as an entity controlled by the Company.
amortisation periods for categories of intangible assets are: Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to Amortisation periods Years obtain benefits from its activities.
Software 3 to 5 Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the Intangible emission allowances are accounted for in accounting policies used under UK generally accepted accordance with accounting policy T. accounting principles UK GAAP or other framework used in the individual financial statements of the Company and its E. Property, plant and equipment subsidiaries into line with those used by the Company in its Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost or deemed consolidated financial statements under IFRS.
Inter-company cost at the date of transition to IFRS, less accumulated transactions are eliminated.
depreciation and any impairment losses.
40 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 Cost includes payroll and finance costs incurred which are Impairments are recognised in the income statement and, directly attributable to the construction of property, plant and where material, are disclosed separately.
G. Taxation Property, plant and equipment include assets in which the Current tax Companys interest comprises legally protected statutory or Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior contractual rights of use.
periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered Additions represent the purchase or construction of new assets, from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax including capital expenditure for safety and environmental laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or assets, and extensions to, enhancements to, or replacement of substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Current tax assets and liabilities arising from transfer pricing Contributions received towards the cost of property, plant and adjustments, which are expected to be fully recovered through equipment are included in payables as deferred income and group relief, are initially recognised when tax returns are credited on a straight-line basis to the income statement over submitted to the tax authorities.
the estimated economic useful lives of the assets to which they Deferred tax relate.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or assets in the method and is recognised on temporary differences between course of construction.
Other property, plant and equipment are the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial depreciated, principally on a straight-line basis, at rates statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the estimated to write off their book values over their estimated computation of taxable profit.
In assessing estimated useful economic Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised on all taxable lives, which are reviewed on a regular basis, consideration is temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised given to any contractual arrangements and operational to the extent that is probable that taxable profits will be requirements relating to particular assets.
Unless otherwise available against which deductible temporary differences can determined by operational requirements, the depreciation be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the periods for the principal categories of property, plant and temporary difference arises from the initial recognition other equipment are, in general, as shown in the table below: than a business combination of assets and liabilities in a Depreciation periods Years transaction that affects neither the accounting profits nor the Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 taxable profits.
Plant and machinery Deferred tax liabilities are recognised on taxable temporary mains, services and regulating equipment 30 to 100 differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where meters and metering equipment 5 to 18 the Company is able to control the reversal of the temporary Motor vehicles and office equipment 3 to 10 difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
F. Impairment of assets Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to Impairments of assets are calculated as the difference between apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is the carrying value of the asset and its recoverable amount, if realised, based on the tax rates and tax laws that have been lower.
Where such an asset does not generate cash flows that enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
are independent from other assets, the recoverable amount of Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, the cash-generating unit to which that asset belongs is except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to estimated.
equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in Recoverable amount is defined as the higher of fair value less equity.
costs to sell and estimated value in use at the date the The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each impairment review is undertaken.
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer Value in use represents the present value of expected future probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow cash flows, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be recovered.
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that is has future cash flows have not been adjusted.
become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Tests for impairment are carried out only if there is some indication that the carrying value of the assets may have been Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a impaired.
legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities, when they relate to income taxes National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 41 levied by the same taxation authority and it is intended to settle same geographical area, Great Britain, no secondary reporting current tax asset and liabilities on a net basis.
H. Discontinued operations M. Pensions Cash flows and operations that relate to a major component of The substantial majority of National Grid Gass employees are the business or geographical region that has been sold are members of the defined benefit section of the National Grid UK shown separately from continuing operations.
There is no contractual arrangement or stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost of the Scheme to National Grid Gas.
Inventories recognised as if it were a defined contribution scheme.
The Inventories, which comprise raw materials and consumables, pension charge for the year represents the contributions are stated at cost less provision for damage and obsolescence.
payable to the Scheme for the period and a share of the assets Cost comprises acquisition cost and those costs that have been and liabilities, or the actuarial gains and losses of the Scheme incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and are not recognised.
Environmental costs Rentals under operating leases are charged to income on a Provision is made for environmental costs, based on future straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
estimated expenditures, discounted to present values.
Changes in the provision arising from revised estimates or discount rates O.
Financial instruments or changes in the expected timing of expenditures are recognised in the income statement.
The unwinding of the Financial assets, liabilities and equity instruments are classified discount is included within the income statement as a financing according to the substance of the contractual arrangements charge.
entered into, and recognised on trade date.
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any other categories.
K. Revenue Revenue represents the sales value derived from the Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and transmission and distribution of gas and the provision of gas subsequently measured at amortised cost, less any appropriate metering services during the year.
It excludes value added tax allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
A provision is and intra-group sales.
established for irrecoverable amounts when there is objective evidence that amounts due under the original payment terms The sales value for the transmission and distribution of gas is will not be collected.
Indications that the trade receivable may largely determined from the amount of system capacity sold for become irrecoverable would include financial difficulties of the the year and the amount of gas transported in the year, debtor, likelihood of the debtors insolvency, and default or evaluated at contractual prices on a monthly basis.
Where significant failure of payment.
Trade payables are initially revenue for the year exceeds the maximum amount permitted recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at by regulatory agreement and adjustments will be made to future amortised cost.
prices to reflect this over-recovery, a liability for the overrecovery is not recognised as such an adjustment to future Loans receivable and other receivables are carried at amortised prices relates to the provision of future services.
Similarly, an cost using the effective interest rate method.
Interest income, asset is not recognised where a regulatory agreement permits together with gains and losses when the loans and receivables adjustments to be made to future prices in respect of an underare derecognised or impaired, are recognised in the income recovery.
The sales value for the provision of gas metering services is Other financial investments are recognised at fair value plus largely derived from monthly contractual charges for the directly related incremental transaction costs and are provision of individual meters under long-term contractual subsequently carried at fair value on the balance sheet.
Changes in the fair value of investments classified as availablefor-sale are recognised directly in equity, until the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired.
At this time, the L. Segmental information cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is Segmental information is presented in accordance with the included in the net profit or loss for the period.
Investment management responsibilities and economic characteristics, income on investments classified as available-for-sale is including consideration of risks and returns, of business recognised on an effective interest rate basis and taken through activities.
The Company assesses the performance of its interest income in the income statement.
businesses principally on the basis of operating profit before exceptional items and remeasurements.
The primary reporting Borrowings, which include interest-bearing loans, UK retail price format is by business.
As all of our operations are within the index RPI linked debt and overdrafts, are recorded at their 42 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 initial fair value which normally reflects the proceeds received, Firstly, changes in the carrying value of financial instruments net of direct issue costs less any repayments.
Subsequently that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows they are stated at amortised cost, using the effective interest cash flow hedges are recognised directly in equity and any rate method.
Any difference between the proceeds after direct ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income issue costs and the redemption value is recognised over the statement.
Amounts deferred in equity in respect of cash flow term of the borrowing in the income statement using the hedges are subsequently recognised in the income statement in effective interest rate method.
the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
Where a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, results from a forecasted transaction or firm commitment being construction or development of qualifying assets being assets hedged, the amounts deferred in equity are included in the that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready initial measurement of that non-monetary asset or liability.
for their intended use are added to their cost.
Such additions cease when the assets are substantially ready for their intended Secondly, fair value hedge accounting offsets the changes in use.
the fair value of the hedging instrument against the change in the fair value of the hedged item in respect to the risk being Where we have derivatives embedded in financial instruments hedged.
These changes are recognised in the income or other contracts that are closely related to those instruments statement to the extent the fair value hedge is effective.
or host contracts, no adjustment is made with respect to such Adjustments made to the carrying amount of the hedged item derivative clauses.
In particular, interest payments on UK RPI for fair value hedges will be amortised over the remaining life, in debt are linked to movements in the UK retail price index.
The line with the hedged item.
link to RPI is considered to be an embedded derivative, which is closely related to the underlying debt instrument based on the Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for view that there is a strong relationship existing between interest hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as rates and inflation in the UK economy.
Consequently, these they arise, within finance costs.
embedded derivatives are not accounted for separately from Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument the debt instrument.
expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative interest in the consolidated assets of the Company after gains or losses relating to cash flow hedges recognised in deducting all of its liabilities and is recorded at the proceeds equity are initially retained in equity and subsequently received, net of direct issue costs with an annual amount equal recognised in the income statement, in the same periods in to the nominal amount of the shares issued included in the which the previously hedged item affects net profit or loss.
For share capital account and the balance recorded in the share fair value hedges, the cumulative adjustment recorded to the premium account.
carrying value of the hedged item at the date hedge accounting is discontinued, is amortised to the income statement using the Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of financial effective interest rate method.
instruments measured at fair value that are quoted in active markets are based on bid prices for assets held and offer prices If a hedged forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, for issued liabilities.
When independent prices are not available, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is fair values are determined by using valuation techniques which transferred to the income statement immediately.
are consistent with techniques commonly used by the relevant market.
The techniques use observable market data.
Q. Share-based payments National Grid issues equity-settled share-based payments to P. Hedge accounting certain employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Company and its subsidiaries enter into both derivative Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair financial instruments derivatives and non-derivative financial value at the date of grant based on an estimate of the number instruments in order to manage interest rate and foreign of shares that will eventually vest.
This fair value is recognised currency exposures, and commodity price risks associated with on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, as an operating underlying business activities and the financing of those cost and an increase in equity.
Payments made by the activities.
Company to National Grid in respect of share-based payments Hedge accounting allows derivatives to be designated as a are recognised as a reduction in equity.
hedge of another non-derivative financial instrument, to mitigate the impact of potential volatility in the income statement R. Business performance and exceptional of changes in fair value of the derivative instruments.
To qualify items and remeasurements for hedge accounting documentation is prepared specifying the Our financial performance is analysed into two components: hedging strategy, the component transactions and methodology business performance, which excludes exceptional items and used for effectiveness measurement.
The Company uses two remeasurements: and exceptional items and remeasurements.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 43 Business performance is used by management to monitor T. Emission allowances financial performance, as it is considered to increase the Emission allowances, which relate to the emissions of carbon comparability of our reported financial performance from year to dioxide, are recorded as an intangible asset within current year.
Business performance subtotals, which exclude assets and are initially recorded at cost, and subsequently at exceptional items and remeasurements, are presented on the the lower of cost and net realisable value.
For allocations of face of the income statement or in the notes to the financial emission allowances granted by the UK Government, cost is statements.
deemed to be equal to fair value at the date of allocation.
Receipts of such grants are treated as deferred income and are Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income recognised in the income statement in the period in which and expenditure that, in the judgment of management, should carbon dioxide emissions are made.
A provision is recorded in be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, respect of the obligation to deliver emission allowances and either by their nature or their size, to an understanding of our charges are recognised in the income statement in the period in financial performance and significantly distort the comparability which carbon dioxide emissions are made.
of financial performance between periods.
Income from the sale of emission allowances is reported as part Items of income or expense that are considered by of other operating income.
management for designation as exceptional items include such items as significant restructurings, write-downs or impairments of non-current assets, significant changes in environmental U.
Cash and cash equivalents provisions, and gains or losses on disposals of businesses or Cash and cash equivalents include cash held at bank and in investments.
hand, together with short-term highly liquid investments with an original maturity of less than three months that are readily Costs arising from restructuring programmes primarily relate to convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to an redundancy costs.
Redundancy costs are charged to the insignificant change in value and bank overdrafts, which are income statement in the year in which an irrevocable reported in borrowings.
commitment is made to incur the costs and the main features of the restructuring plan have been announced to affected employees.
V. Other reserves Other reserves comprise the capital redemption reserve arising Remeasurements comprise gains or losses recorded in the from the refinancing and restructuring of the Lattice Group in income statement arising from changes in the fair value of 1999.
It represents the amount of the reduction in the share derivative financial instruments to the extent that hedge capital of the Company as a consequence of that restructuring.
accounting is not achieved or is not effective.
As the amounts included in other reserves are not attributable to any of the other classes of equity presented, they have been S. Other operating income disclosed as a separate classification of equity.
Other operating income primarily relates to profits or losses arising on the disposal of properties arranged by National Grids W. Dividends property management business, which is considered to be part Dividends are recognised in the financial year in which they are of normal recurring operating activities, and income from the approved.
44 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 X.
Areas of judgement and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.
Information about such judgements and estimation is contained in the accounting policies or the notes to the financial statements, and the key areas are summarised below.
Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: The categorisation of certain items as exceptional items and remeasurements and the definition of adjusted earnings note 4.
The exemptions adopted on transition to IFRS on 1 April 2004.
The non-recognition of certain net current tax liabilities expected to arise from transfer pricing adjustments accounting policy G. The recognition of defined benefit pension costs as if the National Grid UK Pension Scheme was a defined contribution scheme accounting policy M. Hedge accounting accounting policy P. Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year: Review of residual lives, carrying values and impairment charges for intangible assets and property, plant and equipment accounting policies D, E and F. Valuation of financial instruments and derivatives notes 13, 16 and 29.
Revenue recognition and assessment of unbilled revenue accounting policy K. Environmental provisions note 22.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 45 Adoption of new accounting standards New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations adopted in 2007 08 During the year ended 31 March 2008, the Company adopted the following amendments to International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, International Accounting Standards IAS and the International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee pronouncements IFRIC.
None of these had a material impact on consolidated results or assets and liabilities.
IFRIC 8 on share-based payments Addresses the issue of whether IFRS 2 Share-based Payment applies to transactions in which the entity cannot identify specifically some or all of the goods or services received.
IFRIC 9 on the reassessment of Prohibits reassessment of the treatment of embedded derivatives subsequent to initial recognition unless there embedded derivatives is a change in the terms of the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows that otherwise would be required under the contract, in which case reassessment is required.
IFRIC 10 on interim financial reporting States that any impairment losses on goodwill and certain financial assets recognised in an interim financial and impairment statement may not be reversed in subsequent interim or annual financial statements.
IFRIC 11 on group and treasury share Provides guidance on whether share-based transactions involving treasury shares or involving subsidiary transactions undertakings for instance, options over a parents shares should be accounted for as equity-settled or cashsettled, share-based payment transactions.
New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations not yet adopted The Company has yet to adopt the following standards and interpretations, but these are not expected to have a material impact on consolidated results or assets and liabilities.
Further information is provided in the accounting policies section of the Operating and Financial Review.
IFRS 8 on operating segments Sets out the requirements for the disclosure of information about an entitys operating segments and about the entitys products and services, the geographical areas in which it operates and its major customers.
IFRS 8 is required to be adopted on 1 April 2009.
Amendment to IAS 23 on borrowing Removes the option of immediately recognising as an expense borrowing costs that relate to assets that take a costs substantial period of time to get ready for use or sale.
The amendment to IAS 23 is required to be adopted on 1 April 2009.
IFRIC 12 on service concession Applies to contractual arrangements whereby a private sector operator participates in the development, arrangements financing, operation and maintenance of infrastructure for public sector services, for example, under private finance initiative PFI contracts.
IFRIC 12 will be adopted on 1 April 2008.
IFRIC 13 on customer loyalty Clarifies that the sale of goods or services together with customer award credits for example, loyalty points or programmes the right to free products is accounted for as a multiple-element transaction.
The consideration received from the customer is allocated between the components of the arrangement based on their fair values, which will defer the recognition of some revenue.
IFRIC 13 will be adopted on 1 April 2008.
IFRIC 14 on defined benefit assets and Considers the limit on the measurement of a defined benefit asset to the present value of economic benefits minimum funding requirements available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan plus unrecognised gains and losses, as set out in IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The interpretation considers when refunds or reductions in future contributions should be considered available, particularly when a minimum funding requirement exists.
IFRIC 14 will be adopted on 1 April 2008.
Amendment to IAS 1 on the Requires changes to the presentation of financial statements and adopts revised titles for the primary presentation of financial statements statements, although companies may continue to use the existing titles.
It is expected that the amendment to IAS 1 will be adopted on 1 April 2009.
IFRS 3R on business combinations Makes a number of changes to the accounting for business combinations, including requirements that all payments to purchase a business are to be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with some contingent payments subsequently remeasured at fair value through income: an option to calculate goodwill based on the parents share of net assets only or to include goodwill related to the minority interest: and a requirement that all transaction costs be expensed.
It is expected that IFRS 3R will be adopted on 1 April 2010.
IAS 27R on consolidated and individual Requires the effects of all transactions with non-controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no financial statements change in control.
The revised standard also specifies the accounting when control is lost.
It is expected that IAS 27R will be adopted on 1 April 2010.
Amendment to IFRS 2 on share-based Clarifies the definition of vesting conditions and the accounting treatment of cancellations.
Vesting conditions payments are defined as either service conditions or performance conditions.
Cancellations by employees are accounted for in the same way as cancellations by the company.
It is expected that the amendment to IFRS 2 will be adopted on 1 April 2009.
Amendments to IAS 32 and IAS 1 on Addresses the classification as a liability or as equity of certain puttable financial instruments and instruments, puttable financial instruments and or components thereof, which impose upon an entity an obligation to deliver a pro rata share of net assets on obligations arising on liquidation liquidation.
The amendment to IAS 32 and IAS 1 are required to be adopted on 1 April 2009.
