National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 81 Company accounting policies for the year ended 31 March 2008 Tangible fixed assets include assets in which the Companys A.
Basis of preparation of individual financial interest comprises legally protected statutory or contractual statements under UK GAAP rights of use.
These individual financial statements of the Company have Additions represent the purchase or construction of new assets, been prepared in accordance with applicable UK accounting extensions to, or significant increases in, the capacity of and financial reporting standards and the Companies Act 1985. tangible fixed assets.
The individual financial statements of the Company have been Contributions received towards the cost of tangible fixed assets prepared on a historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of are included in creditors as deferred income and credited on a financial instruments.
straight-line basis to the profit and loss account over the life of These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling the assets.
because that is the currency of the primary economic Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or assets in the environment in which the Company operates.
Other tangible fixed assets are The Company has not presented its own profit and loss account depreciated principally on a straight-line basis, at rates as permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
The estimated to write off their book values over their estimated Company has taken the exemption from preparing a cash flow useful economic lives.
In assessing estimated useful economic statement under the terms of FRS 1 revised 1996 Cash Flow lives, which are reviewed on a regular basis, consideration is Statements.
given to any contractual arrangements and operational requirements relating to particular assets.
Unless otherwise In accordance with exemptions under FRS 8 Related party determined by operational requirements, the depreciation disclosures, the Company has not disclosed transactions with periods for the principal categories of tangible fixed assets are, related parties, as the Companys financial statements are in general, as shown in the table below: presented together with its consolidated financial statements.
Furthermore, in accordance with exemptions under FRS 29 Depreciation periods Years Financial Instruments: Disclosures, the Company has not Freehold and leasehold properties up to 50 presented the financial instruments disclosures required by the Plant and machinery: standard, as disclosures which comply with the standard are Mains, services and regulating equipment 30 to 100 included in the consolidated financial statements.
Meters and metering equipment 5 to 18 Motor vehicles and office equipment 3 to 10 The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent D. Fixed asset investments assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less any expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ provisions for impairment.
E. Impairment of fixed assets B.
Foreign currencies Impairments of fixed assets are calculated as the difference Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of between the carrying values of the net assets of income the Company are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing generating units, including where appropriate, investments, and on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, their recoverable amounts.
Recoverable amount is defined as monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign the higher of net realisable value or estimated value in use at currencies are retranslated at closing exchange rates.
Gains the date the impairment review is undertaken.
Net realisable and losses arising on retranslation of monetary assets and value represents the amount that can be generated through the liabilities are included in the profit and loss account.
Value in use represents the present value of expected future cash flows discounted on a pre-tax basis, using the estimated cost of capital of the income generating unit.
C. Tangible fixed assets Impairment reviews are carried out if there is some indication Tangible fixed assets are included in the balance sheet at their that impairment may have occurred, or where otherwise cost less accumulated depreciation.
Costs include payroll costs required to ensure that fixed assets are not carried above their and finance costs incurred which are directly attributable to the estimated recoverable amounts.
Impairments are recognised in construction of tangible fixed assets.
the profit and loss account, and, where material, are disclosed 82 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 as exceptional.
Impairment reversals are recognised when, in safety of the network and is written off as incurred.
Expenditure managements opinion, the reversal is permanent.
that enhances the performance of mains and services assets is treated as an addition to tangible fixed assets.
F. Taxation K. Pensions Current tax for the current and prior periods is provided at the amount expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates The substantial majority of the Companys employees are and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted members of the defined benefit section of the National Grid UK by the balance sheet date.
Current tax assets and liabilities Pension Scheme.
There is no contractual arrangement or arising from transfer pricing adjustments, which are expected to stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost of the be fully recovered through group relief, are initially provided for scheme to the Company.
Accordingly, the Scheme is when tax returns are submitted to the tax authorities.
recognised in these Company financial statements as if it were a defined contribution scheme.
The pension charge for the year Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which result represents the contributions payable to the Scheme for the in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or period.
A share of the assets and liabilities or the actuarial gains the right to pay less tax, at a future date, at tax rates expected and losses of the Scheme are not recognised in these to apply when the timing differences reverse, based on tax Company financial statements.
rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in L. Leases taxation computations in periods different from those in which Operating lease payments are charged to the profit and loss they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax account on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets M. Financial instruments and liabilities are not discounted.
Financial assets, liabilities and equity instruments are classified G. Stocks according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that Stocks are stated at cost less provision for deterioration and evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after obsolescence.
deducting all of its liabilities and is recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
H. Environmental costs Environmental costs, based on discounted future estimated Loans receivable are carried at amortised cost using the expenditures expected to be incurred, are provided for in full.
effective interest rate method less any allowance for estimated The unwinding of the discount is included within the profit and impairments.
A provision is established for impairments when loss account as a financing charge.
there is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due under the original terms of the loan.
Interest income, together with losses when the loans are I.
Revenue impaired, is recognised on an effective interest rate basis in the Revenue represents the sales value derived from the profit and loss account.
transmission and distribution of gas and the provision of gas metering services during the year, including an assessment of Current asset financial investments are recognised at fair value services provided, but not invoiced as at the year end.
It plus directly related incremental transaction costs and are excludes value added tax and intra-group sales.
subsequently carried at fair value on the balance sheet.
Changes in the fair value of investments classified as availableWhere revenue for the year exceeds the maximum amount for-sale are recognised directly in equity, until the investment is permitted by regulatory agreement and adjustments will be disposed of or is determined to be impaired.
At this time the made to future prices to reflect this over-recovery, a liability for cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is the over-recovery is not recognised as such an adjustment to included in net profit or loss for the period.
Investment income future prices relates to the provision of future services.
Similarly, on investments classified as available-for-sale is recognised in an asset is not recognised where a regulatory agreement the profit and loss account as it accrues.
permits adjustments to be made to future prices in respect of an under-recovery.
Borrowings, which include interest-bearing loans, UK Retail Price Index RPI linked debt and overdrafts, are recorded at their initial fair value which normally reflects the proceeds J.
Replacement expenditure received, net of direct issue costs less any repayments.
Replacement expenditure is recognised within operating costs Subsequently these are stated at amortised cost, using the and represents the cost of planned maintenance of mains and effective interest rate method.
Any difference between proceeds services assets by replacing or lining sections of pipe.
This and the redemption value is recognised over the term of the expenditure is principally undertaken to repair and maintain the National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 83 borrowing in the profit and loss account using the effective profit and loss account in the same periods in which the interest rate method.
previously hedged item affects net profit or loss.
For fair value hedges the cumulative adjustment recorded to its carrying value Derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value, and at the date hedge accounting is discontinued is amortised to the where the fair value of a derivative is positive, it is carried as a profit and loss account using the effective interest rate method.
derivative asset and where negative, as a liability.
Assets and liabilities on different transactions are only netted if the If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net transactions are with the same counterparty, a legal right of setcumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the off exists and the cash flows are intended to be settled on a net profit and loss account immediately.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included in the profit and loss account in the period they arise.
Parent Company guarantees The Company has guaranteed the repayment of the principal Where derivatives are embedded in other financial instruments and any associated premium and interest on specific loans due that are closely related to those instruments, no adjustment is from certain subsidiary undertakings to third parties.
In the made with respect to such derivative clauses.
Otherwise the event of default or non-performance by the subsidiary, the derivative is recorded separately at fair value on the balance Company recognises such guarantees as insurance contracts, sheet.
at fair value with a corresponding increase in the carrying value of the investment.
N. Hedge accounting The Company enters into derivative financial instruments P. Share-based payments derivatives and non-derivative financial instruments in order National Grid issues equity-settled share-based payments to to manage interest rate and foreign currency exposures, with a certain employees of the Company.
Equity-settled share-based view to managing these risks associated with the Companys payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant based underlying business activities and the financing of those on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
The principal derivatives used include interest rate This fair value is recognised on a straight-line basis over the swaps, forward rate agreements, currency swaps and forward vesting period, as an operating cost and an increase in equity.
Payments made by the Company to National Grid in respect of Hedge accounting allows derivatives to be designated as a share-based payments are recognised as a reduction in equity.
hedge of another non-derivative financial instrument, to mitigate the impact of potential volatility in the profit and loss account.
The Company uses two hedge accounting methods.
Restructuring costs Costs arising from the Companys restructuring programmes Firstly, changes in the carrying value of financial instruments primarily relate to redundancy costs.
Redundancy costs are that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows charged to the profit and loss account in the period in which the cash flow hedges are recognised directly in equity and any Company becomes irrevocably committed to incurring the costs ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the profit and and the main features of the restructuring plan have been loss account.
Amounts deferred in equity in respect of cash flow announced to affected employees.
hedges are subsequently recognised in the profit and loss account in the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
R. Emission allowances Emission allowances, which relate to the emissions of carbon Secondly, changes in the carrying value of financial instruments dioxide, are recorded as an intangible asset within current that are designated as hedges of the changes in the fair value assets and are initially recorded at cost, and subsequently at of assets or liabilities fair value hedges are recognised in the the lower of cost and net realisable value.
For allocations of profit and loss account.
An offsetting amount is recorded as an emission allowances granted by the UK Government, cost is adjustment to the carrying value of hedged items, with a deemed to be equal to fair value at the date of allocation.
corresponding entry in the profit and loss account, to the extent Receipts of such grants are treated as deferred income and are that the change is attributable to the risk being hedged and that recognised in the income statement in the period in which the fair value hedge is effective.
carbon dioxide emissions are made.
A provision is recorded in Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for respect of the obligation to deliver emission allowances and hedge accounting are recognised in the profit and loss account charges are recognised in the income statement in the period in as they arise.
which carbon dioxide emissions are made.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies S. Dividends for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gains or Dividends are recognised in the financial year in which they are losses relating to cash flow hedges recognised in equity are approved.
initially retained in equity and subsequently recognised in the
