Notice of Meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own personal financial advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your Next shares, please send this document, together with the accompanying Form of Proxy, as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
Notice is given that the Annual General Meeting of Next plc will be held at the Belmont House Hotel, fide Montfort Street, Leicester LE1 7GR on Tuesday 13 May 2008 at 11.00 a. m. at which the following resolutions will be proposed: resolutions 1 to 11 as Ordinary Resolutions and 12 to 15 as Special Resolutions.
Further information on these resolutions can be found in the Directors Report and Business Review on pages 17 to 20 and in the appendices to this Notice.
1 To receive and adopt the accounts and reports of the directors and auditors for the period ended 26 January 2008.
2 To approve the remuneration report for the period ended 26 January 2008.
3 To declare a final dividend of 37p per share in respect of the period ended 26 January 2008.
4 To re-elect Simon Wolfson as a director who retires by rotation according to Article 91.
5 To re-elect Andrew Varley as a director who retires by rotation according to Article 91.
6 To re-elect Jonathan Dawson as a director who retires by rotation according to Article 91.
7 To re-elect Christine Cross as a director who retires by rotation according to Article 91.
8 To elect Steve Barber as a director who retires according to Article 97 having been appointed by the Board during the year.
9 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors and authorise the directors to set their remuneration.
Biographies of directors seeking re-election are shown on page 23 of the Annual Report.
10 Next Risk Reward Investment Plan That the Next Risk Reward Investment Plan the Plan, the main features of which are described in Appendix 1 on pages 85 to 86, be and is approved and the Directors be and are authorised to take any action they consider necessary to implement the Plan, such authority to expire at the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2009.
11 Authority to allot shares under Section 80 Companies Act 1985 That the Directors be and they are generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in the said Section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6,600,000 such authority to expire at the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2009 or, if earlier, on 26 July 2009 save that: a the Company may make any offer or agreement before the expiry of this authority that would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after this authority has expired: and b all previous authorities to allot securities conferred by resolution of the Company pursuant to Section 80 of the Act or otherwise be and are revoked to the extent that they have not been previously utilised.
82 Notice of Meeting 12 Authority to allot shares under Section 95 Companies Act 1985 That, subject to the passing of Resolution 11 set out in the Notice of this Meeting, the Directors be and are empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, in substitution for any existing authority to allot relevant securities, to allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 2 of the Act for cash and allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 3A of the Act for cash in either case as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue, open offer or other pre-emptive offer in favour of ordinary shareholders on the register on a date fixed by the Directors where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them on that date but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem fit to deal with fractional entitlements or any legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any territory or requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange in any territory: and b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 975,000 being less than 5% of the issued ordinary share capital outstanding at 17 March 2008 and shall expire at the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2009 or, if earlier, on 26 July 2009 save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred by this resolution had not expired.
13 On-market purchase of own shares That in accordance with Article 46 of the Articles of Association of the Company and Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, the Company be granted general and unconditional authority to make market purchases as defined in Section 163 of the Act of any of its own ordinary shares provided that the authority conferred by this resolution shall: i be limited to the lesser of 29,900,000 ordinary shares of 10p each or no more than 15% of the issued ordinary share capital outstanding at the date of the Annual General Meeting, such limit to be reduced by the number of any shares purchased pursuant to the authority granted at resolution 14 below: ii the minimum price which may be paid for ordinary shares is 10p per ordinary share: iii the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is an amount not more than 105% of the average of the middle market price of the ordinary shares of the Company according to the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire on whichever is the earlier of: a the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2009, and b 26 July 2009: and v the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority.
83 Notice of Meeting 14 Contingent contracts and off-market share purchases That, for the purposes of sections 164 and 165 of the Companies Act 1985, the proposed programme agreements to be entered into between the Company and each of Goldman Sachs International, UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Barclays Bank plc in the form produced to this meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purpose of identification the Programme Agreements be and are approved and the Company be and is authorised to enter into the Programme Agreements and all and any contingent forward trades which may be effected or made from time to time under or pursuant to the Programme Agreements for the contingent off-market purchase by the Company of its ordinary shares of 10 pence each for cancellation, as more fully described in Appendix 2 on pages 86 to 88 the authority conferred by this special resolution to expire on whichever is the earlier of the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2009 and 26 July 2009, unless such authority is renewed prior to that time except in relation to the purchase of ordinary shares under any contingent forward trade effected or made before the expiry of such authority and which might be completed wholly or partly after such expiry, and provided that shares purchased pursuant to this authority will reduce the number of shares that the Company may purchase under the general authority granted under resolution 13 above.
15 New Articles of Association That with effect from 1 October 2008 the articles of association produced to the meeting and signed by the Chairman for the purposes of identification be approved and adopted as the articles of association of the Company in substitution for and to the exclusion of the current articles of association of the Company.
The principal changes introduced in the new articles are set out in Appendix 3 on pages 88 to 90.
A J R McKinlay, Secretary Registered Office Desford Road, Enderby Leicester, LE19 4AT 9 April 2008 84 Notice of Meeting APPENDIX 1 FURTHER INFORMATION ON RESOLUTION 10: NEXT RISK REWARD INVESTMENT PLAN the Plan As noted on page 18 of the Directors Report and Business Review, the Directors request authority to implement a new risk reward plan in the current year and shareholders approval is sought for the Company to offer its key executives an opportunity to participate.
A similar plan was last implemented in July 2005 the 2005 Plan, details of which are on pages 29 and 30 of the Remuneration Report.
Under UKLA Listing Rules, the continued employment condition imposed on participants determines that the Plan is regarded as a long term incentive plan and, as such, requires prior shareholder approval.
The principal features of the Plan, which are unchanged from the 2005 Plan and that the plan shareholders approved at the 2007 Annual General Meeting AGM, are summarised below.
The Remuneration Committee will determine the executive directors and senior executives approximately 25 that may participate in the Plan, all of whom would be regarded as important to the future of Next.
The Plan requires these participants to make a personal investment in a financial contract out of their own resources.
It is proposed that Next will make special contributions to the Next Employee Share Ownership Trust the ESOT, which will make investments in financial contracts with similar potential returns.
These investments would be held on revocable trusts for those executives who have made a personal investment.
On maturity, any returns accruing to the trust would only be distributed either in Next shares and or cash to those participants who have remained with Next save to the extent described below.
This continued employment condition would therefore incentivise the participant to remain with Next and commit to its future development.
The investments are derivative instruments that require Nexts share price to grow substantially.
The ESOT investments will be in the form of listed warrants purchased directly from Goldman Sachs International, BNP Paribas Arbitrage Issuance BV or Barclays Bank plc.
Participants personal investment contracts will be structured as a bet with an independent third party regulated by the FSA which may also purchase warrants to hedge its risk under those contracts.
The minimum and maximum share price targets, as well as the potential returns on maturity, will be materially the same for both the ESOTs and the participants investments.
The pricing of the warrants and participants personal investment contracts will be determined at the time of their issue and will be primarily dependent on Nexts prevailing share price and future dividend expectations.
Participants will lose their investment in full if Nexts share price does not reach the minimum level.
As with previous plans, the Remuneration Committee believes that targets for the 2008 investments will be extremely challenging for the retail industry in the current economic environment.
Participants will be required to invest and risk their own funds and will lose their total investment at all share prices up to the Minimum Share Price 20.50 in 2005, when the average share price was less than 15.00, whereas shareholders will continue to benefit from any share price increase up to and beyond the Minimum Share Price.
By contrast, most LTIP arrangements are of a nil cost nature and lack personal financial commitment by executives.
It is proposed that the total cost to Next of any Plan offered in 2008 will be limited to a maximum of 2 million, inclusive of any employers national insurance liabilities and corporation tax reliefs available to the Company.
If the amount invested by the Company prior to the Companys AGM in 2009 is less than 2 million then no additional investments may be made and this authority will lapse at that time.
It is important to note that any returns in excess of these costs will be paid for by the counterparties to the contracts and will not be subsidised, supported or underwritten by Next in any way.
Each participant will be limited to an amount that, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, represents a significant, but not excessive, investment of personal funds.
In addition, the potential contribution by Next to fund investments made by the ESOT will be limited to the lower of 2 million or three times the personal investments of participants.
The benefits provided by Next under the Plan will not be pensionable.
85 Notice of Meeting In the event that a participant leaves the Companys employment before the maturity of the investment contracts other than in good leaver circumstances such as redundancy, disability or death, any entitlement to a return on investments held by the ESOT will be forfeited in full.
In good leaver circumstances, any entitlement will be restricted pro-rata to the time the participant was employed by Next during the investment period.
Any excess returns received by the ESOT which would have otherwise accrued to departing executives will be retained in the trust and used, at the discretion of the trustee, to provide benefits for other employees of the Next group.
Based on a share price of 12.00 and current market conditions, a target price range as for the 2008 investments is likely to be 16.00 to 20.00.
The investment of up to 2 million in the Plan by the Company should be viewed in the context of the required growth in shareholder value.
On this basis, unless a Final Share Price of 16.00 is achieved in the four year investment period, representing an increase in shareholder value of at least 0.8 billion, the executives would lose all of their investments.
If the Final Share Price reaches 20.00, the increase in shareholder value would be around 1.6 billion, whilst executives would receive the maximum return of approximately 13 times their personal investment.
Against a share price of around 12.00 and market capitalisation of 2.4 billion, the Board believes that, in conjunction with LTIP incentives, implementation of the Plan in 2008 will help maintain management focus on the long term creation of shareholder value.
The Remuneration Committee will have a general power to amend the terms of the Plan.
However, changes to: the persons participating in the Plan: the maximum amount that Next may contribute in total to the ESOT: the maximum Next contribution to the ESOT in relation to each participants personal investment: the basis for determining, and the terms of, a participants entitlements under the Plan: and the basis of adjustments to a participants entitlements under the Plan in the event of a variation of the Companys share capital will not be made to the advantage of any participants without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting except for minor amendments to benefit the administration of the Plan, to take account of a change of legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, or regulatory treatment to participants or the Company or any member of the Next group.
Authority to implement the Plan will expire at the 2009 AGM.
APPENDIX 2 FURTHER INFORMATION ON RESOLUTION 14: CONTINGENT PURCHASE CONTRACTS As noted on pages 19 and 20 in the Directors Report and Business Review, approval will be sought from shareholders to renew the Companys authority to make off-market purchases of its shares.
By virtue of special resolution number 11 passed at the Company's Annual General Meeting AGM on 16 May 2007 shareholder authority was given to the Company to make on-market purchases of shares for cancellation.
This authority was limited to a maximum of 34 million shares and expires on the earlier of the date of the AGM held in 2008 or 16 August 2008.
At the same AGM, authority was granted to the Company to make off-market purchases of shares for cancellation under contingent purchase contracts to be entered into with each of Goldman Sachs International, UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Barclays Bank plc the Bank s. This authority was limited to a maximum of 10 million shares and expires on the earlier of the date of the AGM to be held in 2008 or 16 August 2008.
Since the granting of those authorities up to the 17 March 2008, the Company has bought back 27,007,243 shares for cancellation, representing 11.9% of its issued share capital as at the date of the 2007 AGM, at a total cost 526.6 million.
Of these purchases, 5,800,000 shares have been bought pursuant to contingent purchase contracts at a total cost of 108.8 million, a discount of 9.8 million 8.2% to share prices prevailing when the relevant contract was entered into.
86 Notice of Meeting Under Sections 164 and 165 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, the Company is not permitted to make off-market purchases or contingent purchases of its shares unless it obtains advance shareholder approval to the proposed contract terms.
Furthermore, under the rules of the UK Listing Authority the Listing Rules the Company may not purchase its shares at a time when any director is in receipt of unpublished price sensitive information about the Company.
Accordingly, no purchases of shares would normally be made in periods when the Directors might be in receipt of unpublished price sensitive information Close Periods.
Typically, these include the periods from the Companys half year end up to the announcement of its interim results in September and the January year end up to the announcement of full year results in March each year.
These Close Periods inevitably reduce the number of shares the Company is able to purchase.
In order to achieve maximum flexibility in its share purchase activities, the Company is able to enter into irrevocable and nondiscretionary programmes to allow it to buy shares during Close Periods.
Another method of providing flexibility in its share purchase activities, and reducing the cost of share buybacks, is for the Company to enter into contingent forward purchase contracts outside of Close Periods.
Pursuant to the authority granted at the 2007 AGM, the Company entered into agreements with the Banks the Existing Agreements and the Company intends to terminate the Existing Agreements and enter into new agreements.
The Company proposes to enter into an agreement with each of the Banks the Programme Agreements, under which it may although it is not obliged to enter into contingent forward trades Contingent Forward Trades or CFT from time to time.
Under the terms of each CFT, the Company may purchase a fixed number of shares each week over a period of between 20 to 30 weeks.
The maximum number of shares that can be purchased under each CFT is limited to 50,000 shares per week.
Details of each CFT will be announced to shareholders on the day it is entered into by the Company.
Whether or not the Company purchases shares in a particular week during the term of a CFT is dependent upon the Company's share price not reaching a level set at the time that contract is entered into the Suspension Level.
The Suspension Level is determined by the Company and must be between 104% and 110% of the Companys share price as at the start of the CFT.
The price at which the Company may purchase shares during the term of a Contingent Forward Trade the Forward Price shall also be fixed at the start of the CFT.
The Forward Price is subject to a maximum of 99% of the share price at the start of the contract and a minimum of 10 pence the par value of an ordinary share.
This structure would allow the Company to purchase shares at a discount to the market price as at the time each CFT commences, for so long as the Suspension Level is not reached, without breaching the Listing Rules.
If the Suspension Level is reached, the CFT would terminate automatically at that time and no further shares would be purchased under that contract.
In such circumstances, a reduced number of shares would be purchased by the Company for cancellation under that contract.
Under the provisions of sections 164 and 165 of the Act, the Programme Agreements and Contingent Forward Trades are contingent purchase contracts to purchase shares by the Company off-market.
Accordingly resolution 14, which will be proposed as a special resolution, seeks shareholder approval to the terms of the Programme Agreements to be entered into between the Company and each of the Banks.
The Programme Agreements will have a duration of the shorter of the period to the date of the AGM to be held in 2009 or 26 July 2009 and will incorporate the terms of an ISDA Master Agreement and Schedule.
The Programme Agreements will be entered into and each CFT will be effected outside a Close Period but shares may be purchased during a Close Period by the Company.
The minimum and maximum amount of time between a CFT being effected and shares being purchased is 5 days and 30 weeks respectively.
Should shareholder approval be granted, any number of CFT may be effected with the Banks at any time, provided that: the total maximum number of shares which the Company is permitted to purchase pursuant to this authority would be 10 million, representing 5.0% of its issued share capital at 26 January 2008: the total cost of shares that the Company would be permitted to purchase pursuant to this authority may not exceed 150 million including costs : the Forward Price may not exceed 105% of the average middle market closing price of the Company's shares as derived from the Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five days immediately preceding the day on which the Contingent Forward Trade was effected: 87 Notice of Meeting the Forward Price will be no more than 99% of the share price at the time the Contingent Forward Trade was effected: the minimum price that can be paid for any share is 0.10: and only one Contingent Forward Trade will be entered into on any particular day.
Subject to the limits set out above, the Company will select the Suspension Level and the duration of each CFT, and the Forward Price will be determined by the relevant Bank.
Shares purchased via the Programme Agreements will reduce the number of shares that the Company may purchase under any authority granted at the AGM on 13 May 2008 for on-market purchases.
No shares will be purchased under that authority on the same day that a CFT is entered into.
The authority granted to the Company under this resolution will expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company held in 2009 or on 26 July 2009, whichever is the earlier, unless such authority is renewed prior to that time except in relation to the purchase of shares under any CFT effected before the expiry of such authority and which might be completed wholly or partly after such expiry.
The purchase of shares under the Programme Agreements will always be physically settled by delivery of shares to the Company except in the case of certain events of default or termination events.
A copy of each of the Programme Agreements will be available at the AGM on 13 May 2008.
Copies will also be available for inspection at the Company's registered office at Desford Road, Enderby, Leicester LE19 4AT or at the offices of Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London, E1 6AO during usual business hours until the date of the AGM and at the Meeting itself.
The total number of share options to subscribe for shares outstanding at 17 March 2008 was 7,078,924.
This represents 4.5% of the issued share capital at that date.
If the Company was to buy back the maximum number of shares permitted pursuant to this special resolution, then the total number of options to subscribe for shares outstanding at 17 March 2008 would represent 5.3% of the reduced issued share capital.
"APPENDIX 3 FURTHER INFORMATION ON RESOLUTION 15: NEW ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION It is proposed to adopt new articles of association the ""New Articles"" with effect from 1 October 2008."
"The New Articles update the Companys current articles of association the ""Current Articles"" primarily to take account of changes in English company law brought about by certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the Act that will be in force by or on 1 October 2008."
The principal changes introduced in the New Articles are set out below.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature and also some more minor changes which merely reflect changes made by the Act have not been noted.
Articles which duplicate statutory provisions Provisions in the Current Articles which replicate provisions contained in the Act are in the main amended to bring them into line with the Act.
Certain examples of such provisions, including provisions as to the convening and notice of general meetings and proxies, are detailed below.
Form of resolution The Current Articles contain a provision that where for any purpose an ordinary resolution is required, a special or extraordinary resolution is also effective.
This provision and certain other provisions that refer to extraordinary resolutions are being amended as the concept of extraordinary resolutions has been abolished by the Act.
Convening and notice of general meetings It is proposed that the provisions in the Current Articles dealing with the convening of general meetings and the length of notice required to convene general meetings be amended to conform to the new provisions in the Act.
In particular, a general meeting other than an annual general meeting to consider a special resolution can be convened on 14 days' notice whereas previously 21 days' notice was required.
The New Articles do not require notice to be given of a poll whether taken at or after the meeting at which it is demanded.
Practical arrangements for general meetings The New Articles contain provisions allowing the Board to make any security arrangements it considers appropriate for general meetings.
The New Articles also provide the flexibility for general meetings to be held in more than one place.
"Quorum requirements The Act provides that in general terms the quorum for a general meeting should be calculated by reference to the numbers of ""qualifying persons"" who are present at the meeting, which includes an individual who is a member of the Company, a person authorised under section 323 of the Act to act as the representative of a corporation, and a person appointed as proxy of a member."
As before, it is proposed that the quorum for a general meeting will be two but, in line with the Act, the New Articles make clear that there will be no double counting for qualifying persons who are representatives of the same corporation or proxies of the same member.
Proxies A proxy has a statutory right under the Act to speak at any general meeting.
Under the Act, proxies are also entitled to vote on a show of hands whereas under the Current Articles proxies are only entitled to vote on a poll.
Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share held by the shareholder.
The New Articles reflect these new rules, as appropriate.
Number of directors In line with institutional guidelines, the New Articles include a limit on the maximum number of directors.
This has been set at 15 directors.
Directors fees The New Articles provide for directors' fees up to an aggregate limit of 750,000 per annum whereas the Current Articles provide for an aggregate limit of 500,000 per annum in each case subject to an ordinary resolution of the Company determining a larger sum.
The increase in the maximum aggregate amount is intended to provide sufficient flexibility in setting the level of directors' fees in the future.
Election of directors by the Company The opportunity is being taken to propose an update to the provisions on the election of directors so that a member proposing the appointment or re-appointment of a director at a general meeting must give notice of the proposed appointment not less than 14 nor more than 42 days before the date of the relevant meeting.
The notice period in the Current Articles is not less than seven nor more than 35 days before the relevant meeting.
Retirement of directors The opportunity is being taken to propose an update to the provisions on retirement of directors so that there is no automatic requirement for the retirement by rotation of one third of the Company's directors at each annual general meeting.
The New Articles provide, in accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, that at each annual general meeting a director shall retire from office if he has been appointed by the Board since the previous annual general meeting or it is the third annual general meeting following the annual general meeting at which he was elected or last re-elected.
Vacation of office of director The New Articles include updated wording which tightens up the circumstances in which a director must vacate office where the director has become physically or mentally ill.
The changes apply a test of whether in the opinion of a medical practitioner the director is rendered incapable by his illness of acting as a director for more than three months or is personally prevented from exercising any powers or rights by a court order.
Expenses This New Articles include updated wording in line with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance to the effect that, subject to procedures and guidelines established by the Board, a director may be paid out of the funds of the Company all expenses incurred by him in obtaining professional advice in connection with the affairs of the Company or the discharge of his duties as a director.
Provision for employees on cessation of business The Act provides that the powers of the directors to make provision for a person employed or formerly employed by the Company in connection with the cessation or transfer to any person of the whole or part of the undertaking of the Company, may be exercised by the directors or by the Company in general meeting.
However, if the power is to be exercised by the directors, the articles of association must include a provision to this effect.
The New Articles provide that the directors may exercise this power.
Directors' interests The Act sets out directors general duties.
The provisions largely codify the existing law, but with some changes.
Under the Act, from 1 October 2008, a director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the Companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The Act allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts where the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The Act also allows the articles of association to contain other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
The New Articles give the directors authority to approve such situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
There are safeguards which will apply when directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
These include, first, only independent directors i. e. those who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and second, in taking the decision the directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation or subsequently if they think this is appropriate.
It is proposed to include provisions relating to confidential information, attendance at board meetings and availability of board papers to protect a director from being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to the potential conflict has previously been authorised by the directors.
It is the Boards intention to report annually on the Companys procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers of authorisation of conflicts are operated effectively and that the procedures have been followed.
Directors interests and voting The legislation relating to director indemnification changed in 2005 and it is possible for companies to provide indemnification of directors' defence costs by way of loan which in certain circumstances may need to be repaid by the director.
As a result, market practice is developing with regard to the provision of indemnities to directors.
The New Articles include a provision allowing a director to vote and be counted in the quorum at a board meeting in respect of any resolution concerning any indemnification including loans by the Company in relation to the performance of his duties on behalf of the Company or any subsidiaries.
This clarifies the ability of the Board to adopt indemnities in favour of directors in accordance with the revised legislation.
Directors' indemnities The Act has in some areas widened the scope of the powers of a company to indemnify directors.
In particular, a company can now indemnify a director of a company that is a trustee of an occupational pension scheme against liability incurred in connection with the company's activities as trustee of that scheme.
This is reflected in the New Articles.
The opportunity is also being taken to clarify that, subject to the Act, the Company may grant indemnities to directors of associated companies.
Redeemable preference shares The Current Articles set out terms for redeemable preference shares in the capital of the Company.
These terms are not included in the New Articles because the redeemable preference shares have all been redeemed by the Company and converted into ordinary shares in accordance with the Current Articles.
A copy of the proposed New Articles is available for inspection at the Company's registered office and at the offices of Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London, E1 6AO until the date of the Annual General Meeting and copies will be available at the Annual General Meeting.
90 Notice of Meeting Attendance and voting All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Members who are entitled to attend and vote may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by him.
A proxy need not also be a member.
A proxy may vote on any other business which may properly come before the meeting.
A form of proxy is enclosed.
If you do not intend being present at the meeting please sign and return it so as to reach the Companys registrars at least 48 hours before the meeting.
The return by a member of a fully completed form of proxy will not preclude any such member from attending in person and voting at the meeting.
"A person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a ""Nominated Person"" may, under an agreement between them and the shareholder by whom they were nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the AGM."
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, they may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
"The statements of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in the above paragraph and in the paragraphs headed ""Electronic proxy appointment through CREST"" below do not apply to a Nominated Person."
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by registered members of the Company.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the AGM, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that: i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of appointment letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6pm on 11 May 2008 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the aforesaid general meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register of securities after 6pm on 11 May 2008 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
All resolutions will be put to poll votes.
This means that the votes of all shareholders, including those who cannot attend the meeting but who submit a Proxy Form, are counted.
The procedures for the poll votes will be explained at the AGM.
In respect of resolution 14 on contingent share purchase contracts, the Companies Act 1985 provides that this resolution will not be effective if any member of the Company holding shares to which it relates i. e. those which may be purchased pursuant to the Programme Agreements exercised the voting rights carried by any of those shares in voting on the special resolution and the resolution would not have been passed if they had not done so.
Therefore, Next intends to disregard the poll votes which have been cast in favour of resolution 14 attaching to 10 million shares being the total maximum number of shares which the Company is permitted to purchase pursuant to the Programme Agreements from both the total number of votes cast in favour of this resolution and the total number of votes cast.
As at 17 March 2008 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 199,946,687 ordinary shares.
All of the ordinary shares carry one vote each and there are no shares held in Treasury.
91 Notice of Meeting Electronic proxy appointment through CREST CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the AGM to be held on 13 May 2008 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA19 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Documents available for inspection The register of the transactions if any of each director and of their family interests in the shares of the Company, copies of the terms of appointment of the non-executive directors, the Companys existing memorandum and articles of association, a copy of the Companys new articles of association proposed to be adopted pursuant to resolution 15 and copies of each of the Programme Agreements pursuant to resolution 14 are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during usual business hours and will be available for fifteen minutes prior to and during the meeting.
A copy of the Companys proposed new articles of association pursuant to resolution 15 and copies of each of the Programme Agreements pursuant to resolution 14 will be available for inspection at the offices of Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London, E1 6AO during normal working hours until the close of the Annual General Meeting.
