Shareholder Information Company website Registrars and transfer office A full copy of this Annual Report and Accounts, together with Equiniti that for prior years and other information, can be found on the Aspect House Next plc website at www.
co. uk Spencer Road Lancing Payment of Dividend West Sussex The recommended final ordinary dividend, if approved, will be BN99 6DA paid on 1 July 2008 to holders of ordinary shares registered on 30 May 2008.
The ordinary shares will trade ex-dividend from 28 Telephone 0871 384 2164 May 2008.
Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other telephony provider costs may vary.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00 a. m. on Shareholder enquiries Tuesday 13 May 2008 at the Belmont House Hotel, fide Montfort The Companys share register is maintained by Equiniti.
The notice of the meeting on contact them if you have any enquiries about your Next plc pages 82 to 92 sets out business to be transacted.
Please detach shareholding including the following matters: the attendance card from the form of proxy and bring it to the change of name and address meeting.
Presentation of this card will show that you have the loss of share certificate, dividend warrant or tax voucher right to attend, speak and vote.
Full access is available to the venue for those with special requirements.
if you receive duplicate sets of company mailings as a result of an inconsistency in name or address and wish, if Proxy card appropriate, to combine accounts.
The proxy card is enclosed for you to detach, complete and send to our registrars, Equiniti.
It must be received by 11.00 a. m. The Shareview Portfolio service from our registrar, Equiniti, gives on 11 May 2008.
As an alternative to completing and returning you more online information about your Next plc shares and this form of proxy, you may submit your proxy electronically by other investments.
For direct access to information held for you accessing the Registrars website www.
You will on the share register including recent balance movements and a be asked to enter your your unique Voting ID, Task ID and daily valuation of investments held in your portfolio visit shareholder reference number as printed on your form of proxy.
The use by members of the electronic proxy appointment service For shareholders with disabilities Equiniti provides the following: will be governed by the terms and conditions of use which appear on the website.
Electronic proxies must be completed if requested future communications produced by them and lodged in accordance with the instructions on the website will be sent in the appropriate format.
by no later than 48 hours before the Annual General Meeting.
textphone number 0871 384 2255 for shareholders with Share price data hearing difficulties.
2008 2007 hearing loop facilities in their buildings for use by visiting Share price at financial year end 1375p 1946p shareholders.
Market capitalisation 2,764m 4,418m Crest Share price movement during year: The Companys ordinary shares are available for electronic High mid-market quotation 2437p 1961p settlement.
Low mid-market quotation 1294p 1600p Payments of dividends to mandated accounts Discount voucher Shareholders who do not at present have their dividends paid The Company offers a discount voucher to any first named, directly into a bank or building society may wish to do so.
A registered shareholder holding 500 or more ordinary shares as at mandate form is attached to your dividend warrant and tax 1 April each year.
The voucher entitles the recipient or their voucher or is available to download from the Next plc website immediate family to a 25% discount against most purchases at on www.
co. uk or from Equiniti, telephone 0871 384 any one time of full price merchandise in Next Retail stores.
The 2164. voucher has no monetary purchase limit and expires on 31 October of the same year.
Shareholders holding shares in nominee or PEP ISA accounts are also eligible, but must request the voucher through their nominee or PEP ISA account manager.
This report has been printed on recycled paper.
