Directors Report and Business Review Environment Next recognises that it has a responsibility to manage the impact of its business on the environment both now and in the future.
Key areas of focus are: energy use and emissions from stores, warehouses, distribution centres and offices fuel emissions from the transportation of products to either stores or customers homes waste created in stores, warehouses, distribution centres and offices During the year Next has continued to investigate opportunities to reduce the total waste it produces and to increase the amount it is able to recycle.
Next has continued to reverse haul cardboard and polythene from its stores to be recycled and is also working to minimise packaging on its products.
The Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment WEEE Regulations came into effect on 1 July 2007.
Next complies with this legislation through participation in a UK wide WEEE collection system to enable its customers to recycle electrical products free of charge at UK recycling sites.
Community During the year the Group made charitable donations of 499,000 2007: 383,000.
No donations were made for political purposes 2007: nil.
Next has a well established charities and sponsorship programme which invested a further 404,000 2007: 619,000 during the year in a variety of community projects, including donations to charity and community organisations as well as sponsorship of sports and fashion organisations.
In addition to direct donations by the Group, fundraising events raised a further 433,000 while gifts in kind and sales of Next Christmas cards raised funds of 522,000 for donation to charities, organisations and individuals supported by Next.
The construction of a 146 home village in Sri Lanka is now complete.
This was funded by donations from the Group and its directors, employees, associated companies and suppliers following the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING & OTHER MATTERS Notice of the Annual General Meeting is on pages 82 to 92 and includes the following business: Dividends The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 37p per share be paid on 1 July 2008 to shareholders on the register of members on 30 May 2008.
The Trustee of the Next Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT has waived dividends paid in the year on shares held by the ESOT, see Note 28.
Directors The current Board is shown on page 23 of this report.
Mr Wolfson, Mr Varley, Mr Dawson and Mrs Cross will retire by rotation at the 2008 AGM and Mr Barber, who was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2007, will retire in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
All these Directors are eligible and willing to be reappointed.
In accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code, the Board has formally reviewed the performance of Mr Dawson and Mrs Cross and concluded they remain effective and are committed to their non-executive roles at Next.
Mr Netherton will be retiring at the 2008 AGM after 11 years on the Board of Next plc.
Mr Barber was appointed as a non-executive director in the year and has recent and relevant financial experience: if elected, it is therefore intended that he should succeed Mr Netherton as Audit Committee Chairman on the latters retirement.
The interests of the directors who held office at 26 January 2008 and their families are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 34 and 35.
17 Directors Report and Business Review Auditors Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors of the Group and their reappointment will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Disclosure of information to auditors In accordance with the provisions of Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985, each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Risk Reward investment plan The Company first implemented its Risk Reward investment plan in July 2004 the 2004 Plan.
The retail employment sector was highly competitive and Nexts staff were frequently targeted by its rivals for recruitment.
The Remuneration Committee considered that Next offered competitive base salaries, annual bonuses and an appropriate long term incentive plan compared to most publicly listed retailers.
However, unlike private companies, publicly listed companies such as Next were unable to offer key executives the opportunity to invest in their equity with the prospect of a leveraged capital profit.
The 2004 Plan was introduced by Next to address this issue and assist in the retention and recruitment of its key executives.
As the retail sector remained very competitive in 2005, a revised structure approved by shareholders was implemented in July 2005 the 2005 Plan which included enhanced retention features.
Both plans require that Nexts share price meet demanding thresholds before any return is achieved and details of the 2005 Plan are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 29 and 30.
Approval for further plans was given by shareholders at the 2006 and 2007 Annual General Meetings.
However, in the light of prevailing market conditions, the Remuneration Committee did not consider it appropriate to implement a new plan for either of these years.
Over the five years to January 2008, the management team has achieved total shareholder return of 108%, including share price growth of 81%.
During this period, earnings per share have increased by 145%, dividends have grown by 77% and 1.3 billion has been returned to shareholders through the Companys share buyback programme.
The retail employment sector remains extremely competitive and Nexts rivals continue to target its key staff.
In the current environment, the Remuneration Committee has concluded that it would be desirable to implement a new risk reward plan during 2008.
Accordingly, resolution 10 will be proposed to approve a further plan the 2008 Plan, thereby allowing the Company flexibility to offer a similar incentive to its key executives and attract new talent to the management team.
The structure of the 2008 Plan would be the same as the 2005 Plan and would cost the Company up to a maximum of 2 million to implement.
All participants would be required to make a significant investment of personal funds.
The principal features of the 2008 Plan are summarised in Appendix 1 to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Renewal of authority to allot shares Ordinary resolution 11 will, if passed, renew the Directors authority pursuant to Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot shares until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 26 July 2009.
The nominal value of ordinary shares which the Directors may allot pursuant to this authority in the period up to the date of the 2008 Annual General Meeting is limited to 6,600,000, being approximately 33% of the total ordinary share capital in issue at 17 March 2008, none of which are held in treasury.
The Directors do not have any present intention of exercising this authority.
Special resolution 12 will, if passed, renew the Directors authority pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
This resolution limits the aggregate nominal value of ordinary shares which may be issued by the Directors to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital.
This authority also allows the Directors, within the same aggregate limit, to sell for cash shares that may be held by the Company in treasury.
The Directors do not have any present intention of exercising this authority which will expire at the Annual General Meeting in 2009 or, if earlier, 26 July 2009.
Nor do the Directors intend to issue more than 7.5% of the issued share capital of the Company in any rolling three year period without prior consultation with the Investment Committees of shareholder representative organisations.
18 Directors Report and Business Review On-market purchase of own shares Next has been returning capital to its shareholders since March 2000 as part of its strategy for delivering long term sustainable growth in earnings per share.
Over this period, Next has returned over 1.9 billion to shareholders by way of share buybacks and in excess of 700 million in dividends.
This buyback activity has enhanced earnings per share, given shareholders the opportunity for capital as well as revenue returns and has been transparent to the financial markets.
Special resolution 13 will renew the authority for the Company to make market purchases as defined in Section 163 of the Companies Act 1985 of its ordinary shares of 10p each provided that: a the aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased shall be the lesser of 29,900,000 ordinary shares of 10p each or no more than 15% of the issued ordinary share capital outstanding at the date of the Annual General Meeting, such limits to be reduced by the number of any shares to be purchased pursuant to special resolution 14: Contingent contracts and off-market share purchases, see below: b the payment per ordinary share is not less than 10p and not more than the higher of 5% over the average of the middle market price of the ordinary shares according to the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and c the renewed authority expires on whichever is the earlier of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2009 and 26 July 2009.
The Directors intend that this authority to purchase the Companys shares will only be exercised if doing so will result in an increase in earnings per share and it is considered to promote the success of the Company.
The Directors will also give careful consideration to financial gearing levels of the Company and its general financial position.
The purchase price would be paid out of distributable profits.
It is the Directors present intention to cancel the shares purchased under this authority.
The repurchase of ordinary shares would give rise to a stamp duty liability at the rate of 50 pence per 100 or part thereof of the consideration paid by the Company.
The liability will be a liability of the Company.
The total number of share options to subscribe for shares outstanding at 17 March 2008 was 9,078,924.
This represents 4.5% of the issued share capital at that date.
If the Company were to buy back the maximum number of shares permitted pursuant to this resolution, then the total number of options to subscribe for shares outstanding at 17 March 2008 would represent 5.3% of the reduced issued share capital.
Contingent contracts and off-market share purchases The Directors consider that share buybacks are an important means of returning value to shareholders and maximising sustainable long term growth in EPS.
Contingent contracts for off-market share purchases are an important part of this programme.
As noted last year, they continue to offer a number of additional benefits compared to on-market share purchases: Contingent contracts allow the Company to purchase shares at a discount to the market price prevailing at the date each contract is entered into.
From the 2007 AGM up to 17 March 2008, a total of 5,800,000 ordinary shares has been bought back for cancellation under such contracts for 108.8m, at a discount of 9.8m 8.2% compared with market prices prevailing when the relevant contract commenced.
Low share liquidity often prevents the Company from purchasing a large number of shares on a single day without affecting the prevailing market price.
Contingent contracts enable the Company to purchase blocks of shares over a period of time without distorting the prevailing share price.
This purchase method is also cash flow advantageous insofar as it defers the cash outflow of any related buybacks.
Contingent contracts enhance flexibility in the Companys buyback activity when trading volumes are low or would otherwise be restricted from buying on-market, e. g. during close periods.
The Company has previously entered into irrevocable and nondiscretionary programmes to allow it to buy shares during close periods.
By entering into contingent contracts prior to any close period, the Company is also allowed to purchase shares off-market during these periods.
Clearance from the FSA for use of contingent contracts, including for settlement in close periods, has been obtained.
19 Directors Report and Business Review Competitive tendering involving up to four banks is used which minimises the risk of hidden purchase costs.
The tender pricing mechanism ensures that the Company retains the benefit of forecast dividends, as well as any dividends declared, on share purchase commitments covered by contingent contracts.
As with any on-market share buyback decision, the Directors would use this authority only after careful consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate financial gearing levels and the overall financial position of the Company.
The Directors will only purchase shares for cancellation using such contracts if, based on the discounted price contracted rather than any subsequent changes to the share price that cannot be predicted, it is earnings enhancing and promotes the success of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders generally.
Special resolution 14 will give the Company authority to enter into further contingent purchase contracts with each of Goldman Sachs International, UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Barclays Bank plc under which shares may be purchased off-market at a discount to the market price prevailing at the date each contract is entered into.
The total number of shares which the Company would be permitted to purchase pursuant to this authority would be 10,000,000 and would not exceed a total cost of 150 million.
The principal features of the contracts are set out in Appendix 2 to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Copies of each contract will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company, and at the offices of Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London, E1 6AO, during normal working hours up to the date of the Annual General Meeting and at the Meeting itself.
New Articles of Association Special resolution 15 proposes the adoption of new articles of association with effect from 1 October 2008.
The new articles update the Companys current articles of association primarily to take account of changes in English company law brought about by certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006 that will be in force by or on 1 October 2008.
The principal changes introduced in the new articles are set out in Appendix 3 on pages 88 to 90.
A copy of the proposed new Articles of Association will be available for inspection at the Companys registered office at Desford Road, Enderby, Leicester, LE19 4AT and at the offices of Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London, E1 6AO during normal business hours up until the date of the Annual General Meeting and at the Meeting itself.
Recommendation Your Directors are of the opinion that all resolutions which are to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting promote the success of the Company and, accordingly, unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions.
Share capital and major shareholders Details of the Companys authorised and issued share capital are shown in Note 25 to the financial statements.
The Company was authorised by its shareholders to purchase the Companys own shares for cancellation.
During the year the Company purchased a total of 26,057,243 ordinary shares of 10p each for cancellation at a cost of 514.4m, representing 11.5% of its issued share capital.
On 26 January 2008 the Company had 200,996,687 shares in issue.
As at 17 March 2008, the Company had 199,946,687 shares in issue.
As at 17 March 2008 the following notifications had been received from holders of notifiable interests in the Companys issued share capital as shown: No.
of 10p ordinary shares % Barclays Global Investors 19,141,910 9.6 Fidelity Investments 16,605,894 8.3 Thornburg Investment Management Inc. 10,645,404 5.3 20 Directors Report and Business Review Additional information Shareholder and voting rights All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
On a show of hands at a general meeting every member present in person shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
The Notice of Meeting on pages 91 to 92 specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and voting rights.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than certain restrictions imposed by laws and regulations such as insider trading laws and market requirements relating to close periods and requirements of the Listing Rules whereby directors and certain employees of the Company require Board approval to deal in the Companys securities.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting.
Directors are reappointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting: the Board may appoint a director but anyone so appointed must be elected by ordinary resolution at the next general meeting.
Directors retire and may offer themselves for re-election at general meeting at least every three years.
Change of control The Company is not party to any significant agreements which take effect, alter or terminate solely upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
However, should a change of control cause a downgrading in the credit rating of the Companys 2013 and 2016 corporate bonds to sub-investment grade which is not rectified within 120 days after the change in control, holders of the bonds have the option to call for redemption of the bonds by the Company at their nominal value together with accrued interest.
This option is restricted only to a downgrade which occurs as a direct consequence of a change in control.
Directors service contracts are terminable by the Company on giving one years notice.
There are no agreements between the Company and its directors or employees providing for additional compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
By order of the Board A J R McKinlay Secretary 19 March 2008 21
