Our employees Overview The challenging market in which we operate requires the very With a simpler business and a focused best from our colleagues within Northern Foods.
I would like to thank all our employees for their commitment and efforts during strategy, we have improved profitability, the year, whether driving product innovation: superior service delivered an increased return on capital delivery to customers: or manufacturing efficiency.
This year and maintained a strong balance sheet.
we have also welcomed over 240 new colleagues to the Group through acquisition.
Having successfully completed our radical disposal programme In May 2008 we announced proposals to mothball our Fenland Foods facility in Grantham, following a decision to resign supply in 2006 07, we are now growing selectively, but only where this of products from the site.
This has been necessary due to a will enhance shareholder returns.
We completed three bolt-on lack of adequate returns and immediate prospects for the facility.
acquisitions during the year extending our presence in attractive The Board very much regret the potential impact on the sites growth markets.
We continually drive to lower costs, whilst loyal workforce and we are currently working to support them targeting investment in developing our business and its talent.
Northern Foods is now leaner and fitter, and well placed for the challenging environment in which we operate.
Your Board The Board has continued to benefit from the skills and depth Performance and dividend of experience available to support the new management In 2007 08, we increased our return on invested capital ROIC team created last year.
I thank colleagues for their continued from 10.2% to 11.0%.
This is a fundamental measure of performance commitment and support.
There were no changes to the for us, assessing the profit from our business operations Board during the year.
excluding interest and pension financing against the capital we have invested in assets and acquisitions.
The Board has Summary targeted a two percentage point increase in ROIC over three years, Northern Foods has made good progress in the first year with executive management incentivised against this target.
of the Groups three year strategic plan.
Performance has improved, driven by innovation, greater efficiency and through Faced with unprecedented commodity cost increases and the elimination of unprofitable business.
With a strong balance volatile trading conditions, it is pleasing to report a 25.3% sheet, the Group is well placed for the challenging environment increase in the Groups profit before tax to 50.1m, together in which we operate.
with a 20.9% improvement in adjusted earnings per share to 7.88 pence.
Profit for the period was 34.5m 2006 07:loss 22.5m.
Anthony Hobson Supported by an embedded culture of cash generation across 27 May 2008 the Group and a conservatively leveraged balance sheet, the Board is pleased to recommend a full year dividend of 4.50 pence per share, an increase of nearly 6%, giving a final dividend of 2.95 pence payable in August 2008.
Our management disciplines are much improved, reflecting a harder edge and the roll out of a genuine performance culture.
We remain true to our heritage of leading our markets in innovation, quality and customer service.
These critical features are supported by a focus on efficiency by ensuring a competitive cost base and rigorously ensuring that all of our business is profitable.
This approach will ensure that we are successful in the long term.
However, I am pleased with the progress already visible across our portfolio.
Whilst the Group operating margin increased only marginally to 5.2%, performance in the Chilled and Bakery divisions improved markedly.
A 130 basis point increase in the Chilled operating margin and a 90 basis point improvement in Bakery demonstrates not only early success, but also the potential for further improvements.
The combination of market and currency challenges, which have held back our Frozen performance, are disappointing, but plans are in place to improve this performance over time.
25.3% 20.9% 5.9% Profit before taxation Adjusted EPS Proposed dividend up 25.3% at 50.1m up 20.9% to 7.88p up 5.9% at 4.50p Northern Foods plc | Chairmans statement 3
