Independent auditors report Company financial statements To the members of Northern Foods plc We read the other information contained in the Annual report We have audited the parent company financial statements of as described in the contents section and consider whether it is Northern Foods plc for the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2008 consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
which comprise the Company balance sheet, the Company We consider the implications for our report if we become aware cash flow statement, the Company statement of recognised of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with income and expense, the Company statement of changes in the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do equity and the related notes 40 to 59.
These parent company not extend to any further information outside the Annual report.
financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International We have reported separately on the Group financial statements Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing of Northern Foods plc for the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2008 Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the is described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a by the directors in the preparation of the parent company financial body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and the Companys members those matters we are required to state adequately disclosed.
to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the information and explanations which we considered necessary Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable report, or for the opinions we have formed.
assurance that the parent company financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual report overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent and the parent company financial statements in accordance with company financial statements.
applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards Opinion IFRS as adopted by the European Union are set out in the In our opinion: Statement of directors responsibilities.
the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial Union, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 29 March 2008 statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory and of its profit for the 52 weeks then ended: requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK the parent company financial statements have been properly and Ireland.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors report is consistent We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company with the parent company financial statements.
financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company financial statements have been properly Deloitte & Touche LLP prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Leeds Directors report is consistent with the parent company financial 27 May 2008 statements.
The information given in the Directors report includes that specific information presented in the Performance review and the Chief executives report that is cross referred from the Performance review section of the Directors report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Northern Foods plc | Independent auditors report Company financial statements 99
