Investor information Shareholder services and helpline Any shareholder wishing to adopt this method of payment should Shareholders who change address, or who want to have complete a dividend mandate form, which can be found attached their dividends paid directly into their bank account, may do to the last dividend warrant.
Alternatively, a form can be downloaded so on the following website www-uk.
com investor, from the Registrars website or requested by calling the telephone or shareholders should write to the Registrar, Computershare helpline on 0870 702 0134.
Investor Services PLC, at The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZZ.
If they require any other information about their holding The following share dealing services are available through our shareholders can contact the Registrar, Computershare Investor Registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC.
Services PLC on the dedicated Northern Foods shareholder information telephone line: 0870 702 0134 or email their enquiry, Internet share dealing indicating that they are a Northern Foods shareholder, to Please note that, at present, this service is only available to web.
shareholders in certain European jurisdictions.
Please refer to the website for an up to date list of these countries.
This service Shareholder information on the internet provides shareholders with an easy way to buy or sell Northern The Northern Foods website www.
com provides Foods plc ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange.
access to shareholder information, including our annual and half The commission is 0.5%, subject to a minimum charge of 15.00. year reports, share price and recent share price trends, financial In addition stamp duty, currently 0.5%, is payable on purchases.
highlights and results presentations to analysts as well as a There is no need to open an account in order to deal.
Real time link to our Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, dealing is available during market hours.
In addition there is at www-uk.
a facility to place your order outside of market hours.
Up to 90 day limit orders are available for sales.
To access the service The link to our Registrar allows shareholders to access their log on to www.
Shareholders will be required should have their Shareholder Reference Number SRN available.
to pass an identity check to access their personal information.
The SRN appears on share certificates.
A bank debit card will be This link also allows shareholders to download stock transfer, required for purchases.
dividend mandate and change of address forms.
Telephone share dealing Please note this service is, at present, only available to shareholders In addition, shareholders can also register on line with the Investor resident in the UK and Ireland.
The commission is 1%, subject Centre at www-uk.
On registering, to a minimum charge of 15.00.
In addition stamp duty, currently shareholders will receive a unique user name and password.
The service is available from This site enables shareholders to view and update their portfolio 8.00am to 4.30pm Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays, in all companies maintained by Computershare and to view on telephone number 0870 703 0084.
Shareholders should have those held by other registrars.
their Shareholder Reference Number SRN ready when making E-communications the call.
A bank debit card Shareholders may also now receive reports electronically by will be required for purchases.
Detailed terms and conditions logging onto the Computershare Investor Services website at are available on request by telephoning 0870 702 0134. www-uk.
com investor and follow the instructions or simply follow the link from the Northern Foods website.
If you These services are offered on an execution only basis and have any problems registering or would like further information, subject to the applicable terms and conditions.
This is not a please contact the Computershare helpdesk on 0870 702 0134. recommendation to buy, sell or hold shares in Northern Foods plc.
Shareholders who are unsure of what action to take should obtain Electronic proxy voting independent financial advice.
Share values may go down as well Shareholders wishing to appoint a proxy electronically via the as up which may result in a shareholder receiving less than internet should refer to the instructions contained in the circular he she originally invested.
sent to shareholders with this report.
Capital gains tax Dividend mandates The base cost of a Northern Foods ordinary share at 31 March Shareholders may choose to have dividends paid electronically 1982 for capital gains tax purposes is 75.8 pence.
This figure is the into their United Kingdom bank or building society account, using adjusted price to reflect the effect of the rights issue in January 1992, the BACS system.
This process ensures that the amount of the the one-for-one capitalisation issue in August of the same year, dividend is passed directly into their account, as cleared funds, and the demerger of Express Dairies plc now Arla Foods UK on on the date the payment is due.
Confirmation of payment is 30 March 1998. contained in a dividend tax voucher which is posted to shareholders registered addresses at the time of payment.
This voucher should Any gain arising on disposal may also need to be adjusted be kept safely for future reference.
to take account of indexation allowances and, since these adjustments will depend on individual circumstances, shareholders are recommended to consult their financial advisers.
Northern Foods plc | Investor information 115
