Statement of directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements To the members of Northern Foods plc The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting The following statement, which should be read in conjunction records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the with the auditors responsibilities set out in their report, is made financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective that the financial statements comply with the Companies responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets to the financial statements.
of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the financial statements.
The directors are required to prepare the The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity financial statements for the Group in accordance with applicable of the corporate and financial information included on the law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as Company's website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing adopted by the European Union.
Company law requires the the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance with differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial period, the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
The directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with specific requirements in IFRS is sufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
54 Statement of directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements | Northern Foods plc
