Northgate AR&A 2008 Back AW:x69614 Rhouse back p2 cg 23 7 08 16:27 Page 11 NOTESTOTHE NOTESTOTHE ACCOUNTS ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2008 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2008 2.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Foreign currencies Employee share schemes and share based payments Transactions in foreign currencies other than UK Sterling are recorded at the rate prevailing at the date of the transaction The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, or at the contracted rate if the transaction is covered by a forward exchange contract.
At each balance sheet date, monetary IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 30 April 2005. assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet The Group issues equity-settled payments to certain employees.
date or, if appropriate, at the forward contract rate and any variances are reflected in the income statement.
Equity-settled employee schemes, including employee share options and deferred annual bonuses, provide employees with The net assets of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into UK Sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance the option to acquire shares of the Company.
Employee share options and deferred annual bonuses are generally subject sheet date.
The exchange difference arising on the retranslation of opening net assets is recognised directly in equity.
All other to performance or service conditions.
translation differences are taken to the income statement with the exception of exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings to the extent that they are used to finance or provide a hedge against Group equity investments in foreign enterprises, The fair value of equity-settled payments is measured at the date of grant and charged to the income statement over the which are recognised directly in equity, together with the exchange difference on the net investment in these enterprises.
period during which performance or service conditions are required to be met or immediately where no performance or service criteria exist.
The fair value of equity-settled payments granted is measured using the Black-Scholes model.
The amount The results of overseas subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures are translated into UK Sterling using average exchange recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of employee share options that vest, except where forfeiture rates for the financial period and variances compared with the exchange rate at the balance sheet date are recognised is only due to market based performance criteria not being met.
The Group also operates a Share Incentive Plan SIP under which employees each have the option to purchase an amount In the prior year, the Company maintained certain borrowings in the same currency as the functional currency of its overseas of shares annually and receive an equivalent number of free shares.
The Group recognises the free shares as an expense evenly subsidiary undertakings, as a hedge against the net assets of the subsidiaries.
These borrowings were translated into UK throughout the period over which the employees must remain in the employ of the Group in order to receive the free shares.
Sterling using the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Any variances were recognised directly in equity.
Investment income and finance costs Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign Investment income and finance costs are recognised in the income statement as they fall due.
They are denominated in the functional currency of the foreign entity and translated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date, with any variances reflected directly in equity.
Dividends Dividends on Ordinary shares are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are either paid or formally approved, All foreign exchange differences reflected directly in equity are shown in the currency translation reserve component of equity.
Leasing and hire purchase commitments Provisions As Lessee: A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result Assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are capitalised in the balance sheet at their fair value or, if lower, of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect the present value of the future minimum lease payments and are depreciated over their useful economic lives using Group is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current policies.
The capital elements of future obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are included as liabilities market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
The interest elements of the rental obligations are charged to the income statement over the periods of the leases and hire purchase contracts so as to produce a constant rate of return on the outstanding balance.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, which are described in Note 2, the Directors have made the following judgments that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
As Lessor: Motor vehicles and equipment hired to certain customers under operating leases are included within property, plant and Depreciation equipment.
Income from such leases is taken to the income statement evenly over the period of the operating lease Vehicles for hire are depreciated on a straight-line basis using depreciation rates that reflect economic lives of between three agreement.
These depreciation rates have been determined with the anticipation that the net book values at the point the vehicles are transferred into non-current assets held for sale is in line with the open market values for those vehicles.
Retirement benefit costs The Group predominantly operates defined contribution pension schemes and has one defined benefit scheme.
Contributions in Under IAS 16, the Group is required to review its depreciation rates and estimated useful lives regularly to ensure that the respect of defined contribution arrangements are charged to the income statement in the period they fall due.
Pension contributions net book value of disposals of tangible fixed assets are broadly equivalent to their market value.
in respect of one of these arrangements are held in trustee administered funds, independently of the Groups finances.
Depreciation charges reflect adjustments made as a result of differences between expected and actual residual values of used For the defined benefit scheme, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with vehicles, taking into account the further direct costs to sell the vehicles.
actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period Intangible assets in which they occur.
They are recognised outside the income statement and presented in the statement of recognised income Amortisation of intangible assets is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives and expense.
The Directors have made assumptions with regard to the evidence in the market, at the time of Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested and otherwise is amortised acquisitions, when determining these estimated useful lives.
on a straight line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost and as reduced by the fair value of the scheme assets.
Any asset resulting year, are discussed below.
from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future Goodwill contributions to the scheme.
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which The Group also operate Group personal pension plans.
The costs of these plans are charged to the income statement as goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise they fall due.
from each cash generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
The carrying value of goodwill at the balance sheet date was 83,152,000 Note 14.
Taxation The Group carries out tax planning consistent with a group of its size and makes appropriate provision, based on best estimates, until tax computations are agreed with the tax authorities.
38 39 NORTHGATE PLC ANNUAL REPORT& ACCOUNTS 2008
