Northgate AR&A 2008 Back AW:x69614 Rhouse back p2 cg 23 7 08 16:28 Page 57 SUMMARY OF THE PRINCIPAL EXPLANATORY NOTES ON THE TERMS OF THE EXECUTIVE PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN THE ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2008 In any ten calendar year period, the Company may not issue or grant rights to issue more than: a 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company under the Executive PSP and any other employee share DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST ARTICLES 107, 1 15 AND 1 16 plan adopted by the Company: and Resolution 13 seeks to adopt new Articles of Association to reflect those provisions of the Companies Act 2006 2006 Act b 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company under the Executive PSP and any other executive share plan relating to directors conflicts of interest which are due to come into force on 1 October 2008. adopted by the Company.
The 2006 Act sets out directors general duties which largely codify the existing law but with some changes.
Under the 2006 Treasury Shares will count as new issue Shares for the purposes of these limits unless institutional investors decide that they Act, from 1 October 2008, a director has a statutory duty to avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect need not count.
interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
Alterations to the Executive PSP The Committee may, at any time, amend the Executive PSP in any respect, provided that the prior approval of shareholders The 2006 Act allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts where appropriate, if the is obtained for any amendments that are to the advantage of participants in respect of the rules governing eligibility, limits on articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The 2006 Act also allows the articles of association to contain other participation, the overall limits on the issue of Shares or the transfer of treasury Shares, the basis for determining a participants provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
entitlement to, and the terms of, the Shares or cash to be acquired and the adjustment of awards.
Article 115, which is the provision dealing with conflicts in our current Articles of Association, allowing directors to be interested The requirement to obtain the prior approval of shareholders will not, however, apply to any minor alteration made to benefit in transactions and to be an officer of, or employed by, or interested in, a body corporate in which the Company is interested, the administration of the Executive PSP, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, is being amended so that it confirms that such interests, offices or employment will not infringe the conflicts duty as codified in exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants or for any company in the Companys group.
Article 116 will give the directors authority to approve conflict situations including other directorships held by the directors and include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
There are safeguards that will apply when directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
First, only directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision and secondly, in taking the decision the directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The proposed amendment to Article 107, which deals with the quorum requirement for board meetings, clarifies that a director cannot count in the quorum for a matter or resolution on which he is not entitled to vote but he may count in the quorum for the other matters or resolutions to be considered or voted on at the meeting.
Article 116 will also contain provisions relating to confidential information, attendance at board meetings and availability of board papers to protect a director from being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to the potential conflict has previously been authorised by the directors.
It is the directors intention to report annually on the Companys procedures for ensuring that the directors powers of authorisation of conflicts are operated effectively and that the procedures have been followed.
PERMITTED INTERESTS AND VOTING ARTICLES 1 17 TO 122 Articles 117 to 119 and 121 will be updated to reflect the position under the 2006 Act and existing best practice.
The provisions in Article 120 relating to resolving of an interest of the chairman of the meeting have been deleted as this will be covered in Article 119.
The provisions in Article 122 which previously deemed certain interests of a directors connected persons to be the interests of the director himself for the purposes of Articles 115 to 121 have also been deleted.
There is no requirement in the 2006 Act to include such a provision and the 2006 Act contains a much wider definition of connected person of a director.
The director and the Company must still take a view each time a matter is being considered as to whether the interests of the directors connected persons mean that the director should be treated as interested for the purposes of Articles 115 to 121.
84 85 NORTHGATE PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2008
