Northgate AR&A 2008 Back AW:x69614 Rhouse back p2 cg 23 7 08 16:28 Page 53 NOTICE OF ANNUAL NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING GENERAL MEETING THIS NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you have d this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2009 unless such any doubt as to the action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own personal financial advice from your authority is renewed prior to such time: and stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets e the Company may agree before the aforesaid authority terminates to purchase Ordinary shares where the purchase will Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your ordinary shares in Northgate plc, please send this document, or may be executed either wholly or in part after the authority terminates.
The Company may complete such a purchase together with the accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through even though the authority has terminated.
whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
That the Regulations contained in the document submitted to the Meeting marked A and signed by the Chairman of the Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and tenth Annual General Meeting of Northgate plc will be held at Norflex House, Meeting for the purposes of identification be and the same are hereby adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company Allington Way, Darlington at 11.30 am on 16 September 2008 for the following purposes: to the exclusion of and in substitution for all existing Articles of Association of the Company.
That the rules of the Executive Performance Share Plan the Plan, in the document submitted to the Meeting marked B 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors report and audited accounts of the Company for the year ended 30 April 2008. and signed by the Chairman of the Meeting for the purposes of identification, be and are hereby approved and the 2.
To declare a final dividend of 16.5p per Ordinary share.
Directors be authorised to make such modifications to the Plan as they may consider appropriate to take account of the 3.
To approve the Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 30 April 2008 set out on pages 16 to 21 of the 2008 requirements of best practice and for the implementation of the Plan and to adopt the Plan as so modified and to do all Annual Report and Accounts.
such other acts and things as they may consider appropriate to implement the Plan.
To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of the Company.
The Directors of the Company consider that all the proposals to be considered at the Annual General Meeting are in the best 5.
To authorise the Audit Committee to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
interests of its shareholders as a whole and they recommend that you vote in favour of them.
To re-elect Mr A J Allner as a Director.
To re-elect Mr R L Contreras as a Director.
To re-elect Mr T Brown as a Director.
To re-elect Mr A T Noble as a Director.
30 June 2008 Registered Office: As special business to consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions: numbers 10 and 14 are to be proposed Norflex House as Ordinary Resolutions and numbers 11, 12 and 13 as Special Resolutions: Allington Way 10.
That the Directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 80 of the Darlington DL1 4DY Companies Act 1985 to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of the said Section 80 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 722,597.75 during the period commencing on the date of the passing of this Resolution and expiring at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2009 but so NOTES that this authority shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and notwithstanding such expiry the Directors may allot 1.
Only the holders of Ordinary shares registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6.00 pm on 14 September relevant securities in pursuance of such offers or agreements.
2008 shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after that time shall be disregarded in determining the right of any 11.
That, subject to the passing of Resolution 10, the Directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 person to attend and vote at the meeting.
of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the Act for cash, pursuant to the authority given in accordance with Section 80 of the Act by Resolution 10 as if Section 89 1 of the Act 2.
A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and on a poll vote instead did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: of him.
A proxy so appointed need not also be a member.
A three-way proxy card for this purpose is enclosed.
a the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of securities, open for acceptance for a period fixed by the Directors, by way of rights to holders of Ordinary shares and such other equity securities of the Company as the Directors may determine on the register on a fixed record date in proportion to their respective holdings of such securities or in accordance with the rights attached thereto but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements that would otherwise arise or with legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of, any recognised regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory or otherwise howsoever : b the allotment of equity securities in connection with any employees share scheme approved by the members in general meeting: and c the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraphs a and b above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 175,000.
And shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2009 except that the Company may before such expiry make offers or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and notwithstanding such expiry the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offers or agreements.
That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases as defined in Section 163, Companies Act 1985 of its Ordinary shares of 5p each provided that: a the Company does not purchase under this authority more than 7,000,000 Ordinary shares: b the Company does not pay less than 5p for each share: c the Company does not pay more for each share than 5% over the average of the middle market price of the Ordinary shares according to the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the Company agrees to buy the shares concerned: 80 8 1 NORTHGATE PLC ANNUAL REPORT& ACCOUNTS 2008
