Northgate AR&A 2008 Back AW:x69614 Rhouse back p2 cg 23 7 08 16:27 Page 7 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT NOTESTOTHE OF CHANGES IN EQUITY ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2008 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2008 2008 2007 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION Notes 000 000 Northgate plc is a Company incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office is given on page 86.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in Note 5 Amounts attributable to equity holders of the parent Company and in the Operational and Financial reviews on pages 6 to 10.
Foreign exchange differences on retranslation of net assets of subsidiary undertakings 32 29,221 1,756 The financial statements are presented in UK Sterling because this is the currency of the primary economic environment Foreign exchange difference on revaluation reserve 164 11 in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in Note 2.
Net foreign exchange differences on long term borrowings held as hedges 32 34,349 1,425 Other foreign exchange differences recognised directly in equity 32 628 On 1 May 2007, the Group adopted IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Net fair value losses gains on cash flow hedges 31 1,721 4,471 There is no impact on the income statement or equity in either year as a result of the adoption.
Share options fair value amount credited charged directly to equity 3,340 75 Actuarial losses gains on defined benefit pension scheme 38 208 445 At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following relevant Standards and Interpretations, which have Net current tax credit recognised directly in equity 10 1,084 not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: Deferred tax on net investment hedges 25 11,192 IFRS 8 Operating segments Net deferred tax charge recognised directly in equity 25 2,018 2,616 IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 - Group and treasury share transactions Net income recognised directly in equity 5,621 3,595 IFRIC 14 IAS 19 - The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction Profit attributable to equity holders 13 61,334 54,483 The Directors anticipate that the adoption of the Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact Total recognised income and expense for the year 66,955 58,078 on the financial statements of the Group except for additional disclosures when the relevant standards come into effect for Dividends paid 11 18,982 16,949 periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
Issue of Ordinary share capital net of expenses 26, 27 749 2,254 Net increase in own shares held 29 4,434 1,241 2.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Cost of shares purchased for cancellation 26 8,166 Statement of compliance Net changes in total equity 36,122 42,142 The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and their interpretations adopted by the European Union EU and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
Opening total equity as at 1 May 362,431 320,289 Basis of preparation Closing total equity as at 30 April 398,553 362,431 The financial information has been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain land and buildings and the treatment of certain financial instruments.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiary undertakings are entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or COMPANY STATEMENT indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company and its undertakings made up to 30 April 2007 and 30 April 2008.
The results of a new subsidiary undertaking are included from the date of its acquisition.
Where an entity has OF CHANGES IN EQUITY ceased to be a subsidiary undertaking during the year, its results are included to the date of cessation.
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2008 On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary undertaking are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised 2008 2007 as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount Notes 000 000 on acquisition is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at Amounts attributable to equity holders of the parent Company the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Subsequently any losses applicable to the minority interest in excess of the minority interest are allocated against the interests of the parent.
Foreign exchange differences on retranslation of investments in subsidiary undertakings 32 4,344 Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiary undertakings to bring the accounting Net foreign exchange differences on long term borrowings held policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are as hedges 32 4,344 eliminated on consolidation.
Net fair value gains on cash flow hedges 31 3,182 3,450 Revenue recognition Share options fair value amount credited charged directly to equity 3,340 75 Group revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable in respect of the hire of vehicles Net current tax credit recognised directly in equity 1,084 and the supply of related goods and services in the normal course of business, net of value added tax and discounts.
Net deferred tax charge recognised directly in equity 25 2,312 2,055 Revenue from vehicle rentals is recognised evenly over the rental period and revenue from sales of other related goods Net income recognised directly in equity 4,210 2,404 and services is recognised at the point of sale.
Loss profit attributable to equity holders 13 27,534 11,241 Goodwill Total recognised income and expense for the year 23,324 13,645 All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
Goodwill represents amounts arising on Dividends paid 11 18,982 16,949 acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and interests in associates and is the difference between the cost of the acquisition Issue of Ordinary share capital net of expenses 26, 27 749 2,254 and the fair value of the net identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
Cost of shares purchased for cancellation 26 8,166 Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses identified through an annual test for impairment.
Net changes in total equity 49,723 1,050 Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts Opening total equity as at 1 May 227,484 228,534 subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Closing total equity as at 30 April 177,761 227,484 34 35 NORTHGATE PLC ANNUAL REPORT& ACCOUNTS 2008 Northgate AR&A 2008 Back AW:x69614 Rhouse back p2 cg 23 7 08 16:27 Page 9 NOTESTOTHE NOTESTOTHE ACCOUNTS ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2008 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2008 2.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Intangible assets arising on business combinations Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Amortisation of intangible assets is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each intangible asset.
Intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income are as follows: statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Customer relationships 5 to 13 years Brand names 5 to 10 years Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and Non-compete agreements 2 to 4 years liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences Intangible assets other and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference Software assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives, which do not exceed three years.
arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost, except in the case of certain revalued buildings, less accumulated The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided so as to write off the cost of assets to residual values longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
on a straight-line basis over the assets useful estimated lives as follows: Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, Freehold buildings 50 years and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is Leasehold buildings 50 years or over the life of the lease, whichever is shorter probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Plant, equipment and fittings 3 to 10 years Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset Vehicles for hire 3 to 6 years is realised.
Motor vehicles 3 to 6 years Current and deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited Vehicles for hire are depreciated on a straight-line basis using depreciation rates that reflect economic lives of between directly to equity, in which case the current or deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
These depreciation rates have been determined with the anticipation that the net book values at the point the vehicles are transferred into non-current assets held for sale is in line with the open market values for those vehicles.
Financial instruments and hedge accounting Depreciation charges reflect adjustments made as a result of differences between expected and actual residual values of used Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual vehicles, taking into account the further direct costs to sell the vehicles.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value less any appropriate provision for irrecoverable Property under construction is not depreciated.
Depreciation commences when these assets are ready for their intended use.
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from Depreciation on revalued buildings is charged to the income statement.
On the subsequent sale or retirement of a revalued operational, financing and investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue property, the attributable revaluation surplus remaining in the revaluation reserve is transferred directly to retained earnings.
derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
The residual value, if not insignificant, is reassessed annually.
Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
Any gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of resultant Non-current assets held for sale gain or loss depends on the nature of the items being hedged.
Non-current assets classified as held for sale are valued at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less estimated costs to sell.
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a disposal transaction.
The fair value of interest rate derivatives is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the derivative at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the Fixed asset investments derivative counterparties.
Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less any provision for impairment.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows Impairment are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
If the cash flow hedge of a At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether firm commitment or forecasted transaction results in the recognition of an asset or liability, then, at the time the asset or liability there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result in recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less selling costs and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
income statement as they arise.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable Hedge accounting for cash flow hedges is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised amount.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in of any goodwill allocated to cash generating units and then to reduce the carrying amount of other assets in the unit on equity is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the a pro rata basis.
net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement as a net profit or loss for the period.
Inventories Bank loans and issue costs Inventories comprise spare parts and consumables and are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Net Bank loans are stated at the amount of proceeds after deduction of issue costs, which are amortised over the period of the realisable value represents the estimated selling price less costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for in the income statement on an accrual basis and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
36 37 NORTHGATE PLC ANNUAL REPORT& ACCOUNTS 2008
