NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC 20 ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT AND BUSINESS REvIEW 4.
Operational performance NWL uses a range of indicators to monitor performance.
In addition to the financial indicators shown on page 14, NWL also uses non-financial indicators throughout the business.
Performance against these indicators is reviewed by the management team each month.
The definition, purpose and source of the main KPIs are shown on pages 36 and 37.
NWL performance against non-financial KPIs unaudited is shown in each section.
Customer satisfaction attitudes North N Target Target Performance South S 2008 09 2007 08 Current year Previous year Customer satisfaction Overall service % N S 90 Maintain 89 92 Southern customer advisor, Hannah Turrell.
value for money % N S 85 Maintain 83 87 NWL carries out regular quarterly tracking surveys of domestic customers and, during the year, customer satisfaction levels remained very high, with 91% of customers satisfied or very satisfied with the service NWL provides and 86% feeling it provides value for money.
CCWater has carried out its second annual survey for domestic customers on a number of key themes, including value for money.
This years survey again concluded that, of all water companies customers, ours are the most satisfied with the fairness of charges and value for money.
During the year, NWL carried out specific research for the Periodic Review of prices which identified the stated preference of customers for service improvement as well as willingness to pay for them.
This research also confirmed that the level of customer satisfaction is very high with the following major points communicated from the research: n Over 40% of customers do not require any improvements in service.
n Where customers would like to see improvements, the willingness to pay more to achieve these improvements is limited for 2010 to 2015 this was on average about 13 per year above inflation, for the north, on the combined water and sewerage bill and about 10 above inflation, on the water bill for the south.
n This average is affected significantly by some customers, mainly those on higher incomes, who are willing to pay more.
n Around one in five customers are not willing to pay any more.
We will consider those points when we submit our Draft Business Plan, which is to be published in August 2008. BUSINESS STRATEGy OPERATING ENvIRONMENT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE RISKS AND RESOURCES NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 21 Domestic customers Despite regional socio-economic characteristics, and increases in North N Target Target Performance levels of water and sewerage charges South S 2008 09 2007 08 Current year Previous year during the year, NWL has maintained Customer levels of service its collection rates, supported by its Properties at risk of low pressure N 274 274 181 298 successful initiative to encourage as S 126 126 60 130 many customers as possible to use Properties subject to unplanned direct debit.
This still proves to be the 1 interruption of 6 hours or more N 3,000 3,000 3,318 20,389 most efficient way to collect payment S 2,000 2,000 3,405 3,967 for bills.
Properties subject to hosepipe bans at any time during the year N S 0 0 0 0 Business customers Properties subject to sewer NWL continues to develop its business flooding incidents other causes N 150 150 290 183 with major companies in the north east.
Properties at risk of sewer flooding We have worked closely with Newcastle incidents once in ten years N 183 78 125 116 International Airport to divert trunk Properties at risk of sewer flooding mains to allow the airports further incidents twice in ten years N 331 51 329 229 development.
In addition, NWLs Billing contacts responded to Pipeline Solutions business completed within five working days % N 99.2 99.0 99.3 99.3 a strategic mains replacement project S 99.2 99.0 99.6 99.2 for Durham Tees valley Airport.
Written complaints responded to within ten working days % N 99.8 99.8 99.9 99.9 We also continue to provide expert S 99.8 99.8 99.7 99.9 industrial effluent treatment services Bills based on meter readings % N 99.95 99.95 99.80 99.84 through our major works at Bran Sands S 99.95 99.95 99.96 99.94 on Teesside and worked collaboratively All telephone lines busy % N 0.25 0.25 0.03 0.20 with partners to deliver commercial and S 0.25 0.25 0 0 environmental outcomes.
Huntsman Abandoned telephone calls % N 2.5 2.5 2.8 3.2 Polyurethanes, an existing customer S 2.5 2.5 3.3 2.3 at Bran Sands, worked in conjunction with NWL and the EA to implement a Notes: process change at its Wilton site.
Performance affected by two major bursts, one in Middlesbrough on Teesside and one in Bedlington in Northumberland.
This change will bring about major NWL is committed to providing a high standard of customer service that meets the improvements in safe handling and in expectations of both customers and regulators.
the environmental performance of the effluents discharged from the site.
During 2007 08, we responded to a total number of 11,312 written complaints, slightly fewer than the previous year.
The number of complaints we received about NWL has also worked with Degussa, operational concerns reduced significantly because no major incidents occurred an existing customer, to assess the throughout the year.
As a consequence of heightened national media interest in opportunities for the disposal of the utility bills, we did receive an increased number of complaints despite the fact that liquid wastes generated on its site.
We our charges remain among the lowest in the country.
We also continue to have assessed a number of these and maintain a robust approach to debt recovery which inevitably generates contact two additional waste streams are now from customers in arrears.
Overall, over 99.8% of all written complaints were discharged via a pipeline to Bran Sands answered in ten working days.
under the terms of its contract.
As a key part of its work representing customers, CCWater formally reviews the We successfully completed a project to quality of complaints handling.
During this process it audits procedures, tracks provide a supplementary raw water samples of complaints correspondence through our systems and assesses the quality supply service to Teesside Power Station of our responses.
In 2007 08, 97% of all complaints assessed were rated as good.
The power station now has increased security of supply as a result of the new connection to NWLs NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC 22 ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT AND BUSINESS REvIEW 4.
The majority of the water Government Office Northeast and One NorthEast and, during 2007 08, nearly NWL supplies is used for cooling the 5.0 million has been invested in mountain bike trails, a lakeside multi-user track, electricity generating equipment.
water access points and an observatory.
In another important area, NWL is NWL has continued to develop its leisure facilities at strategic sites, investing in our working with the regional NHS Trusts fishing facilities, holiday accommodation and supporting Access for All.
This to improve and extend contingency includes the new restaurant facilities at Tower Knowe in Kielder and Hanningfield plans for hospitals and other medical in Essex.
sites in the region to protect water supplies in the event of an emergency.
NWL continues to develop ways of working with partners and we have formed a new arrangement with the North Pennines Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty In addition, we have held a number North Pennines AONB to develop Derwent reservoir and introduce a new multiof seminars and briefing sessions to user surface providing access for all abilities.
refresh customers knowledge and awareness on issues such as water Water regulations and monitoring for North N Target Target Performance legionella.
This service, together with South S 2008 09 2007 08 Current year Previous year account management, has been widely Water commended by our customers.
Water quality % N S 99.9 Maintain 99.9 99.9 99.9 On 31 March 2007, we created a new Leakage Ml d N 153.0 154.5 135.93 145.94 Scientific Services team within NWL by S 67.3 67.9 68.26 67.99 integrating the Analytical and Environmental Services AES business within the NWL water and waste water The quality of the drinking water supplied by NWL remained excellent in 2007 08. compliance teams.
We retained the AES One of the DWIs key measures is Mean Zonal Compliance and NWL achieved name for accreditation and commercial 99.98% in the south and 99.94% in the north.
In addition, the DWIs Operational purposes.
Scientific Services has Performance Index was 99.98% in the south and 99.66% in the north while the continued to grow and, during the year, Distribution Maintenance Index was 99.96% in the south and 99.47% in won new contracts with blue chip the north.
clients including the EA, the Spanish EPA, British Energy, Castle Cement, During 2007 08, we completed significant improvements to water treatment English Heritage, Durham University, works at Honeyhill and Lartington, both in County Durham and at Warkworth local health trusts and Sembcorp.
in Northumberland, which now has an additional treatment process to remove pesticides from raw water.
At Layer, in Essex, we made good progress on a project Leisure customers that will increase the reliable output by 20%, to 145 Ml d. NWL is one of the founding members of Kielder Water and Forest Park One of NWLs key priorities is to reduce the amount of water lost from its Development Trust, which will replace networks and the leakage targets agreed with Ofwat have been met.
The the Kielder Partnership, which seeks leakage in our southern operating area remains amongst the lowest in the country to promote sustainable development, as it has been for many years.
NWL aims to set best practice standards to manage recreation, access and leisure, education, leakage and is playing a leading role in a review of leakage methodologies with infrastructure and a range of other the EA and Ofwat.
charitable purposes at Kielder and in the surrounding area.
The Trust is Construction of a new 16km trunk main to serve customers in Newcastle is almost seeking registration as a charity and finished.
This will enable 155km of trunk mains supplying South Northumberland it will be chaired by John Cuthbert, and Newcastle to be cleaned over the next few years.
We have rehabilitated Managing Director.
373km of water mains during the year.
The development of Kielder Water and Water resources Forest Park is supported by the Our plan to increase the capacity of the Abberton reservoir near Colchester by Northumberland Strategic Partnership, around 60% reached a key milestone, in December 2007, when we submitted our BUSINESS STRATEGy OPERATING ENvIRONMENT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE RISKS AND RESOURCES NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 23 applications for planning permission for the reservoir and two large pipelines.
The submission was followed by a period of statutory consultation in the first three months of 2008.
The applications are the culmination of extensive work with environmental scientists, lawyers and planners to produce the environmental statement and supporting documentation.
We anticipate determination of the applications during the summer.
The EA is preparing the application to vary its licences at Denver and Blackdyke which, together with the enhanced transfer facilities and the enlarged reservoir, will secure water supplies for customers in one of the driest areas in the United Kingdom.
Our long running water efficiency promotions and good relationship with our customers continue to produce a positive response with further reductions in demand.
Metering also has an important role to play in managing the demand for water.
For several years we have been installing water meters on change of occupier in properties in the Essex area.
This is in addition to our optional metering scheme and we now have about 40% of domestic customers in Essex and 54% in Suffolk on a metered supply.
Although supplies are plentiful in the north east, we believe it is still important to manage the demand for water so that it does not exceed levels that can be supplied in a sustainable way.
Environment North N Target Target Performance South S 2008 09 2007 08 Current year Previous year Environment Sewage treatment works % N 100 100 98.4 99.8 Bathing waters Mandatory Standard % N 100 100 100 100 Pollution incidents N 96 116 119 142 All 33 bathing waters in NWLs area passed the EU Mandatory Standard and, of these, 27 achieved the more demanding Guideline Standard, despite poor weather in the summer of 2007.
We are working with the EA to identify the impact of other stakeholders including local authorities, highway authorities, farmers and land holders on the quality of bathing waters particularly with water running off the land.
We have only one non-compliant consented sewage treatment works out of a total of 158, based on Look-Up Table compliance for the year.
This is a works that represents 1.6% of the population equivalent and is now compliant.
NWL has now installed nearly 500 real-time monitoring devices in the sewerage network to provide information on high or unusual flows.
This information allows NWL to be proactive rather than reactive and to target action to prevent spillages and flooding.
This investment, together with a more proactive maintenance programme, has improved performance and, whilst Category 1 and 2 pollution incidents 1 and 13 respectively are broadly the same as the previous year, there has been a reduction of 20% in Category 3 incidents 105.
This continues the NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC 24 ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT AND BUSINESS REvIEW 4.
Operational performance continued improvement trend that NWL has publish its climate change scenarios recorded for the last four years.
in November 2008 and we will be revisiting our assessment in the light Intense rainfall during localised summer of the new science that emerges.
storms caused extensive flooding during However, the water industry is one of the year with 813 properties flooded the largest users of energy in the UK internally, well above the long term and we have been working hard to average and second only to 2005 06. reduce our carbon footprint as part of Investment to reduce the risk of sewer our normal business.
During the year, 18 schemes were completed to Detailed below are some activities which alleviate flooding risk for 156 properties reduce our impact on climate change: and we improved 86 combined sewer n A new work management system overflows.
This will further improve which will not only improve customer local water courses, enhance their visual service and introduce a more efficient appearance and reduce pollution incidents.
way of working but will also reduce mileage significantly in our fleet Climate change of vehicles.
Over the last five years we have reduced n By reducing tertiary Uv disinfection the amount of energy we use by almost outside of bathing water season at eight per cent.
We have achieved this by five major works, we will reduce improving our operations throughout the energy consumption and carbon business, for example, by introducing emissions with no detrimental effect anaerobic processes at Bran Sands, and on the marine environment.
by encouraging our customers to use n By developing and implementing water resources wisely, thereby reducing a sludge strategy to introduce an the associated energy consumption.
This will help power the plant at three smaller We have been working with sites initially, and two larger sites independent experts and have carried over the next seven years and will out detailed assessments to identify and increase our total renewable energy understand the impact climate change to over 20%.
The development of will have on our business.
The UK the plant at one of the larger sites at Climate Impacts Programme will Bran Sands has begun and the work NWLs Geoff Hartis and Claire Sharp explain the benefits of the Shiremoor flood relief scheme to John Harrison, Mayor of North Tyneside.
BUSINESS STRATEGy OPERATING ENvIRONMENT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE RISKS AND RESOURCES NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 25 at Howdon is planned for the next five year investment period.
n We generate our own renewable energy with hydroelectric plants at Kielder, Derwent, Lartington and Wear valley reservoirs and biogas combined heat and power at Stressholme, Hexham and Aycliffe.
New opportunities are continually sought and reviewed.
n In our northern operating area, the North Pennines AONB has 27% of Englands peat-forming blanket bog and wet peat locks in carbon, preventing it being released into the atmosphere.
By funding grip blocking on blanket bog to enable it to work effectively historically the grips were deliberately created to drain the land and have over time widened through erosion which is now damaging the natural environment we can help to make a significant contribution to NWLs Dave Chapman and Minister for the Environment Phil Woolas, holding a question and answer combating climate change.
Wetter session at the Science Learning Centre, Durham, about climate change.
moorland also improves the habitat for wildlife and reduces soil erosion.
in Hartlepool as part of the Defra Quality Durham University is helping us to Making space for water scheme.
NWL has maintained its certification to understand the hydrological carbon n Our Water is precious campaign the international quality standard ISO sequestration impacts of this.
encourages customers to use water 9001:2000 and to the international n We are developing a marginal wisely and to recognise that if they environmental standard ISO 14001:2004 abatement cost curve which will waste water, they also waste energy.
across all areas of the business, identify those actions we can take A water carbon footprint calculator including operational sites and which deliver the biggest emissions is now available for customers on our office-based teams.
reductions for the investment made websites to encourage this link.
in preparation for the carbon n We are also working with experts The Company also achieved reduction commitment legislation to understand the potential impact companywide accreditation to the being introduced as a result of the on our assets and have shared international occupational health and Climate Change Bill.
information with the North East safety management standard OHSAS n Our Water Resource Management Climate Change Adaptation Study 18001 in 2007 the first water Plan and our strategic direction and action plan published on 1 May company to do so.
statement Looking to the future 2008.
We have also provided are now published and these include information to many of the plans an assessment of climate change on being developed in our regions by water resource needs for the next other bodies e. g. local councils.
n By 2013, we aim to have completed, with relevant agencies, a major study on Tyneside to explore sustainable drainage options that take into account regional development and the impact of climate change.
This builds on the similar work carried out NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC 26 ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT AND BUSINESS REvIEW 4.
Operational performance continued Employees Operating Process Plant by the end of Throughout the Group we have 3,070 employees, as set out below: 2008.
So far, 22 candidates have been successful in achieving this qualification, Average the first awarded in the country.
number of Funding is being sourced, where Group business unit employees % possible, via the Learning and Skills Northumbrian Water Limited 2,890 94 Councils Train to Gain fund and also Water and waste water contracts 155 5 through Business Link.
Other 25 1 Total employees 3,070 100 During the year, we have also introduced Union Learning Representatives who are trained with a key focus on NWGs key asset is its employees and one of the strengths of NWL is employee supporting all employees in the area loyalty: employee turnover is relatively low at 7.4%, well below the UK water of basic skills development.
NWG ensures that its terms and conditions are appropriate to attract and retain the best employees in the areas it serves.
In September 2007, we re-introduced Employees also have access to a scheme which provides a range of benefits our apprenticeship scheme when including childcare vouchers and discounted store vouchers.
Currently 27% of 13 apprentices commenced employment employees participate in the scheme, up from 23% last year.
NWG places an in the maintenance area across the emphasis on health and safety and employees are actively involved in identifying business.
Candidates undertake a four and eliminating hazards in the workplace which has resulted in a significant year development programme and have reduction in accidents.
excellent career prospects when they North N Target Target Performance complete their apprenticeships.
The South S 2008 09 2007 08 Current year Previous year apprentices are, for the first time, Employees guaranteed employment at the end of 1 Employee turnover rolling % N S Industry 7.4 8.2 successfully completing their training.
average 10.3 We are also recruiting for our Graduate Lost time reportable accidents Development Programme to provide per 1,000 employees N S 5 6 6 8 potential leaders of the future.
Sickness absence % N S 2.85 2.95 3.25 3.01 One of the objectives of the People Notes: Plan is to develop leadership skills in 1.
No target set, data for information.
NWL continues to implement its NWL continues to seek the views of employees.
This years survey was completed by Management Development Framework 45% who gave their views on their working life, training, communications, managers which is structured to cover training and the company.
The results were reported back to all employees and discussed needs of those who show the potential with representative bodies.
Overall, employee satisfaction levels remain very high for management right through to with over 75% of respondents stating they are proud to work for the company.
As part of this framework we are working in Training and development partnership with the Newcastle Business NWL introduced an extensive People Plan in 2007 in which it sets out a five year School to provide qualifications from programme to support and develop employees.
a diploma to an honours degree in leadership and management and It is committed to the continuous development of occupational skills and has ultimately, where appropriate, a signed the Governments Skills Pledge stating that we will ensure that 90% of Masters degree.
employees will be qualified to the National vocational Framework Level 2 by 2009 and 95% as soon as possible thereafter.
Employees academic achievements were celebrated again this year at our An ambitious National vocational Qualification NvQ programme is being rolled second annual skills awards.
Attended out in our customer and operational areas.
In line with the Competent Operator by senior managers from around framework, all of our production operators will have achieved NvQ Level 2 in the business, and with guest speaker BUSINESS STRATEGy OPERATING ENvIRONMENT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE RISKS AND RESOURCES NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 27 initiative contracts with Scottish Water for waste water treatment.
At Levenmouth, the Group has a 75% shareholding in both project and operating companies.
During the year, the operating company, CELTS, entered into a long term contract with Lafarge Cement for beneficial reuse of dried sludge as a replacement fuel in their cement kilns.
At Ayrshire, the Group has a 75% shareholding in the project company and a 100% shareholding in the operating company.
The three effluent treatment plants that make up this contract continue to perform satisfactorily.
The operating company, AESOps, has also entered into a long term contract with Lafarge Cement for NWLs Management Development Framework model.
beneficial reuse of dried sludge as a replacement fuel in their cement kilns.
Kriss Akabusi, we experienced another management of muscular-skeletal injury.
This service provides support for those In Ireland, the Group is part of a employees who suffer from Muscular contractual consortium that designed Health and safety Skeletal Disorders MSD to help them and built a waste water treatment plant Our emphasis on the importance of return to fitness more quickly.
Under the health and safety within NWL has RehabWorks will also provide our consortium agreement, the Group has resulted in major improvements to our manual handling training to show responsibility for the operation and safety record in recent years.
This year people how they can avoid these sorts maintenance of the plant.
lost time reportable accidents improved of injuries.
We anticipate a reduction in on our best performance with six per MSD related absence as a result.
AquaGib Limited, two thirds owned 1,000 employees.
This has been by the Group in a joint venture with accompanied by a further reduction Our current level of sickness absence is the Government of Gibraltar, operates in days lost through accidents.
just over our target of 3%, which is still Gibraltars dual drinking water and well below the norm for the sector.
sea water distribution systems under The Groups medical advisor, its long term contract with the Grosvenor Health, continues to provide Research and development Government of Gibraltar.
The company occupational health services.
We run a programme of research and is currently undertaking a project to development linked to UK business install two new reverse osmosis plants We continue to develop programmes to operations.
This includes the provision to replace ageing and relatively promote healthy eating, hydration and of technical solutions for water and inefficient distillation plants.
The discourage smoking in our workforce waste water management and project, involving capital expenditure and offer excellent health screening and developing partnerships with academic of 3.4 million, is due for completion medical insurance schemes.
1,700 employees have been through the year, the Group invested our health screening and fitness 1.8 million 2007: 2.1 million in Other standards programmes, both of which research and development.
During the year, Agrer successfully now include lifestyle advice elements.
completed a 5.2 million regional We have introduced a new service in Water and waste water contracts development project contract in Turkey partnership with RehabWorks, who The Group is a member of two and was awarded new contracts in the specialise in the prevention and consortiums delivering private finance rural development sector in Algeria NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC 28 ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT AND BUSINESS REvIEW 4.
Operational performance continued 6.3 million, a four year contract and 2007, NWG has maintained this and curriculum based projects and in the democratic Republic of Congo percentage.
Some detail of our projects honour whole schools, classes 2.0 million, a five year contract.
Corporate responsibility The Group made charitable donations In our southern operating area we NWG helps the communities it serves in totalling 134,702 during the year.
support Cash for Schools, along with a number of different ways.
As well as the Essex Chronicle.
Cash for Schools giving financial support, we encourage Community support recognises excellence, with a focus on our employees to volunteer their time Employees and volunteering environmental projects from primary and expertise and we also provide Currently 23% of employees participate and secondary schools, within the facilities to help the communities in in the Just an hour volunteering newspapers distribution area.
These activities scheme and last year gave over 5,431 generally support projects that make hours to the community.
The Care for Partnerships the areas we serve better places in safety scheme, which encourages Water for health which to live, work or invest.
The employees to reduce accidents and We are at the forefront in the water programme focuses on key themes associated lost time, has triggered industry in communicating the health throughout these communities but, payments totalling 49,890 for our benefits of drinking tap water.
To date, increasingly, we are developing nominated charities: Great North Air over 225,000 has been provided for initiatives designed to tackle lasting and Ambulance Service, Mencaps Dilston water coolers in schools and over 500 sustainable change in specific areas.
College, RNLI, St Teresas Hospice and have been supplied to date in over 300 East Anglias Childrens Hospices.
The trials and research into the NWG continues to be a member of the effects of water coolers in a day centre, FTSE4Good Index and was again ranked Education a care home for older people and two as one of the top 100 Companies for We have improved our educational prisons have continued.
We also corporate responsibility based on an support materials during the year and continue to promote bottle-free water assessment of the widely recognised a wide range of additional educational coolers as a sustainable alternative to Business in the Community BITC materials are now available on bottle-fed coolers.
indices, which assess how companies our websites.
measure, manage and report responsible Arrangements were made with the business practice.
It was ranked as a In July 2007, we launched the North East Ambulance Trust to identify Platinum company, which is the top Northumbrian Water GLOBE care homes in Newcastle where rank, as well as being rated as the programme in a unique venture which residents were particularly subject to leading company in the sector which saw us link up with the international falls.
Coolers will be installed in these covers Gas, water and multi-utilities.
GLOBE programme, an environmental homes to monitor the impact of the NWG was also one of only eight education initiative set up by Al Gore in availability and viability of drinking companies that received the BITC Big 1996.
As part of this 100,000 project, water.
NWL also assisted Water UK Tick for its impact on society.
Last year, we donated 85 fully automated weather and Unison in the regional launch of NWG was also named as the North East stations and associated training to Water@work in Essex, which Representative Business of the year by schools throughout the northern region, encourages employers to ensure that BITC.
NWG uses these indices to to collect weather data in areas where employees have adequate access to measure, manage and report its Meteorological Office coverage is poor.
responsible business practice underpinned This data will help NWL and external by a rigorous external review process.
scientists understand the impact of Environmental climate change, and will be a valuable NWL has developed key partnerships to We have endeavoured for many years to curriculum tool.
help the conservation of biodiversity on donate at least 1% of our pre tax profits our sites.
NWLs contribution to the through cash, employee time and The Northumbrian Water Schools partnerships includes funding project expertise, or use of our facilities to Awards, now in their second year officers.
Current partnerships include: projects which benefit the communities in the northern region, are designed n Northumberland Wildlife Trust we serve.
We reported this publicly as to recognise and celebrate the Kielder and Bakethin : part of BITCs Per Cent Club standard achievements being made by our n Durham Wildlife Trust: and, although this ended in October schools.
They cover both community n Essex Wildlife Trust Hanningfield : BUSINESS STRATEGy OPERATING ENvIRONMENT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE RISKS AND RESOURCES NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 29 n Broads Authority Lound and Trinity already contributed research, marketing An Education Leadership Board, chaired Broads : and and communications support to by Baroness Estelle Morris, has also n Davy Down Trust.
create awareness of the Centre and been set up to oversee the development understanding of local needs and of education in Sunderland and Sustainable communities have been involved in three events to sponsors will be involved with this.
We NWG has a continuing commitment to promote healthy living, targeted at will be able to bring our expertise and support projects and organisations primary and secondary schools and day network of contacts across the region within the geographic areas in which centres.
This includes the creation of a to complement the curriculum and we we work and to contribute to the long graffiti garden as part of a community will be able to guide, mentor and term sustainability not only of our art programme at the Centre.
support staff and pupils to increase business, but also of the environment, their understanding of business and society and communities we serve.
This activity is supported by sponsorship enterprise.
We can provide role models Corporate responsibility is integral to of Everyday Swim an innovative and an introduction to a wide range of how we do business and as part of this swimming programme run by the employment opportunities because of commitment we are looking at different Amateur Swimming Association to the size and nature of our business: we ways to work within our communities to promote physical exercise and an arts can use our own employees and promote lasting change on key issues.
programme run by Creative Partnerships networks to provide help and support to use arts-based activities to change to meet the needs identified by staff or We are working with partners to create childrens attitudes to eating and pupils.
Our aim is to use our expertise models of sustainable change and also drinking, supported by research by to support academic and vocational methods of evaluating their success, Durham University.
Our contribution attainment and help bring lasting which can be replicated in other to the work of the Healthy Living Centre improvement to this community.
The focus has been on is a unique approach to tackling the Department for Education and Skills has health, education, economy and poor long term health of the residents approved the outline business case for affordable housing as well as creating in Easington.
The consultation and new ways to support areas helped by design process to meet the vision of our chosen charity WaterAid.
Education the new Academy is underway and is Building began in March at the site of planned to be ready in autumn 2009.
Health the Castle view Enterprise Academy Healthworks opened in November 2007 CvEA where we are the lead sponsors Affordable housing in Easington Colliery after NWL reached for the development of the Academy.
The nature of our business means that an agreement with County Durham Sunderland City Council is pioneering its we own areas of land, often in rural Primary Care Trust PCT giving them own model for academies as part of its areas with low commercial or a 99 year lease on a redundant building wider Building Schools for the Future development value.
As part of our at our Easington waterworks and it was programme.
The Sunderland model stewardship we are exploring ways subsequently refurbished.
We are has been designed to meet the needs it can be used for the benefit of rural working in partnership with the PCT, of Sunderland pupils and has evolved communities.
If we own land that can the District of Easington Council, the through successful partnership working be developed, without affecting our Neighbourhood Management Pathfinder in the city.
For each academy, a leading core activity of maintaining and and other stakeholders to develop north east business is lead sponsor and delivering a clean, safe, water supply, services for the local community in an the council is co-sponsor.
A number of then we will give priority to providing area where census records show one of donors will also support each project.
the worst health records in the country.
CvEA will specialise in business and enterprise.
The funding from sponsors This will contribute to the sustainability However, our commitment has gone and donors will go into a trust fund for and vitality of rural communities and beyond providing the building.
There is educational disadvantage and will not reduce the need for people to move to a natural synergy between our own be used for capital costs as is the towns and cities for both housing and Water for health campaign and the normal practice for academies.
If jobs can be retained in Healthy Living agenda, so we are rural communities, then there is the devising new ways for NWL to work complementary environmental benefit at a strategic level with the partners of of reducing the use of transport and the the Healthy Living Centre.
We have associated carbon emissions.
NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC 30 ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT AND BUSINESS REvIEW 4.
Operational performance continued NWL has supported HRH The Prince of committee have raised 2.5 million, Wales Affordable Rural Housing Initiative since 1997, with the help of the since it was launched in 2003.
The company and last year focused its initiative is a partnership between BITC fundraising support on specific projects and key strategic organisations.
We are in Malawi and India.
leading the industry in this initiative and, together with BITC, have supported a Community Foundations number of guides to affordable rural Community Foundations covering our housing which have been endorsed by areas of supply hold endowment funds HRH The Prince of Wales.
totalling nearly 1.0 million contributed by NWL over the last 16 years.
These As part of this commitment, we are are long term investments with the now embarking on housing schemes income from the funds used to support at Hanningfield, in Essex, and Kielder, community initiatives.
Recipients are in Northumberland, and are identifying chosen by committees which include other opportunities for affordable rural our own employees.
housing in our supply areas.
We believe that any programme of development should support issues of importance to us such as water and energy efficiency, sustainable communities, biodiversity, cultural opportunities and good design.
We have produced briefs to ensure John Hall from NWLs southern area, tree appropriate consideration of these coppicing at Ormesby Little Broad in Norfolk part of the Trinity Broads.
issues and look for developers who share our ideals.
Economy North East Enterprise Bond Our investment in the bond is a five year interest free loan, which will help fund the purchase and running of a number of Launch Pads dynamic, state of the art mobile vehicles that will tour the region to help trigger and encourage enterprise start-ups to make real, long term change.
The bond works in partnership with creative enterprise promoters such as Big Ideas, People into Enterprise and Newcastle Education Business Partnership which serve as a catalyst to help educate and inspire people to consider setting up their own business or social enterprise.
NWLs Cara Hall on a recent trip to Burkina Faso WaterAid organised by WaterAid.
NWL continued to raise funds and awareness for the work of WaterAid which brings sustainable water and sanitation solutions as well as hygiene education to the poorest parts of Africa and Asia.
The companys fundraising BUSINESS STRATEGy OPERATING ENvIRONMENT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE RISKS AND RESOURCES NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 31 NWL performance against non-financial KPIs summary unaudited North N Target Target Performance South S 2008 09 2007 08 Current year Previous year Customer satisfaction Overall service % N S 90 Maintain 89 92 value for money % N S 85 Maintain 83 87 Customer levels of service Properties at risk of low pressure N 274 274 181 298 S 126 126 60 130 1 Properties subject to unplanned interruption of 6 hours or more N 3,000 3,000 3,318 20,389 S 2,000 2,000 3,405 3,967 Properties subject to hosepipe bans at any time during the year N S 0 0 0 0 Properties subject to sewer flooding incidents other causes N 150 150 290 183 Properties at risk of sewer flooding incidents once in ten years N 183 78 125 116 Properties at risk of sewer flooding incidents twice in ten years N 331 51 329 229 Billing contacts responded to within five working days % N 99.2 99.0 99.3 99.3 S 99.2 99.0 99.6 99.2 Written complaints responded to within ten working days % N 99.8 99.8 99.9 99.9 S 99.8 99.8 99.7 99.9 Bills based on meter readings % N 99.95 99.95 99.80 99.84 S 99.95 99.95 99.96 99.94 All telephone lines busy % N 0.25 0.25 0.03 0.20 S 0.25 0.25 0 0 Abandoned telephone calls % N 2.5 2.5 2.8 3.2 S 2.5 2.5 3.3 2.3 Water Water quality % N S 99.9 Maintain 99.9 99.9 99.9 Leakage Ml d N 153.0 154.5 135.93 145.94 S 67.3 67.9 68.26 67.99 Environment Sewage treatment works % N 100 100 98.4 99.8 Bathing waters Mandatory Standard % N 100 100 100 100 Pollution incidents N 96 116 119 142 Employees 2 Employee turnover rolling % N S Industry 7.4 8.2 average 10.3 Lost time reportable accidents per 1,000 employees N S 5 6 6 8 Sickness absence % N S 2.85 2.95 3.25 3.01 1.
