NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 101 Notes to the Company financial statements 1.
Accounting policies a Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
The accounting policies have been reviewed in accordance with the requirements of FRS 18.
The directors consider the following accounting policies to be relevant in relation to the Companys financial statements.
The Companys financial statements are included in the consolidated financial statements of Northumbrian Water Group plc.
Accordingly, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption from publishing a profit and loss account and cash flow statement and from disclosing related party transactions with its subsidiaries.
The Company is also exempt from disclosing the information otherwise required by FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and Presentation, as the Consolidated financial statements, in which the Company is included, provide equivalent disclosures for the Group under IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
b Fixed asset investments Fixed asset investments are stated at their purchase cost, less any provision for impairment.
c Taxation Corporation tax is based on the profit for the year as adjusted for taxation purposes using the rates of tax enacted at the balance sheet date.
Provision is made for deferred tax in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, tax in future periods.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
d Interest bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds, being fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
Finance costs including issue costs are taken to the income statement over the term of the debt at a constant rate on the balance sheet carrying amount.
The carrying amount is increased by the finance charges amortised and reduced by payments made in respect of the accounting period.
Auditors remuneration Auditors remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2008 was 90,000 2007: 84,000.
Fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP for non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in the individual financial statements of the Company because Group financial statements are prepared which are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
Profit attributable to members of the parent Company The profit dealt with in the financial statements of the parent Company is 59.2 million 2007: 56.9 million.
