NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 63 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Accounting policies a Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union as it applies to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2008 and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
The consolidated financial statements are also consistent with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The Group has changed its presentation in respect of its defined benefit pension cost.
The service cost is disclosed in employment costs and the expected interest income and interest cost on obligations have been disclosed within finance costs payable income receivable as the directors believe this is more comparable to other companies in the industry.
Operating costs, finance costs payable and finance income receivable have been restated for the year ended 31 March 2007 by 10.5 million, 32.4 million and 42.9 million, respectively.
There is no effect on profit on ordinary activities before tax or profit for the year.
The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations during the year.
Adoption of these revised standards and interpretations did not have any effect on the financial performance or position of the Group.
However, they did give rise to additional disclosures including, in some cases, revisions to accounting policies.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures This standard requires disclosures that enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the significance of the Groups financial instruments and the nature and extent of risks arising from those financial instruments.
The new disclosures are included throughout the financial statements.
While there has been no effect on the financial position or results, comparative information has been revised where needed.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements This amendment requires the Group to make new disclosures to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing capital.
These new disclosures are shown on pages 17 to 19 of the Directors report and business review.
IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2, IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives, IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment and IFRIC 11 Group and Treasury Share transactions These interpretations had no impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
The directors consider the following accounting policies to be relevant in relation to the Groups financial statements.
The financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2008 were authorised for issue by the Board of directors on 3 June 2008 and the balance sheet was signed on the Boards behalf by Sir Derek Wanless Chairman and John Cuthbert Managing Director.
Northumbrian Water Group plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The Companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand pounds 0.1 million except where otherwise indicated.
b Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
The results of subsidiaries acquired during the period are included from the date of their acquisition.
The results of subsidiaries disposed of during the period are included to the date of their disposal.
Inter segment sales and profits are eliminated fully on consolidation.
Where, for commercial reasons, the accounting reference date of a subsidiary is a date other than that of the Company, management accounts made up to the Companys accounting reference date have been used.
In accordance with SIC 12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities, the financial statements of two companies are consolidated as special purpose entities, with effect from 12 May 2004, the date of the transaction which utilised these entities.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used under relevant local GAAP in the individual financial statements of the Company, subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities into line with those used by the Group under IFRS.
Minority interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from parent shareholders equity.
