NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC 08 ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT AND BUSINESS REvIEW 2.
Operating environment Our external environment The largest of NWGs businesses, NWL, operates in the north east and south east of England, each of which has its own economic profile.
The north east of England is undergoing a period of modest economic growth.
There is a declining industrial customer base and, consequently, a reducing industrial demand for water but a growing demand from domestic customers.
NWL, with resources such as Kielder Water, has sufficient water to meet anticipated demand and, compared to the rest of England and Wales, benefits from above average rainfall in the region.
In contrast, NWLs southern operating area is in a region that is continuing to experience economic and population growth although it, too, has seen a reduction in demand from heavy industry.
NWL has been implementing long term plans to maintain the availability of water supplies to meet additional demand in a region where water resources are already constrained.
Regulatory environment As a monopoly supplier of an essential public service, the UK water industry Northumbrian Water Group plc operates within a demanding Northumbrian Water Limited regulatory environment.
Water and waste water contracts Belgium Analytical & Environmental The Water Services Regulation Authority Services a division of Ofwat regulates prices and levels of Northumbrian Water Limited customer service, while the Drinking SA Agrer Nv Water Inspectorate DWI monitors Northumbrian Water Limited drinking water quality and the Major sewage treatment works Environment Agency EA covers Major water treatment works environmental protection.
Customers interests are represented by the Consumer Council for Water CCWater.
Gibraltar NWL aims to maintain good working relationships with its regulators and with regional organisations, such as local authorities, which can influence the companys business and have an interest in the services it provides.
BUSINESS STRATEGy OPERATING ENvIRONMENT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE RISKS AND RESOURCES NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 09 During the year, many parts of the country suffered from significant flooding.
We support Defras call for an integrated approach to flooding in the UK, with the relevant agencies working together more closely to produce a sustainable response to this increasing problem.
We also support the proposal in the Defra strategy to ban phosphates from domestic detergents and agree that more action is needed on diffuse pollution.
Our regulators have a key role to play in securing the sustainable future of water services and we would welcome a regulatory framework that sufficiently incentivises companies to invest in securing future water objectives.
The current pressures within the financial markets have been well Hanningfield reservoir in Essex.
documented and the credit crunch has resulted in reduced availability of certain types of finance such as index Putting customers first Our significant investment programme linked bonds and a significant increase We have only increased our prices by will continue to deliver high levels of in the cost of corporate debt.
It is not inflation for 2008 09 and have not service to our customers and value to clear how long current difficult market used the 1% real increase that Ofwats our stakeholders.
However, there will conditions will persist.
Given the price limits allow.
This is the second be a significant switch from achieving financing we have in place, we are well consecutive year in which we have new quality standards to maintaining placed to ride out short term volatility in not implemented the maximum the high standards already achieved.
We do not need to raise price increase.
We will also be working to tackle the new debt before 2011 although we challenges posed by climate change and would consider raising debt earlier if We have already stated that we do also to improve the resilience of our favourable market conditions returned.
not intend to use the increase allowed assets.
We believe we are well placed However, even when liquidity is restored by Ofwat in 2009 10 and average bills to deliver these objectives and aim to and more normal conditions prevail, it is will, again, only rise by inflation.
keep prices low without compromising highly unlikely that there will be any our ability to deliver safe and secure return to the exceptionally low cost By 2010, we expect our combined water supplies and our commitment to of debt experienced from late 2005 water and sewerage bill in the north protect the environment.
to early 2007. east to be the lowest in the country and, in our Essex and Suffolk region, There was a recurrent theme of long We welcome Ofwats decision to launch our water bills will compare favourably term planning last year and we welcome a wider review of the opportunities for with other local suppliers.
the Department for Environment, Food extending the scope for competition and Rural Affairs Defra Future Water and also the review commissioned by We will submit our draft business plan strategy document.
These reviews are likely to covering the period from April 2010 to need to plan for the long term, in order consider the possibility of new March 2015 to Ofwat in August 2008 to address climate change and legislation and more radical structural and this will set out the short term sustainability, while still maintaining measures.
We believe it is right to engage actions to deliver our 25 year strategy the ability to deliver a service to in a full public debate on these issues.
published in Looking to the future.
customers at an affordable price.
NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC 10 ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT AND BUSINESS REvIEW 2.
Operating environment continued In our view, any decisions on the role of competition in the sector need to be based on protecting the interests of customers and improving outcomes on their behalf.
We regard competition as a means to an end rather than an end in itself.
The essential characteristics of water supply make the process something of a natural monopoly so the scope for competition is likely to be less than in other utilities.
However, there may be opportunities to expand competition beyond its current very limited level.
Protecting supplies to customers is a high priority and we are making good progress with the development of our Water Safety Plan.
This is required by the DWI in October 2008 and will further reinforce our commitment to maintain high standards throughout NWL.
One of NWLs distribution technicians, Allan Southern, using a hand-held computer in the field.
With increasing emphasis being given to climate change and the need to it as an example of good regulation Our customers reduce carbon, NWL applied to the which takes into account the wider Domestic customers EA to reduce ultraviolet Uv environmental impact.
Our relationship with our customers is disinfection at a number of waste vital to the success of our business.
Our water treatment works outside the The EA will need to consider similar reputation for providing value for money bathing water season.
issues reconciling the conflicting and working to maintain high levels of demands of water quality with climate customer satisfaction has undoubtedly These treatment works discharge change issues in applying the Water helped achieve a positive response to intensively treated effluent through Framework Directive.
our appeals to use water carefully.
The final stage of the treatment is Uv disinfection which is an Another feature of good regulation is We keep our customers informed about energy intensive process that produces the move to risk based approaches.
We our activities through leaflets sent out significant CO emissions.
Our detailed are keen to move forward with the EAs with bills and also through an annual 2 modelling demonstrates that the Operator Self Monitoring scheme from magazine called Source.
Customers highest EU Bathing Water standards can April 2009.
This will allow us to sample also have access to a range of still be achieved without Uv treatment.
and analyse results from sewage information about our services and Since beaches are used much less in treatment works, as we already do with any supply issues on our websites at winter, and there is virtually no bathing, water treatment works.
co. uk we applied to amend our consents to is consistent with Better Regulation implement Uv disinfection only in the principles and will be a more efficient Customers directly affected by summer months.
our work receive prior notification explaining the need for, and timing The EA has recently confirmed the We continue to play a part in policy of, the work.
We also communicate consents to be amended following a groups and those working on with local communities through public detailed study that has been reviewed implementation and, for example, are meetings and written material when by leading independent experts.
an active member of the Northumbria we need to explain the impact of work We welcome this decision and see River Basin Liaison Panel.
BUSINESS STRATEGy OPERATING ENvIRONMENT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE RISKS AND RESOURCES NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 11 We carry out regular surveys and focus We also meet regularly with national, group research to understand our regional and local authorities and other customers needs, their perceptions of appropriate organisations to explain our service and its value for money.
NWLs activities and related issues.
Affordability and value for money are important to our customers and are, Political therefore, key issues for the business.
We do not support any political party and we do not, directly or through any Business customers subsidiary, make what are commonly NWG is actively involved in the business regarded as donations to any political community in its operating areas party or other political organisations.
through direct membership and However, the wide definition of involvement in the councils boards of donations in the Political Parties, the CBI, Chambers of Commerce and Elections and Referendums Act 2000 other similar organisations.
PPERA 2000 covers activities which form part of the necessary relationship Doug Henderson MP finds out more about NWL has long-standing relationships between the Company and political Northumbrian Waters GLOBE programme from with its key industrial and commercial parties and political organisations.
Director of Corporate Affairs John Mowbray and pupils of Gosforth High School, Newcastle.
customers in the areas in which it serves.
These activities include attending Party The north east, in particular, has a strong Conferences, as these provide the best industrial base and existing customers opportunity to meet a range of and potential investors in the region value stakeholders, both national and local, to the availability of not only high quality explain our activities, as well as local potable and raw water but also access meetings with MPs, MEPs and their to reliable effluent treatment services.
The costs associated with these activities during 2007 08 were as follows: Stakeholder relations Name of political party political NWG has a code of ethics, Our Code of organisation other than political party Conduct, covering its relationships with Labour 7,420 customers, employees, suppliers, local Liberal Democrat 1,236 communities, shareholders, other Conservative 3,615 investors and regulators.
NWG meets with its stakeholders regularly and also Total 12,271 communicates by printed and electronic forms of communication and through Shareholder authority to permit the the media.
Company to continue with these activities until the 2009 AGM will be National sought at this years AGM.
During the NWL is an active member of Water UK, year, the Groups work with politicians of the industry association which all parties, officials and opinion formers represents all UK water and waste included making representations on water service suppliers at national issues which NWG feels are important to and European level.
It provides a very our customers and communities such as effective framework for the industry to abstraction charges, Water for health, engage with Government, regulators, climate change, the Water Framework stakeholder organisations and the public Directive and legislative issues which and helps to develop policy and improve could affect our customers.
NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC 12 ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT AND BUSINESS REvIEW 2.
Operating environment continued Our investors disabled people where the requirements Our main communication with of the job are appropriate or can be shareholders is through the publication suitably adapted.
Where existing of the annual report and financial employees become disabled, it is our statements, half yearly reports, interim policy, wherever practicable, to provide management statements and through continuing employment under normal information on the Companys website.
terms and conditions and to provide In addition, the executive directors have training and career development and regular contact with the Companys promotion for disabled employees.
large institutional investors, as well as giving presentations to analysts and Consultation stockbrokers.
During the year, the Each company engages with its Kriss Akabusi at NWLs southern area Skills Awards, celebrating employees executive directors met 25 times with a employees through formal consultation academic achievements.
These ensure that all information on NWGs shareholder employees understand and have the relations is contained in the corporate opportunity to discuss issues which affect governance report on page 45. the company.
NWL has recently adopted a new, more representative, employee Employees relations framework.
Each company within the Group has developed its own employee policies, Training and development reflecting the framework set out in All Group companies train and develop NWGs Our Code of Conduct which their employees to benefit both the is available on the Companys website.
Annual These policies are tailored to specific appraisals are given high priority, as is business objectives and operating the identification of training needs, in environments.
Each company aims to recognition of the importance of recruit and retain the best people, with training and development in achieving a diverse range of skills, experience and the Groups goals and policies.
backgrounds, who are committed to make the company successful.
In return, Communication each company aims to provide The Group uses a wide range of opportunities and training for communication methods, including employees to develop their skills and team briefing, magazines, newsletters, capabilities to equip them to meet the intranet, noticeboards and regular challenges of their roles, while team meetings.
Unplugged, the rewarding the contributions of both Group magazine, contains articles on teams and individuals.
activities and news from across the business, focusing on employees and Equal opportunities their achievements.
The Group operates an equal opportunity policy and promotes equality of Disclosure Whistleblowing opportunity in recruitment, employment The Group encourages open feedback continuity and training and career and is committed to protecting development.
The policy is designed to employees who wish to voice concerns ensure that no applicant or employee about behaviour or decisions that they receives less favourable treatment on believe to be illegal or unethical.
During the grounds of age, gender, disability, the year, the Audit Committee reviewed race, religion or sexual orientation.
and updated its Disclosure Policy in Northern customer advisor Anne-Marie Burke accordance with best practice.
The receiving her NvQ from Kriss Akabusi and We give full consideration to John Cuthbert.
applications for employment from BUSINESS STRATEGy OPERATING ENvIRONMENT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE RISKS AND RESOURCES NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 13 Committee continues to monitor the effectiveness of the policy.
Health and safety A safe working environment is given high priority across the Group.
The health and safety policy is maintained and implemented through each subsidiarys individual health and safety team.
Employee Share Incentive Plan SIP The directors believe that employee investment strengthens the ties between the Group and its employees.
More than a third participate in the SIP, with an interest in 0.4% of the issued share capital.
The scheme provides one free matching share for every three shares bought by an employee.
Shares for the SIP are purchased at market price by the Trustee, and dividends are paid in cash directly to participants.
There are no performance conditions attached to the SIP, but free shares not held in trust for at least 12 months are forfeited.
Corporate responsibility NWL is expected to provide a secure The Managing Director is directly The CRC is supported by two regional supply of water a basic necessity for accountable to the NWL and NWG groups and also by teams of community health and to protect or enhance the boards for both the environment and and environmental champions drawn environment when we return waste to sustainable development policies.
from our employees, to reach all parts it.
However, our stakeholders also of the business and to make expect us to: We have developed our own model to communication and influence as n behave fairly and responsibly: focus on corporate responsibility as an effective and widespread as possible.
n use resources wisely: essential part of normal business We also have specialist working groups n improve quality of life: and practice in NWL.
This model is published responsible for investigating, advising n contribute to economic development.
on our websites with links to our policy, on and driving change on specific action plan, key performance indicators projects, such as climate change, energy NWG takes its corporate responsibilities and case studies for 25 key areas of use, transport and waste.
Our aim of balancing social our business.
and environmental priorities underpins all our activities and is an integral part The Corporate Responsibility Committee of the way we do business.
CRC is a subcommittee of the NWL board and comprises non-executive The Group has significant resources in directors, management team members its assets, land and employees and we and senior managers from the business.
believe we have a responsibility to use The CRC is responsible for policy review these resources for the benefit of our and agreeing and monitoring the customers, our shareholders and the targets and activities for our corporate wider communities we serve.
