NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC 32 ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT AND BUSINESS REvIEW 5.
Risks and resources Upgrading mains serving Newcastle upon Tyne.
All subsidiaries within the Group considers environmental, social and identify and assess the impact of governance risks as outlined in the risks to their business.
For each risk, corporate governance report on page 44. the likelihood and consequences are Details of the Groups treasury risks identified, management controls and are contained in note 20 to the frequency of monitoring are reported financial statements.
and the scale of the risk is assessed.
Regulatory risk For NWL, the management team In February 2008, the Government reviews the approach to risk announced a study the Cave review management in detail every year.
into the scope for innovation and The Audit Committee considers the competition in water services and, outcome of this review.
The NWL in May, Ofwat published the second management team reviews the part of its own competition review.
significant risks every month and The latter is intended to inform the summary reports on these reviews Cave review and effectively forms are submitted to the NWL board.
Ofwats view of the legislative action which may be required to introduce Apart from NWL, none of the competition to the sector.
Government subsidiaries has risks considered is proposing to introduce a Water Bill in to be significant to the Groups short the next parliamentary session which and long term value.
The NWG Board will propose various measures to tidy up BUSINESS STRATEGy OPERATING ENvIRONMENT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE RISKS AND RESOURCES NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 33 water related legislation but may also n the transfer of private drains and Customers who deliberately avoid include reference to introducing sewers, which will increase the paying charges are actively pursued measures in response to the Cave network owned and maintained and we continue to work with Ofwat review.
This may result in enabling n by NWL by about 60%.
and Defra to seek changes to legislation legislation that provides Ministers with to assist the industry to impose and powers to pass secondary legislation to Affordability and customer debt collect charges.
enact recommendations from the Although our average household bills review.
However, a Water Act is unlikely are relatively low, affordability is an to materialise for at least two years.
issue for us with income deprivation levels in our northern area the highest Environmental, social and of all water and sewerage companies governance risks and in our southern area, close to the There are two principal environmental, national average.
social or governance risks considered to be significant to the value of the Group.
Providing our customers with a range of payment facilities and frequencies The first relates to the use of sewage that suit their individual circumstances sludge as a soil conditioner on is a critical element of successful agricultural land.
If this disposal route income collection and debt prevention.
was lost, the sector would need to find We ensure that customers are aware or develop alternative ways to re-use or of options which help reduce dispose of its sewage sludge.
This could charges and ease the establishment of mean higher capital and revenue costs payment arrangements.
to provide additional sludge processing facilities.
The development of the Safe Sludge Matrix and the proposed revision of the Sludge Use in Agriculture Regulations have reduced the immediate risk in this area.
NWL is introducing advanced digestion to both reduce sludge volumes and the carbon impact of its activities.
NWL will retain a facility to dry sludge and produce pellets as a fuel replacement, as a viable alternative way of using sludge in the medium term.
The second is the potential for sewer flooding.
As rainfall patterns become more variable and intense storms more frequent, localised heavy rainfall can result in sewers becoming overloaded.
We welcome the focus on integrated flood management in Defras strategic document Future Water and in the Pitt Review on recent flooding.
New and proposed legislation that will have a significant impact on the business includes: n the Traffic Management Act, which was implemented in April 2008: and Sunrise at Kielder Water in Northumberland.
NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC 34 ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT AND BUSINESS REvIEW 5.
Risks and resources continued Water resources We will continue to lead the industry The way we retain, recycle and on water efficiency measures and to distribute our water resources is encourage customers to use water a central part of our business.
We will work with other NWL has sufficient water resources stakeholders to develop a co-ordinated in the north east, we believe it is still strategy for reducing water use to important to manage the demand sustainable levels.
for water so that it does not exceed levels that can be supplied in a In areas where water is scarce, water sustainable way.
meters have a key role to play in reducing demand.
We aim to achieve In our Essex and Suffolk area, however, as near to universal metering as possible water resource availability is a key issue.
in Essex by 2020 and Suffolk by around Although we did not have to impose a 2023.
On current policies it will take hosepipe ban during the drought of considerably longer to achieve full 2006, we need to continue to invest metering in the north east and there is to achieve our aim of ensuring our no economic, environmental or social customers have access to the water driver to move more quickly.
In spring 2008, we published our draft Water Resources Changing weather patterns Management Plan and this is now out The water cycle and the changing British for consultation.
weather has a direct influence on the provision of water and waste water In December, we submitted our services.
NWLs employees are applications for planning permission experienced in managing the effects for the Abberton scheme which will of too much or too little rainfall, but increase the capacity of the Abberton changing weather patterns will remain reservoir, near Colchester in Essex, by a challenge for the business.
Once this is in operation in 2014, we predict we will not need to The water industry is a major user of develop major resources, such as energy in its processes.
We have carried reservoirs, in the next 25 years.
out research into the impact of climate Abberton reservoir in Essex.
BUSINESS STRATEGy OPERATING ENvIRONMENT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE RISKS AND RESOURCES NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 35 change on all our assets and water resources and this has been incorporated in our Climate Change Policy as part of our corporate responsibility work.
We will continue to explain to customers that energy is also being wasted when water is being wasted.
Employees People are our key asset and if we are to continue to meet the needs of our customers, and to achieve our regulatory obligations, we need to continue to recruit and retain talented and skilled people as a leading employer in our regions.
We will continue to offer all our employees terms and conditions at least commensurate with other major employers as well as appropriate training and development to support their career development.
This will include comprehensive management, graduate and apprentice programmes, as well as initiatives such as our NvQ programmes which reach many employees.
NWLs apprentices visiting Birtley sewage treatment works near Gateshead.
Directors remuneration shareholders with this report, together of the underlying assumptions of both and interests with an explanation of the business to the budget and business plan.
Information about directors be conducted at the meeting, and a remuneration and their interests in the form of proxy.
Directors declaration shares of the Company is contained in As required under Section 234ZA of the directors remuneration report on Auditors the Companies Act 1985, so far as pages 46 to 55.
Ernst & young LLP have indicated each current director is aware, there is their willingness to continue in no relevant audit information of which Indemnification of directors office and a resolution proposing the Companys auditors are unaware, The Company has in place directors their re-appointment as auditors will and each director has taken all the and officers insurance and, on be put to shareholders at the AGM.
steps that he or she ought to have 28 November 2005, entered into a deed taken as a director in order to make of indemnity to grant the directors Financial statements preparation himself or herself aware of any relevant further protection against liability to third and going concern audit information and to establish that parties, subject to the conditions set out The directors consider that it is the Companys auditors are aware of in the Companies Acts.
Such qualifying appropriate to prepare the financial that information.
third party indemnity provision remains statements for the financial year on a in force as at the date of approving the going concern basis.
The directors have By order of the Board directors report and business review.
arrived at their decision based on The deed, together with directors consideration of the Companys detailed Martin Parker service contracts, will be available for budget for 2008 09 and the business Company Secretary inspection by shareholders at the AGM, plan for the period to 31 March 2010.
3 June 2008 or from the Company Secretary.
Their analysis included a review of the Registered office: Northumbria House, Abbey Road, Pity Me, capital expenditure and investment plans, Annual General Meeting Durham, DH1 5FJ the anticipated funding requirements and The notice convening the AGM, to be Registered in England and Wales No.
4760441 facilities available, and the reasonableness held on 31 July 2008, was sent to
