NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC 06 ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT AND BUSINESS REvIEW 1. Business strategy Don Robson CBE and Deputy Lord Lieutenant with John Cuthbert, Managing Director, celebrating Derwent reservoirs 40th birthday.
Strategic direction to develop a culture of continuous Our strategy is to focus on the Groups improvement by: core competences of water and waste n ensuring a focus on safety and water management and deliver value rigorous risk management: to all our stakeholders.
This provides n encouraging employees to fulfil a clear focus for our activities and our their potential: priorities are directed to achieving n promoting a flexible and proactive our mission to be the national leader attitude: and in the provision of sustainable water n embracing a sustainable and and waste water services.
priorities are: A clear framework to maintain our strong reputation and Our core business, NWL, has identified relationships by: five key strategic themes: People, n delivering excellent service to Customer, Competitiveness and customers: Environment are important individually n delivering regulatory outputs: and also contribute to the fifth theme, n creating shareholder value: and Reputation.
These themes drive n involving our main stakeholder groups.
performance and delivery of our corporate objectives.
The themes are to ensure a stable financial profile by: mutually supportive and achieving the n maximising revenue: right balance between them is an n delivering operational efficiency: and essential part of our success.
n securing low cost long term funds.
BUSINESS STRATEGy OPERATING ENvIRONMENT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE RISKS AND RESOURCES NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 07 People Looking to the future Our people are the key to NWL consulted key stakeholders before business success.
publishing Looking to the future, our long term operational strategy for the Customer next 25 years.
We published two Our overriding objective is to meet the versions, one for each operational Mission needs of our customers.
area, and they have been well received by a range of stakeholders.
Competitiveness Corporate objectives To grow our business and meet the In our strategy, we set out our long challenges of a developing market we term aims for NWL as well as need to be competitive.
intermediate targets for the period Reputation to 2015 for the key areas of: Environment n customer satisfaction: Our business is founded on water and n water quality: environmental engineering and a great n availability of water: deal of what we do influences the n waste water services: environment.
We recognise the impact n sustainability, the environment and we have on the environment and also climate change: on economic and social factors.
We will n finance: and seek to deliver sustainable outputs from n employees.
The strategy builds on our achievements Reputation of the past 20 years and re-affirms our Our ability to develop our business will commitment to long term planning and be influenced by our reputation.
A good investment to deliver value to all our reputation is often the starting point for stakeholders.
good stakeholder relationships on which business growth can be achieved.
We identified three key challenges for the future: By staying focused, motivated and n maintaining and, where appropriate, innovative we are confident we will be improving services whilst keeping able to supply our customers with an bills affordable: excellent service at the right price and, n maintaining healthy and stable by satisfying our customers, we provide finances to ensure we can a platform on which we will build, continue to borrow money to expand and develop our business.
meet the investment needed in the business: and NWLs corporate objectives are: n dealing with climate change.
n to deliver industry leading customer We need to further reduce service: greenhouse gas emissions and also n to be the most efficient water future-proof our operations against company: a changing climate.
n to be recognised as a great company to work for: The full versions of Looking to n to be the company of choice for the future are available on our investors: and websites at www.
co. uk n to protect and enhance the and www.
