Section 6 Financial statements 79 Notes to the consolidated financial statements General information 1.
Interpretations and amendments to published standards effective in 2008 Pearson plc the company and its subsidiaries together the Group are international media businesses covering The Group adopted IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a education, business information and consumer Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements publishing.
and their Interaction, effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008, in the prior The company is a limited liability company incorporated accounting period.
IFRIC 14 resulted in no change to and domiciled in England.
The address of its registered the full recognition of the pension asset as disclosed in office is 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL.
The company has its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange but is also listed on the New York Stock The Group has adopted Reclassification Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Exchange.
Measurement and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: These consolidated financial statements were approved Disclosures, issued in October 2008 but effective for issue by the board of directors on 4 March 2009. from 1 July 2008.
The amendments allow additional reclassifications of certain classifications of financial 1.
Accounting policies instruments in rare circumstances, and management The principal accounting policies applied in the determined this was not relevant to the Group.
preparation of these consolidated financial statements IFRIC 11 Group and Treasury Share Transactions is are set out below.
effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or a.
Basis of preparation after 1 March 2007.
This addresses how to apply IFRS 2 These consolidated financial statements have been Share-based Payment to arrangements involving an prepared in accordance with International Financial entitys own equity instruments, or equity instruments Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial of another entity in the same group, in the stand alone Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC accounts of the parent and group companies.
interpretations as adopted by the European Union EU Management have assessed that this interpretation has and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 and or no impact on the Groups financial statements.
the Companies Act 2006 as applicable applicable to IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements is effective companies reporting under IFRS.
These consolidated for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 financial statements are also prepared in accordance January 2008.
This addresses the accounting by private with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting sector entities that, by contract with a government, Standards Board IASB.
In respect of the accounting participate in developing, financing, operating and standards applicable to the Group there is no difference maintaining infrastructure assets relating to public between EU-adopted and IASB-adopted IFRS.
The Group services traditionally provided by governments.
As none transitioned from UK GAAP to IFRS on 1 January 2003. of the Group entities participate in these activities, IFRIC These consolidated financial statements have been 12 is not relevant to the Group.
prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities including derivative financial instruments at fair value.
