Section 6 Financial statements 79 Notes to the consolidated financial statements General information 1.
Interpretations and amendments to published standards effective in 2008 Pearson plc the company and its subsidiaries together the Group are international media businesses covering The Group adopted IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a education, business information and consumer Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements publishing.
and their Interaction, effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008, in the prior The company is a limited liability company incorporated accounting period.
IFRIC 14 resulted in no change to and domiciled in England.
The address of its registered the full recognition of the pension asset as disclosed in office is 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL.
The company has its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange but is also listed on the New York Stock The Group has adopted Reclassification Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Exchange.
Measurement and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: These consolidated financial statements were approved Disclosures, issued in October 2008 but effective for issue by the board of directors on 4 March 2009. from 1 July 2008.
The amendments allow additional reclassifications of certain classifications of financial 1.
Accounting policies instruments in rare circumstances, and management The principal accounting policies applied in the determined this was not relevant to the Group.
preparation of these consolidated financial statements IFRIC 11 Group and Treasury Share Transactions is are set out below.
effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or a.
Basis of preparation after 1 March 2007.
This addresses how to apply IFRS 2 These consolidated financial statements have been Share-based Payment to arrangements involving an prepared in accordance with International Financial entitys own equity instruments, or equity instruments Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial of another entity in the same group, in the stand alone Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC accounts of the parent and group companies.
interpretations as adopted by the European Union EU Management have assessed that this interpretation has and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 and or no impact on the Groups financial statements.
the Companies Act 2006 as applicable applicable to IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements is effective companies reporting under IFRS.
These consolidated for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 financial statements are also prepared in accordance January 2008.
This addresses the accounting by private with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting sector entities that, by contract with a government, Standards Board IASB.
In respect of the accounting participate in developing, financing, operating and standards applicable to the Group there is no difference maintaining infrastructure assets relating to public between EU-adopted and IASB-adopted IFRS.
The Group services traditionally provided by governments.
As none transitioned from UK GAAP to IFRS on 1 January 2003. of the Group entities participate in these activities, IFRIC These consolidated financial statements have been 12 is not relevant to the Group.
prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities including derivative financial instruments at fair value.
80 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Standards, interpretations and amendments to Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: published standards that are not yet effective The Recognition and Measurement effective for annual Group has decided to early adopt IFRS 8 Operating reporting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
Segments which is effective for annual reporting periods The amendments clarify that inflation may only be beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The new standard hedged where changes in inflation are a specified requires a management approach to reporting segmental portion of cash flows of a financial instrument, and information.
After changes in the organisational structure also clarify hedging with options.
within the Education business, six revised reporting Improvements to Financial Reporting Standards 2008 segments were identified under IFRS 8 as detailed in mostly effective for annual reporting periods beginning note 2.
The impact of the standard has been to revise the on or after 1 January 2009.
This is the first standard disclosure for the reported segments.
Comparatives for published under the IASBs annual improvements 2007 have been restated.
process which is designed to deal with non-urgent minor The Group has not early adopted the following new amendments to standards.
Thirty five amendments were pronouncements that are not yet effective: issued, 24 resulting in changes in presentation, recognition or measurement, and 11 are expected to have Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment effective no or minimal effect on accounting.
for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The amendment clarifies that only service IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in Foreign and performance conditions are vesting conditions, and Operations effective for annual reporting periods that all cancellations whether Group or counterparty, beginning on or after 1 October 2008.
IFRIC 16 provides should be accounted for the same way.
guidance on net investment hedging including which foreign currency risks within the Group qualify for IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements hedging, and where the hedging instruments can effective for annual reporting periods beginning on be held within the Group.
The amendments provide a number of presentational changes to the financial Management is currently assessing the impact of these statements including prohibiting the presentation of new standards and interpretations on the Groups items of income and expense in the statement of financial statements.
changes in equity and requiring them to be shown in In addition, management has assessed the relevance a performance statement, the option to present the of the following amendments and interpretations with performance statement as a single statement of respect to the Groups operations: comprehensive income and the requirement to include a balance sheet as at the beginning of Amendments to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs effective for the earliest comparative period when an entity annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January applies a retrospective change in accounting 2009.
The amendment requires capitalisation of policy or makes a retrospective restatement.
borrowing costs that relate to qualifying assets ones that take a substantial amount of time to get ready for IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations and use or sale, with the exception of assets measured at fair amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate value or inventories manufactured in large quantities or Financial Statements, effective for annual reporting on a repetitive basis.
Management assessed the periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The relevance of this amendment with respect to Group amendments affect the accounting for business operations and concluded that it is not currently combinations including the requirement to remeasure applicable to the Group as there are no material the fair value of previously held interests in step qualifying assets.
acquisitions with any gain or loss arising being recognised in the income statement, the requirement to expense acquisition costs and to recognise adjustments to contingent consideration in the income statement.
Critical accounting assumptions and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity a.
Basis of preparation continued with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: assumptions.
It also requires management to exercise Presentation and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial its judgement in the process of applying the Groups Statements Puttable Financial Instruments and accounting policies.
The areas requiring a higher degree Obligations arising on liquidation effective for annual of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. and estimates are significant to the consolidated The amendment requires puttable financial instruments, financial statements, are discussed in the relevant or instruments that impose on the entity an obligation to accounting policies under the following headings: another party in respect of a share of net assets only on liquidation, to be classified as equity.
Management Intangible assets: Goodwill assessed the relevance of this amendment with respect Intangible assets: Pre-publication assets to the Group and concluded it is not relevant.
Royalty advances IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 July Taxation 2008.
IFRIC 13 explains how entities that grant loyalty award credits to customers should account for their Employee benefits: Pension obligations obligations to provide free or discounted goods or Revenue recognition.
services to customers who redeem award credits.
As no Group entities operate a customer loyalty b.
Consolidation programme IFRIC 13 is not relevant to the Group.
1. Business combinations The purchase method of IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate accounting is used to account for the acquisition of effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is after 1 January 2009.
IFRIC 15 addresses the accounting measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity by entities that undertake the construction of real estate, instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed with guidance on determining whether an agreement for at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable the construction of real estate falls within the scope of to the acquisition.
IAS 11 Construction Contracts or IAS 18 Revenue.
As no Where the settlement of consideration payable is Group entities undertake the construction of real estate deferred, or contingent on future events, the fair value of IFRIC 15 is not relevant to the Group.
the deferred component is determined by discounting the amount payable or probable to be paid to its present IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners value using an appropriate discount rate.
effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IFRIC 17 provides guidance on the Identifiable assets and contingent assets acquired and appropriate accounting treatment when an entity identifiable liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed distributes assets other than cash as dividends, in a business combination are measured initially at their including recognition upon authorisation and fair values at the acquisition date.
For material measurement at fair value of assets distributed, with any acquisitions, the fair value of the acquired intangible difference between fair value and carrying value of these assets is determined by an external, independent valuer.
assets being recognised in the income statement when The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of an entity settles the dividend payable.
This does not the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired apply to distributions of non-cash assets under common is recorded as goodwill.
See note 1e 1 for the accounting control.
This interpretation will have no impact on the policy on goodwill.
Group financial statements as the Group does not 2.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which currently distribute non-cash assets.
the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are fideconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
82 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Translation differences on other non-monetary items such as equities held at fair value are reported as part of b.
Consolidation continued the fair value gain or loss through the income statement.
Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are Fair value adjustments on non-monetary items such as entities in which the Group holds an interest on a longequities classified as available for sale financial assets, term basis and which are jointly controlled, with one or are included in the fair value reserve in equity.
more other venturers, under a contractual arrangement.
Associates are entities over which the Group has 3.
Group companies The results and financial position significant influence but not the power to control the of all Group companies that have a functional currency financial and operating policies, generally accompanying different from the presentation currency are translated a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting into the presentation currency as follows: rights.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are i assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate accounted for by the equity method and are initially at the date of the balance sheet: recognised at cost.
ii income and expenses are translated at average The Groups share of its joint ventures and associates exchange rates: post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share of post-acquisition iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
as a separate component of equity.
The Groups share of its joint ventures and associates results is recognised as a component of operating profit On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the as these operations form part of the core publishing translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and business of the Group and an integral part of existing of borrowings and other currency instruments wholly owned businesses.
The cumulative postdesignated as hedges of such investments, are taken acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying to shareholders equity.
The Group treats specific interamount of the investment.
When the Groups share of company loan balances, which are not intended to be losses in a joint venture or associate equals or exceeds repaid in the foreseeable future, as part of its net its interest in the joint venture or associate, the Group investment.
When a foreign entity is sold, such exchange does not recognise further losses, unless the Group has differences are recognised in the income statement as incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the part of the gain or loss on sale.
At the date of transition to IFRS the cumulative c. Foreign currency translation translation differences in respect of foreign operations 1.
Functional and presentation currency Items included have been deemed to be zero.
in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary Any gains and losses on disposals of foreign operations economic environment in which the entity operates will exclude translation differences that arose prior to the the functional currency.
The consolidated financial transition date.
statements are presented in sterling, which is the The principal overseas currency for the Group is the US companys functional and presentation currency.
The average rate for the year against sterling was 2.
Transactions and balances Foreign currency $1.85 2007: $2.00 and the year end rate was $1.44 transactions are translated into the functional currency 2007: $1.99.
using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity as qualifying net investment hedges.
Accounting policies continued material business combinations is capitalised at its fair value as determined by an independent valuer.
Acquired d. Property, plant and equipment software is amortised on a straight-line basis over its Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost estimated useful life of between three and eight years.
Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line 3.
Internally developed software Internal and external method to allocate their cost to their residual values costs incurred during the preliminary stage of developing over their estimated useful lives as follows: computer software for internal use are expensed as incurred.
Internal and external costs incurred to develop Buildings freehold : 2050 years computer software for internal use during the application development stage are capitalised if the Group expects Buildings leasehold : over the period of the lease economic benefits from the development.
Capitalisation Plant and equipment: 310 years in the application development stage begins once the Group can reliably measure the expenditure attributable The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, to the software development and has demonstrated its and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
intention to complete and use the software.
Internally developed software is amortised on a straight-line The carrying value of an asset is written down to its basis over its estimated useful life of between three recoverable amount if the carrying value of the asset and eight years.
is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Acquired intangible assets Acquired intangible e. Intangible assets assets include customer lists and relationships, 1.
Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost trademarks and brands, publishing rights, content and of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share technology.
These assets are capitalised on acquisition of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary at cost and included in intangible assets.
Intangible or associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on assets acquired in material business combinations are acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible capitalised at their fair value as determined by an assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates and joint independent valuer.
Intangible assets are amortised over ventures is included in investments in associates and their estimated useful lives of between two and 20 years, joint ventures.
using a depreciation method that reflects the pattern of Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and their consumption.
carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Pre-publication assets Pre-publication costs An impairment loss is recognised to the extent represent direct costs incurred in the development that the carrying value of goodwill exceeds the of educational programmes and titles prior to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the publication.
These costs are recognised as current higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
intangible assets where the title will generate probable These calculations require the use of estimates and future economic benefits and costs can be measured significant management judgement.
Pre-publication assets are amortised upon the key assumptions and sensitivities is included in publication of the title over estimated economic lives note 11.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units of five years or less, being an estimate of the expected for the purpose of impairment testing.
The allocation is operating life cycle of the title, with a higher proportion made to those cash-generating units that are expected of the amortisation taken in the earlier years.
The to benefit from the business combination in which the investment in pre-publication assets has been disclosed goodwill arose.
as part of cash generated from operations in the cash Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the flow statement see note 33. carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
The assessment of the recoverability of pre-publication IFRS 3 Business Combinations has not been applied assets and the determination of the amortisation profile retrospectively to business combinations before the date involve a significant degree of judgement based on of transition to IFRS.
Subject to the transition historical trends and management estimation of future adjustments to IFRS required by IFRS 1, the accounting potential sales.
An incorrect amortisation profile could for business combinations before the date of transition result in excess amounts being carried forward as has been grandfathered.
intangible assets that would otherwise have been written off to the income statement in an earlier period.
Acquired software Software separately acquired for internal use is capitalised at cost.
Software acquired in 84 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement Reviews are performed regularly to estimate include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, recoverability of pre-publication assets.
The carrying other short-term highly liquid investments with original amount of pre-publication assets is set out in note 20. maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts.
f. Other financial assets Bank overdrafts are included in borrowings in current Other financial assets, designated as available for sale liabilities in the balance sheet.
investments, are non-derivative financial assets Short-term deposits and marketable securities with measured at estimated fair value.
Changes in the fair maturities of greater than three months do not qualify value are recorded in equity in the fair value reserve.
as cash and cash equivalents.
Movements on these On the subsequent disposal of the asset, the net fair financial instruments are classified as cash flows from value gains or losses are taken to the income statement.
financing activities in the cash flow statement as these g. Inventories amounts are used to offset the borrowings of the Group.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net k. Share capital realisable value.
Cost is determined using the first in first Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises raw materials, direct labour, other Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue direct costs and related production overheads.
Net of new shares or options are shown in equity as a realisable value is the estimated selling price in the deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
ordinary course of business, less estimated costs Where any Group company purchases the companys necessary to make the sale.
Provisions are made for equity share capital Treasury shares the consideration slow moving and obsolete stock.
paid, including any directly attributable incremental h. Royalty advances costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity Advances of royalties to authors are included within attributable to the companys equity holders until the trade and other receivables when the advance is paid shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where less any provision required to adjust the advance to its such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any net realisable value.
The realisable value of royalty consideration received, net of any directly attributable advances relies on a degree of management judgement transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is in determining the profitability of individual author included in equity attributable to the companys equity contracts.
If the estimated realisable value of author holders.
contracts is overstated then this will have an adverse l. Borrowings effect on operating profits as these excess amounts Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, which will be written off.
is proceeds received net of transaction costs incurred.
The recoverability of royalty advances is based upon an Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost annual detailed management review of the age of the with any difference between the proceeds net of advance, the future sales projections for new authors transaction costs and the redemption value being and prior sales history of repeat authors.
The royalty recognised in the income statement over the period advance is expensed at the contracted or effective of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
royalty rate as the related revenues are earned.
Royalty Accrued interest is included as part of borrowings.
advances which will be consumed within one year are Where a debt instrument is in a fair value hedging held in current assets.
Royalty advances which will be relationship, an adjustment is made to its carrying value consumed after one year are held in non-current assets.
to reflect the hedged risk.
Interest on borrowings is expensed as incurred.
Newspaper development costs Investment in the development of newspaper titles consists of measures to increase the volume and geographical spread of circulation.
The measures include additional and enhanced editorial content, extended distribution and remote printing.
These costs are expensed as incurred as they do not meet the criteria under IAS 38 to be capitalised as intangible assets.
Accounting policies continued Current and deferred tax are recognised in the income statement, except when the tax relates to items charged m. Derivative financial instruments or credited directly to equity, in which case the tax is also Derivatives are recognised at fair value and remeasured recognised in equity.
at each balance sheet date.
The fair value of derivatives is determined by using market data and the use of The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous established estimation techniques such as discounted jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in cash flow and option valuation models.
The Group determining the estimates in relation to the worldwide designates certain of the derivative instruments within provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions its portfolio to be hedges of the fair value of its bonds and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination fair value hedges or hedges of net investments in is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
foreign operations net investment hedges.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, in the income statement, together with any changes in such differences will impact the income tax and deferred the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are tax provisions in the period in which such determination attributable to the hedged risk.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management derivatives that are designated and qualify as net judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised.
investment hedges are recognised in equity.
Gains and In particular, significant judgement is used when losses accumulated in equity are included in the income assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets should statement when the corresponding foreign operation is be recognised with consideration given to the timing and disposed of.
Gains or losses relating to the ineffective level of future taxable income together with any future portion are recognised immediately in finance income tax planning strategies.
or finance costs in the income statement.
Employee benefits Certain derivatives do not qualify or are not designated 1.
Pension obligations The retirement benefit asset and as hedging instruments.
Such derivatives are classified obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents at fair value and any movement in their fair value is the net of the present value of the defined benefit recognised immediately in finance income or finance obligation and the fair value of plan assets at the costs in the income statement.
The defined benefit obligation is n. Taxation calculated annually by independent actuaries using the Current tax is recognised on the amounts expected to be projected unit credit method.
The present value of the paid or recovered under the tax rates and laws that have defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance estimated future cash flows using yields on high quality sheet date.
corporate bonds which have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related liability.
Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the The determination of the pension cost and defined tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying benefit obligation of the Groups defined benefit pension amounts.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax schemes depends on the selection of certain rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively assumptions, which include the discount rate, inflation enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to rate, salary growth, longevity and expected return on apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or scheme assets.
the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from differences Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it between actual and expected returns on plan assets, is probable that future taxable profit will be available experience adjustments on liabilities and changes in against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Deferred income tax is provided in respect of the undistributed earnings of subsidiaries other than where it is intended that those undistributed earnings will not be remitted in the foreseeable future.
86 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued The provision is based on the present value of future payments for surplus leased properties under nono.
Employee benefits continued cancellable operating leases, net of estimated subThe service cost, representing benefits accruing over the leasing revenue.
year, is included in the income statement as an operating cost.
The unwinding of the discount rate on the q.
Revenue recognition scheme liabilities and the expected return on scheme Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration assets are presented as finance costs or finance income.
received or receivable for the sale of goods and services net of value-added tax and other sales taxes, rebates Obligations for contributions to defined contribution and discounts, and after eliminating sales within the pension plans are recognised as an operating expense in Group.
the income statement as incurred.
Revenue from the sale of books is recognised when title 2.
Other post-retirement obligations The expected passes.
A provision for anticipated returns is made costs of post-retirement healthcare and life assurance based primarily on historical return rates.
If these benefits are accrued over the period of employment, estimates do not reflect actual returns in future periods using a similar accounting methodology as for defined then revenues could be understated or overstated for a benefit pension obligations.
The liabilities and costs particular period.
relating to material other post-retirement obligations are assessed annually by independent qualified actuaries.
Circulation and advertising revenue is recognised when the newspaper or other publication is published.
Share-based payments The fair value of options or Subscription revenue is recognised on a straight-line shares granted under the Groups share and option basis over the life of the subscription.
plans is recognised as an employee expense after taking into account the Groups best estimate of the number of Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more awards expected to vest.
Fair value is measured at the separate elements that can be provided to customers date of grant and is spread over the vesting period of the either on a stand-alone basis or as an optional extra, option or share.
The fair value of the options granted is such as the provision of supplementary materials with measured using an option model that is most textbooks, revenue is recognised for each element as appropriate to the award.
The fair value of shares if it were an individual contractual arrangement.
awarded is measured using the share price at the date Revenue from multi-year contractual arrangements, such of grant unless another method is more appropriate.
as contracts to process qualifying tests for individual Any proceeds received are credited to share capital professions and government departments, is recognised and share premium when the options are exercised.
The assumptions, risks, and The Group has applied IFRS 2 Share-based Payment uncertainties inherent in long-term contract accounting retrospectively to all options granted but not fully can affect the amounts and timing of revenue and vested at the date of transition to IFRS.
Certain of these p. Provisions arrangements, either as a result of a single service Provisions are recognised if the Group has a present spanning more than one reporting period or where the legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, contract requires the provision of a number of services it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will that together constitute a single project, are treated as be required to settle the obligation and the amount can long-term contracts with revenue recognised on a be reliably estimated.
Provisions are discounted to percentage of completion basis.
Losses on contracts are present value where the effect is material.
recognised in the period in which the loss first becomes foreseeable.
Contract losses are determined to be the The Group recognises a provision for deferred amount by which estimated total costs of the contract consideration when the payment of the deferred exceed the estimated total revenues that will be consideration is probable.
The Group recognises a provision for onerous lease contracts when the expected benefits to be derived from a contract are less than the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract.
Accounting policies continued s. Dividends Dividends are recorded in the Groups financial q.
Revenue recognition continued statements in the period in which they are approved On certain contracts, where the Group acts as agent, only by the companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are commissions and fees receivable for services rendered recorded in the period in which they are approved are recognised as revenue.
Any third-party costs incurred and paid.
on behalf of the principal that are rechargeable under the contractual arrangement are not included in revenue.
t. Non-current assets and liabilities held for sale Assets and liabilities are classified as held for sale and Income from recharges of freight and other activities stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less which are incidental to the normal revenue generating costs to sell if it is intended to recover their carrying activities is included in other income.
amount principally through a sale transaction rather than r. Leases through continuing use.
No depreciation is charged in Leases of property, plant and equipment where the respect of non-current assets classified as held for sale.
Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of Amounts relating to non-current assets and liabilities ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance held for sale are classified as discontinued operations leases are capitalised at the commencement of the lease in the income statement where appropriate.
at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and u.
Trade receivables the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each Trade receivables are stated at fair value after provision lease payment is allocated between the liability and for bad and doubtful debts and anticipated future sales finance charges to achieve a constant rate on the finance returns see also note 1q.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in financial liabilities borrowings.
The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases by the lessee.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
