Learn more online Principal offices worldwide Visit our interactive online annual report at www.
com investor ar2008 Pearson UK Financial Times Group 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL, UK Number One Southwark Bridge, Pearsons website, www.
com, is constantly updated with the latest T 44 0 20 7010 2000 London SE1 9HL, UK company news, features and share price information.
com F 44 0 20 7873 3076 The website includes interactive versions of our annual reports, which many www.
lastname@ft. com shareholders now choose ahead of the printed document.
com Pearson plc Why not also visit our online tour at www.
com pearsonville Registered number 53723 England Notes Reliance on this document including trends in results of operations, margins, growth Our Business review on pages 6 to 37 has been prepared rates, overall market trends, the impact of interest or in accordance with the Directors Report Business Review exchange rates, the availability of financing, anticipated Requirements of section 417 of the Companies Act 2006. costs savings and synergies and the execution of Pearsons It also incorporates much of the guidance set out in the strategy, are forward-looking statements.
By their nature, Accounting Standards Boards Reporting Statement on the forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties Operating and Financial Review.
because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in future.
There are a number of factors which The intention of this document is to provide information to could cause actual results and developments to differ shareholders and is not designed to be relied upon by any materially from those expressed or implied by these forwardDesign & Production: Radley Yeldar London ry.
com other party or for any other purpose.
looking statements, including a number of factors outside Print: Beacon Press Pearsons control.
Any forward-looking statements speak Forward-looking statements only as of the date they are made, and Pearson gives no Pearson has supported the planting of 350 trees with the Woodland Trust, helping to offset the carbon dioxide emissions This document contains forward-looking statements which undertaking to update forward-looking statements to reflect generated by the production of this report.
The cover of this report has been printed on Take 2 Silk which is FSC certified are made by the directors in good faith based on information any changes in its expectations with regard thereto or any and contains 75% recycled and fide-inked pulp from post consumer waste and 25%ECF Elemental Chlorine Free virgin pulp.
available to them at the time of approval of this report.
changes to events, conditions or circumstances on which The text pages are printed on Take 2 Offset which is 100% recycled.
This report was printed using vegetable oil based inks In particular, all statements that express forecasts, any such statement is based.
and 100% renewable energy by a CarbonNeutral printer certified to ISO 14001 environmental management system and expectations and projections with respect to future matters, registered to EMAS the Eco Management Audit Scheme.
Pearson Annual report and accounts 2008 Learn more about how we educate, Annual report and accounts 2008 entertain and inform at pearson.
