GENERALINFORMATION Pennon Group Plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office is given on page 46.
Pennon Groups business is operated through two main subsidiaries: South West Water Limited holds the water and sewerage appointments for Devon, Cornwall and parts of Dorset and Somerset: Viridor Limiteds business is waste treatment and disposal.
 The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented.
a Basisofpreparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union, with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and the requirements of the Financial Services Authority.
A summary of the principal accounting policies is set out below, together with an explanation where changes have been made to previous policies on the adoption of new accounting standards in the year.
At the date of approval of these financial statements the following standards and interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 8 Operating segments.
IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements revised.
IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements revised.
IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction.
The presentational impact of these standards and interpretations is being assessed and the Directors expect that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions which affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best assessment of the amounts, actual events or actions and results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
b Basisofconsolidation The Group financial statements include the results of Pennon Group Plc and its subsidiary and joint venture undertakings.
The results of subsidiaries and joint venture undertakings are included from the date of acquisition or incorporation, and excluded from the date of disposal.
The results of subsidiaries are consolidated where the Group has the power to control a subsidiary.
The results of joint venture undertakings are accounted for on an equity basis where the company exercised joint control under a contractual arrangement.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary or joint venture acquired are measured at their fair values and any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Where the cost of acquisition is below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired a credit is recognised in profit and loss in the year of acquisition.
62 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts
