GENERALINFORMATION Pennon Group Plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office is given on page 46.
Pennon Groups business is operated through two main subsidiaries: South West Water Limited holds the water and sewerage appointments for Devon, Cornwall and parts of Dorset and Somerset: Viridor Limiteds business is waste treatment and disposal.
 The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented.
a Basisofpreparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union, with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and the requirements of the Financial Services Authority.
A summary of the principal accounting policies is set out below, together with an explanation where changes have been made to previous policies on the adoption of new accounting standards in the year.
At the date of approval of these financial statements the following standards and interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 8 Operating segments.
IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements revised.
IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements revised.
IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction.
The presentational impact of these standards and interpretations is being assessed and the Directors expect that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions which affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best assessment of the amounts, actual events or actions and results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
b Basisofconsolidation The Group financial statements include the results of Pennon Group Plc and its subsidiary and joint venture undertakings.
The results of subsidiaries and joint venture undertakings are included from the date of acquisition or incorporation, and excluded from the date of disposal.
The results of subsidiaries are consolidated where the Group has the power to control a subsidiary.
The results of joint venture undertakings are accounted for on an equity basis where the company exercised joint control under a contractual arrangement.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary or joint venture acquired are measured at their fair values and any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Where the cost of acquisition is below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired a credit is recognised in profit and loss in the year of acquisition.
62 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts  2.
 continued c Revenuerecognition Revenue represents the fair value of consideration receivable, excluding value added tax, trade discounts and inter company sales, in the ordinary course of business for goods and services provided.
Revenue is recognised once the services or goods have been provided to the customer.
Income from main water and waste water charges includes billed amounts for estimated usage and also an estimation of the amount of unbilled charges at the period-end based upon a defined methodology reflecting historical consumption and current tariffs.
Income from electricity generated from waste management landfill gas production includes an estimation of the amount to be received under renewables obligation certificates.
Interest income is recognised on a time-apportioned basis using the effective interest method.
d Landfilltax Landfill tax is included within both revenue and operating costs.
It is determined by the Government and is a cost to the Group but is recovered from customers.
e Segmentalreporting Each of the Groups business segments provides services which are subject to risks and returns which are different from those of the other business segments.
The Groups internal organisation and management structure and its system of internal financial reporting is based primarily on business segments.
The business segments comprise the regulated water and sewerage services undertaken by South West Water Limited and the waste management business of Viridor Limited.
Segmental revenue and results include transactions between businesses.
Inter-segmental transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
f Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation from the acquisition of subsidiary and joint venture undertakings represents the excess of the purchase consideration over the fair value of net assets acquired.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Further details are contained in accounting policy k. When a subsidiary or joint venture undertaking is sold, the profit or loss on disposal is determined after including the attributable amount, of unamortised goodwill.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 April 2004 the Groups date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts, subject to being tested for impairment at that date and annually thereafter.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 was not reinstated on transition to IFRS and will not be included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
g  Other intangible assets acquired in a business combination are capitalised at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, finite life intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives, with the expense taken to the income statement through operating expenses.
Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts 63  2.
 continued h Property, plantandequipment i Infrastructure assets being water mains and sewers, impounding and pumped raw water storage reservoirs, dams, pipelines and sea outfalls Infrastructure assets were included at fair value on transition to IFRS and subsequent additions are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Expenditure to increase capacity or enhance infrastructure assets is capitalised where it can be reliably measured and it is probable that incremental future economic benefits will flow to the entity.
The cost of day-to-day servicing of infrastructure components is recognised in the income statement as it arises.
Infrastructure assets are depreciated over their useful economic lives, which are principally: Dams and impounding reservoirs 200 years Water mains 40 100 years Sewers 40 100 years Assets in the course of construction are not depreciated until commissioned.
ii Landfill sites Landfill sites are included within land and buildings at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Cost includes acquisition and development expenses.
The cost of a landfill is depreciated to its residual value which is linked to gas production at the site post-closure over its estimated operational life taking account of the usage of void space.
Where the obligation to restore a landfill site is an integral part of its future economic benefits, a non-current asset within property, plant and equipment is recognised.
The asset recognised is depreciated based on the usage of void space.
iii Other assets including properties, over-ground plant and equipment Other assets are included at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other assets are depreciated evenly to their residual value over their estimated economic lives which are principally: Freehold buildings 30 60 years Leasehold buildings Over the period of the lease Operational structures 40 80 years Fixed plant 20 40 years Vehicles, mobile plant and computers 3 10 years Assets in the course of construction are not depreciated until commissioned.
The cost of assets includes directly attributable labour and overhead costs which are incremental to the Group.
Borrowing costs which are directly attributable to the construction of a qualifying asset an asset which necessarily takes a substantial period of time to be prepared for its intended use are capitalised as part of the asset.
Asset lives and residual values are reviewed annually.
64 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts  2.
 continued i  Grants and contributions receivable in respect of property, plant and equipment are deducted from the cost of those assets.
Grants and contributions receivable in respect of expenditure charged against profits in the year have been included in the income statement.
j Leasedassets Assets held under finance leases are included in the balance sheet as property, plant and equipment at their equivalent capital value and are depreciated over their estimated economic lives or the finance lease period, whichever is the shorter.
The corresponding liability is recorded as borrowings.
The interest element of the rental costs is charged against profits using the actuarial method over the period of the lease.
Rental costs arising under operating leases are charged against profits in the year they are incurred.
k  Assets which have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment, or whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Assets which are subject to amortisation or depreciation are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Value in use represents the present value of projected future cash flows expected to be derived from a cash-generating unit, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate which reflects an assessment of the cost of capital of the cash-generating unit.
Impairments are charged to the income statement in the year in which they arise.
l  Investments in subsidiary undertakings are initially recorded at cost, being the fair value of the consideration paid, including associated acquisition costs.
Subsequently, investments are reviewed for impairment on an individual basis, annually or if events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying value may not be fully recoverable.
m Jointventures Joint ventures are entities over which the Group has joint control.
Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the joint venture at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill and is included in the carrying value of the investment in the joint venture.
The carrying value of the Groups investment is adjusted for the Groups share of post-acquisition profits or losses recognised in the income statement.
Losses of a joint venture in excess of the Groups interest are not recognised unless the Group has a legal or constructive obligation to fund those losses.
n Cashandcashdeposits Cash and cash deposits comprise cash in hand and short-term deposits held at banks.
Bank overdrafts are shown within current borrowings.
Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts 65  2.
 continued o  The Group classifies its financial instruments in the following categories: i Loans and receivables All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Following initial recognition, interestbearing loans and borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the instruments are derecognised or impaired.
Premia, discounts and other costs and fees are recognised in the income statement through the amortisation process.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
ii Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The Group uses derivative financial instruments, principally interest rate swaps, to hedge its risks associated with interest rate fluctuations.
Derivative instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date the derivative contract is entered into and subsequently remeasured at fair value for the reported balance sheet.
The gain or loss on remeasurement is taken to the income statement except for cash flow hedges that meet the conditions for hedge accounting, when the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument which is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity, and the ineffective portion in the income statement.
The gains or losses deferred in equity in this way are subsequently recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged underlying transaction or firm commitment is recognised in the income statement.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to document in advance the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required to document and demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge will be highly effective on an on-going basis.
This effectiveness testing is reperformed at the end of each reporting period to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as non-current asset or liability when the remaining hedged item is more than 12 months, and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
Derivative instruments which do not qualify for hedge accounting are classified as a current asset or liability with any change in fair value recognised immediately in the income statement.
iii Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
iv Trade payables Trade payables are not interest bearing and are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or liability and of allocating the interest income or expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial asset or liability or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
66 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts  2.
 continued p  Tax payable for the year is provided at current rates which are substantively enacted.
Deferred taxation is provided in full using the liability method on temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
A deferred tax asset is only recognised to the extent it is probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available in the future for it to be utilised.
q  Provisions are made where there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that there will be an outflow of economic benefits to settle this obligation and a reliable estimate of this amount can be made.
The Groups policy on provisions for specific areas is: i Landfill restoration costs Provisions for the cost of restoring landfill sites are made when the obligation arises.
Where the obligation recognised as a provision gives access to future economic benefits, a non-current asset in property, plant and equipment is recognised.
Provisions are otherwise charged against profits.
ii Environmental control and aftercare costs Environmental control and aftercare costs are incurred over the operational life of each landfill site and may be incurred for a considerable period thereafter.
Provision for all such costs is made over the operational life of the site and charged to the income statement on the basis of the usage of void space.
Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when a detailed formal plan for the restructuring has been communicated to affected parties.
Where the effect of the time value of money is material the current amount of a provision is the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle obligations.
The unwinding of the discount to present value is included as a financial item within finance costs.
r  Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares the consideration paid, including any directly attributable costs, is deducted from equity until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such shares are subsequently reissued any consideration received, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, is included in equity.
The Group balance sheet incorporates the shares held by the Pennon Employee Share Trust and which have not vested by the balance sheet date.
These are shown as a deduction from shareholders equity until such time as they vest.
s  Dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid: final dividends when approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts 67  2.
 continued t Employeebenefits i Pension obligations The Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
Defined benefit schemes Defined benefit pension scheme assets are measured using bid price.
Defined benefit pension scheme liabilities are measured by an independent actuary using Directors best estimates.
The projected unit credit method is employed and liabilities are discounted at the current rate of return on high quality corporate bonds of equivalent term to the liability.
The increase in the present value of the liabilities of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes expected to arise from employee service in the period is charged against operating profit.
The expected return on scheme assets and the increase during the period in the present value of scheme liabilities are included in other finance income or cost.
Changes in past service costs arising from changes in benefits are recognised immediately in income.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity and recorded in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Defined contribution scheme Costs of the defined contribution pension scheme are charged to the income statement in the period in which they arise.
ii Share-based payment The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based payment plans for employees.
The fair value of the employee services required in exchange for the grant is recognised as an expense over the vesting period of the grant.
Fair values are calculated using an appropriate pricing model.
Non market-based vesting conditions are adjusted for in assumptions as to the number of shares which are expected to vest.
u Pre-contractcosts Pre-contract costs are expensed as incurred, except where it is virtually certain that the contract will be awarded, in which case they are recognised as an asset which is amortised to the income statement over the life of the contract.
v Fairvalues The fair value of the interest rate swaps is based on the market price of comparable instruments at the balance sheet date if they are publicly traded.
The fair values of short-term deposits, loans and overdrafts with a maturity of less than one year are assumed to approximate to their book values.
In the case of bank loans and other loans due in more than one year the fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
68 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts
