 The Groups principal accounting policies are set out in note 2.
Management is required to exercise significant judgement and make use of estimates and assumptions in the application of these policies.
Areas which management believes require the most critical accounting judgements are: Underlying business performance Underlying business performance is presented to provide more representative information on underlying trends.
The term underlying is not a defined term under IFRS, and may not be comparable with similarly titled profit measurements reported by other companies.
A reconciliation between underlying and reported measures is included in note 10 and in the Directors report on page 28.
Exceptional items The Directors consider that items of income or expense which are material and non-recurring by virtue of their nature and amount should be disclosed separately if the financial statements are to fairly present the financial position and financial performance of the Group.
The Directors label these items collectively as exceptional items.
Environmental and landfill restoration provisions Restoration and aftercare provisions are recognised in the financial statements at the net present value of the estimated future expenditure required to settle the Groups restoration and aftercare obligations.
A discount is applied to recognise the time value of money and is unwound over the life of the provision.
This is included in the income statement as a financial item within interest payable.
As at 31 March 2008 the Groups environmental and landfill restoration provisions were 97.7 million.
Where a provision gives access to future economic benefits, an asset is recognised and depreciated in accordance with the Groups depreciation policy.
Capitalisation of borrowing costs The Group capitalises borrowing costs which are material and directly attributable to the construction of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to be prepared for their intended use.
Currently only the assets under construction in the Lakeside Energy from Waste joint venture meet the criteria for capitalisation.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates defined benefit schemes for which actuarial valuations are carried out as determined by the trustees at intervals of not more than three years.
The pension cost under IAS 19 is assessed in accordance with Directors best estimates using the advice of an independent qualified actuary and assumptions in the latest actuarial valuation.
The assumptions are based on information supplied to the actuary by the Company, supplemented by discussions between the actuary and management.
The principal assumptions used to measure schemes liabilities, sensitivities to changes in assumptions and future funding obligations are disclosed in note 28 of the financial statements.
Cash-generating units For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
The waste management segment is considered to be a single cash-generating unit as it is an integrated business.
72 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts
