82 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements At 31 December 2008 1 Corporate information New standards and interpretations The consolidated financial statements of Petrofac Limited the The group has adopted new and revised Standards and Company for the year ended 31 December 2008 were Interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors Board IASB and the International Financial Reporting on 6 March 2009.
Interpretations Committee IFRIC of the IASB that are relevant to its operations and effective for accounting periods beginning Petrofac Limited is a limited liability company registered in Jersey on or after 1 January 2008.
The principal effects of the adoption under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and is the holding of these new and amended standards and interpretations are company for the international group of Petrofac subsidiaries discussed below: together the group.
The Companys 31 December 2008 financial statements are shown on pages 120 to 131.
The groups principal IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions activity is the provision of facilities solutions to the oil & gas This interpretation clarifies that where any arrangement is made production and processing industry.
whereby an employee is granted rights to an entitys equity instruments: it is to be accounted for as an equity-settled scheme.
A full listing of all group companies, and joint venture companies, is This treatment would also hold true where the entity buys the contained in note 32 to these consolidated financial statements.
instruments from an existing shareholder or any other party to provide the equity instruments to the employee.
The adoption of 2 Summary of significant accounting policies this interpretation did not affect the groups operating results or Basis of preparation financial position for the year ended 31 December 2008.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments and IFRIC 14 IAS19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum available-for-sale financial assets which have been measured at fair Funding Requirements and their Interaction value.
The presentation currency of the consolidated financial This interpretation provides guidance on how to assess the limit statements is United States dollars and all values in the financial on the amount of surplus in a defined benefit scheme that can statements are rounded to the nearest thousand US$000 except be recognised as an asset under IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
Certain comparative information has been The adoption of this interpretation did not affect the groups reclassified to conform to current period presentation and prior operating results or financial position for the year ended period earnings per shares numbers have been revised to be 31 December 2008 as the group does not have any defined consistent with the current period presentation.
benefit schemes for its employees.
Statement of compliance IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement The consolidated financial statements of Petrofac Limited and its and IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with International Reclassification of Financial Assets Amendments Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and applicable requirements These amendments in IAS 39 and IFRS7 permit reclassification of of Jersey law.
certain financial instruments held for trading and available for sale categories.
These amendments did not affect the groups operating Basis of consolidation results or financial position for the year ended 31 December 2008.
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of Petrofac Limited and its subsidiaries.
The financial Certain new standards, amendments to and interpretations of statements of its subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting existing standards have been issued and are effective for the year as the Company and where necessary, adjustments are made groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 to the financial statements of the groups subsidiaries to bring their or later periods which the group has not early adopted.
Those that accounting policies into line with those of the group.
are applicable to the group are as follows: Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Revised transferred to the group and cease to be consolidated from the effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009, date on which control is transferred out of the group.
Control is has been revised to enhance the usefulness of information achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial presented in the financial statements.
Management is considering and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits the approach to meeting this requirement from its activities.
All intra-group balances and transactions, IFRS 2 Amendments to IFRS 2 Vesting Conditions and including unrealised profits, have been eliminated on consolidation.
Cancellations is required to be applied to periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
This amendment clarifies the definition of Minority interests in subsidiaries consolidated by the group are non-vesting conditions and prescribes accounting treatment of an disclosed separately from the groups equity and income award that is cancelled because a non-vesting condition is not statement.
Losses attributable to minority interests in excess of the satisfied.
This will have no significant impact on the groups minoritys interest in the net assets of the subsidiary are adjusted financial statements against the interest of the group unless there is a binding obligation IFRS 3 Business Combinations Revised and the amended on the part of the minority to contribute additional investment in version of IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial the subsidiary.
Statements, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009, have been enhanced to, amongst other matters, specify the accounting treatments for acquisition costs, contingent consideration, pre-existing relationships and reacquired rights.
The revised standards include detailed guidance in respect of step acquisitions and partial disposals of subsidiaries and associates as well as in respect of allocation of income to non-controlling interests.
Further, an option has been added to IFRS 3 to permit an entity to recognise 100 per cent of Financial statements 83 Notes to the consolidated Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 financial statements the goodwill of an acquired entity, not just the acquiring entitys revenue recognition on fixed-price engineering, procurement and portion of the goodwill.
The impact of this standard on the group construction contracts: the group recognises revenue on is not expected to be significant fixed-price engineering, procurement and construction contracts IFRS 8 Operating Segments introduces the management using the  method, based on surveys approach to segment reporting.
IFRS 8, which becomes of work performed.
The group has determined this basis of mandatory for the groups 2009 financial information, will require revenue recognition is the best available measure of progress the disclosure of segment information based on the internal on such contracts reports regularly reviewed by the groups Chief Operating Decision Maker in order to assess each segments performance Estimation uncertainty and allocate resources to them.
The adoption of this standard The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources does not have any impact on the financial position of the group.
of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a However, the segment information disclosed will change as a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying result of the recent internal restructuring of the group which is amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are further discussed on page 18 discussed below: revisions to IAS 23 Borrowing costs have removed the option project cost to complete estimates: at each balance sheet date of immediately recognising as an expense borrowing costs that the group is required to estimate costs to complete on fixed price relate to assets that take a substantial period of time to get ready contracts.
Estimating costs to complete on such contracts for use or sale.
An entity is, therefore, required to capitalise requires the group to make estimates of future costs to be borrowing costs as part of the cost of such assets.
The revised incurred, based on work to be performed beyond the balance standard applies to borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets sheet date for which the commencement date for capitalisation is on or after onerous contract provisions: the group provides for future losses 1 January 2009.
This will have no significant impact on the group on long-term contracts where it is considered probable that the IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements contract costs are likely to exceed revenues in future years.
Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Estimating these future losses involves a number of assumptions Entity or Associate Amendments effective for annual periods about the achievement of contract performance targets and the beginning on or after 1 January 2009, has deleted the use of the likely levels of future cost escalation over time cost method of accounting for investments with respect to impairment of goodwill: the group determines whether goodwill is holding companies separate financial statements.
Also, in cases impaired at least on an annual basis.
This requires an estimation of reorganisations where a new parent is introduced above an of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the existing one, the cost of the subsidiary is the previous carrying goodwill is allocated.
Estimating the value in use requires the amount rather than its fair value.
This will impact the separate group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from financial statements of parent companies within the group, but each cash-generating unit and also to determine a suitable does not have any impact on the consolidated financial discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash statements of the group flows.
The carrying amount of goodwill at 31 December 2008 was IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation of Financial US$97,534,000 2007: US$71,743,000 Statements Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations deferred tax assets: the group recognises deferred tax assets on Arising on Liquidation Amendments effective for annual unused tax losses where it is probable that future taxable profits periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009, requires the will be available for utilisation.
This requires management to make classification of puttable financial instruments as equity if they judgements and assumptions regarding the amount of deferred have certain specified features.
This will have no impact on tax that can be recognised as well as the likelihood of future the group taxable profits.
The carrying amount of recognised tax losses at IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation 31 December 2008 was US$33,165,000 2007: US$8,512,000 this interpretation provides guidance in respect of hedges of income tax: the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to foreign currency gains and losses on a net investment in a foreign routine tax audits and also a process whereby tax computations operation.
This interpretation is effective for periods beginning on are discussed and agreed with the appropriate authorities.
The impact on the group is not the ultimate outcome of such tax audits and discussions cannot considered to be significant be determined with certainty, management estimates the level of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement provisions required for both current and deferred tax on the basis Eligible hedged item Amendment is effective for periods of professional advice and the nature of current discussions with beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
This amendment addresses the tax authority concerned only the designation of a one-sided risk in a hedged item and the recoverable value of intangible oil & gas and other intangible designation of inflation as a hedged risk or a portion in particular assets: the group determines at each balance sheet date whether situations.
This will have no impact on the group there is any evidence of impairment in the carrying value of its intangible oil & gas and other intangible assets.
This requires Other interpretations and amendments that have been issued but management to estimate the recoverable value of its intangible are not yet effective and are not considered applicable to the group assets for example by reference to quoted market values, similar are IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes, IFRIC 15 arms length transactions involving these assets or value in Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate and IFRS 1 use calculations First-time Adoption of IFRS Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, units of production depreciation: estimated proven plus probable Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate Amendments.
reserves are used in determining the depreciation of oil & gas assets such that the depreciation charge is proportional to the Significant accounting judgements and estimates depletion of the remaining reserves over their life of production.
Judgements These calculations require the use of estimates and assumptions In the process of applying the groups accounting policies, including the amount of economically recoverable reserves and management has made the following judgements, apart from those estimates of future oil & gas capital expenditure involving estimations, which have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: 84 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2008 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Oil & gas facilities 10% 12.5% Interests in joint ventures Plant and equipment 4% 33% The group has a number of contractual arrangements with other Buildings and leasehold improvements 5% 33% parties which represent joint ventures.
These take the form of or shorter of the lease term agreements to share control over other entities jointly controlled Office furniture and equipment 25% 100% entities and commercial collaborations jointly controlled Vehicles 20% 33% operations.
The groups interests in jointly controlled entities are accounted for by proportionate consolidation, which involves Tangible oil & gas assets are depreciated, on a field-by-field basis, recognising its proportionate share of the joint ventures assets, using the unit-of-production method based on entitlement to liabilities, income and expenses with similar items in the proven and probable reserves, taking account of estimated future consolidated financial statements on a line-by-line basis.
Where the development expenditure relating to those reserves.
group collaborates with other entities in jointly controlled operations, the expenses the group incurs and its share of the Each assets estimated useful life, residual value and method of revenue earned is recognised in the income statement.
Assets depreciation are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate at each controlled by the group and liabilities incurred by it are recognised financial year end.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of the groups jointly controlled entities and No depreciation is charged on land or assets under construction.
operations to bring their accounting policies into line with those of the group.
The carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised on disposal or when no future economic benefits are Foreign currency translation expected from its use or disposal.
The gain or loss arising from the The Companys functional and presentational currency is United derecognition of an item of property, plant and equipment shall be States dollars.
In the accounts of individual subsidiaries, included in profit or loss when the item is derecognised.
Gains are transactions in currencies other than a companys functional not classified as revenue.
currency are recorded at the prevailing rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
At the year end, monetary assets and liabilities Non-current assets held for sale denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates of Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary sale when it is expected that the carrying amount of an asset will assets and liabilities that are measured at historical cost in a foreign be recovered principally through sale rather than continuing use.
currency are translated using the rate of exchange as at the dates Assets are not depreciated when classified as held for sale.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the Borrowing costs rate of exchange at the date the fair value was determined.
All Borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction of foreign exchange gains and losses are taken to the income qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a statement with the exception of exchange differences arising on substantial period of time to prepare for their intended use, are monetary assets and liabilities that form part of the groups net added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are investment in subsidiaries.
These are taken directly to equity until substantially ready for their intended use.
All other borrowing costs the disposal of the net investment at which time they are are recognised as interest payable in the income statement in the recognised in the income statement.
period in which they are incurred.
The balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures are Goodwill translated into US dollars using the closing rate method, whereby Goodwill acquired in a business combination is initially measured at assets and liabilities are translated at the rates of exchange cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over prevailing at the balance sheet date.
The income statements of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures are translated at average liabilities of the entity at the date of acquisition.
Following initial exchange rates for the year.
Exchange differences arising on the recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated retranslation of net assets are taken directly to a separate impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually, or component of equity.
more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that such carrying value may be impaired.
On the disposal of a foreign entity, accumulated exchange differences are recognised in the income statement as a For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired is component of the gain or loss on disposal.
allocated to the cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Each unit or units to which Property, plant and equipment goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the group at Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes depreciation and any impairment in value.
Cost comprises the and is not larger than a segment based on either the groups purchase price or construction cost and any costs directly primary or the groups secondary reporting format determined in attributable to making that asset capable of operating as intended.
The purchase price or construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the asset.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis other the cash-generating units to which the goodwill relates.
Where the than on oil & gas assets at the following rates.
recoverable amount of the cash-generating units is less than the carrying amount of the cash-generating units and related goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised.
Financial statements 85 Notes to the consolidated Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 financial statements Where goodwill has been allocated to cash-generating units and Development expenditures part of the operation within those units is disposed of, the goodwill Expenditure relating to development of assets which include the associated with the operation disposed of is included in the construction, installation and completion of infrastructure facilities carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or such as platforms, pipelines and development wells, is capitalised loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this within property, plant and equipment.
circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating Changes in unit-of-production factors units retained.
Changes in factors which affect unit-of-production calculations are dealt with prospectively, not by immediate adjustment of prior Deferred consideration payable on acquisition years amounts.
When, as part of a business combination, the group defers a proportion of the total purchase consideration payable for an Decommissioning acquisition, the amount provided for is calculated based on the Provision for future decommissioning costs is made in full when the best estimate of the timing of additional payments discounted back group has an obligation to dismantle and remove a facility or an to present value with the discount factor element recognised as a item of plant and to restore the site on which it is located, and when finance cost in the income statement.
a reasonable estimate of that liability can be made.
The amount recognised is the present value of the estimated future expenditure.
Intangible assets non oil & gas assets An amount equivalent to the discounted initial provision for Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are initially decommissioning costs is capitalised and amortised over the life of measured at cost being their fair values at the date of acquisition the underlying asset on a unit-of-production basis over proven and and are recognised separately from goodwill as the asset is probable reserves.
Any change in the present value of the separable or arises from a contractual or other legal right and its estimated expenditure is reflected as an adjustment to the provision fair value can be measured reliably.
After initial recognition, and the oil & gas asset.
intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets with a The unwinding of the discount applied to future decommissioning finite life are amortised over their useful economic life using a provisions is included under finance costs in the income statement.
straight line method unless a better method reflecting the pattern in which the assets future economic benefits are expected to be Available-for-sale financial assets consumed can be determined.
The amortisation charge in respect Investments classified as available-for-sale are initially stated at fair of intangible assets is included in the selling, general and value, including acquisition charges associated with the investment.
administration expenses line of the income statement.
The expected useful lives of assets are reviewed on an annual basis.
After initial recognition, available-for-sale financial assets are Any change in the useful life or pattern of consumption of the measured at their fair value using quoted market rates.
Gains and intangible asset is treated as a change in accounting estimate and losses are recognised as a separate component of equity until the is accounted for prospectively by changing the amortisation period investment is sold or impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or or method.
Intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever loss previously reported in equity is included in the income there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Oil & gas assets Impairment of assets excluding goodwill Capitalised costs At each balance sheet date, the group reviews the carrying The groups activities in relation to oil & gas assets are limited to amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to assess whether assets in the evaluation, development and production phases.
there is an indication that those assets may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, the group makes an estimate of the assets Oil & gas evaluation and development expenditure is accounted for recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher using the successful efforts method of accounting.
of an assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows attributable Evaluation expenditures to the asset are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax Expenditure directly associated with evaluation or appraisal discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time activities is capitalised as an intangible asset.
Such costs include value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
the costs of acquiring an interest, appraisal well drilling costs, payments to contractors and an appropriate share of directly If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than attributable overheads incurred during the evaluation phase.
For its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced such appraisal activity, which may require drilling of further wells, to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised costs continue to be carried as an asset whilst related immediately in the income statement, unless the relevant asset is hydrocarbons are considered capable of commercial development.
carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is Such costs are subject to technical, commercial and management treated as a revaluation decrease.
review to confirm the continued intent to develop, or otherwise extract value.
When this is no longer the case, the costs are Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying written-off in the income statement.
When such assets are amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its declared part of a commercial development, related costs are recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount transferred to tangible oil & gas assets.
All intangible oil & gas does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been assets are assessed for any impairment prior to transfer and any determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment is treated as a revaluation increase.
86 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2008 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Inventories Financial assets Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
A financial asset or, where applicable a part of a financial asset is Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary derecognised where: course of business, less estimated costs of completion and the the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Cost comprises the group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, purchase price, cost of production, transportation and other but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material directly allocable expenses.
Costs of inventories, other than raw delay to a third party under a pass-through arrangement: or materials, are determined using the first-in-first-out method.
the group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the Costs of raw materials are determined using the weighted asset and either a has transferred substantially all the risks and average method.
rewards of the asset, or b has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has Work in progress and billings in excess of cost and estimated transferred control of the asset earnings Fixed price lump sum engineering, procurement and construction Financial liabilities contracts are presented in the balance sheet as follows: A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the for each contract, the accumulated cost incurred, as well as the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
estimated earnings recognised at the contracts percentage of completion less provision for any anticipated losses, after If an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same deducting the progress payments received or receivable from the lender, on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing customers, are shown in current assets in the balance sheet liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification under Work in progress is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the where the payments received or receivable for any contract recognition of a new liability such that the difference in the exceed the cost and estimated earnings less provision for any respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees anticipated losses, the excess is shown as Billings in excess of incurred are recognised in the income statement.
cost and estimated earnings within current liabilities Pensions and other long-term employment benefits Trade and other receivables The group has various defined contribution pension schemes in Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice accordance with the local conditions and practices in the countries amount less an allowance for any amounts estimated to be in which it operates.
The amount charged to the income statement uncollectable.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when there is in respect of pension costs reflects the contributions payable in the objective evidence that the collection of the full amount is no longer year.
Differences between contributions payable during the year probable under the terms of the original invoice.
Impaired debts are and contributions actually paid are shown as either accrued derecognised when they are assessed as uncollectable.
liabilities or prepaid assets in the balance sheet.
Cash and cash equivalents The groups other long-term employment benefits are provided in Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand accordance with the labour laws of the countries in which the and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months group operates, further details of which are given in note 25. or less.
For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consists of cash and cash equivalents as defined Share-based payment transactions above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Employees including directors of the group receive remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby Interest-bearing loans and borrowings employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over All interest-bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at shares equity-settled transactions.
the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs directly attributable to the borrowing.
Equity-settled transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are by reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted.
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any interest rate method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium the shares of Petrofac Limited market conditions, if applicable.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with Provisions a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or relevant employees become fully entitled to the award the vesting constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that period.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the groups the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks ultimately vest.
The income statement charge or credit for a period specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the provision due to the passage of time is recognised in the the beginning and end of that period.
income statement as a finance cost.
Financial statements 87 Notes to the consolidated Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 financial statements No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, the incentive payments can be measured reliably.
Claims are only except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market included in revenue when negotiations have reached an advanced condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or stage such that it is probable the claim will be accepted and can be not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other measured reliably.
Equity awards cancelled are treated as vesting immediately on the date of cancellation, and any Facilities management, engineering and training services expense not recognised for the award at that date is recognised in Operations Services the income statement.
Revenues from reimbursable contracts are recognised in the period in which the services are provided based on the agreed contract Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust schedule of rates.
The Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust was established on 7 March 2007 to warehouse ordinary shares purchased to satisfy various Revenues from fixed-price contracts are recognised on the new share scheme awards made to the employees of the  method, measured by milestones Company, which will be transferred to the members of the scheme completed or earned value once the outcome of a contract can be on their respective vesting dates subject to satisfying the estimated reliably.
In the early stages of contract completion, when performance conditions of each scheme.
The trust has been the outcome of a contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract consolidated in the financial statements in accordance with SIC 12 revenues are recognised only to the extent of costs incurred that Special Purpose Entities.
The cost of shares temporarily held by are expected to be recoverable.
Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust are reflected as treasury shares and deducted from equity.
Incentive payments are included in revenue when the contract is sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the specified Leases performance standards will be met or exceeded and the amount of The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a the incentive payments can be measured reliably.
Claims are only lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception included in revenue when negotiations have reached an advanced date of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on stage such that it is probable the claim will be accepted and can be the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys measured reliably.
the right to use the asset.
Oil & gas activities Energy Developments The group has entered into various operating leases the payments Oil & gas revenues comprise the groups share of sales from the for which are recognised as an expense in the income statement processing or sale of hydrocarbons on an entitlement basis, when on a straight-line basis over the lease terms.
the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been passed to the buyer.
Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable economic Income taxes benefits will flow to the group and the revenue can be reliably Income tax expense represents the sum of current income tax and measured.
The following specific recognition criteria also apply: deferred tax.
Engineering, procurement and construction services Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior Engineering & Construction periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered Revenues from fixed-price lump-sum contracts are recognised on from, or paid to the taxation authorities.
Taxable profit differs from the  method, based on surveys of work profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes performed once the outcome of a contract can be estimated items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other reliably.
In the early stages of contract completion, when the years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or outcome of a contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract deductible.
The groups liability for current tax is calculated using revenues are recognised only to the extent of costs incurred that tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the are expected to be recoverable.
Revenues from cost-plus-fee contracts are recognised on the basis Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences at of costs incurred during the year plus the fee earned measured by the balance sheet date between the carrying amounts of assets the cost-to-cost method.
and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, with the Revenues from reimbursable contracts are recognised in the period following exceptions: in which the services are provided based on the agreed contract where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition schedule of rates.
of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects Provision is made for all losses expected to arise on completion of neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss: contracts entered into at the balance sheet date, whether or not in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with work has commenced on these contracts.
investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing of reversal of the temporary differences can be Incentive payments are included in revenue when the contract is controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the specified not reverse in the foreseeable future: and performance standards will be met or exceeded and the amount of deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that a taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised 88 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2008 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued The group formally designates and documents the relationship Income taxes continued between the hedging instrument and the hedged item at the The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at inception of the transaction, as well as its risk management each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to The documentation also includes identification of the hedging allow all or part of the deferred income tax assets to be utilised.
instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of risk being Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each hedged and how the group will assess the hedging instruments balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred items fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
The tax asset to be recovered.
group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in the Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply fair values or cash flows of the hedged items.
when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives sheet date.
designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the hedging relationship, as follows: Current and deferred income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity.
Fair value hedges Otherwise, income tax is recognised in the income statement.
For fair value hedges, the carrying amount of the hedged item is adjusted for gains and losses attributable to the risk being hedged: Derivative financial instruments and hedging the derivative is remeasured at fair value and gains and losses from The group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward both are taken to the income statement.
For hedged items carried currency contracts, interest rate collars and swaps and oil price at amortised cost, the adjustment is amortised through the income collars and forward contracts to hedge its risks associated with statement such that it is fully amortised by maturity.
foreign currency, interest rate and oil price fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value The group discontinues fair value hedge accounting if the hedging on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or the group revokes assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair the designation.
Cash flow hedges Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken to the the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the income statement.
ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when the The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by hedged transaction affects the income statement.
reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate cap, swap If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised and oil price collar contracts is determined by reference to market without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is values for similar instruments.
revoked, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or fair value of a recognised asset or liability: or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash income statement.
flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable Embedded derivatives forecast transaction Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives at the date that the group first becomes party to the contract, with reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows.
Embedded derivatives which are not clearly and closely related to the underlying asset, liability or transaction are separated and accounted for as stand alone derivatives.
Financial statements 89 Notes to the consolidated Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 financial statements 3 Segment information The groups primary operations are organised on a worldwide basis into three business segments: Engineering & Construction, Operations Services and Energy Developments.
The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in note 2 above.
The group accounts for inter-segment sales as if the sales were to third parties, that is, at arms length prices.
The group evaluates the performance of its segments and allocates resources to them based on this evaluation.
The groups secondary segment reporting format is geographical.
Geographical segments are based on the location of the groups assets.
Sales to external customers disclosed in geographical segments are based on the geographical location of its customers.
Business segments The following tables present revenue and profit information and certain asset and liability information relating to the groups business segments for the years ended 31 December 2008 and 2007.
Included within the corporate, consolidation and eliminations columns are certain balances, which due to their nature, are not allocated to segments.
Revenue 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Rendering of services 3,214,782 2,346,431 Sale of crude oil & gas 102,036 85,592 Sale of processed hydrocarbons 12,718 8,228 3,329,536 2,440,251 Included in revenues from rendering of services are Operations Services revenues of a pass-through nature with zero or low margins amounting to US$275,947,000 2007: US$227,048,000.
Cost of sales Included in cost of sales for the year ended 31 December 2008 is US$88,000 2007: US$8,590,000 gain loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment used to undertake various engineering and construction contracts.
In addition depreciation charged on property, plant and equipment of US$39,143,000 during 2008 2007: US$37,759,000 is included in cost of sales note 9.
Also included in cost of sales are forward points and ineffective portions on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges of US$11,826,000 2007: nil.
Financial statements 93 Notes to the consolidated Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 financial statements c. Other income 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Foreign exchange gains 6,134 3,003 Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment 47 244 Gain on sale of asset held for sale 243 Other income 1,240 461 7,421 3,951 d. Other expenses 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Foreign exchange losses 1,932 441 Other expenses 611 180 2,543 621 e. Selling, general and administration expenses 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Staff costs 125,039 93,915 Depreciation 6,213 4,542 Amortisation note 12 2,829 1,771 Impairment note 12 and 14 5,355 8,686 Write-off of intangible oil & gas assets note 12 9,826 Other operating expenses 78,503 56,394 227,765 165,308 Other operating expenses consist mainly of office, travel, legal and professional and contracting staff costs.
f. Staff costs 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Total staff costs: Wages and salaries 682,869 603,324 Social security costs 28,892 29,544 Defined contribution pension costs 11,948 11,927 Other long-term employee benefit costs note 25 10,223 6,605 Expense of share-based payments note 22 9,448 5,412 743,380 656,812 Of the US$743,380,000 of staff costs shown above, US$618,341,000 2007: US$562,897,000 are included in cost of sales, with the remainder in selling, general and administration expenses.
The average number of persons employed by the group during the year was 10,383 2007: 9,027. g. Auditors remuneration The group paid the following amounts to its auditors in respect of the audit of the financial statements and for other services provided to the group: 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Audit of the group financial statements 1,177 945 Other fees to auditors: Auditing the accounts of subsidiaries 236 197 Other services relating to taxation 107 89 All other services 46 95 1,566 1,326 94 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2008 5 Finance costs income 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Interest payable: Long-term borrowings 2,888 4,921 Other interest, including short-term loans and overdrafts 1,239 2,092 Unwinding of discount on deferred consideration and decommissioning provisions 1,910 1,514 Ineffective foreign currency cash flow hedge 8,157 Time value portion of derivatives designated as hedges note 31 288 Total finance cost 13,906 8,527 Interest receivable: Bank interest receivable 15,989 18,255 Other interest receivable 699 4 Total finance income 16,688 18,259 6 Income tax a.
Tax on ordinary activities The major components of income tax expense are as follows: 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Current income tax Current income tax charge 128,243 69,436 Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years 4,373 228 Deferred income tax Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 33,393 688 Adjustments in respect of deferred income tax of previous years 5,844 379 Income tax expense reported in the income statement 93,379 69,517 b. Reconciliation of total tax charge A reconciliation between the income tax expense and the product of accounting profit multiplied by the Companys domestic tax rate is as follows: 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Accounting profit before tax 358,368 258,233 At Jerseys domestic income tax rate of 20% 2007: 20% 71,674 51,647 Profits exempt from Jersey income tax 71,674 51,647 Higher income tax rates of other countries, including withholding taxes 92,922 89,884 Overhead allowances high rate jurisdiction 4,484 14,456 Expenditure not allowable for income tax purposes high rate jurisdiction 6,192 3,256 Income not taxable high rate jurisdiction 415 Adjustments in respect of previous periods 1,470 615 Tax effect of utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised 312 183 Unrecognised tax losses 946 86 Losses recognised in the period 8,455 At the effective income tax rate of 26.1% 2007: 26.9% 93,379 69,517 For the year to 31 December 2008, the Company obtained Jersey exempt company status and was therefore exempt from Jersey income tax on non-Jersey source income and bank interest by concession.
From 1 January 2009, the Jersey exempt company status regime has been abolished and under the new regime the Company will be charged tax in Jersey at the rate of 0%.
No material impact to the income tax expense is expected as a result of this change.
Financial statements 95 Notes to the consolidated Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 financial statements c. Deferred income tax Deferred income tax relates to the following: Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Income Statement 2008 2007 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Deferred income tax liabilities Fair value adjustment on acquisitions 3,610 1,940 800 453 Accelerated depreciation 23,065 903 19,778 502 Other temporary differences 11,521 31,294 18,094 8,334 Gross deferred income tax liabilities 38,196 34,137 Deferred income tax assets Losses available for offset 33,165 8,512 28,747 6,661 Decelerated depreciation for tax purposes 5,893 1,558 3,932 655 Share scheme 2,799 716 3,024 716 Other temporary differences 4,587 686 4,418 42 Gross deferred income tax assets 46,444 11,472 Deferred income tax credit charge 39,237 309 d. Unrecognised tax losses Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry-forwards and tax credits to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through the future taxable profits is probable.
The group did not recognise deferred income tax assets of US$20,732,000 2007: US$19,672,000.
2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Expiration dates for tax losses On completion of the contract 2,600 No earlier than 2022 11,906 11,972 No expiration date 6,534 5,100 18,440 19,672 Tax credits no expiration date 2,292 20,732 19,672 7 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders, after adjusting for any dilutive effect, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Financial statements 97 Notes to the consolidated Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 financial statements Additions to oil & gas assets in the year mainly comprise development expenses capitalised on the groups interest in the Don area assets of US$167,265,000 2007: US$33,773,000.
Depreciation has not been charged on this asset as commercial production has not yet started.
Included in oil & gas assets are US$2,879,000 2007: US$1,315,000 of capitalised decommissioning costs net of depreciation provided on the PM304 asset in Malaysia, Chergui asset in Tunisia and the Don area assets in the United Kingdom.
Of the total charge for depreciation in the income statement, US$39,143,000 2007: US$37,759,000 is included in cost of sales and US$6,213,000 2007: US$4,542,000 in selling, general and administration expenses.
Capital work in progress comprises of expenditures incurred on the construction of a new office building in Sharjah, United Arab Emirates.
During 2008, this was transferred to land, buildings and leasehold improvements on commencing use of the building.
10 Business combinations Acquisitions in 2008 Eclipse Petroleum Technology Limited On 25 July 2008, the group acquired a 100% interest in the share capital of Eclipse Petroleum Technology Limited Eclipse, a specialist production engineering company.
The consideration for the acquisition inclusive of transaction costs of Sterling 195,000 equivalent US$388,000, was Sterling 8,150,000 equivalent US$16,200,000.
The consideration of Sterling 7,955,000 equivalent US$15,812,000, excluding transaction costs, comprised of Sterling 6,000,000 equivalent US$11,927,000 in cash, Sterling 1,000,000 equivalent US$1,988,000 to be satisfied with 158,177 ordinary shares vesting in two years time and the balance being the discounted value of deferred consideration amounting to Sterling 955,000 equivalent US$1,897,000 payable based on the estimated future profitability of Eclipse.
The deferred consideration in no event will exceed an additional amount of Sterling 9,000,000 equivalent US$17,892,000.
The provisional fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Eclipse on completion of the acquisition are analysed below: Recognised on Carrying acquisition value US$000 US$000 Property, plant and equipment 673 673 Intangible assets 2,402 223 Trade and other receivables 3,407 3,407 Cash and short-term deposits 571 571 Total assets 7,053 4,874 Less: Deferred tax liability 610 Trade and other payables 2,483 2,483 Total liabilities 3,093 2,483 Fair value of net assets acquired 3,960 2,391 Goodwill arising on acquisition 12,240 Consideration at acquisition 16,200 US$000 Cash outflow on acquisition translated at the payment date : Cash acquired with subsidiary 571 Cash paid on acquisition 12,002 Legal and professional expenses paid on acquisition 351 Net cash outflow on the acquisition of subsidiary 11,782 Intangible assets recognised on acquisition comprise a proprietary software system which is being amortised over its remaining economic useful life of six years on a straight-line basis.
The residual goodwill above comprises the fair value of expected future synergies and business opportunities arising from the integration of the business into the group.
From the date of acquisition, Eclipse has contributed a net loss of US$436,000 to the net profit of the group after charging US$475,000 of post acquisition costs relating to amortisation of intangibles and finance costs in respect of deferred consideration payable.
98 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2008 10 Business combinations continued Acquisitions in 2008 continued Caltec Limited On 29 August 2008, the group acquired a 100% interest in the share capital of Caltec Limited Caltec, a specialist production technology company, for a consideration of Sterling 26,776,000 equivalent US$48,956,000, including transaction costs of Sterling 596,000 equivalent US$1,093,000.
The consideration of Sterling 26,180,000 equivalent US$47,863,000, excluding transaction costs, comprised of Sterling 15,699,000 equivalent US$28,641,000 in cash as initial consideration and working capital adjustments and the balance being the discounted value of deferred consideration of Sterling 10,481,000 equivalent US$19,222,000 payable based on the expected achievement of future performance targets set for the company.
The deferred consideration in no event will exceed an additional amount of Sterling 15,000,000 equivalent US$27,510,000.
The provisional fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Caltec on completion of the acquisition are analysed below: Recognised on Carrying acquisition value US$000 US$000 Property, plant and equipment 51 51 Intangible assets 10,021 191 Trade and other receivables 2,105 2,105 Cash and short-term deposits 966 966 Total assets 13,143 3,313 Less: Deferred tax liability 2,753 Trade and other payables 1,547 1,547 Total liabilities 4,300 1,547 Fair value of net assets acquired 8,843 1,766 Goodwill arising on acquisition 40,113 Consideration at acquisition 48,956 US$000 Cash outflow on acquisition translated at the payment date : Cash acquired with subsidiary 966 Cash paid on acquisition 28,911 Legal and professional expenses paid on acquisition 1,047 Net cash outflow on the acquisition of subsidiary 28,992 Intangible assets recognised on acquisition represent patented technology which is being amortised over its remaining economic useful life of ten years on a straight-line basis.
From the date of acquisition, Caltec has contributed a net loss of US$657,000 to the net profit of the group after charging US$821,000 of post acquisition costs relating to amortisation of intangibles and finance costs in respect of deferred consideration payable.
If the above combinations had taken place at the beginning of the year, net profit of the group would have been US$262,738,000 and revenue would have been US$3,340,269,000.
Acquisitions in 2007 SPD Group Limited On 16 January 2007, the group acquired a 51% interest in the share capital of SPD Group Limited SPD, a specialist provider of well operations services.
The consideration for the acquisition of the 51% interest inclusive of transaction costs of US$172,000, was US$7,872,000.
Consideration of US$7,700,000 excluding transaction costs was settled by a cash payment of US$3,935,000, issuance of loan notes payable of US$1,765,000 and the balance of US$2,000,000 by issuance of 274,938 new ordinary shares of the Company at market value on 19 January 2007 to the vendor over three years in equal instalments on the anniversary of the transaction.
On 27 December 2007, the outstanding loan notes of US$1,765,000 were repaid to the vendors.
The terms of the sale and purchase agreement for the remaining 49% interest in the share capital of SPD which convey call option rights on the acquirer and minority shareholder put option rights over these shares and the respective rights to dividends and share of profits of the two parties are such that this transaction has been accounted for as a 100% acquisition of the business by the group.
The discounted deferred consideration for the remaining 49% of the share capital of SPD was originally estimated at US$12,025,000 based on the discounted value of an agreed multiple of the future earnings of SPD and the total consideration for the 100% interest therefore, including transaction costs, amounted to US$19,897,000.
The fair value of net assets acquired was US$5,664,000, which included intangible assets Financial statements 99 Notes to the consolidated Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 financial statements recognised on acquisition of US$2,369,000.
These intangible assets recognised on acquisition comprise customer contracts which are being amortised over their remaining economic useful lives on a straight-line basis note 12.
During the year, a charge of US$1,323,000 2007: US$1,455,000 for the unwinding of interest has been reflected in the income statement as an interest expense note 5.
The deferred consideration was reassessed at year end in light of latest financial projections for the business and the current carried amount was considered to be appropriate.
The residual goodwill of US$14,233,000 2007: US$14,233,000 comprises the fair value of expected future synergies and business opportunities arising from the integration of the business into the group.
11 Goodwill A summary of the movements in goodwill is presented below: 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 71,743 56,732 Acquisitions during the year note 10 52,353 14,233 Exchange difference 26,562 778 At 31 December 97,534 71,743 Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to three groups of cash-generating units, which are reportable segments, for impairment testing as follows: Facilities Management comprising Petrofac Facilities Management Limited, Plant Asset Management Limited, SPD, Eclipse and Caltec Training comprising Petrofac Training Limited and PPS Process Control & Instrumentation Limited Energy Developments comprising Petrofac Energy Developments International Limited These represent the lowest level within the group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Facilities Management and Training cash-generating units The recoverable amounts for the Facilities Management and Training units have been determined based on value in use calculations, using discounted pre-tax cash flow projections.
Management has adopted a ten year projection period to assess each units value in use as it is confident based on past experience of the accuracy of long-term cash flow forecasts that these projections are reliable.
The cash flow projections are based on financial budgets approved by senior management covering a five year period, extrapolated thereafter at a growth rate of 5% per annum.
Management considers this a conservative long-term growth rate relative to both the economic outlook for the units in their respective markets within the oil & gas industry and the growth rates experienced in the recent past by each unit.
Energy Developments cash-generating unit The recoverable amount of the Energy Developments unit is also determined on a value in use calculation using discounted pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial budgets and economic parameters for the unit approved by senior management and covering a five year period, as referred to in IAS 36.
Carrying amount of goodwill allocated to each group of cash-generating units 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Facilities Management unit 77,086 44,769 Training unit 18,231 24,757 Energy Developments unit 2,217 2,217 97,534 71,743 Key assumptions used in value in use calculations The calculation of value in use for both the Facilities Management and Training units is most sensitive to the following assumptions: Market share: the assumption relating to market share for the Facilities Management unit is based on the unit re-securing those existing customer contracts in the UK which are due to expire during the projection period: for the Training unit, the key assumptions relate to managements assessment of maintaining the units market share in the UK and developing further the business in international markets.
Growth rate: estimates are based on managements assessment of market share having regard to macro-economic factors and the growth rates experienced in the recent past by each unit.
A growth rate of 5% per annum has been applied for the remaining five years of the ten year projection period.
Net profit margins: estimates are based on managements assumption of achieving a level of performance at least in line with the recent past performance of each of the units.
100 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2008 11 Goodwill continued Key assumptions used in value in use calculations continued Discount rate: management has used a pre-tax discount rate of 16.1% 2007: 9.8% per annum for Facilities Management cash-generating unit and 15.1% 2007: 9.8% per annum for Training cash-generating unit which are derived from the estimated weighted average cost of capital of the group.
This discount rate has been calculated using an estimated risk-free rate of return adjusted for the groups estimated equity market risk premium and the groups cost of debt.
The calculation of value in use for the Energy Developments unit is most sensitive to the following assumptions: Discount rate: management has used an estimate of the pre-tax weighted average cost of capital of the group plus a risk premium to reflect the particular risk characteristics of each individual investment.
The discount rate used for 2008 was 11.4% for each asset 2007: 10.0%.
Oil & gas prices: management has used an oil price assumption of US$55 2007: US$55 per barrel and a gas price of US$6.40 2007: n a per mcf for the impairment testing of its individual oil & gas investments.
Reserve volumes and production profiles: management has used its internally developed economic models of reserves and production as a basis of calculating value in use.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions With regard to the assessment of value in use of the cash generating units, management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the relevant unit to exceed its recoverable amount, after giving due consideration to the macro-economic outlook for the oil & gas industry and the commercial arrangements with customers underpinning the cash flow forecasts for each of the units.
12 Intangible assets 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Intangible oil & gas assets Cost: At 1 January 15,927 16,788 Additions 37,036 49,700 Disposals 8,793 Asset written-off 9,826 Transferred to tangible oil & gas assets note 9 41,657 Exchange difference 111 At 31 December 43,137 15,927 Accumulated impairment: At 1 January 8,686 Impairment 5,000 8,686 At 31 December 13,686 8,686 Net book value of intangible oil & gas assets at 31 December 29,451 7,241 Other intangible assets Cost: At 1 January 3,930 1,561 Additions on acquisition note 10 12,009 2,369 Acquired intangible assets note 10 414 Exchange difference 2,461 At 31 December 13,892 3,930 Accumulated amortisation: At 1 January 2,161 390 Amortisation 2,829 1,771 At 31 December 4,990 2,161 Net book value of other intangible assets at 31 December 8,902 1,769 Total intangible assets 38,353 9,010 Financial statements 101 Notes to the consolidated Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 financial statements Oil & gas asset additions above mainly comprise of US$24,658,000 of capitalised expenditure on near field appraisal wells in the groups 30% interest in Block PM304, offshore Malaysia.
Prior year additions to oil & gas assets included US$32,673,000 in respect of the Don area development and US$15,927,000 of well appraisal costs on Permit NT P68.
During the year, US$9,826,000 of capitalised development costs were written-off in respect of a dry exploration well.
During the year an impairment provision of US$5,000,000 was made against the groups interest in Permit NT P68 in Australia due to the continuing uncertainties surrounding the commercial outcome of the project.
There were investing cash outflows relating to capitalised intangible oil & gas assets of US$37,036,000 2007: US$48,604,000 in the current period arising from pre-development activities.
As at 31 December 2008 there were cash and deposits of US$495,000 2007: US$3,582,000, trade and other receivables of nil 2007: US$3,106,000 and trade and other payables of US$508,000 2007: US$4,840,000 arising from pre-development activities in the current period.
Other intangible assets comprise the fair values of customer contracts, proprietary software and patent technology note 10 arising on acquisition.
These intangible assets are being amortised over their remaining estimated economic useful life of three, six and ten years respectively on a straight-line basis and the related amortisation charges included in selling, general and administrative expenses note 4e.
13 Interest in joint ventures In the normal course of business, the group establishes jointly controlled entities and operations for the execution of certain of its operations and contracts.
A list of these joint ventures is disclosed in note 32.
The groups share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to jointly controlled entities and operations are as follows: 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Revenue 28,878 37,140 Cost of sales 21,481 10,990 Gross profit 7,397 26,150 Selling, general and administration expenses 1,200 1,246 Finance income, net 87 42 Profit before income tax 6,284 24,946 Income tax 523 819 Net profit 5,761 24,127 Current assets 38,295 46,991 Non-current assets 3,644 3,883 Total assets 41,939 50,874 Current liabilities 2,446 12,667 Non-current liabilities 323 Total liabilities 2,446 12,990 Net assets 39,493 37,884 14 Available-for-sale financial assets 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Shares listed 133 1,022 Units in a mutual fund 433 564 566 1,586 Available-for-sale financial assets consist of investments in the ordinary shares of quoted companies and units in a mutual fund and therefore have no fixed maturity date or coupon rate.
During the year, a provision for impairment of US$355,000 2007: nil was made against the above listed shares held as an available-forsale financial asset on the basis that the recent fall in the market value of these shares was considered to be significant.
102 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2008 15 Derivative financial instruments and other financial assets 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Non-current Fair value of derivative instruments note 31 7,227 1,775 Other financial assets Restricted cash 1,899 Other 23 1,899 23 Current Fair value of derivative instruments note 31 5,631 27,298 Other financial assets Interest receivable 1,047 1,351 Restricted cash 2,736 1,351 Other 295 4,078 2,702 Restricted cash comprises deposits with financial institutions securing various guarantees and performance bonds associated with the groups trading activities and cash in escrow against reimbursed long-term employee benefits charged to a customer.
This cash will be released on the maturity of these guarantees and performance bonds and on the transfer cessation of employment of the relevant employee for which the long-term benefit is held in escrow.
16 Inventories 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Crude oil 1,669 1,173 Processed hydrocarbons 805 18 Stores and spares 744 732 Raw materials 859 333 4,077 2,256 Included in the income statement are costs of inventories expensed of US$22,404,000 2007: US$23,528,000.
17 Work in progress and billings in excess of cost and estimated earnings 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Cost and estimated earnings 3,782,100 2,194,088 Less: billings 3,529,405 1,923,907 Work in progress 252,695 270,181 Billings 1,509,548 1,114,500 Less: cost and estimated earnings 1,224,021 906,395 Billings in excess of cost and estimated earnings 285,527 208,105 Total cost and estimated earnings 5,006,121 3,100,483 Total billings 5,038,953 3,038,407 Financial statements 103 Notes to the consolidated Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 financial statements 18 Trade and other receivables 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Trade receivables 608,023 453,256 Retentions receivable 2,241 3,450 Advances 31,977 19,154 Prepayments and deposits 24,849 19,450 Other receivables 33,841 13,715 700,931 509,025 Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30 to 60 days terms.
Trade receivables are reported net of provision for impairment.
Advances represent payments made to certain of the groups subcontractors for projects in progress, on which the related work had not been performed at the balance sheet date.
All trade and other receivables are expected to be settled in cash.
Certain trade and other receivables will be settled in cash using currencies other than the reporting currency of the group, and will be largely paid in Sterling and Kuwaiti Dinars.
104 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2008 19 Cash and short-term deposits 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Cash at bank and in hand 107,461 106,454 Short-term deposits 586,954 475,098 Total cash and bank balances 694,415 581,552 Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and one month depending on the immediate cash requirements of the group, and earn interest at respective short-term deposit rates.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following: 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Cash at bank and in hand 107,461 106,454 Short-term deposits 586,954 475,098 Bank overdrafts note 24 45,256 15,666 649,159 565,886 20 Share capital The share capital of the Company as at 31 December was as follows: 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Authorised 750,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.025 each 2007: 750,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.025 each 18,750 18,750 Issued and fully paid 345,434,858 ordinary shares of US$0.025 each 2007: 345,434,858 ordinary shares of US$0.025 each 8,636 8,636 The movement in the number of issued and fully paid ordinary shares is as follows: Number Ordinary shares: Ordinary shares of US$0.025 each at 1 January 2007 345,159,920 Issued during the year on acquisition of a subsidiary note 10 274,938 Ordinary shares of US$0.025 each at 1 January 2008 345,434,858 Movement during the year Ordinary shares of US$0.025 each at 31 December 2008 345,434,858 The share capital comprises only one class of ordinary shares.
The ordinary shares carry a voting right and the right to a dividend.
21 Treasury shares For the purpose of making awards under its employee share schemes, the Company acquires its own shares which are held by the Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust.
All these shares have been classified in the balance sheet as treasury shares within equity.
The movements in total treasury shares are shown below: 2008 2007 Number US$000 Number US$000 At 1 January 4,052,024 29,842 1,500,135 8,144 Acquired during the year 5,854,194 42,500 2,551,889 21,698 Vested forfeited during the year 365,912 3,009 At 31 December 9,540,306 69,333 4,052,024 29,842 As at 31 December 2008 5,504,819 of the above shares were held by Lehman Brothers in a client custody account which is now being managed by their appointed administrator.
The Company is currently in discussion with the administrator to procure the release of these shares.
Included in the above treasury shares are 274,938 shares held in relation to the acquisition of SPD Group Limited in 2007 note 10.
Financial statements 105 Notes to the consolidated Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 financial statements 22 Share-based payment plans Performance Share Plan PSP Under the Performance Share Plan of the Company, share awards are granted to executive Directors and a restricted number of other senior executives of the group.
The shares cliff vest at the end of three years subject to continued employment and the achievement of certain pre-defined non-market and market based performance conditions.
The non-market based condition governing the vesting of 50% of the total award, is subject to achieving between 15% and 25% earning per share EPS growth targets over a three year period.
The fair values of the equity-settled award relating to the EPS part of the scheme are estimated based on the quoted closing market price per Company share at the date of grant with an assumed vesting rate per annum built into the calculation subsequently trued up at year end based on the actual leaver rate during the period from award date to year end over the three year vesting period of the plan.
The fair value and assumed vesting rates of the EPS part of the scheme are shown below: Fair value Trued up per share vesting rate 2008 awards 522p 98.9% 2007 awards 415p 97.1% 2006 awards 353p 95.3% The remaining 50% market performance based part of these awards is dependent on the total shareholder return TSR of the group compared to an index composed of selected relevant companies.
The fair value of the shares vesting under this portion of the award is determined by an independent valuer using a Monte Carlo simulation model taking into account the terms and conditions of the plan rules and using the following assumptions at the date of grant: 2008 awards 2007 awards 2006 awards Expected share price volatility based on median of comparator groups three year volatilities 32.0% 29.0% 28.0% Share price correlation with comparator group 22.0% 17.0% 10.0% Risk-free interest rate 3.79% 5.20% 4.60% Expected life of share award 3 years 3 years 3 years Fair value of TSR portion 287p 245p 234p The following shows the movement in the number of shares held under the PSP scheme outstanding but not exercisable: 2008 2007 Number Number Outstanding at 1 January 864,181 431,194 Granted during the period 456,240 449,537 Forfeited during the period 21,612 16,550 Outstanding at 31 December 1,298,809 864,181 The number of awards still outstanding but not exercisable at 31 December 2008 is made up of 451,178 in respect of 2008 awards 2007: nil, 436,603 in respect of 2007 awards 2007: 443,070 and 411,028 for 2006 awards 2007: 421,111.
The charge recognised in the current year amounted to US$2,258,000 2007: US$1,497,000.
Deferred Bonus Share Plan DBSP Executive Directors and selected employees were originally eligible to participate in this scheme although the Remuneration Committee decided during 2007 that executive Directors should no longer continue to participate.
Participants may be invited to elect or in some cases, be required, to receive a proportion of any bonus in ordinary shares of the Company Invested Awards.
Following such an award, the Company will generally grant the participant an additional award of a number of shares bearing a specified ratio to the number of his or her invested shares Matching Shares.
The 2006 awards vest on the third anniversary of the grant date provided that the participant did not leave the groups employment, subject to a limited number of exceptions.
However, a change in the rules of the DBSP scheme was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the Company on 11 May 2007 such that for the March 2007 share awards and for any awards made thereafter, the invested and matching shares would, unless the Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors determined otherwise, vest 33.33% on the first anniversary of the date of grant, a further 33.33% on the second anniversary of the date of grant and the final 33.34% of the award on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
106 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2008 22 Share-based payment plans continued Deferred Bonus Share Plan DBSP continued At the year end the values of the bonuses settled by shares cannot be determined until all employees have confirmed the voluntary portion of their bonus they wish to be settled by shares rather than cash and until the Remuneration Committee has approved the mandatory portion of the employee bonuses to be settled in shares.
Once the voluntary and mandatory portions of the bonus to be settled in shares are determined, the final bonus liability to be settled in shares is transferred to the reserve for share-based payments.
The costs relating to the matching shares are recognised over the relevant vesting period and the fair values of the equity-settled matching shares granted to employees are based on the quoted closing market price at the date of grant adjusted for the trued up percentage vesting rate of the plan.
The details of the fair values and assumed vesting rates of the DBSP scheme are below: Weighted average Trued up fair value per share vesting rate 2008 awards 522p 95.8% 2007 awards 415p 91.2% 2006 awards 353p 87.0% The following shows the movement in the number of shares held under the DBSP scheme outstanding but not exercisable: 2008 2007 Number Number Outstanding at 1 January 2,558,711 1,104,503 Granted during the period 1,777,080 1,582,166 Vested during the period 385,700 3,204 Forfeited during the period 194,708 124,754 Outstanding at 31 December 3,755,383 2,558,711 Includes invested and matching shares.
The number of awards still outstanding but not exercisable at 31 December 2008 is made up of 1,688,558 in respect of 2008 awards 2007: nil, 1,084,602 in respect of 2007 awards 2007: 1,500,298 and 982,223 for 2006 awards 2007: 1,058,413.
The charge recognised in the 2008 income statement in relation to matching share awards amounted to US$5,665,000 2007: US$3,411,000.
Share Incentive Plan SIP All UK employees, including UK resident Directors, are eligible to participate in the scheme.
Employees may invest up to Sterling 1,500 per tax year of gross salary or, if lower, 10% of salary to purchase ordinary shares in the Company.
There is no holding period for these shares.
Restricted Share Plan RSP Under the Restricted Share Plan scheme, employees are granted shares in the Company over a discretionary vesting period which may or may not be, at the direction of the Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
At present there are no performance conditions applying to this scheme nor is there currently any intention to introduce them in the future.
The fair values of the awards granted under the plan at various grant dates during the year are based on the quoted market price at the date of grant adjusted for an assumed vesting rate over the relevant vesting period.
For details of the fair values and assumed vesting rate of the RSP scheme, see below: Weighted average Trued up fair value per share vesting rate 2008 awards 478p 98.1% 2007 awards 456p 100.0% 2006 awards 278p 96.3% The following shows the movement in the number of shares held under the RSP scheme outstanding but not exercisable: 2008 2007 Number Number Outstanding at 1 January 394,216 161,101 Granted during the period 811,399 239,567 Vested during the period 5,180 Forfeited during the period 15,724 6,452 Outstanding at 31 December 1,184,711 394,216 The number of awards still outstanding but not exercisable at 31 December 2008 is made up of 795,675 in respect of 2008 awards 2007: nil, 234,387 in respect of 2007 awards 2007: 239,567, and 154,649 for 2006 awards 2007: 154,649.
During the year the Company recognised a charge of US$1,525,000 2007: US$504,000 in relation to the above.
Financial statements 107 Notes to the consolidated Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 financial statements The group has recognised a total charge of US$9,448,000 2007: US$5,412,000 in the income statement during the year relating to the above employee share-based schemes see note 4f which has been transferred to the reserve for share-based payments along with US$9,602,000 of the bonus liability accrued for the year ended 31 December 2007 which has been voluntarily elected or obliged to be settled in shares granted during the year 2007: US$6,105,000.
For further details on the above employee share-based payment schemes refer to pages 69 to 71 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
23 Other reserves Net unrealised gains losses on Net unrealised available-forlosses Foreign Reserve for sale-financial gains on currency share-based assets derivatives translation payments Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Balance at 1 January 2007 as previously reported 738 9,340 4,889 4,644 19,611 Restatement 19,213 19,213 Balance at 1 January 2007 as restated 738 28,553 4,889 4,644 38,824 Foreign currency translation 72 72 Net gains on maturity of cash flow hedges recycled in the year 22,183 22,183 Net changes in fair value of derivatives and financial assets designated as cash flow hedges as restated 59,487 59,487 Changes in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 140 140 Share-based payments charge note 22 5,412 5,412 Transfer during the year note 22 6,105 6,105 Balance at 1 January 2008 as restated 598 65,857 4,817 16,161 87,433 Foreign currency translation 84,232 84,232 Net gains on maturity of cash flow hedges recycled in the year 32,103 32,103 Net changes in fair value of derivatives and financial assets designated as cash flow hedges 25,907 25,907 Changes in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 879 879 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 355 355 Share-based payments charge note 22 9,448 9,448 Transfer during the year note 22 9,602 9,602 Shares vested during the year note 22 3,009 3,009 Balance at 31 December 2008 74 7,847 79,415 32,202 39,292 During 2008, the Company has identified that in prior periods certain gains and losses on cash flow hedges have been recycled to accrued contract expenses from other reserves net unrealised losses gains on derivatives ahead of the contract costs to which they relate impacting the income statement.
As a result US$19,213,000 has been reclassified from contract costs to other reserves at 1 January 2007 and the net changes in fair value in 2007 adjusted by US$17,753,000.
The impact on the income statement was immaterial so no adjustment has been made.
Nature and purpose of other reserves Net unrealised gains losses on available-for-sale financial assets This reserve records fair value changes on available-for-sale financial assets held by the group net of deferred tax effects.
Realised gains and losses on the sale of available-for-sale financial assets are recognised as other income or expenses in the income statement.
Net unrealised gains losses on derivatives The portion of gains or losses on cash flow hedging instruments that are determined to be effective hedges are included within this reserve net of related deferred tax effects.
When the hedged transaction occurs or is no longer forecast to occur the gain or loss is transferred out of equity to the income statement.
Realised net gains amounting to US$31,713,000 2007: US$21,475,000 relating to foreign currency forward contracts and financial assets designated as cash flow hedges have been recognised in cost of sales, realised net gains of US$63,000 2007: US$708,000 relating to interest rate derivatives have been classified as a net interest expense and a realised net gain of US$327,000 2007: nil was added to revenues in respect of oil derivatives.
The forward currency points element of derivative financial instruments relating to forward currency contracts amounting to a net loss of US$11,826,000 2007: nil have been recognised in the cost of sales.
The time value portion gain on interest rate derivatives of US$433,000 2007: nil and loss on oil derivatives of US$145,000 2007: nil were netted off and added to interest payable.
Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements in foreign subsidiaries.
It is also used to record exchange differences arising on monetary items that form part of the groups net investment in subsidiaries.
108 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2008 23 Other reserves continued Nature and purpose of other reserves continued Reserve for share-based payments The reserve for share-based payments is used to record the value of equity settled share-based payments awarded to employees and transfers out of this reserve are made upon vesting of the original share awards.
The transfer during the year reflects the transfer from accrued expenses within trade and other payables of the bonus liability relating to the year ended 2007 of US$9,602,000 2006 bonus of US$6,105,000 which has been voluntarily elected or mandatorily obliged to be settled in shares during the year note 22.
24 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings The group had the following interest-bearing loans and borrowings outstanding: 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 Effective 2008 2007 Actual interest rate% Actual interest rate% interest rate% Maturity US$000 US$000 Current Revolving credit facility i US LIBOR US LIBOR 6,500 0.875% 0.875% Short-term loan ii KD Discount Rate KD Discount Rate 3,627 1.50% 1.50% Bank overdrafts iii UK LIBOR UK LIBOR UK LIBOR on demand 45,256 15,666 0.875%, 0.875%, 0.875%, US LIBOR US LIBOR US LIBOR 0.875%, 0.875%, 0.875%, KD Discount Rate KD Discount Rate KD Discount Rate 2.00% 1.50% 2.00% Other loans: Current portion of term loan iv US UK LIBOR US UK LIBOR 4.18% to 4.88% 9,156 2,662 0.875% 0.875% 2007: 4.95% to 5.84% 54,412 28,455 Non-current Revolving credit facility v US UK LIBOR US UK LIBOR 3.74% to 5.02% 2013 18,720 8,953 0.875% 0.875% 2007: 4.97% to 5.62% Revolving credit facility i US LIBOR US LIBOR 3.11% 2010 20,000 0.875% 0.875% Term loan iv US UK LIBOR US UK LIBOR 4.18% to 4.88% 2009-2013 54,847 75,019 0.875% 0.875% 2007: 4.95% to 5.84% 93,567 83,972 Less: Debt acquisition costs net of accumulated amortisation and effective interest rate adjustments 5,379 2,332 88,188 81,640 Details of the groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings are as follows: i Revolving credit facilities This facility, provided by The Royal Bank of Scotland Halifax Bank of Scotland RBS HBOS, is repayable on 31 December 2010. ii Short-term loan The short-term loan is denominated in Kuwaiti Dinars KD and relates to funding provided for a project in Kuwait.
The loan was settled during 2008.
Financial statements 109 Notes to the consolidated Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 financial statements iii Bank overdrafts Bank overdrafts are drawn down in US dollars, Kuwaiti Dinars and Sterling denominations to meet the groups working capital requirements.
These are repayable on demand.
iv Term loan The term loan with RBS HBOS at 31 December 2008 comprised drawings of US$33,998,000 2007: US$35,310,000 denominated in US$ and US$30,005,000 2007: US$42,371,000 denominated in Sterling.
Both elements of the loan are repayable over a period of five years commencing 31 December 2008 to 30 September 2013. v Revolving credit facility The drawings against this facility, which is also provided by RBS HBOS, will be converted to a term loan on 30 September 2010 to be repaid over a period of three years ending 30 September 2013.
The groups credit facilities and debt agreements contain covenants relating to cash flow cover, cost of borrowings cover, dividends and various other financial ratios.
With the exception of Petrofac International Ltd, which under its existing bank covenants, is restricted from making upstream cash payments in excess of 70 per cent of its net income in any one year, none of the Companys subsidiaries is subject to any material restrictions on their ability to transfer funds in the form of cash dividends, loans or advances to the Company.
25 Provisions Other long-term employment Provision for benefits provision decommissioning Total US$000 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 2008 17,218 1,828 19,046 Additions during the year 10,223 1,546 11,769 Unused amounts reversed paid in the year 1,216 1,216 Unwinding of discount 64 64 At 31 December 2008 26,225 3,438 29,663 Other long-term employment benefits provision Labour laws in certain countries in which the group operates require employers to provide for other long-term employment benefits.
These benefits are payable to employees at the end of their period of employment.
The provision for these long-term benefits is calculated based on the employees last drawn salary at the balance sheet date and length of service, subject to the completion of a minimum service period in accordance with the local labour laws of the jurisdictions in which the group operates.
The amount is payable to the employees on being transferred to another jurisdiction or on cessation of employment.
Provision for decommissioning The decommissioning provision primarily relates to the Companys obligation for the removal of facilities and restoration of the site at the PM304 field in Malaysia, at Chergui in Tunisia and on the Don assets in the United Kingdom.
The liability is discounted at the rate of 3.50% on PM304 2007: 3.50%, 5.25% on Chergui and 3.40% 2007: nil on Don.
The unwinding of the discount is classified as a finance cost note 5.
The Company estimates that the cash outflows against these provisions will arise in 2014 on PM304, in 2018 on Chergui and in 2013 on Don assuming no further development of the asset.
26 Other financial liabilities 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Other financial liabilities non-current Deferred consideration 32,147 13,622 Fair value of derivative instruments note 31 130 Other 118 118 32,265 13,870 Other financial liabilities current Interest payable 118 812 Fair value of derivative instruments note 31 6,244 52 6,362 864 110 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2008 27 Trade and other payables 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Trade payables 275,058 187,417 Advances received from customers 76,845 61,744 Accrued expenses 149,684 136,514 Other taxes payable 6,876 16,885 Other payables 4,866 5,457 513,329 408,017 Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on terms of between 30 and 60 days.
Advances from customers represent payments received for contracts on which the related work had not been performed at the balance sheet date.
Included in other payables are retentions held against subcontractors of US$911,000 2007: US$4,292,000.
Certain trade and other payables will be settled in currencies other than the reporting currency of the group, mainly in Sterling, Euros and Kuwaiti Dinars.
28 Accrued contract expenses As restated 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Accrued contract expenses 543,191 379,356 Reserve for contract losses 8,670 3,226 551,861 382,582 The reserve for contract losses is to cover costs in excess of revenues on certain contracts.
29 Commitments and contingencies Commitments In the normal course of business the group will obtain surety bonds, letters of credit and guarantees, which are contractually required to secure performance, advance payment or in lieu of retentions being withheld.
Some of these facilities are secured by issue of corporate guarantees by the Company in favour of the issuing banks.
At 31 December 2008, the group had letters of credit of US$24,096,000 2007: US$8,184,000 and outstanding letters of guarantee, including performance and bid bonds, of US$865,120,000 2007: US$663,292,000 against which the group had pledged or restricted cash balances of, in aggregate, US$1,506,000 2007: US$1,351,000.
At 31 December 2008, the group had outstanding forward exchange contracts amounting to US$166,412,000 2007: US$326,442,000.
These commitments consist of future obligations to either acquire or sell designated amounts of foreign currency at agreed rates and value dates note 31.
Leases The group has financial commitments in respect of non-cancellable operating leases for office space and equipment.
These noncancellable leases have remaining non-cancellable lease terms of between one and seventeen years and, for certain property leases, are subject to renegotiation at various intervals as specified in the lease agreements.
The future minimum rental commitments under these non-cancellable leases are as follows: 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Within one year 59,292 70,870 After one year but not more than five years 72,729 76,493 More than five years 54,787 52,827 186,808 200,190 Included in the above are commitments relating to the lease of an office building extension in Aberdeen, United Kingdom of US$44,573,000 2007: US$54,933,000 and the lease of a drilling rig for the Don Southwest project of US$35,744,000 2007: US$43,200,000.
Minimum lease payments recognised as an operating lease expense during the year amounted to US$26,557,000 2007: US$21,359,000.
Financial statements 111 Notes to the consolidated Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 financial statements Capital commitments At 31 December 2008, the group had capital commitments of US$44,035,000 2007: US$29,630,000 excluding the above lease commitments.
Included in the above are commitments for the development of the Don assets amounting to US$8,610,000 2007: nil and commitments relating to the further appraisal and development of wells as part of the Cendor project in Malaysia amounting to US$26,468,000 2007: US$11,389,000.
30 Related party transactions The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Petrofac Limited and the subsidiaries listed in note 32.
Petrofac Limited is the ultimate parent entity of the group.
The following table provides the total amount of transactions which have been entered into with related parties: Sales to related Purchases from Amounts owed Amounts owed parties related parties by related parties to related parties US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Joint ventures 2008 9,081 1,858 2,907 367 2007 180 507 3,147 625 Other Directors interests 2008 1,277 192 2007 614 119 All sales to and purchases from joint ventures are made at normal market prices and the pricing policies and terms of these transactions are approved by the groups management.
All related party balances will be settled in cash.
Purchases in respect of other Directors interests of US$1,277,000 2007: US$614,000 reflect the market rate based costs of chartering the services of an aeroplane used for the transport of senior management and Directors of the group on company business, which is owned by an offshore trust of which the Chief Executive of the Company is a beneficiary.
Compensation of key management personnel The following details remuneration of key management personnel of the group comprising of executive and Non-executive Directors of the Company and other senior personnel.
Further information relating to the individual Directors is provided in the Directors Remuneration report on pages 66 to 74.
2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Short-term employee benefits 5,542 5,063 Other long-term employment benefits 59 43 Share-based payments 1,311 906 Fees paid to Non-executive Directors 554 546 7,466 6,558 31 Risk management and financial instruments Risk management objectives and policies The groups principal financial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise trade and other receivables, cash and short-term deposits, interest-bearing loans and borrowings, trade and other payables and deferred consideration.
The groups activities expose it to various financial risks particularly associated with interest rate risk on its variable rate loans and borrowings and foreign currency risk on both conducting business in currencies other than reporting currency as well as translation of the assets and liabilities of foreign operations to the reporting currency.
These risks are being addressed by using a combination of various derivative instruments, principally interest rate swaps, caps and forward currency contracts in line with the groups hedging policy.
The group has a policy not to enter into speculative trading of financial derivatives.
The Board of Directors of the Company has established an Audit Committee and Risk Committee to help identify, evaluate and manage the significant financial risks faced by the group and their activities are discussed in detail on pages 61 to 65.
The other main risks besides interest rate and foreign currency risk arising from the groups financial instruments are credit risk, liquidity risk and commodity price risk and the policies relating to these risks are discussed in detail below: 112 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2008 31 Risk management and financial instruments continued Interest rate risk Interest rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect the value of the groups interest-bearing financial liabilities and assets.
The groups exposure to market risk arising from changes in interest rates relates primarily to the groups long-term variable rate debt obligations and its cash and bank balances.
The groups policy is to manage its interest cost using a mix of fixed and variable rate debt and specifically to keep between 60% and 80% of its term borrowings at fixed or capped rates of interest.
At 31 December 2008, after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps and collars, approximately 65.1% 2007: 69.1% of the groups term borrowings are at a fixed or capped rate of interest.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis The impact on the groups pre-tax profit and equity due to a reasonably possible change in interest rates is demonstrated in the table below.
The analysis assumes that all other variables remain constant.
Pre-tax profit Equity 100 basis 100 basis 100 basis 100 basis point increase point decrease point increase point decrease US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 31 December 2008 882 882 705 1,615 31 December 2007 1,058 1,058 272 670 The following table reflects the maturity profile of these financial liabilities and assets: Year ended 31 December 2008 Within 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 More than 1 year years years years years 5 years Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Financial liabilities Floating rates Revolving credit facilities note 24 20,936 4,212 6,552 7,020 38,720 Bank overdrafts note 24 45,256 45,256 Term loan note 24 9,156 11,250 15,625 18,750 9,222 64,003 Interest rate collars note 31 1,137 1,137 Interest rate swap note 31 37 37 55,586 32,186 19,837 25,302 16,242 149,153 Financial assets Floating rates Cash and short-term deposits note 19 694,415 694,415 Restricted cash balances note 15 2,736 207 1,692 4,635 697,151 207 1,692 699,050 Year ended 31 December 2007 Within 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 More than 1 year years years years years 5 years Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Financial liabilities Floating rates Revolving credit facilities note 24 6,500 448 2,015 3,134 3,356 15,453 Short-term loan note 24 3,627 3,627 Bank overdrafts note 24 15,666 15,666 Term loan note 24 2,662 10,000 11,250 15,625 18,750 19,394 77,681 Interest rate collars note 31 130 130 28,455 10,130 11,698 17,640 21,884 22,750 112,557 Financial assets Floating rates Cash and short-term deposits note 19 581,552 581,552 Restricted cash balances note 15 1,351 1,351 Interest rate swap note 31 28 28 582,903 28 582,931 Financial liabilities in the above table are disclosed gross of debt acquisition costs and effective rate adjustments of US$5,379,000 2007: US$2,332,000.
Financial statements 113 Notes to the consolidated Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 financial statements Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year.
The other financial instruments of the group that are not included in the above tables are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
Derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges At 31 December 2008, the group held the following derivative instruments, designated as cash flow hedges in relation to floating rate interest-bearing loans and borrowings: Fair value of asset liability Nominal amount Date 2008 2007 Instrument US$ equivalent Period to maturity commenced US$000 US$000 UK LIBOR interest rate swap US$2,629,000 9 months 31 December 2004 37 28 UK LIBOR interest rate collar US$30,131,000 1 year 31 December 2007 705 74 US LIBOR interest rate collar US$34,138,000 1 year 31 December 2007 432 56 During 2008, changes in fair value of a loss of US$1,607,000 2007: US$102,000 relating to these derivative instruments were taken to equity and a gain of US$63,000 2007: US$708,000 were recycled from equity into interest expense in the income statement.
The time value portion of these derivatives of a gain of US$433,000 2007: nil was netted-off against interest expense.
Foreign currency risk The group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales, purchases, and translation of assets and liabilities that are in a currency other than the functional currency of its operating units.
The group is also exposed to the translation of the functional currencies of its units to the US dollar reporting currency of the group.
The following table summarises the percentage of foreign currency denominated revenues, costs, financial assets and financial liabilities, expressed in US dollar terms, of the group totals.
2008 2007 % of foreign currency % of foreign currency denominated items denominated items Revenues 43.8% 48.6% Costs 61.6% 68.7% Current financial assets 57.9% 67.9% Non-current financial assets 0.0% 0.6% Current financial liabilities 64.8% 45.8% Non-current financial liabilities 25.6% 44.0% The group uses forward currency contracts to manage the currency exposure on transactions significant to its operations.
It is the groups policy not to enter into forward contracts until a highly probable forecast transaction is in place and to negotiate the terms of the derivative instruments used for hedging to match the terms of the hedged item to maximise hedge effectiveness.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis The income statements of foreign operations are translated into the reporting currency using a weighted average rate of conversion.
Foreign currency monetary items are translated using the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet.
Revenues and costs in currencies other than the functional currency of an operating unit are recorded at the prevailing rate at the date of the transaction.
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year in relation to US dollars: 2008 2007 Average rate Closing rate Average rate Closing rate Sterling 1.85 1.46 2.01 1.99 Kuwaiti Dinars 3.72 3.62 3.51 3.66 Euros 1.48 1.39 1.38 1.46 114 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2008 31 Risk management and financial instruments continued Foreign currency sensitivity analysis continued The following table summarises the impact on the groups pre-tax profit and equity due to change in the fair value of monetary assets, liabilities and derivative instruments of a reasonably possible change in US dollar exchange rates with respect to different currencies: Pre-tax profit Equity 10% US dollar 5% US dollar 10% US dollar 5% US dollar rate increase rate decrease rate increase rate decrease US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 31 December 2008 16,355 8,177 10,597 6,135 31 December 2007 27,285 13,642 35,065 17,532 Derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges At 31 December 2008, the group had foreign exchange forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges with a fair value gain of US$10,165,000 2007: US$28,657,000 in equity as follows: Contract value Fair value Net unrealised gain loss 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Euro currency sales purchases 41,655 321,264 31,783 349,964 9,488 28,700 Sterling currency purchases 26,747 4,500 19,621 4,448 2,956 52 Yen currency purchases 7,465 678 8,716 687 9 Kuwaiti Dinars sales 90,545 86,912 3,633 10,165 28,657 The above foreign exchange contracts mature and will affect income between January 2009 and April 2010 2007: between January 2008 and February 2009.
At 31 December 2008, the group had cash and short-term deposits designated as cash flow hedges with a fair value loss of US$2,205,000 2007: gain US$36,966,000 as follows: Fair value Net unrealised gain loss 2008 2007 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Euro currency cash and short-term deposits 269,409 235,479 2,653 35,143 Sterling currency cash and short-term deposits 15,667 16,697 4,858 1,823 2,205 36,966 During 2008, changes in fair value of US$ 25,950,000 2007: US$59,253,000 relating to these derivative instruments and financial assets were taken to equity and US$31,713,000 2007: US$21,475,000 were recycled from equity into cost of sales in the income statement.
The forward points and ineffective portion of the above foreign exchange forward contracts of a loss of US$11,826,000 2007:nil was recognised in the income statement note 4b and 4d.
Commodity price risk oil prices The group is exposed to the impact of changes in oil & gas prices on its revenues and profits generated from sales of crude oil & gas.
The group did not hedge this risk related to the sale of gas production from its Chergui investment which started production from August 2008 as, in accordance with the group policy, hedging of production should only take place after obtaining sufficiently reliable and regular long-term forecasted production data.
During the year, the group used a zero premium oil price collar to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in oil prices which matured on a monthly basis from 31 January 2008 to 31 December 2008.
The collar hedged 240,000 barrels of oil production and during the year a gain of US$327,000 was recognised in the income statement on the maturity of the contract.
On 30 September 2008, the group entered into an oil price collar, with a premium payable of US$87,000 maturing on a monthly basis from 1 January 2009 to 30 June 2009, which hedges 60,000 barrels of oil.
The fair value of this oil price collar at 31 December 2008 was US$1,349,000 with a gain recognised in equity of US$1,494,000 being its intrinsic value and an interest expense recognised in the year of US$145,000 on its time value portion.
Financial statements 115 Notes to the consolidated Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 financial statements The following table summarises the impact on the groups pre-tax profit and equity due to a change in the fair value of oil derivative instruments and the underlifting asset overlifting liability of a reasonably possible change in the oil price: Pre-tax profit Equity 10 US$ bbl 10 US$ bbl 10 US$ bbl 10 US$ bbl increase decrease increase decrease US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 31 December 2008 251 250 31 December 2007 446 446 1,739 741 Credit risk The group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties.
Divisional Risk Review Committees DRRC have been set up by the Board of Directors to evaluate the creditworthiness of each individual third party at the time of entering into new contracts.
Limits have been placed on the approval authority of the DRRC above which the approval of the Board of Directors of the Company is required.
Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with appropriate follow-up action taken where necessary.
At 31 December 2008, the groups five largest customers accounted for 50.7% of outstanding trade receivables and work in progress 2007: 58.0%.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents, available-for-sale financial assets and certain derivative instruments, the groups exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments.
Liquidity risk The groups objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of overdrafts, revolving credit facilities, project finance and term loans to reduce its exposure to liquidity risk.
The maturity profiles of the groups financial liabilities at 31 December 2008 are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2008 Contractual 6 months 6-12 1-2 2-5 More than undiscounted Carrying or less months years years 5 years cash flows amount US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 49,835 4,577 31,235 62,332 147,979 142,600 Trade and other payables excluding advances from customers 380,145 56,339 436,484 436,484 Due to related parties 469 90 559 559 Deferred consideration 29,454 8,894 38,348 32,147 Derivative instruments 5,436 808 6,244 6,244 Interest payable 118 118 118 Interest payments 1,817 1,817 2,799 4,236 10,669 437,820 63,631 63,488 75,462 640,401 618,152 Year ended 31 December 2007 Contractual 6 months 6-12 1-2 2-5 More than undiscounted Carrying or less months years years 5 years cash flows amount US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 19,293 9,162 10,000 51,222 22,750 112,427 110,095 Trade and other payables excluding advances from customers 345,833 440 346,273 346,273 Due to related parties 744 744 744 Deferred consideration 1,964 2,088 9,570 13,622 13,622 Derivative instruments 52 130 182 182 Interest payable 812 812 812 Interest payments 2,481 2,480 3,900 10,163 1,492 20,516 371,179 14,170 23,600 61,385 24,242 494,576 471,728 The group uses various funded facilities provided by banks and its own financial assets to fund the above mentioned financial liabilities.
116 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2008 31 Risk management and financial instruments continued Capital management The groups policy is to maintain a healthy capital base to sustain future growth and maximise shareholder value.
The group seeks to optimise shareholder returns by maintaining a balance between debt and capital and monitors the efficiency of its capital structure on a regular basis.
The gearing ratio and return on shareholders equity is as follows: As restated 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Cash and short-term deposits 694,415 581,552 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings A 142,600 110,095 Net cash B 551,815 471,457 Equity attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders C 558,822 522,761 Profit for the year attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders D 264,989 188,716 Gross gearing ratio A C 25.5% 21.1% Net gearing ratio B C Net cash Net cash position position Shareholders return on investment D C 47.4% 36.1% Fair values of financial assets and liabilities The fair value of the groups financial instruments and their carrying amounts included within the groups balance sheet are set out below: Carrying amount Fair value 2008 2007 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Financial assets Cash and short-term deposits 694,415 581,552 694,415 581,552 Restricted cash 4,635 1,351 4,635 1,351 Available-for-sale financial assets 566 1,586 566 1,586 Oil derivative 1,349 336 1,349 336 Interest rate swap 28 28 Forward currency contracts 11,509 28,709 11,509 28,709 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 142,600 110,095 142,600 110,095 Deferred consideration 32,147 13,622 32,147 13,622 Interest rate collars 1,137 130 1,137 130 Interest rate swap 37 37 Forward currency contracts-designated as cash flow hedge 900 52 900 52 Forward currency  4,170 4,170 Market values have been used to determine the fair values of available-for-sale financial assets and forward currency contracts.
The fair values of interest rate swaps and collars have been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
The fair values of long-term interest-bearing loans and borrowings are their amortised costs determined as the present value of discounted future cash flows using the effective interest rate.
The Company considers that the carrying amounts of trade and other receivables, trade and other payables, other current and non-current financial assets and liabilities approximate their fair values and are therefore excluded from the above table.
Financial statements 117 Notes to the consolidated Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 financial statements 32 Subsidiaries and joint ventures At 31 December 2008, the group had investments in the following subsidiaries and incorporated joint ventures: Proportion of nominal value of issued shares controlled by the group Name of company Country of incorporation 2008 2007 Trading subsidiaries Petrofac Inc. USA 100 100 Petrofac International Ltd Jersey 100 100 Petrofac Energy Developments Limited England 100 100 Petrofac Energy Developments International Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac UK Holdings Limited England 100 100 Petrofac Facilities Management International Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac Services Limited England 100 100 Petrofac Services Inc. USA 100 100 Petrofac Training International Limited Jersey 100 100 Petroleum Facilities E & C Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust Jersey 100 100 Atlantic Resourcing Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Algeria EURL Algeria 100 100 Petrofac Engineering India Private Limited India 100 100 Petrofac Engineering Services India Private Limited India 100 100 Petrofac Engineering Limited England 100 100 Petrofac Offshore Management Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac FZE United Arab Emirates 100 100 Petrofac Facilities Management Group Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Facilities Management Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac International Nigeria Ltd Nigeria 100 100 Petrofac Pars PJSC Iran 100 100 Petrofac Iran PJSC Iran 100 100 Plant Asset Management Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Nuigini Limited Papua New Guinea 100 100 PFMAP Sendirian Berhad Malaysia 100 100 Petrofac Caspian Limited Azerbaijan 100 100 Petrofac Malaysia-PM304 Limited England 100 100 Petrofac Training Group Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Training Holdings Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Training Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Training Inc. USA 100 100 Petrofac Training Trinidad Limited Trinidad 100 100 Monsoon Shipmanagement Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac E&C International Limited United Arab Emirates 100 100 Petrofac Saudi Arabia Limited Saudi Arabia 100 100 Petrofac Energy Developments Ohanet Jersey Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac Energy Developments Ohanet LLC USA 100 100 PEDL Limited England 100 100 Petrofac Cyprus Limited Cyprus 100 100 PKT Technical Services Ltd Russia 50 50 PKT Training Services Ltd Russia 100 100 Pt PCI Indonesia Indonesia 80 80 Process Control and Instrumentation Services Pte Ltd Singapore 100 100 Process Control and Instrumentation Sendirian Berhad Malaysia 100 100 Sakhalin Technical Training Centre Russia 80 80 Petrofac Norge AS Norway 100 100 Directly held by Petrofac Limited Companies consolidated as subsidiaries on the basis of control 118 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2008 32 Subsidiaries and joint ventures continued Proportion of nominal value of issued shares controlled by the group Name of company Country of incorporation 2008 2007 Trading subsidiaries continued SPD Group Limited British Virgin Islands 51 51 SPD UK Limited Scotland 51 51 SPD FZCO United Arab Emirates 51 51 SPD LLC United Arab Emirates 25 25 Petrofac Energy Developments Oceania Limited Cayman Islands 100 100 Petrofac Kazakhstan Limited formerly Petrofac Russia Limited England 100 100 Petrofac International UAE LLC United Arab Emirates 100 n a Petrofac E&C Oman LLC Oman 100 n a Petrofac International South Africa Pty Limited South Africa 100 n a Eclipse Petroleum Technology Limited England 100 n a Caltec Limited England 100 n a iPerform Limited Scotland 100 n a Joint Ventures Costain Petrofac Limited England 50 50 Kyrgyz Petroleum Company Kyrgyz Republic 50 50 MJVI Sendirian Berhad Brunei 50 50 Spie Capag Petrofac International Limited Jersey 50 50 TTE Petrofac Limited Jersey 50 50 Dormant subsidiaries ASJV Venezuela SA Venezuela 100 100 Joint Venture International Limited Scotland 100 100 Montrose Park Hotels Limited Scotland 100 100 RGIT Ethos Health & Safety Limited Scotland 100 100 Scota Limited Scotland 100 100 Monsoon Shipmanagement Limited Cyprus 100 100 Rubicon Response Limited Scotland 100 100 Companies consolidated as subsidiaries on the basis of control
