Governance 75 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Statement of Directors responsibilities Statement of Directors responsibilities Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the group financial statements and the parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable Jersey law and generally accepted accounting principles.
The Directors have chosen to prepare the group financial statements and the parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.
The Directors are also responsible for the preparation of the Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Report, which they have chosen to prepare, being under no obligation to do so under Jersey law.
Jersey Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors should: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent specify which generally accepted accounting principles have been adopted in their preparation prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Law.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors approach The Boards objective is to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects, particularly in the Annual Report, Half Year Report formerly the Interim Report and other published documents and reports to regulators.
The Board has established an Audit Committee to assist with this obligation.
Going concern The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis since the Directors have reasonable expectation that, firstly, the Companys and groups activities are sustainable and, secondly, that adequate resources are available to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
