Employee volunteering and gift matching programme ARM encourages employees to support their local communities by providing paid volunteer time and a charitable gift matching programme.
Employee volunteering includes acting as school governors, mentors to young people, or volunteers to organise events to raise money for charity.
Some employees volunteer time for work on engineering projects with school and college students.
Environment ARM designs technology at the heart of low-power products across a wide range of application areas.
Intelligence within its low-power IP cores can be used to measure, manage and control the environmental performance of consumer electronics and IT equipment, while improving functional performance and reducing carbon footprint.
Additionally, ARM can leverage its Connected Community of partners to provide complete low-power solutions for products based on the ARM architecture.
ARMs activities do not produce harmful waste or emissions, and the Ethical Investment Research Service EIRIS grades ARM as an environmentally low impact business.
However, ARM recognises the need to mitigate any form of environmental impact.
ARMs environmental performance is measured against targets to reduce resource usage, increase reuse and recycling and control carbon emissions.
ARM works with LRQA environmental auditors to develop and improve our environmental management system.
LRQAs twice yearly environmental and health and safety themed audits are now integrated with their other accreditation work, which has increased understanding of ARMs environmental objectives among the local management and provided action plans for achieving these objectives.
Adopting LRQAs Business Assurance approach provides an independent assessment of the ARM Management System and the various review procedures in place within the company.
This approach enables LRQA to verify ARMs compliance with ISO9001:2000 and components of other relevant ISO standards.
In UK offices where ARM procures its own energy, supplies are from renewable sources.
The application of a greener policy on energy procurement is being extended to other ARM locations where practicable.
For example, the new 92,000 sq ft office in San Jose, California has incorporated some of the building technologies that score towards the Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design LEED Green Building Rating System and this principle will be implemented in future sites where feasible.
In the UK, ARM decreased CO2 production by 22% from 2006 to 2007 and by 89% between 2007 and 2008.
In 2008, ARM also implemented an off-site regional Data Centre in the US and by centralising these services the number of server rooms distributed across multiple ARM locations was reduced with an associated reduction in environmental impact.
ARM continues to assess its waste management strategies and improve the provision for recycling.
Paper, cardboard packaging, glass, aluminum and plastic can be recycled in many locations.
In the UK, paper recycling grew by 56% between 2006 and 2007 and by 103% between 2007 and 2008.
Likewise the cardboard packaging recycling growth between 2006 and 2007 of 12% saw a further increase of 30% between 2007 and 2008.
Travel ARM recognises the environmental impact of travel and employees are encouraged to cycle to work, to share car journeys, or to use public transport.
Consistent with local custom and practice, bus transport is provided for employees in Bangalore to minimise the environmental impact of individual travel to work and to reduce congestion.
In a company of 1,740 people, there are fewer than 30 company cars.
Business travel, particularly by air, is important to maintain ARMs very effective Partner relationships, but ways this can be reduced are regularly reviewed.
Video conferencing is utilised where practicable and we are progressively upgrading our equipment to make this option more effective.
Data regarding flights is benchmarked with a view to reducing business travel while ensuring that good business relationships are maintained.
Despite ARMs increased headcount and number of locations between 2006 and the end of 2008, we have achieved a reduction in flight-related CO2 production of 3.4% over this period.
Ethics and equal opportunities ARM recognises its ethical responsibilities to all stakeholders which are manifested in a range of policies and processes.
ARM conducts its business with integrity, respecting cultures and the dignity and rights of individuals.
The Company has an obligation to promote respect for and observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms for all, without distinction as to colour, ethnic origin, gender, age, religion or similar belief, political or other opinion, disability or sexual orientation.
Business continuity plans ARM has developed business continuity plans for all of its operations world-wide to enable business to continue should a serious event or incident occur.
These plans are designed to protect the interests of ARMs stakeholders and in particular ARMs employees, property and other assets, and to provide facilities and infrastructure to reinstate business operations as quickly as possible after an event.
The continual review of these plans forms part of the management review process alongside environmental management and health, safety and welfare.
A more detailed CR report is available on our website at www.
