Directors report continued Substantial shareholdings The directors are aware of the following substantial interests in the issued share capital of the Company as at 20 March 2009: Percentage of issued ordinary share capital Janus Capital Corporation 13.30% Thornburg Investment Management 10.17% Capital Group Companies 9.03% Fidelity Investments 5.12% Invesco 4.99% Wellington Management Company 4.98% Legal and General Investment Management 3.96% Save for the above, the Company has not been notified, as at 20 March 2009, of any material interest of 3% or more or any non-material interest exceeding 10% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Appointment of directors ARM shareholders may by ordinary resolution appoint any person to be a director.
ARM must have not less than two and no more than 16 directors holding office at all times.
ARM may by ordinary resolution from time to time vary the minimum and or maximum number of directors.
At each AGM, any director who was elected or last re-elected at or before the AGM held in the third calendar year before the then current calendar year must retire by rotation.
A retiring director is eligible for re-election unless the directors have agreed otherwise.
The directors may appoint a director to fill a casual vacancy or as an additional director to hold office until the next AGM, who shall then be eligible for election.
Articles of association ARMs articles of association may be amended only by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Directors authority The directors are responsible for the management of the business of ARM and may exercise all powers of ARM subject to applicable legislation and regulation and the memorandum and articles of association.
At the 2008 AGM, the directors were given authority to buy back a maximum number of 127,208,000 ordinary shares at a minimum price of 0.05 pence each.
The maximum price was an amount equal to 105% of the average of the closing mid market prices of ARMs ordinary shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which such ordinary shares are contracted to be purchased.
This authority will expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the 2009 AGM or 14 August 2009.
Accordingly, resolution 9 will be proposed as a special resolution at the 2009 AGM to give ARM authority to acquire up to 126,012,000 ordinary shares following expiry of the current authority.
The directors will use this authority only after careful consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall position of ARM.
In particular, this authority will be exercised only if the directors believe that it is in the best interests of shareholders generally and will increase earnings per share.
Resolution 7 to be proposed at the 2009 AGM will authorise the directors generally to allot up to 210,020 in nominal amount of ordinary shares, and in addition will authorise the directors to allot up to a further 210,020 in nominal amount of ordinary shares in connection with a rights issue as defined in resolution 7.
Further, resolution 8 will authorise the directors to allot ordinary shares or sell treasury shares for cash i otherwise than in connection with a pre-emptive offer as defined in resolution 8 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 33,600, or ii in connection with a pre-emptive offer up to an aggregate nominal amount of 210,020, or iii in connection with a rights issue up to a further nominal amount of 210,020, in each case as if section 89 1 of the Companies Act 1985 did not apply to such allotment or sale.
The period of authorisation will in each case expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the 2010 AGM or on 13 August 2010.
Change of control All of ARMs equity-based plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
There are no significant agreements to which ARM is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control.
Disabled persons The Group has a strong demand for highly qualified staff and disability is not seen to be an inhibitor to employment or career development.
In the event of any staff becoming disabled while with the Group, their needs and abilities would be assessed and the Group would, where possible, seek to offer alternative employment to them if they were no longer able to continue in their current role.
