74 Accounting Policies Consolidated Financial Statements Premier Farnell plc the Company is a company incorporated and IFRS 3 Revised, Business Combinations, and IAS 27, domiciled in the UK and is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements effective The address of the Companys registered office is Farnell House, for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 : Forge Lane, Leeds, LS12 2NE, England.
The Companys registered IFRS 8, Operating Segments effective for annual periods number is 876412. beginning on or after 1 January 2009 : These Consolidated Financial Statements have been approved by IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 - Group and Treasury Share Transactions the Board of Directors on 22 April 2008. effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007 : Basis of preparation IFRIC 14, IAS 19 the limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum These Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared funding requirements and their interaction effective for annual in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008 : IFRSs and International Financial Reporting Interpretations IFRS 2 Amendment, Share Based Payment Vesting Committee IFRIC interpretations endorsed by the European Union Conditions and Cancellations effective for annual periods EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable beginning on or after 1 January 2009. to companies reporting under IFRSs.
These Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical The Directors anticipate that the adoption of the above Standards cost convention with the exception of derivative financial and Interpretations in paragraph c on the effective date will not instruments, post-retirement benefits and share-based payments have a significant impact on the Groups financial results.
which are recognised at fair value.
A summary of the more important Group accounting policies adopted in the preparation d Interpretations to existing standards that are not yet of the Consolidated Financial Statements is set out below.
effective and not relevant for the Groups operations These policies have been consistently applied to all the years The following interpretations to existing standards have been presented, unless otherwise stated.
published that are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008 or later periods but are not a Amendments to published standards and interpretations relevant for the Groups operations: effective for the year ended 3 February 2008 IAS 23 Amendment, Borrowing Costs effective for annual IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, and the periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 : complimentary amendment to IAS1, Presentation of financial statements Capital disclosures.
This standard was adopted IFRIC 12, Service Concession Arrangements effective for annual during the year with the additional disclosure requirements given periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008 : and in notes 12 and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements: IFRIC 13, Customer loyalty programmes effective for annual IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2.
This interpretation has not had periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008. any impact on the recognition of share-based payments The financial statements of the Company, which have been in the Group: prepared in accordance with UK GAAP, are presented on IFRIC 10, Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment.
This interpretation has not had any impact on the timing Key sources of estimation and uncertainty or recognition of impairment losses in the Group.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make b Standards, amendments and interpretations effective estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of for the year ended 3 February 2008 but not relevant assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and The following standards, amendments and interpretations to expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ published standards are mandatory for accounting periods from these estimates.
Information about such judgements and beginning on or after 1 January 2007 but have no material estimates is contained in the accounting policies and Notes to impact on the Group: the Consolidated Financial Statements, and the key areas are IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts: summarised below: IFRIC 7, Applying the restatement approach under IAS 29, The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have the most Financial reporting in hyper-inflationary economies: significant effect on the carrying value of assets and liabilities are: IFRIC 9, Re-assessment of embedded derivatives.
The estimation of the cost of pensions and other post retirement benefits note 28 : c Standards and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by The estimation of the net realisable value of inventory: and the Group The estimation of the recoverable amount of goodwill used when The following standards and interpretations to existing standards assessing goodwill for impairment note 8. have been published that are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007 or later periods but which the Group has not early adopted: 75 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect on the Foreign currency translation amounts recognised in the financial statements include: Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic The allocation of goodwill to cash generating units.
environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
Basis of consolidation The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in pounds The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the results of sterling, which is the Companys and Groups functional and the Company and each of its subsidiaries for the financial year presentation currency.
ended 3 February 2008, a 53 week period financial year ended Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rates ruling 28 January 2007: 52 week period.
Subsidiaries are entities at the end of the financial period.
Exchange profits or losses on controlled by the Group where control is deemed to exist when trading transactions are included in the Group income statement the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits or qualifying net investment hedges, which, along with other from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries are included in the exchange differences arising from non-trading items are dealt Consolidated Financial Statements from the date the control with through reserves.
commences until the date that control ceases.
The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have Intra-group balances and transactions are eliminated a functional currency different from the presentation currency are on consolidation.
translated into the presentation currency as follows: Business combinations and goodwill assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are All business acquisitions are accounted for by applying the translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: purchase method.
income and expenses for each income statement are translated Goodwill arises where the fair value of the consideration paid at the average exchange rate for the period: and exceeds the fair value attributed to the net assets acquired.
with effect from the transition date to IFRS all resulting exchange Goodwill arising on acquisitions after 1 February 1998 and prior to differences are recognised as a separate component of equity 2 February 2004, the transition date to IFRS, was capitalised and and included in the Groups cumulative translation reserve.
amortised over its estimated useful life.
As a result of the transition to IFRS, such amortisation ceased on the transition date to IFRS.
When a foreign entity is sold, such translation differences are Goodwill arising on acquisitions made prior to 1 February 1998 was recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or written off directly to reserves in the year of acquisition.
1 and IFRS 3 such goodwill will remain eliminated against reserves Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of and will not be written back to the income statement in the event a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign of a disposal.
entity and translated at the closing rate.
Revenue recognition Financial instruments Revenue comprises the fair value for the sale of goods to outside The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its customers, excluding value added and sales taxes, and is exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership operational, financing and investment activities.
In accordance with have been transferred to a third party.
its treasury policy, the Group does not have or issue speculative derivative arrangements.
All transactions in financial instruments Segment reporting are matched to an underlying business requirement.
A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged in providing products business segment, or in Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value.
providing products within a particular economic environment At period ends, the gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value geographic segment, and where the risks and returns are is recognised in the income statement.
However, where derivatives different between components.
qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resulting gain or loss will depend upon the nature of the item being hedged see Expense classification accounting policy on hedging.
Cost of sales comprises the cost of goods delivered to customers including the cost of freight, packaging and inventory adjustments.
Hedging Distribution costs represent all operating expenses including sales, Cash flow hedges marketing, product and purchasing, warehousing, information Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of technology and electronic commerce.
the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or highly Administrative expenses comprise the cost of central head office probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss and the Group Board.
on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
If a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in the Non-recurring charges credits that are considered to be sufficiently recognition of a financial asset or liability, the associated gains significant to have a material impact on the Groups financial or losses that were recognised directly in equity are reclassified results are disclosed in the appropriate category on the face into profit or loss in the same period s during which the interest of the income statement.
For other cash flow hedges, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement in the same period s as which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
The gain or loss on any ineffective part of the hedge, or when the hedge no longer meets the hedging criteria, is immediately recognised in the income statement.
76 Accounting Policies Consolidated Financial Statements continued Hedge of net investment in foreign operations Impairment The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net The carrying amounts of the Groups goodwill and indefinite investment in a foreign operation that is determined as an effective lived intangible assets are reviewed annually, or when there are hedge is recognised directly in equity.
The gain or loss on any indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable, to ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable Leases amount is estimated and if the carrying value exceeds the The costs of operating leases are charged to the income statement recoverable amount, a loss is recognised in the income statement.
The recoverable amount is the greater of the assets net selling price and value in use where value in use is based on the present value of Dilapidation provisions the estimated future cashflows arising from the asset.
The Group is required to perform dilapidation repairs on leased A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and properties prior to the properties being vacated at the end of their impairment losses are incurred if there is objective evidence lease term.
Provision for such costs are made where a legal of impairment as a result of a past event subsequent to the obligation is identified and the liability can be reasonably quantified.
The Group assesses whether objective evidence exists for each financial asset or group of financial assets Property, plant and equipment at the balance sheet date to determine whether any impairment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost.
calculated to write off the cost of the individual assets, less the estimated residual value, from the time it becomes operational Post-retirement benefits by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful lives.
The Group accounts for pensions and other post-retirement Asset lives and residual values are reviewed annually.
benefits in accordance with IAS 19, Employee Benefits.
Depreciation rates are principally as follows: Pensions Freehold land not depreciated The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution Freehold buildings 50 years pension plans.
Plant and equipment between 5 and 10 years In respect of defined benefit plans where the amount of pension Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment when is defined, usually based on factors such as age, years of service there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
and compensation, the net asset or obligation of each plan at Interest is not capitalised.
the balance sheet date is calculated by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
The obligation is calculated by Intangible assets discounting the amount of future benefits that employees have Computer software is capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
to acquire and bring to use the specific software and includes An allowance is made for scheme expenses and non-service capitalised internal labour where appropriate.
These costs are related benefits.
Plan assets are recorded at fair value.
The net amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives, income statement credit charge comprises principally the service between three and five years.
cost, and the finance income costs, which are recognised in the period in which they arise.
The net income statement impact Other intangible assets acquired through business combinations are is credited charged in arriving at operating profit.
The net recognised at fair value on acquisition and amortised on a straight pension deficit surplus of each pension plan is recorded on line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: the balance sheet.
Contractually-based customer relationships 20 years All actuarial gains and losses at the date of transition to IFRS have Patents 18 years been recognised in equity at that date.
Actuarial gains and losses that arise subsequent to the transition date to IFRS in calculating the Groups obligation in respect of each plan, are recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
Payments to defined contribution pension plans where the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Other post-retirement benefits In the US, the Group provides unfunded post-retirement medical benefits to certain US employees.
The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment using an accounting methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension plans.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
77 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Share-based payments Taxation including deferred tax The Group operates four equity settled, share-based incentive Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and schemes: an Executive Share Option Scheme, a Performance deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement Share Plan previously referred to as the Long-Term Incentive except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in Plan, a Restricted Share Plan and a Save As You Earn Scheme.
equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
These are accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2, Share-based Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for Payment, which requires an expense to be recognised in the the year, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the income statement over the vesting period.
The expense is based on balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect the fair value of each instrument at the grant date, using appropriate of previous years.
The expense is credited to retained earnings.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, For share based incentives where the performance measure is providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts non-market based earnings per share growth the Black Scholes of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the or Binomial Lattice model is used and the value of the expense is amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting.
Where the differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax performance conditions are market-based share price performance purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect relative to the FTSE mid-250 Index, the Monte Carlo model is used neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to and the expense is not adjusted except for forfeitures.
The fair value investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably of SAYE grants is calculated using the Black Scholes model and the not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred expense is only adjusted to reflect forfeitures.
tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or The Group chose not to adopt the exemption under IFRS 1 settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax relating to share-based payments.
Consequently, in calculating the rates enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
expense, a full retrospective approach has been followed on all A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is awards granted but not vested at the date of transition to IFRS.
probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the Share capital extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will Ordinary share capital is classified as equity.
dividends are recognised when paid and final ordinary dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to The Groups preference shares are split into debt and equity pay the related dividend.
components, with the associated dividend being recognised on an accrual basis in the income statement as a finance cost.
Investment in own shares The fair value of the debt element is established on issue of the Shares acquired by the Premier Farnell Performance Share Plan shares, based on the discounted cash flows of the instrument are shown as a reduction in shareholders funds.
The cost of to the date of maturity, and is then increased each year on an administering the trust is borne by the Company as incurred.
amortised cost basis through the income statement in order to arrive at the redemption amount payable on maturity of the Trade and other receivables shares.
On purchase and cancellation of preference shares by the Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value.
Company, a gain or loss is recognised in the income statement A provision for impairment is made when there is objective based on the difference between the book value and fair value evidence, for example default or delinquency in payments, that the of the financial liability element of the instrument at the date of full amount will not be collectible.
Such amounts are written down to purchase.
The difference between the book value and fair value their estimated recoverable amounts, with the charge being made of the equity element of the instrument is recognised as a to operating expenses.
In addition, a transfer is made Trade and other payables to non-distributable reserves from retained earnings in order to Trade and other payables are stated at cost.
maintain the legal nominal value of share capital.
Cash and cash equivalents Inventories Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and short-term Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable deposits repayable on demand and available within one day without value on a first in first out basis.
Cost comprises all expenditure, penalty.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form including related production overheads where appropriate, an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as incurred in the normal course of business in bringing the inventory a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the to its present location and condition at the balance sheet date.
cash flow statement, but shown separately within current liabilities Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less any selling in the balance sheet.
Provision is made against slow moving and obsolete inventory where appropriate.
Research and development Expenditure on research and development activities undertaken with the prospect of gaining new technical knowledge and understanding is expensed in the income statement as incurred.
