110 Accounting Policies Company financial statements Basis of preparation Defined benefit plan The financial statements of the Company have been prepared under The Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable and liabilities of the scheme on a consistent and reasonable basis UK accounting standards.
A summary of the more important and therefore, as permitted by FRS 17, accounts for the plan as accounting policies of the Company, which the Directors consider if it were a defined contribution plan.
The Consolidated Financial to be the most appropriate, is set out below together with an Statements include full disclosures of the UK defined benefit plan explanation of where changes have been made to previous policies in accordance with IAS 19 which is similar to FRS 17 note 28. on the adoption of new accounting standards in the year.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally Defined contribution plan accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and Payments to the defined contribution plan are charged as an assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities expense as they fall due.
at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of Deferred taxation revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these Full provision is made, on an undiscounted basis, for deferred estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the taxation resulting from timing differences between the profits amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from computed for taxation purposes and profits stated in the accounts those estimates.
to the extent that there is an obligation to pay more tax in the future The financial year ended 3 February 2008 was a 53 week period as a result of the reversal of those timing differences.
Deferred tax financial year ended 28 January 2007: 52 week period.
assets are recognised to the extent that they are expected to be recoverable.
Adoption of New Accounting Standards FRS 29 IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, was adopted Financial instruments during the year with the additional disclosure requirements given in Under FRS 25, the Companys cumulative, convertible, redeemable notes d and h to the Company Financial Statements.
preference shares are required to be split into debt and equity components with the preference dividend being reclassified as a Foreign currencies finance cost.
The fair value of the debt element is established on Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of issue of the shares, based on the discounted cashflows of the exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and instrument to the date of maturity and is then increased each year liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the on an amortised cost basis through the income statement in order contracted rate or the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet to arrive at the redemption amount payable on maturity of the date and the gains or losses on translation are included in the shares.
On purchase and cancellation of preference shares by the income statement.
Company, a gain or loss is recognised in the income statement based on the difference between the book value and fair value of the Retirement benefits financial liability element of the instrument at the date of purchase.
Employees of the Company are able to participate in the Premier The difference between the book value and fair value of the equity Farnell UK Pension Scheme, comprising both a defined benefit element of the instrument is recognised as a movement in retained and a defined contribution plan.
The assets of the plan are held earnings.
In addition, a transfer is made to non-distributable reserves separately from those of the Company in an independently from retained earnings in order to maintain the legal nominal value administered fund.
The accounting for the Companys preference shares in accordance with FRS 25 is identical to that under IAS 32, further details for which are given in note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
111 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2008 The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its Hedge of net investment in foreign operations exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from The gain or loss on the translation of a net investment in a foreign financing and investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury operation and the instrument used to hedge this are recognised policy, the Company does not have or issue speculative derivative directly in the income statement.
All transactions in financial instruments are matched to an underlying business requirement.
Derivative financial Share-based payments instruments are recognised at fair value.
At period ends, the gain or The accounting for share-based payments is similar to IFRS 2, full loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised in the income details of which are given in the Accounting Policies and note 21 to statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, the Consolidated Financial Statements.
recognition of any resulting gain or loss will depend upon the nature The cost for share-based incentives, in respect of shares in the of the item being hedged see accounting policy on hedging.
Company, granted to employees of group companies other than The fair value of forward currency contracts has been determined Premier Farnell plc, is treated as an increase in investments with the based upon market forward exchange rates at the balance sheet corresponding credit direct to reserves.
The fair value of short-term deposits, loans and overdrafts with maturities of less than one year are assumed to approximate to their Ordinary share capital book values.
Ordinary share capital is classified as equity and dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved.
The fair value of the Companys US dollar Guaranteed Senior Notes has been estimated using quoted market prices for Cash flow similar instruments.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from The fair value of the Companys preference shares is based on the disclosing a cash flow statement under Financial Reporting quoted market price.
Hedging Shares in subsidiary undertakings Shares in subsidiary undertakings are initially stated at cost.
Cash flow hedges Provision is made where, in the opinion of the Directors, a Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of permanent diminution in value has occurred.
the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
If a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or liability, the associated gains or losses that were recognised directly in equity are reclassified into profit or loss in the same period s during which the interest income expense is recognised.
For other cash flow hedges, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement in the same period s as which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
The gain or loss on any ineffective part of the hedge is immediately recognised in the income statement.
