63 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2008 The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications Statement of Directors Responsibilities for employment from disabled persons, with regard to their Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial particular aptitudes and abilities.
Efforts are made to continue statements for each financial year.
The Directors have prepared the the employment of those who become disabled during their consolidated financial statements in accordance with International employment.
Training, career development and promotion are, Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European as far as practicable, identical for all employees according to their Union and the parent company financial statements in accordance skills and abilities.
The Group consistently seeks to recruit, develop with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
and employ throughout the organisation suitably qualified, capable The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair and experienced people, irrespective of age, race, gender, religion view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the or sexual orientation.
profit or loss of the Company and Group for that period.
Employees participation in the Groups performance is encouraged In preparing these financial statements the Directors are required to: through the Groups UK savings-related share option scheme.
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Environment The Group recognises the importance of responsible environmental Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable management and its obligation to protect the environment.
and prudent: The Group therefore gives high priority to all environmental matters.
State that the consolidated financial statements comply with Further information appears in the Corporate Social Responsibility IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and the parent section of the Business Review.
company financial statements comply with UK GAAP: and Substantial shareholdings Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, At 7 April 2008 the Company had been notified, pursuant to the unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules, in business, in which case there should be supporting of the following notifiable voting rights in its ordinary share capital: assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
% The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
Fidelity International 12.94 The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Prudential plc 9.39 records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the UBS Global Asset Management 6.08 financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable Artemis Investment 5.84 them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Standard Life Investments Ltd 5.06 Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 1985 and, Newton Investment 4.97 as regards the consolidated financial statements, article 4 of the IAS Axa Investment Managers UK Ltd 4.90 Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of Blackrock 4.84 the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps Legal and General plc 4.14 for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Capital Group Co Inc. 3.92 The 2008 financial statements will be published on the Company's web site in addition to the normal paper version.
The Directors are Independent Auditors responsible for maintenance and integrity of this electronic version Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as Auditors of the financial statements to the same extent as for the paper and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration version.
The work carried out by the Auditors does not include will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting consideration of the maintenance and integrity of the web site.
Audit information Each of the Directors confirms that so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and that he or she has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Annual General Meeting The notice convening the Companys 2008 Annual General Meeting at 25 28 Old Burlington Street, London on 17 June 2008 at 10.00 a. m. is set out in a separate document issued to shareholders.
The Directors Report for the year ended 3 February 2008 comprises these pages 61 to 63 and the other sections and pages of the Annual Report cross-referred to above, which sections and pages are incorporated by reference.
By order of the Board Steven Webb Secretary Farnell House Forge Lane Leeds LS12 2NE 22 April 2008
