Corporate governance continued d Risk assessment and risk control An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks facing the group has been in place throughout the year under review and continues to remain in place.
An essential element of good internal control is the continual process of risk assessment and the implementation of appropriate controls designed to eliminate or mitigate the effects of the crystallisation of identified major risks.
The approach adopted by the Board involves a process which requires divisional operational staff to critically examine their responsibilities and identify those risks which are of such a nature that their crystallisation would have a material impact on their business.
In order for this process to succeed, it is essential that ownership of risk awareness, risk identification and risk control is fully embraced by line management as an essential ingredient of its normal responsibilities.
In implementing its risk assessment programme the Board has devolved to the Audit Committee the task of implementing and maintaining an appropriate risk assessment and control programme and it works closely with the head of group internal audit in engaging in a formal review of the key business risks to the group.
In the development of this programme there are a number of fundamental issues identified as being absolutely critical to the success and effectiveness of the risk management and control programme.
In formulating its approach the committee has structured the programme around the key areas of: Clear leadership from the Board The need for risk management to be seen as part of everyday activity and to be embedded in the line management culture Clear communication of the principles involved Active support and involvement of the group internal audit function Regular review of the process and continual assessment of the changing nature of the risks presenting themselves to the business Updating of the group policy manual following the identification of new significant risks The Board recognises that, as in any business, the company must manage a range of risks in the course of its activities, and that failure adequately to manage these risks could adversely impact the business.
As part of the ongoing risk assessment and management programme the principal risks facing the business have been identified and are reported on separately on pages 34 to 35.
L. Going concern In accordance with the guidance issued in November 2008 by the Financial Reporting Council An update for directors of listed companies: going concern and liquidity risk, a comprehensive going concern review was undertaken by the group.
Following that review the directors confirm that, after having made appropriate enquiries, they have reasonable expectation that the group and the company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the Accounts.
This approach was endorsed by the Audit Committee at its meeting held on 25 February 2009.
68 | Driving on Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Arriva plc We have audited the group financial statements of Arriva plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Group income statement, the Group balance sheet, the Group cash flow statement, the Group statement of recognised income and expense and the related notes.
These group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Arriva plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors' report is consistent with the group financial statements.
The information given in the Directors report includes that specific information presented in the Business review that is cross referred from the Business review section of the Directors report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans statement, the Chief executives review, the Financial review, Principal risks and uncertainties, Corporate responsibility, the Directors report, the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report, Corporate governance and other reports on pages 2 to 17.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the group financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the group financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: The group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: The group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and The information given in the Directors' report is consistent with the group financial statements.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Newcastle upon Tyne 13 March 2009 69 Financial statements Group income statement for the year ended 31 December 2008 2008 2007 notes m m Revenue 1 3,042.2 2,000.7 Net operating expenses 3 a 2,870.4 1,872.7 Group operating profit 171.8 128.0 Share of post tax profits from associates 4.4 4.3 Net finance costs 2 26.2 16.5 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 3 150.0 115.8 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 5 38.8 25.8 Profit for the year 111.2 90.0 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 104.5 86.4 Minority interests 6.7 3.6 111.2 90.0 Dividends per ordinary share 6 24.06p 22.65p Earnings per share 7 a Basic earnings per share 52.6p 43.5p Diluted earnings per share 52.3p 43.4p Basic earnings per share before goodwill impairment, intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items 7 b 61.5p 46.5p 70 | Driving on Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
