Financial glossary Beta model EBITDA A model for pricing share options which applies the same EBITDA represents earnings before finance income, finance costs, principles as the binomial model but takes into account the movement in fair value of interest rate swaps, UK income tax, relationship of the share price to a portfolio of a comparator depreciation, amortisation and profit on sale of non-current assets.
EBITDAR Binomial model EBITDAR represents earnings before finance income, finance costs, A model for pricing share options which applies the same principles movement in fair value of interest rate swaps, UK income tax, as decision tree analysis by considering the possibilities that prices depreciation, amortisation, rental costs and profit on sale of may increase or decrease by a certain percentage.
Black-Scholes model Effective interest rate method A model for pricing share options using the share price, the time A method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or to expiration of the option, the risk-free interest rate and the financial liability and of allocating the interest income or expense expected standard deviation of the share return.
Cash flow hedges Experience gains losses A hedge of the exposure to variability in cash flows.
Changes in the valuation of defined benefit pension scheme which arise when events have not coincided with the actuarial Collateralised cash assumptions made for the previous valuation.
Fair value Combined Code The amount at which assets can be exchanged, or liabilities The Combined Code on corporate governance sets out standards settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms of good practice in relation to issues such as board composition length transaction.
and development, remuneration, accountability and audit, and relations with shareholders.
Finance lease A method of purchasing an asset by making rental payments Convertible bond throughout the expected lifetime of the asset.
The lessee shows A corporate bond that can be exchanged for a specific number an asset and a corresponding liability in the balance sheet.
Convertible bonds generally have lower lease payments are accounted for as a reduction in the liability.
interest rates than non-convertible bonds because they accrue value as the price of the underlying shares rise.
Convertible bonds Goodwill therefore reflect a combination of the benefits of shares and Goodwill is the excess of the amount paid for a company over corporate bonds.
the fair value of the net assets acquired at the date of acquisition.
Corporate governance IAS Corporate governance describes the system by which an International Accounting Standards.
organisation is directed and controlled.
IASB Debenture notes International Accounting Standards Board.
A form of bond taken out by a company, which it agrees to repay at a specified future date and which bears interest either fixed or IFRS variable until maturity.
Derivative financial instruments IFRIC Financial instruments whose value changes in response to changes International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
in a specified interest rate, financial instrument price, commodity price, foreign exchange rate, or other variable, and are settled Indexation allowance at a future date.
Indexation allowance is tax relief given when calculating capital gains which takes into account inflation based on the Retail Prices Diluted earnings per share Index RPI.
Indexation allowance can only reduce an unindexed Diluted earnings per share is earnings per share after allowing gain to nil and cannot create or increase a capital loss.
for the dilutive effect of the conversion into ordinary shares of the weighted average number of options outstanding Interest cover during the period and shares from the assumed conversion A performance measure which shows the number of times EBITDA of convertible bonds.
covers the net finance income and finance cost.
Earnings per share EPS Earnings per share is a performance measure that expresses the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
105 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Financial statements Governance Business review Financial statements continued Financial glossary continued Interest rate swap Segmental reporting A derivative financial instrument used to minimise exposure to Information regarding the financial position and results of changes in interest rates by payment to receive a fixed interest rate operations in different business areas.
in exchange for a floating rate interest rate, or payment to receive a floating rate interest rate in exchange for a fixed interest rate.
Total Shareholder Return TSR The growth in value of a shareholding over a specific LIBOR period, assuming that dividends are reinvested to purchase London Inter Bank Offered Rate.
Interest rate quoted between additional shares.
banks which is a recognised basis for calculating a floating interest rate.
UK GAAP UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Operating lease A method of renting assets over a period which is less than the Working capital expected life of the asset.
The lessee does not show an asset Short term disposable capital used to finance day-to-day or liability on their balance sheet and periodic payments are operations.
It is calculated as current assets less current liabilities.
accounted for by the lessee as operating expenses in the period.
Operating result Profit after deducting all operating expenses including depreciation and amortisation.
Over-hedge An over-hedge occurs when the notional principal amount of the hedging instrument is greater than that of the hedged item.
Monte Carlo valuation method A model for pricing share options that generates many random possible price paths, calculates assumed exercise values, then averages and discounts to give the value of the option.
Net debt Loans, convertible bonds, derivative financial instruments and finance leases net of other interest bearing deposits and cash and cash equivalents.
Exceptional items Items which management consider will distort comparability, either due to their significant non-recurring nature or as a result of specific accounting treatments.
These are separately identified in order to provide a trend measure of underlying performance.
Projected unit credit method The accounting method used to calculate provisions for pensions.
It includes not only the pensions and vested interests accrued at the date of calculation, but also anticipated increases in salaries and pensions.
Securitisation The process of raising finance by creating a financial instrument secured by pooling other financial assets to back the instrument.
com Company information Registered office Financial calendar Jubilee House Q1 Interim Management Statement 14 January 2009 Second Avenue Annual General Meeting 14 January 2009 Burton upon Trent Half year end 7 March 2009 DE14 2WF Interim results announcement May 2009 44 0 1283 501600 Q3 Interim Management Statement July 2009 Year end 22 August 2009 Company number Preliminary results announcement November 2009 3752645 Directors of the Company Advisers Peter Cawdron Chairman Auditors Phil Dutton Finance Director Ernst & Young LLP Mike Foster Non-executive Director One Colmore Square Ian Fraser Non-executive Director Birmingham Mark Pain Non-executive Director B4 6HQ Jonathan Paveley Group Commercial Director 44 0 121 535 2000 Tony Rice Non-executive Director Fritz Ternofsky Senior Independent Non-executive Director Nominated adviser & broker Giles Thorley Chief Executive Merrill Lynch International Mike Tye Managing Director Spirit Merrill Lynch Financial Centre Ian Wilson Non-executive Director 2 King Edward Street Roger Whiteside Managing Director Leased London EC1A 1HQ 44 0 20 7628 1000 Principal bankers Barclays Bank plc 15 Colmore Row Birmingham B3 2BH 44 0 121 480 5562 Solicitors Slaughter and May One Bunhill Row London EC1Y 8YY 44 0 20 7600 1200 Joint broker Morgan Stanley & Co International plc 25 Cabot Square Canary Wharf London E14 4QA 44 0 20 7425 8000 Registrar Computershare Investor Services plc PO Box 82 The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 7NH 44 0 870 702 0003 107 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Financial statements Governance Business review Notes 108 www.
com Business review Governance Financial statements Punch is the leading pub company in the UK, with over 8,400 pubs across its leased and managed portfolio.
Key performance indicators 01 Business review Operational highlights 01 This section gives details of our business At a glance 02 performance in the 2008 financial year.
Sustaining growth 03 Other important financial information Our operating strategy 04 about the Group is also provided.
Addressing industry issues and trends 05 Operational review 08 Corporate social responsibility 13 Managing our risks 16 Financial review 18 Board of Directors 22 Governance Senior management 24 This section introduces the Punch Board Directors report 25 of Directors and how Punch applies its Corporate governance statement 30 values to the way it does business in terms Report on Directors remuneration 34 of corporate governance, accountability Statement of Directors responsibilities and corporate social responsibility.
The in relation to the financial statements 47 remuneration section explains our pay policies and contains details of the salaries and benefits received by the Directors during the year.
Consolidated income statement 48 Financial statements Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 49 This section contains detailed financial Consolidated balance sheet 50 statements and other information Consolidated cash flow statement 51 shareholders find useful.
As well as the Company balance sheet 52 statutory accounts, this section contains Company statement of recognised income and expense 53 The cover and pages 1-24 are printed on paper comprising a financial calendar for the forthcoming Company income statement 53 50% genuine fide-inked post consumer waste, the balance being year and a summary of financial Company cash flow statement 54 FSC certified chlorine free pulp from well-managed forests.
Contents for the notes to the financial statements 55 Notes to the financial statements 56 Pages 25-108 are printed on paper comprising fibres Independent auditors report to the members sourced from well-managed sustainable forests, incorporating of Punch Taverns plc 103 FSC certified fibre and bleached without the use of chlorine.
Five year financial summary 104 The production mill for this paper operates to EMAS, ISO 14001 Financial glossary 105 environmental and ISO 9001 quality standards.
Company information 107 Designed and produced by The College www.
com Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Passionate about our pubs Punch Taverns plc www.
com Jubilee House Tel: 44 0 1283 501600 Second Avenue Fax: 44 0 1283 501601 Burton upon Trent Punch Taverns plc Staffordshire DE14 2WF Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
