E F F I C I E I N N T V S U E P S P T O R M T E C N A P T A S B B I U L Y I P T T Y Y R T I E L Business review continued Our operating strategy We continue to focus on delivering a high quality pub experience and comprehensive support to each of our licensees.
Our business model has been Investing wisely Careful contract negotiation, cost control and efficiency ensure developed to deliver long term that we continue to invest at levels that make a difference with appropriate returns.
We continually invest in our key concepts in growth for our licensees and the managed business and also invest alongside our licensees in the leased business.
All of our employees continue to be focused our shareholders.
on reducing the cost of doing business wherever they can.
High calibre team We demand high standards from our employees and our licensees and provide the support and training needed to help them achieve this.
Our internal development plans and comprehensive training programme are focused on the continual improvement of the consumer experience at every site.
Innovation is encouraged at all levels and we are always looking for new ways of doing things, to ensure that we are as efficient and effective as possible.
Enhancing the customer experience A successful licensee prepared to recommend our people, our pubs and Punch Taverns as a business partner is what improves our bottom line.
A customer focused approach throughout the Group ensures that we dont lose sight of what we are working to achieve in every one of our 8,424 pubs and with our 7,560 licensees.
Successful partnerships with our licensees Punchs long term financial structure and commitment to the pub sector means we continue to be one of the most professional and progressive pub landlords in the market.
We have invested heavily in developing a quality support package for our licensees.
com A P U O Q R H P G I H W E D L E L B R U T N Healthy eating for kids As well as providing a fun and safe place to exercise, the Pick n Mix and childrens meal sections in the pubs attached to our Wacky Addressing industry Warehouses contain no artificial colours, sweeteners or flavours.
The menu features choices that are low in fat and salt, with gluten-free options and our cooking oil contains no unhealthy trans-fats.
Children can select from 60 different menu combinations issues and trends including white fish goujons and chicken dippers made from whole chicken breast.
The menu incorporates a full nutritional breakdown to help with meal choices.
10m Since the introduction of the smoking ban we have invested over 10 million in smoking solutions for our estate.
Alcohol and social responsibility Completely smoke free The British pub is one of the cornerstones of our heritage and plays We have now experienced a full year of trade under the smoking a crucial role in bringing together and supporting our communities.
As in Scotland, the majority of our The pub is unique to the UKs social culture and yet it continues licensees have coped well with the changes, successfully adapting to be put under pressure by misguided challenges.
and responding to changing consumer demands.
The focus was on attracting new customers, not just keeping customers who smoked, We believe that well managed, licensed premises provide an and we have seen non-smokers and families returning to our pubs.
important, safe and controlled environment for responsible adults to enjoy good drink, food and entertainment.
Negative media We invested over 10 million across the estate to ensure that reports and a plethora of ill thought through Government our pubs and licensees were well prepared for the ban, being consultations and studies targeted at alcohol consumption are the best in their marketplace, with the appropriate skills and facilities having an adverse effect on the on-trade pub business.
to minimise the inevitable impact of such a significant piece of legislation.
We are fully aware of our duties to ensure that our pubs are well managed and run in a responsible manner, providing safe, Since the smoking ban, food has become increasingly important welcoming facilities for the community.
Throughout our leased to the success of our pubs.
We have responded in our leased and managed estates we continue to actively support initiatives business with a dedicated catering development team delivering such as Challenge 21 and local Pub Watch schemes.
We have individual and specific support to our licensees, which ensures introduced the British Beer and Pub Association BBPA Risk they have a profitable food offer which is competitive in the Assessment across the estate and we have also kept our licensees current marketplace.
fully briefed on the importance of areas such as reducing noise nuisance, not serving drunks and operating in line with legislation.
Business and Enterprise Committee We will continue to work constructively with local authorities, police forces, government and industry bodies to raise standards BEC inquiry across the industry.
In June 2008, the Department for Business, Enterprise & Regulatory Reform announced its intention to review the way in which pub companies have acted on the recommendations of the 2004 Trade The marketplace and Industry Select Committee TISC inquiry into how licensees are treated.
The British pub provides millions of responsible adults with an excellent venue to enjoy their leisure time.
We are therefore We have been totally transparent in our feedback to the TISC concerned that aggressive off-trade pricing, and misguided report and are proud that we have fulfilled the commitments that government policies may have a detrimental effect on the we outlined.
The review will give us the opportunity to demonstrate pub industry in the long term.
how Punch has positively acted on the recommendations of the original committee report and will reinforce our commitment to Media coverage is often targeted at minority groups, such as safeguard the future of the great British pub.
under age and binge drinkers in town centres, much of which is fuelled by the availability of cheap alcohol in the off-trade market.
It is disappointing that this has come at a time when we are putting This exaggerated and negative portrayal of the industry should significant focus and effort into supporting our licensees.
We feel not drive Government policies to the detriment of the great that this will be a distraction for the industry and we would have British pub, where drinking is controlled in a regulated, licensed preferred to focus more on the positive role that the pub plays in environment.
Policies should be targeted at the cause of excessive our society.
alcohol consumption, disorderly behaviour and alcohol abuse, addressing the specific groups at risk, not society as a whole.
In this regard, we fully support the efforts of the Drinkaware Trust and strongly believe that their targeted focus on the main causes of alcohol related social disorder through education and support is the best way to tackle the issue.
05 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Financial statements Governance Business review Business review continued Addressing industry issues and trends continued Moleface Pub Co, Larwood & Voce John Molner of the Moleface Pub Company was voted Regional Champion at Punch Taverns Shine Awards 2008.
He took over the business at The Larwood and Voce in Nottingham in 2007 and introduced his vision and passion for the pub of farm to fork in the least number of miles.
The majority of food is sourced within a 15 mile radius.
John explains: We make our own bread which we sell on to a local deli.
We also make our own ice-cream, jams, chutneys, tartare sauce and pork scratchings.
Its important that we support other local businesses and we recognise this on our menu.
Licensing The economic climate and Our licensees and pub managers in England and Wales have now consumer trends been trading under the Licensing Act 2003 since its introduction Since last autumn, the credit crunch has resulted in a slowdown in 2005.
The Act offers greater flexibility over pub opening hours of consumer spending, further impacted by the turmoil in the and many of our outlets are taking advantage of this opportunity, banking arena, a rise in the cost of food and fuel and higher mainly with an extra hour or two on Friday and Saturday nights.
As we predicted, longer trading hours have not encouraged Along with the rest of the industry, we have felt the effects excessive drinking or an increase in public disorder in or around of this slowdown.
The challenging market has required us to pubs.
Subsequent police reports have demonstrated drops in support more of our licensees with a range of educational recorded violent crime, reinforcing the professional and responsible and financial initiatives.
approach adopted by the pub industry.
What we have seen is a shift in trading patterns with people drinking similar amounts We also recognised the need to improve our approach to over a longer period of time.
In many cases, pubs are also our licensees and we introduced a comprehensive customer opening earlier to capitalise on caf culture, serving breakfast commitment programme at the beginning of the year.
We have and morning coffee.
examined every aspect of the leased business, revisiting our Charter, ways of working, and the ultimate customer experience we deliver.
We are now in the process of submitting applications for We now aspire to an advocacy benchmark of would our licensees new licenses in Scotland.
Again, we are providing full support recommend Punch or their Business Relationship Manager BRM including workshops for all of our licensees to ensure that they to another licensee?
The latest survey has shown that 69% of our fully understand the requirements of the Act and are fulfilling licensees would consider recommending Punch and 84% would the training for their people.
As in England and Wales, we are looking forward to an improved Expanded regional teams provide specialist help on key areas such and closer working relationship with local licensing authorities and as food, machines, property management and BRM coaching.
the police in Scotland, as a result of introducing the new licensing law.
Improving the skills and capabilities of our field teams empowers them to implement the right support package, at the right time, with the right licensees.
Well negotiated supplier contracts and cost controls have ensured that our food and distribution operations have not been dramatically impacted by the rising cost of food and fuel.
Our corporate debt structure, with effectively fixed rate borrowings, will ensure that we are sheltered from the increased cost of borrowing.
We have been careful to combine significant action on energy efficiency with prudent forward purchasing of energy to help combat rising utility bills.
com Kevin Georgel, Operations Director Kevin Joined Punch in 2003 as Regional Operations Director, when he exceeded expectations and delivered top quartile team performance for three consecutive years.
Kevin has been instrumental in developing our A-Z Business Relationship Manager training and his commitment to team development contributed to our successful nomination for a NITA award in coaching in 2007.
In June 2007 Kevin took over as Field Operations Director for the South of our estate and in January 2008 became Operations Director for the whole of our leased business.
Kevin leads his team with passion and compassion, striving for top performance and recognising success.
Rising costs have put disposable incomes under pressure and Our licensees are continuing to innovate and diversify, providing consumers are understandably demanding better value for money.
additional local services and experiences for their customers.
Our Two for One concept offers families a great value experience These might be anything from a pets corner for children, and through vouchers and deals in our other managed pubs we a flower stall in the car park or a cash machine.
have delivered greater value for money.
Our Big Orange Food Book and our Connect drinks brochure enables licensees to access great The Punch Shine and Spirit Stars reward and recognition deals so they too are able to deliver better value to their customers.
programmes highlight the outstanding talent we have within our business.
These extraordinarily talented licensees and Our continued investment into the estate, alongside our licensees, managers continue to take advantage of new opportunities has ensured that our pubs are best placed to trade through the for their businesses.
current difficult climate and are ready to benefit when the economy begins to recover.
We are committed to following this strategy, investing wisely to ensure healthy returns for the licensees The right people and the business.
It is crucial to recruit successful entrepreneurs for our Punch pubs, talented managers for our Spirit pubs and a high calibre support team for both businesses and we continue in our drive New opportunities to attract and retain talented individuals.
A feature of the leased model that ensures its sustainability, is the entrepreneurialism of our individual licensees.
They are more We achieve this through a combination of industry leading responsive to local market conditions and opportunities, enabling induction and coaching programmes, growing our own talent them to remain competitive in the marketplace.
A great example and supporting our licensees and managers through well proven of this is the growth in consumer demand for locally sourced performance development reviews and succession planning.
We have many examples of licensees taking advantage of this in a value sensitive market, by choosing not to compete More information on our risks can be found on pages 16 and 17. on price but on quality.
The Gambling Act 2007 has enabled us to extend and promote gaming activities such as pub poker in our pubs.
We welcome the Governments decision to bring forward a review of the level of stakes and prizes and await their decision.
Innovation in our managed pubs includes the introduction of further childrens menus containing important nutritional information and the return of The Anchor Bankside on the River Thames to its position as THE place to get fish & chips in London.
07 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Financial statements Governance Business review
