INTRODUCTION PZ Cussons operates in Africa, Asia and Europe with its strategy built on four core principles.
We operate in selected markets that have the potential for future growth, both in mature and emerging markets.
Our presence across Africa, Asia and Europe ensures a naturally balanced portfolio of global markets, which we continually review to ensure they provide the Group with the best opportunities for profitable growth.
We take pride in our knowledge of local markets which enables us to respond quickly and appropriately to local needs.
We develop leading brands for the markets in which we operate.
Whilst some have global reach, the majority of our brands are sold only in local and regional markets as we create products that are particularly suited to local needs and tastes.
Our strategy is to grow these brands so they achieve category leading positions in their markets and we continually review and expand the categories in which we operate to ensure profitable growth.
We are proud of our portfolio of category leading brands which are developed to satisfy the particular needs of local consumers.
01 Introduction 02 Chairmans Statement We operate first class distribution networks that enable us to deliver our 04 Group Structure and Principal Activities brands quickly and efficiently to our local consumers.
Our distribution systems 06 Report of the Directors: vary by market type, from traditional supply chain models in mature markets 06 Financial Highlights to extensive nationwide depot networks in emerging markets.
We continually 10 Business Review: Africa adapt our methods of distribution to suit our local markets and to changing 14 Business Review: Asia market needs.
We take pride in our flexible distribution capability which is 18 Business Review: Europe tailored specifically for the local market.
22 Future Plans 24 CANDO We recruit, develop and retain a great team of people who are aligned with 26 Corporate Social Responsibility our values and who can drive our plans for growth.
Our aim is to create a high 32 Summary performance culture offering career experiences and development.
We work 48 Consolidated Financial Statements 83 Company Financial Statements together as a true meritocracy where leadership is determined by talent.
