EUROPE 1 IMPERIAL LEATHER IDENTITy The UK products business of The sanctuary has a strong pipeline of new The entire Imperial Leather range has product development both across the core spa Essentials range and been relaunched with a fresh new look and exciting new fragrances.
the speciality ranges such as signatures which has just been refreshed 2 SKIN bLISS with new themes and fragrances.
skin Bliss shower creams have recently been launched.
They contain a new innovative moisture-lock technology In addition, skincare is identified as Finally in the UK, the Group completed that adds a new dimension to the an area with good growth potential.
the closure of its three UK based final personal wash market.
International sales of The sanctuary salary pension schemes on 31st may products, whilst small at present, 2008 as part of the modernisation of its 3 ORIGINAL SOURCE SKIN fOOD also have good growth potential in the reward packages.
Original source has had an exciting medium term with distribution 4 year with the launch of a number of agreements already established in the In Poland, sales of the two key new product ranges, including the Us, Canada and certain Asian territories.
brands E and Luksja were ahead of skin food range.
last year in a very competitive market.
The spa in Covent Garden continues During the year, the Uroda brand, 4 CAREx HAND GEL to be run well and profitably with the which comprised a range of traditional The Carex range has expanded through 64,000 visitors a year at or around skincare products, was sold with the the introduction of Carex hand gels.
maximum capacity with the spa itself an sale proceeds being reinvested in the 1 These waterless anti-bacterial hand gels excellent source of ideas and product core brands of E and Luksja.
The E are instantly drying and are ideal for use innovation.
The management is currently range was renovated in the year with on the go, catering for the increasingly considering whether it is appropriate new products launched across fabric busy lives of our consumers.
to introduce other spa locations in the detergents, fabric conditioners and UK to extend the reach of The sanctuary household cleaning products.
The 5 LUKSJA 5 spa experience to consumers outside Luksja range of bar soaps and shower The popular Luksja brand in Poland, London.
In the meantime, a spa gels continues to increase its market has expanded through the use of roadshow will tour major UK towns share through innovation such as the limited edition fragrances across its this summer to promote the brand introduction of the successful limited product range.
and to allow consumers to experience editions concept that has worked The sanctuary treatments.
6 MINERVA bUTTER minerva Butter was launched during As discussed earlier, the new In Greece, sales were ahead of last year 2 the year under a brand name that Innovation Centre in manchester is due to continued focus on the product represents quality.
on schedule with the production range which was rebranded in the facility to be completed by the end of year under the minerva master brand.
the calendar year and the fragrance The range of olive and other seed oils and research facility to be completed together with fats and spreads provides 6 early in 2009.
Whilst the surplus sites Greek consumers with a variety of at Ellesmere Port and Nottingham functional and indulgent products under remain on the market, given the current a brand name that they know represents economic situation it is not now local quality.
During the year, a small expected that these will be sold in local butter brand was purchased to the next financial year.
As a final stage of the modernisation 3 of its UK facilities, the Group recently announced that it will move its head office to manchester Business Park, adjacent to manchester Airport with the new build, to be occupied on a lease basis, scheduled to be completed in spring 2010.
20 Annual Report 2008 bUSINESS REVIEW: EUROPE bUSINESS REVIEW: EUROPE Annual Report 2008 21
