AFRICA Delivering the goods With over 100 years experience of trading in Africa we are proud of the knowledge of local markets and consumers we have developed, which has resulted in a strong portfolio of local brands.
Our passion to continue to grow these brands and develop innovative products in response to local needs has delivered success in the emerging markets of Africa.
In Nigeria, the political environment The soaps and detergents business During the year our Nigerian operations remains stable, supported by rising oil performed well with revenue ahead of were structured as follows: prices which have bolstered Nigerias the prior year, however profitability currency reserves and which together remained at the prior year level due to PZ Cussons Nigeria Plc listed on the with continued inward foreign the significant increase in raw material Lagos stock Exchange and 61% owned investment, provides an excellent costs.
Whilst selling prices have by the PZ Cussons Group.
The business environment for economic growth.
risen, further detergent supply has segments within this operation are During the year, the Naira has come on stream from our competitors as follows: strengthened slightly against the Us providing for a more competitive soaps and Detergents dollar which has helped mitigate market.
however, the business remains health and Beauty further translation losses from the year well placed with a strong overall supply Chain and Distribution on year weakening of the dollar portfolio catering to the economy, mid hPZ Ltd the joint venture with haier against sterling.
The overall manufacturing electrical goods and market continues to evolve with the 74% owned by PZ Cussons Nigeria Plc demand for the more traditional Nutricima Ltd the joint venture economy products of laundry soap and with Glanbia manufacturing nutritional bulk detergents declining as consumers beverages and 50% owned by the switch to the growing toilet soap PZ Cussons Group and branded detergent ranges.
During the year, there have been a number of new product launches including We are committed to the Elephant Colour fabric detergent, Jet manufacture and distribution of multi-purpose detergent and Ava liquid air freshener.
soaps, detergents, toiletries, pharmaceuticals, electrical goods and nutritional beverages in Africa and have enjoyed continued success over the past year.
10 Annual Report 2008 bUSINESS REVIEW: AfRICA bUSINESS REVIEW: AfRICA Annual Report 2008 11 AFRICA 1 RELAUNCH Of VENUS RANGE 4 DISTRIbUTION The health and beauty business performed well in the year with revenue The venus range, comprising haircare, Our first class nationwide distribution and profitability ahead of last year.
Growth has come from focus on the bodycare, toiletries and facecare network has been developed and products has been enhanced and enhanced during the year through a core brands of Robb medicaments, venus, Joy and Carex personal care relaunched across our African network.
2 ELECTRICAL SECTOR GROWTH 5 MORE RETAIL OUTLETS The electrical sector has continued to Following the success of our flagship go from strength to strength with the electrical store, hT Cool World in The success of this business comes underpinned by the establishment of a Construction commenced of a expanding range of products under our Lagos, two further stores have recently from focusing on traditional product nationwide after-sales service capability.
world-class standard distribution centre strong haier Thermocool brand.
opened after year end in Abuja ranges, such as Robb, which are sold Growth has come across the core on the Ikorodu site including a fully and Kano.
nationally and on understanding product range of fridges, freezers, automated warehouse system.
This will 3 ELEPHANT COLOUR regional preferences with brands such air-conditioners and televisions, with the facilitate the consolidation of stock The Elephant detergent range has 6 NUTRICIMA as Excel and stella which are sold more recent launches of microwaves, holdings at the central level allowing for further expanded with the launch of Our nutritional range of products, predominately in the north of Nigeria.
washing machines, water heaters, lower stock holdings to be maintained the new Elephant Colour detergent, including the brands Nunu, Coast and At the same time, preferences and DvD players and home theatre systems at the 26 depot locations nationwide as we continue to respond to the ever Powerfist, continue to deliver to the consumer appetites for more performing well.
hT Cool World, Further partnerships with third party changing needs of our local consumers.
growing nutritional market in Nigeria.
sophisticated brands are developing Nigerias first world-class standard transport providers to improve the These brands are continually and product relaunches such as the electrical retail superstore, which quality and reliability of transportation being developed.
venus haircare pan-African launch are opened in June 2007, has performed of raw materials from port to the successfully catering for these well in the year and has captured a factories and of finished goods from the 2 requirements.
The health and beauty further segment of the market with a factories to the depots business will be the first to benefit particular focus on premium products.
Investment in processes and IT systems from the capital investment project Following the success of this to provide greater visibility of the discussed earlier which will see the superstore, two further hT Cool Worlds end-to-end supply chain 5 manufacturing relocate on a more have opened just after the year end, Further outsourcing of non-core efficient basis to our Ikorodu site just one in Nigerias capital Abuja and one manufacturing operations to local third outside Lagos at the end of the in Kano the norths major city.
The nutrition joint venture has Revenue and profitability of the other Following the year end, the soaps and continued to grow well with revenue African territories, Ghana and Kenya, detergents and health and beauty increasing year on year, benefiting were ahead of the prior year benefiting businesses have been reorganised into from this being the first full year of sales from good local product ranges Personal Care and home Care divisions from the core brands of Nunu, Coast together with the roll-out of pan-regional 3 as part of the modernisation of the and Powerfist.
however, profitability has products such as venus haircare.
As an example, this been affected by rising milk costs addition, sales of electrical products in will result in toilet soaps which are which increased throughout the first Ghana continued to perform well.
The currently managed under the soaps and half of the financial year although these Kenya business successfully recovered detergents division, being managed as have started to decline towards the from the political turmoil early in the 6 part of the new Personal Care division.
The business is year with little impact on performance.
expected to move into profitability in the Revenue and profitability of the second half of the new financial year.
1 electricals business has grown year As previously announced, the second on year as consumer demand for factory will come on stream early in such products continues to increase, 2009 with a new range of products to supported by an emerging middle be launched in UhT format.
class who desire products both of a 4 functional and an aspirational nature.
In supply chain and distribution, The brand name haier Thermocool has there have been a number of initiatives continued to live up to its reputation of including: affordable quality and this is being 12 Annual Report 2008 bUSINESS REVIEW: AfRICA bUSINESS REVIEW: AfRICA Annual Report 2008 13 AsIA Delivering everyday needs A key feature of our Asian region is our first class distribution network in emerging markets, which enables us to deliver our strong brand ranges efficiently, responding quickly and appropriately to local needs.
The Asian markets in which we operate provide a naturally balanced geographic portfolio.
This gives good opportunity for growth whilst minimising the risk levels the Group is exposed to.
In Indonesia, sales and profitability This position has been strengthened were higher than the previous year by the launches last year of the due to the continued success of the Cussons sahaja basics range and a Cussons Baby range which remains baby needs range including bottles, the number one baby personal care plates and feeding spoons.
The other brand in the Indonesian market.
brands of Imperial Leather and Extreme continue to perform well.
The nationwide depot network which provides distribution to over 100,000 outlets remains a valuable asset to support the business growth.
We have introduced a new water saving technology called Aquasave which has been applied to both laundry and dishwash detergents, developed to deliver a high performance clean for wash cycles, like Economy and Fast Wash, that use less water.
14 Annual Report 2008 bUSINESS REVIEW: ASIA bUSINESS REVIEW: ASIA Annual Report 2008 15
