CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES internal control The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the directors remuneration report and the Group and parent company financial The board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurances against Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the material misstatement or loss.
Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and the The board is of the view that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks, that it has parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
In preparing the Group been in place for the year ended 31st May 2008 and up to the date of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, that it is regularly reviewed financial statements, the directors have also elected to comply with IFRSs, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
by the board and that it accords with the Turnbull guidance for directors on the Combined Code.
The process includes: The Group and parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of the affairs of the Group and company and of the profit or loss of the Group and company for that period.
Frequent communication between the board and subsidiary management on all critical business issues In preparing those financial statements the directors are required to: Regular visits to operating units by the board, head office management and internal audit Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently A detailed system of budgeting, reporting and forecasting Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent Regular review by the board of a risk management document produced by the risk management committee State that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs issued by IASB Taking necessary action to remedy any significant weaknesses found as part of the review of the effectiveness of the internal control system Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business, At its July 2008 meeting, the board carried out the annual assessment of internal control for the year to 31st May 2008 by considering in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
documentation from the executive committee, risk management committee and internal audit function as well as taking into consideration events since the year end.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Group continues to take steps to embed internal control and risk management further into the operations of the business and to deal The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position with areas of improvement which come to the attention of management and the board.
The Group has ethical guidelines and a defined fraud of the Group and company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements of the Group and company and the directors remuneration reporting process which are issued with the Group Internal Control Manual.
report comply with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection Relations with shareholders of fraud and other irregularities.
In its financial reporting to shareholders the board aims to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups financial position The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Group website, www.
Legislation in the UK governing and prospects.
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The company maintains a corporate website, www.
com, containing a wide range of information of interest to institutional and By order of the board private investors and a subscription e-mail service is available which enables access to company notifications and news releases.
The company has periodic discussions with institutional shareholders on a range of issues affecting the Groups performance.
All shareholders, including private investors, have an opportunity to present questions to the board at the annual general meeting and the directors are available to meet informally with shareholders after the meeting.
B H Leigh Company Secretary compliance statement 29th July 2008 The directors consider that, the company complied with the provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code as contained in the rules of the UK Listing Authority with the following exception: Code Provision A.
3.2: The board recognises that the Code specifies that at least half of the members on the board excluding the Chairman should be independent non-executive directors.
The company did not comply with this provision between 1st June 2007 and 31st December 2007 during which period the board comprised the Chairman, a total of five executive directors and four non-executive directors.
During the period from 1st January 2008 to 31st May 2008 the company did comply with this provision as the board comprised the Chairman, a total of five executive directors and five non-executive directors.
In any event, however, each of the non-executive directors are determined by the board to be independent and their respective backgrounds clearly indicate that they are sufficient calibre and number for their views to carry significant weight in the boards decisions.
46 Annual Report 2008 Financial StatementS Financial StatementS Annual Report 2008 47
