COMPANY BALANCE SHEET NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31st may 2008 1 Basis of preparation 2008 2007 The accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice notes m m UK GAAP, under the historical cost convention.
As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, an entity profit and loss account is not included as part of the published consolidated financial statements of PZ Cussons Plc.
The profit for the financial year dealt with in the accounts of the parent company is 2.2 million 2007: 2.2 million.
Fixed assets Investments: No cash flow statement has been included as the cash flows of the company are included in the consolidated financial statements of Subsidiary companies 3 119.1 120.1 PZ Cussons Plc which are publicly available.
The consolidated financial statements of PZ Cussons Plc have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.
119.1 120.1 The company has no employees 2007: nil.
No costs were incurred by the company in respect of employees or directors 2007: nil.
Amounts paid to the companys auditors in respect of the statutory audit were 6,000 2007: 5,000. current assets Debtors falling due within one year 4 118.5 45.1 accounting policies Investments 5 2.0 10.1 The principal accounting policies applied under UK GAAP are detailed below.
They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and Cash at bank and in hand 4.4 the preceding year.
124.9 55.2 Foreign currencies creditors amounts falling due within one year 6 129.5 104.0 Assets and liabilities are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the date of the company balance sheet.
net current liabilities 4.6 48.8 taxation and deferred taxation Current tax including UK corporation tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been total assets less current liabilities 114.5 71.3 enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
creditors amounts falling due after one year 6 66.1 7.0 Deferred taxation is provided in full on timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law.
Timing differences arise net assets 48.4 64.3 from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included in financial statements.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the revaluation of fixed assets where there is no capital and reserves binding contract to dispose of these assets, nor on unremitted earnings where there is no binding commitment to remit these earnings.
Equity ordinary share capital 7 4.3 4.3 Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets Reserves attributable to equity interests: and liabilities are not discounted.
Capital redemption reserve 8 0.7 0.7 Profit and loss account 8 46.0 62.3 Borrowing costs Other reserve 9 2.6 3.0 Borrowing costs are not capitalised: they are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
total shareholders funds 48.4 64.3 Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the companys balance sheet when the company becomes a party to the contractual Approved by the board of directors and signed on its behalf by: provisions of the instrument.
Borrowings A J GREEN G A KANELLIS Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums 29th July 2008 payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis through the profit and loss account using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
The company has not entered into any transactions involving derivative instruments.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the company after deducting all of its liabilities.
Current asset investments Investments other than interests in joint ventures are recognised and derecognised on a trade date when a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
Investments are classified as either held-to-maturity, held-for-trading, loans and receivables or available-for-sale.
Held-to-maturity investments and loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost.
Held-for-trading and available-for-sale investments are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value.
Where securities are held-for-trading purposes, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included in net profit or loss for the period.
For available-for-sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the net profit or loss for the period.
investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are held at cost, less any provision for impairment.
critical accounting policies and estimation uncertainties None of the above accounting policies are considered to be critical to the financial statements of the company.
There are no significant areas of estimation uncertainty.
new accounting policies The company has not adopted any new United Kingdom Financial Reporting Standards in the year and there are none in issue but not yet effective that are expected to have an impact on the company.
84 Annual Report 2008 Financial StatementS Financial StatementS Annual Report 2008 85
