NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED General information 1 accounting policies continued PZ Cussons Plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office is given on the inside back cover.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of PZ Cussons Plc and entities controlled by PZ Cussons Plc its These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the subsidiaries made up to 31st May each year.
Control is achieved where the company has the power to govern the financial and operating Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 1. policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
1 accounting policies On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of European Union EU, including International Accounting Standards IAS and Interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to profit and loss Interpretations Committee IFRIC.
Further standards may be issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and standards in the period of acquisition.
currently in issue and endorsed by the EU may be subject to interpretations issued by the IFRIC.
The total profits or losses of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated income statement and the interest of minority shareholders is IFRS, as adopted by the EU, differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the IASB.
However, the consolidated financial statements for stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, losses applicable to the minority the periods presented would be no different had the Group applied IFRS as issued by the IASB.
References to IFRS hereafter should be in excess of the minoritys interest in the subsidiarys equity are allocated against the interests of the Group except to the extent that the construed as references to IFRS as adopted by the EU.
minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles under IFRS, requires management to The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best Where necessary, the accounts of the overseas subsidiaries are adjusted to conform to the Groups accounting policies.
All intra-group knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis except for the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets, and financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
Operating profit Operating profit is the profit of the Group before finance income, finance costs and taxation.
The financial statements have been prepared using consistent accounting policies except as stated below.
exceptional items Standards and interpretations The Group has adopted a columnar income statement format which seeks to highlight significant items within the Group results for the In preparing the consolidated financial statements the Group has adopted the following new IFRS and amendment to IAS which became period.
Such items are considered by the directors to be exceptional in nature rather than being representative of the underlying trading of effective during the year: the Group, and may include such items as restructuring costs, material impairments of non-current assets, material profits and losses on IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: and disposal of property, plant and equipment, profit or loss on disposal or termination of operations and material pension curtailments.
The directors apply judgement in assessing the particular items, which by virtue of their scale and nature should be disclosed in the middle column of Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures.
the income statement and notes to the financial statements as Exceptional items.
The directors believe that the separate disclosure of The following new interpretations of IFRIC, effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1st January 2007, have had no impact these items is relevant to an understanding of the Groups financial performance.
on the financial statements: Business combinations IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies: The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments: fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives: and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 Business Combinations are recognised at their fair values at the IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment.
acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations, which are recognised and measured at the lower of the assets previous carrying value The following new IFRS and interpretations and amendments to IFRS and IAS are not yet effective and have not been early adopted: and fair value less costs to sell.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments is effective for periods commencing on or after 1st January 2009: interests in joint ventures Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint Statements and IAS 23 Borrowing costs are all effective for periods commencing on or after 1st January 2009: and control, that is when the strategic financial and operating policy decisions relating to the activities require the unanimous consent of the IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group Treasury Share Transactions, IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements and IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty parties sharing control.
Joint venture arrangements that involve the establishment of a separate entity in which each venturer has an interest Programmes are effective for periods commencing on or after 1st January 2009. are referred to as jointly controlled entities.
The Group reports its interests in jointly controlled entities using the equity method of accounting, rather than proportional consolidation.
Under IAS 28 Investments in associates and IAS 31 Interests in joint ventures, a single figure for The adoption of this IFRS and these interpretations and amendments to IFRS and IAS is not expected to have a significant impact on the post-tax results is presented as a separate item on the face of the income statement as part of profit before tax within operating profit.
Long-term loans which are considered to be permanent as equity are combined with the Groups share of net assets liabilities and shown IFRS 3 revised Business Combinations is effective for periods commencing on or after 1st January 2010.
The Group uses external advisers on a single line within non-current assets.
Exchange differences on retranslation of loans treated as permanent as equity are taken to the to carry out its pre-acquisition due diligence process.
To date such direct costs have been included as a cost of acquisition.
On adoption of consolidated currency translation reserve.
IFRS 3 revised such costs will be expensed in the income statement.
This is considered to be the major change to the accounting treatment currently adopted by the Group.
The impact on the consolidated financial statements will depend on the number, size and complexity of acquisitions completed in the relevant period.
IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction is effective for periods commencing on or after 1st January 2008.
The interpretation clarifies the limitations on recognising defined benefit pension surpluses and the related deferred tax liabilities in the balance sheet and may also require recognition of an additional liability for any committed future contributions.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of this interpretation on the consolidated financial statements.
52 Annual Report 2008 Financial StatementS Financial StatementS Annual Report 2008 53
