FUTURE PLANs Delivering for the future INNOVATION CENTRE The Group operates in a variety of markets, including mature markets as The Innovation Centre will be the forefront well as emerging exciting vibrant markets offering potential for future growth.
in innovation in research and development in the personal wash sector.
Below are some of the projects and initiatives which we believe will help the Group capitalise and reinforce its strong position as well as helping us deliver our targets for profitable growth.
The Personal Wash Innovation Centre Our investment in Nigeria is continuing based in manchester is currently in with the commencement of a 39 million the course of construction.
This centre investment programme to upgrade will be the forefront in innovation in the Nigerian manufacturing facilities over research and development in the the next three years, bringing them personal wash sector.
in-line with the latest manufacturing technology and systems.
This will AGECROfT Phase one, the transfer of production add to our manufacturing capacity and The new world-class personal wash from the existing manufacturing site, is efficiency in Nigeria.
manufacturing facility based in manchester will well under way with production now be completed by the end of the calendar year.
commenced at the new site.
This phase The second factory to produce is on schedule to be completed by the nutritional products as part of the joint end of the calendar year.
venture with Glanbia, will come on stream early in 2009 with a new range The second phase, which is the of UhT format products.
This will construction of the research and enable us to increase our supply to the development centre and the transfer growing nutritional markets in Nigeria.
of the fragrance production facility from Ellesmere Port, will be completed early in 2009. fACTORy INVESTMENT IN NIGERA The Group is continuing to invest within Nigeria upgrading its manufacturing facilities.
22 Annual Report 2008 fUTURE PLANS fUTURE PLANS Annual Report 2008 23
