NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED General information 1 accounting policies continued PZ Cussons Plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office is given on the inside back cover.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of PZ Cussons Plc and entities controlled by PZ Cussons Plc its These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the subsidiaries made up to 31st May each year.
Control is achieved where the company has the power to govern the financial and operating Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 1. policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
1 accounting policies On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of European Union EU, including International Accounting Standards IAS and Interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to profit and loss Interpretations Committee IFRIC.
Further standards may be issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and standards in the period of acquisition.
currently in issue and endorsed by the EU may be subject to interpretations issued by the IFRIC.
The total profits or losses of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated income statement and the interest of minority shareholders is IFRS, as adopted by the EU, differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the IASB.
However, the consolidated financial statements for stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, losses applicable to the minority the periods presented would be no different had the Group applied IFRS as issued by the IASB.
References to IFRS hereafter should be in excess of the minoritys interest in the subsidiarys equity are allocated against the interests of the Group except to the extent that the construed as references to IFRS as adopted by the EU.
minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles under IFRS, requires management to The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best Where necessary, the accounts of the overseas subsidiaries are adjusted to conform to the Groups accounting policies.
All intra-group knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis except for the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets, and financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
Operating profit Operating profit is the profit of the Group before finance income, finance costs and taxation.
The financial statements have been prepared using consistent accounting policies except as stated below.
exceptional items Standards and interpretations The Group has adopted a columnar income statement format which seeks to highlight significant items within the Group results for the In preparing the consolidated financial statements the Group has adopted the following new IFRS and amendment to IAS which became period.
Such items are considered by the directors to be exceptional in nature rather than being representative of the underlying trading of effective during the year: the Group, and may include such items as restructuring costs, material impairments of non-current assets, material profits and losses on IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: and disposal of property, plant and equipment, profit or loss on disposal or termination of operations and material pension curtailments.
The directors apply judgement in assessing the particular items, which by virtue of their scale and nature should be disclosed in the middle column of Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures.
the income statement and notes to the financial statements as Exceptional items.
The directors believe that the separate disclosure of The following new interpretations of IFRIC, effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1st January 2007, have had no impact these items is relevant to an understanding of the Groups financial performance.
on the financial statements: Business combinations IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies: The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments: fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives: and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 Business Combinations are recognised at their fair values at the IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment.
acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations, which are recognised and measured at the lower of the assets previous carrying value The following new IFRS and interpretations and amendments to IFRS and IAS are not yet effective and have not been early adopted: and fair value less costs to sell.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments is effective for periods commencing on or after 1st January 2009: interests in joint ventures Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint Statements and IAS 23 Borrowing costs are all effective for periods commencing on or after 1st January 2009: and control, that is when the strategic financial and operating policy decisions relating to the activities require the unanimous consent of the IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group Treasury Share Transactions, IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements and IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty parties sharing control.
Joint venture arrangements that involve the establishment of a separate entity in which each venturer has an interest Programmes are effective for periods commencing on or after 1st January 2009. are referred to as jointly controlled entities.
The Group reports its interests in jointly controlled entities using the equity method of accounting, rather than proportional consolidation.
Under IAS 28 Investments in associates and IAS 31 Interests in joint ventures, a single figure for The adoption of this IFRS and these interpretations and amendments to IFRS and IAS is not expected to have a significant impact on the post-tax results is presented as a separate item on the face of the income statement as part of profit before tax within operating profit.
Long-term loans which are considered to be permanent as equity are combined with the Groups share of net assets liabilities and shown IFRS 3 revised Business Combinations is effective for periods commencing on or after 1st January 2010.
The Group uses external advisers on a single line within non-current assets.
Exchange differences on retranslation of loans treated as permanent as equity are taken to the to carry out its pre-acquisition due diligence process.
To date such direct costs have been included as a cost of acquisition.
On adoption of consolidated currency translation reserve.
IFRS 3 revised such costs will be expensed in the income statement.
This is considered to be the major change to the accounting treatment currently adopted by the Group.
The impact on the consolidated financial statements will depend on the number, size and complexity of acquisitions completed in the relevant period.
IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction is effective for periods commencing on or after 1st January 2008.
The interpretation clarifies the limitations on recognising defined benefit pension surpluses and the related deferred tax liabilities in the balance sheet and may also require recognition of an additional liability for any committed future contributions.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of this interpretation on the consolidated financial statements.
52 Annual Report 2008 Financial StatementS Financial StatementS Annual Report 2008 53 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 accounting policies continued 1 accounting policies continued intangible assets Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each Group entity are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Goodwill entity operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups each entity are expressed in sterling, which is the functional currency of the company, and the presentation currency for the consolidated interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary or jointly controlled entity recognised financial statements.
at the date of acquisition.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The interest In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency are recorded of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the minoritys proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and at the actual rate of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that contingent liabilities recognised.
are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Goodwill also includes amounts to reflect deferred tax liabilities established in relation to acquisitions in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Foreign exchange gains and losses arising from the settlement of foreign currency transactions and from the translation of monetary assets Combinations.
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
Exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities are recognised directly in equity.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group enters into forward contracts.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly.
frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the Cumulative foreign currency translation differences arising on the translation and consolidation of foreign operations income statements carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and and balance sheets denominated in foreign currencies are recorded as a separate component of equity.
Applying the exemption under then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for IFRS 1 First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, the Group has set the currency reserve to zero at 1st June 2004, goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is the date of transition to IFRS and measured and recorded separately in that currency reserve all cumulative foreign currency translation included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
differences arising after that date.
On disposal of a foreign operation the cumulative translation differences will be transferred to the income statement in the period of the disposal as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
Other intangible assets An acquired brand is only recognised on the balance sheet where it is supported by a registered trademark, where brand earnings are Government grants separately identifiable and the brand could be sold separately from the rest of the business.
Government grants related to property, plant and equipment are reflected in the balance sheet as deferred income and credited to the income Brands acquired as part of a business combination are recorded in the balance sheet at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Purchased brands statement over the useful lives of the assets concerned.
are recorded at purchase cost.
Brands currently held are not amortised as the directors believe they have indefinite lives.
In accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of assets, the brands are tested for impairment annually, and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be employee benefits impaired.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Retirement benefit obligations Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable The Group operates retirement benefit schemes in the United Kingdom and for most overseas countries in which it carries on business.
amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment Those in the United Kingdom are defined benefit schemes: overseas schemes vary in detail depending on local practice.
loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately as income.
Profit or losses on In respect of the defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with full disposal of brands are included within operating profit.
actuarial valuations being carried out every three years or more frequently should a material change occur in any of the schemes.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside profit and loss and presented in the non-current assets held for sale statement of recognised income and expense.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise amortised on a straight-line available for immediate sale in its present condition.
basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme Management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in the date of classification.
Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of the assets previous future contributions to the plan.
All components of the pension cost are included within operating profit carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services Share-based payments provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, rebates and sales related taxes but including interest receivable on sales on The Group operates a deferred annual share bonus scheme and an executive share option scheme for senior executives, both of which involve extended credit and income from the provision of technical services and agreements.
Sales of goods are recognised when title has passed equity-settled share-based payments.
and the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
Equity-settled share-based payments under the executive share option scheme are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non-market Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes pricing model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on leases managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the The awards under the deferred annual share bonus scheme are measured at fair value at the date of grant and are expensed over the period lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
to which the performance relates.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
54 Annual Report 2008 Financial StatementS Financial StatementS Annual Report 2008 55 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 accounting policies continued 1 accounting policies continued taxation Financial instruments Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never Derivative financial instruments taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Group uses derivative financial the balance sheet date.
instruments primarily foreign currency forward contracts to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations relating to certain Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the firm commitments and forecasted transactions.
financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet The occasional use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the board of directors, which provide written liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to principles in the use of financial derivatives consistent with the Groups risk management strategy.
The Group does not use derivative financial the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such instruments for speculative purposes.
assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value at the contract date, and are remeasured to fair value at subsequent reporting dates.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, are recognised directly in equity, and any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Borrowings The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis through the income statement are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent they are not settled in the period in statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities Trade receivables and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax liabilities on a Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable net basis.
Property, plant and equipment Trade payables Land and buildings held for use in the production or supply of goods or services, or for administration purposes, are stated in the balance Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
sheet at deemed cost at the date of transition to IFRS less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
All other assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Financial liabilities and equity Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets, other than land, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity method, on the following basis: instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Freehold buildings at rates not less than 2% Investments Leasehold buildings at rates which will reduce the book value to nil on or before the termination of the leases with a minimum of 2% Investments other than interests in joint ventures are recognised and derecognised on a trade date when a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially Plant and machinery not less than 8% measured at cost, including transaction costs.
Fixtures, fittings and vehicles not less than 20% Investments are classified as either held-to-maturity, held-for-trading, loans and receivables or available-for-sale.
Held-to-maturity investments In the case of major projects depreciation is provided from the date the project in question is brought into use.
and loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost.
Held-for-trading and available-for-sale investments are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value.
Where securities are held-for-trading purposes, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included in The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying net profit or loss for the period.
For available-for-sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly amount of the asset and is recognised in profit or loss for the period.
in equity, until the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the net profit or loss for the period.
inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and where applicable, direct Provisions labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Cost is calculated Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be using the FIFO method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been communicated to affected parties.
trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Research and development Research and development expenditure is charged against profits in the year in which it is incurred, unless it meets the criteria for capitalisation set out in IAS 38 Intangible assets.
cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash at bank and in hand plus short-term deposits less overdrafts.
Short-term deposits have a maturity of less than three months from the date of acquisition.
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management.
56 Annual Report 2008 Financial StatementS Financial StatementS Annual Report 2008 57
