AsIA 1 SAHAJA bASICS RANGE In Australia, the market for branded detergent products has The sahaja basics range, consisting become very competitive over the last few years following of soaps, lotions, talcum powder and shampoos, are a range of baby the introduction of private label ranges by the two retailers who products that cater for the essential needs of the consumer in their account for the majority of the trade.
2 MORNING fRESH WASHING-UP LIqUID Despite the trading environment morning Fresh is a popular global continuing to be competitive, sales and brand, which is marketed differently profitability were higher than the across our regions to suit local needs.
1 prior year due to continued innovation The Australian brand has recently across the brand portfolio of Radiant re-launched morning Fresh washing-up and Duo clothes care, morning Fresh 4 liquids using a new packaging design.
dishwash and Pure personal wash. A major innovation launch in the year 3 THAILAND INNOVATION CENTRE was Aquasave which is a new The Thailand Innovation Centre for Bar technology that allows the cleaning soaps is now helping to service the cycle to be as effective using shorter bar soap requirements of the Group.
washes and therefore less water in a country which faces continuing 4 bAby NEEDS RANGE pressures on its water resources.
This The Baby Needs range includes innovative technology has been utilised baby utensils such as bottles, bowls, effectively in both fabric care and in soothers and teats.
Further margin improvement initiatives were launched in the year 5 RADIANT AqUASAVE to counter the ongoing increases in raw Radiant Aquasave is a innovative 5 material costs which have particularly product that helps to use less water affected the detergent category.
in the clothes washing process.
sales and profitability of the other Asian 6 MORNING fRESH AqUASAVE units, Thailand, Malaysia and the Following on from the success of Middle East, were at a similar level the Radiant Aquasave, this new water to the prior year.
saving technology has also been implemented into dishwash products.
3 6 16 Annual Report 2008 bUSINESS REVIEW: ASIA bUSINESS REVIEW: ASIA Annual Report 2008 17 EUROPE Delivering innovation Our desire to grow our leading brands to category leading positions has resulted in innovative new product development as well as significant activity in brand renovation, with product relaunches and the introduction of innovative new variants, including special limited editions, in the competitive European market.
During the year The sanctuary brand and spa were acquired to enhance the European portfolio.
In the UK, trading has been strong with like for like image and have demonstrated the brands stretch revenue excluding The sanctuary up 9% versus potential using innovative formulations and the prior year.
This growth has been achieved packaging.
The brand has been supported in the through continued focus on renovating the brand year with short burst Tv advertisements together portfolios and delivering products that meet the with non-traditional forms of support such as needs of UK consumers.
sponsorship of extreme sports events.
Further extension of the portfolio will take place over All the UK brands performed well in the year, with the next few months with the launch of a new the business extending its number one market mens range of products.
share position in the personal wash category.
In haircare, the Charles Worthington brand has The largest brand of the UK business, Imperial maintained its number two position in the Leather, had another successful year with a professional haircare category by delivering high huggable, snuggable skin media campaign quality affordable haircare products to UK reinforcing the brands credentials of family and consumers through the major retailers.
In the last few months, the entire Imperial Results range of shampoos and conditioners, Leather range has been relaunched with a fresh including the successful Takeaway miniature new look and exciting new fragrances.
The range products, is complemented with other haircare has also been extended through the launch of a products in aftercare and styling.
An exciting new new product concept called Imperial Leather skin range of products called Time Defy will be Bliss.
This range features innovative moisture-lock launched over the next few months introducing technology that moisturises skin in a completely further innovation into the category.
new way by cleansing without stripping the skin of its natural oils.
The sanctuary brand and spa, purchased in January 2008, has continued to perform well under the The sanctuary business represents Carex continues to be the UK markets number Groups ownership.
Approximately two thirds of one anti-bacterial handwash with high consumer revenue and profits are derived from product an excellent strategic opportunity loyalty to the brand.
Recent extensions to the sales out of Boots, the sole UK distributor, with for PZ Cussons, giving a greater range such as anti-bacterial wipes and waterless the balance arising from The sanctuary spa in hand gels are performing well.
The brand Covent Garden, London.
presence in the masstige segment continues to be supported through specific media of the UKs personal care market exposure both on Tv and in magazines.
A post-acquisition review of the business has confirmed the exciting growth potential of through an established and well Original source was the UK markets fastest The sanctuary which will come from three areas: growing brand in the personal wash category last the UK products business, international product respected brand.
The brands image is based upon its natural sales and the spa division.
The majority of the fragrances with its target consumers those who management team and staff at The sanctuarys are looking for a cool and funky experience.
The head office in hemel hempstead have been recent range extensions of skin food in pouches retained with the spa at Covent Garden continuing and bath milk have strengthened the brands to run as an independent site.
18 Annual Report 2008 bUSINESS REVIEW: EUROPE bUSINESS REVIEW: EUROPE Annual Report 2008 19
