    The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also the Group and parent company financial statements, in accordance responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration with applicable law and regulations.
Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with the law and those regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements the corporate and financial information included on the Companys in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and have elected to website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation with UK Accounting Standards.
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and of the Annual Report performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in We, the Directors of the Company, confirm that to the best of our relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant knowledge: part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
n the financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and for the Company The parent company financial statements are required by law to give under UK GAAP, in accordance with applicable United Kingdom a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
law and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial position and profit or loss of the Group: and statements, the Directors are required: n the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development n to select suitable accounting policies and then apply them and performance of the business and the position of the Group, consistently: together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that face the Group.
n to make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: By order of the Board n to state for the Group financial statements, whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: n to state for the parent company financial statements, whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject Graham Love Doug Webb to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent   company financial statements: and n prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume the Group and the parent company will continue in operational business for the foreseeable future.
The Directors confirm they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
68  3june2008  PROOF5 final............. proofreaderfinal............. a cmanager
