QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial calendar, analysis of shareholders and advisors Financial calendar 30 July 2008 Interim management statement 30 July 2008 Annual General meeting 6 August 2008 Ex-dividend date 5 September 2008 Final ordinary dividend payable 30 September 2008 Interim financial period end 26 November 2008 Interim results announcement January 2009 Interim management statement provisional date February 2009 Interim dividend payment provisional date 31 March 2009 Financial year end May 2009 Preliminary announcement Analysis of shareholders Financial institutions with shareholding greater than 0.5m shares 62% Ministry of Defence 19% Other including employees, management and financial institutions with shareholding less than 0.5m 19% 100% Analysis as at 19 May 2008 Advisors Auditors Principal Legal Registrars KPMG Audit Plc Advisors Equiniti 8 Salisbury Square Herbert Smith LLP Aspect House London EC4Y 8BB Exchange House Spencer Road Primrose Street Lancing London EC2A 2HS West Sussex BN99 6DA Corporate Brokers Principal Bankers JPMorgan Cazenove Lloyds TSB Bank plc 20 Moorgate 25 Gresham Street London EC2R 6DA London EC2V 7HN Merrill Lynch International 2 King Edward Street London EC1A 1HQ 124 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual Report Accounts 3 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting ml PROOF FIVE final............. proofreader final............. a c manager QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 our business at a glance our business at a glance continued our business at a glance We create value by delivering inspired solutions to the important problems faced by business, governments and society, utilising our extensive experience, skills and capabilities in the field of science and technology.
QinetiQ Ventures QinetiQ north America QinetiQ emeA QinetiQ Ventures is the pipeline through which we manage our portfolio of emerging technologies, providing new solutions and services for the future.
QinetiQ generates Intellectual Property IP from customer-funded research and development work and other services provided to our core defence and security customers.
In certain circumstances, this IP is available for use in alternative applications outside our core markets.
QinetiQ unlocks value from IP through routes including organic growth, partnering with third parties, IP licensing and business realisations.
Key points from 2008 n Creation of a new technology venture fund with Coller Capital to accelerate the development and realisation of seven of QinetiQs venture investments n Development of a high-power camera system which enhances the capability of the Tarsier runway foreign object debris detection system.
QinetiQ north America has quickly established emeA europe, middle east and Australasia 40% 60% itself as a major provider of technology-based is focused on providing services to the defence, solutions and services to customers primarily security and energy & environment markets.
our employees work operating in these sectors requires our employees Share of 2008 Group revenue Share of 2008 Group revenue Designed and produced by salterbaxter in partnership with our customers to develop to adapt their capabilities to meet the changing Picture credits: world-class technology and responsive solutions needs of our customer base, particularly as we Feature photography: Liam Bailey UK, Eric Anderson US 41% 58% that meet the challenges of national defence, move into new territories such as Australia.
Board photography: Patrick Harrison p25 airport iStockphoto.
com ALiJA homeland security, communication and 5,699 8,209 p25 arrivals board iStockphoto.
com Jorgen Udvang information access.
Number of employees Number of employees p33 test munition: MOD p34 well perforation: GeoDynamics p36 James Brown: Paul Drane p36 laptop: Getty Sean Russell Our core capabilities Key points from 2008 Our core capabilities Key points from 2008 p37 plane landing on runway: Getty Noeru Takizawa n n technology solutions: Delivering high-technology research Continued growth in technology business fuelled by demand managed services: Work on behalf of clients delivering Growth in services delivered to UK MOD revenue up 2.5% p38 satellite iStockphoto.
com Cristian Matei services and development of defence and security-related for the TALON robot independent expertise to enable them to meet their challenges p49 Morgan car: Morgan n Restructuring to align business on four focused products to the US defence, civilian government and p49 rubbish heap iStockphoto.
com Roger Milley n Strong organic growth in Systems Engineering consulting: Technical advice provided by high-quality consultants offerings to drive growth: Managed Services, Consulting, commercial markets.
with deep technical knowledge and domain experience Integrated Systems and Applied Technologies n Successful integration of 13 acquisitions since 2004 and the Printed by St Ives Westerham Press systems engineering: Providing independent procurement n development of a trusted QinetiQ brand in North America Integrated systems: Supplies integrated systems, sub-systems or Restructuring designed to provide sustainable margin services, systems engineering, education training and support technology to meet the specific challenges our customers face improvement through business efficiency n Printed on Hello Matt, which is produced using wood fibre from fully sustainable Positions established on major acquisition contracts including for the development, modification, fielding and sustainment with their information, mission or platform solutions forests in Europe, Canada, the USA and Chile, with FSC certification.
All pulps used n EAGLE and ENCORE II and selection for Alliant Reconfirmed our position as a trusted supplier of defence of military equipment.
are Elemental Chlorine Free ECF and manufactured at a mill that has been awarded Applied technologies: Delivers a range of solutions to managed services through agreement of the scope n Scale and brand recognition leading to larger contract wins, It services: Providing information technology services, the ISO 14001 and EMAS certificates for environmental management.
The use of the our customers toughest problems through the repeatable and pricing of the second five-year term of the 25-year such as for the $190m NASA environmental test and integrated FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well-managed forests certified including computer systems integration, network engineering application of technology, fuelled by research.
MOD Long-Term Partnering Agreement LTPA and progression services ETIS programme and the $100m US Army Sample in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
and operations, IT architectures and software development.
of the UK Defence Training Rationalisation DTR bid Data Collection programme.
mission solutions: Delivering software, enterprise systems n Commenced geographic expansion in selected overseas engineering and integration and other consulting services markets, starting with Australia requiring specialised customer mission knowledge.
n MOD research continued success on competed programmes.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Inspired solutions for a changing world todays big problems demand inspired solutions.
At QinetiQ, we provide research, technical advice, technology solutions and services to customers in core markets of defence and security.
we are increasingly working to transfer our expertise and capabilities into adjacent markets such as energy and environment.
we operate principally in the uK and north America and have recently entered the Australian defence consulting market.
oveRvIew BusIness RevIew GoveRnAnce FInAncIAl stAtements shAReholdeR InFoRmAtIon Inside flap 11 50 69 122 Our business at a glance Group trading performance Our Board of Directors Independent Auditors Report Five-year review 01 13 52 70 123 Performance overview QinetiQ North America Corporate Governance Consolidated income Glossary Report statement 02 23 124 Chairmans statement QinetiQ EMEA 58 71 Financial calendar Report of the Remuneration Consolidated balance sheet Analysis of shareholders 04 35 Committee Advisors Chief Executive Officers QinetiQ Ventures 72 review 65 Consolidated cash flow 39 Report of the Directors statement 05 Other Group Our vision financial information 68 73 Statement of Directors Consolidated statement 10 42 responsibilities of recognised income Key performance indicators Management of principal risks and expense and uncertainties 74 45 Notes to the financial Corporate Responsibility statements 119 Company balance sheet 120 Notes to the Company financial statements Company Registration Customer Contact Team Tel 44 0 8700 100 942 Number 4586941 www.
com QinetiQ Registered office: Cody Technology Park QinetiQ Group plc 85 Buckingham Gate Ively Road, Farnborough QinetiQ CF SS PUB0800017 London Hampshire GU14 0LX SW1E 6PD United Kingdom QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
