QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 notes to the financial statements notes to the financial statements The financial statements of subsidiaries, joint ventures and 1. significant accounting policies associates are adjusted if necessary to ensure compliance with Group accounting policies.
Accounting policies The following accounting policies have been applied consistently to On consolidation all intra-Group income, expenses and balances are all periods presented in dealing with items which are considered eliminated.
material in relation to the Groups financial statements.
Certain comparatives have been restated following the finalisation during Revenue the year of the fair values of acquisitions completed in the prior year.
Revenue net of value added and other sales taxes represents the Further details on the restatements are provided in note 40. value of work performed for customers, measured on the following bases: Basis of preparation The Groups financial statements have been prepared and approved n revenue from fixed-price contracts is recognised in proportion to by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting the value of the work performed and includes attributable profit.
Standards and Interpretation pronouncements as adopted by the Depending on the nature of the contract, revenue is recognised as EU Adopted IFRS and the Companies Act 1985 applicable to contractually agreed-upon milestones are reached, as units are companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial delivered or as the work progresses.
Variations, incentive statements also comply fully with IFRSs as issued by the International payments and other claims are included where there is Accounting Standards Board.
The Company has elected to prepare reasonable certainty that they will be settled: its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP: these are presented on pages 119 to 121. n revenue on cost plus and time and materials contracts is recognised as work is performed: The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain financial n royalty revenue is recognised on the earlier of the date on which assets and liabilities including derivative financial instruments, the income is earned and measurable with reasonable certainty financial instruments classified as fair value through profit and loss or cash is received: and or as available for sale.
Non-current assets held for sale are held at the lower of historic cost and fair value.
The Group is domiciled in n revenue from sales of products and licensing of technology is the United Kingdom.
The Groups functional currency is sterling and recognised on acceptance by the customer and when the amount unless otherwise stated the financial statements are rounded to the of revenue can be measured reliably.
Third-party project costs Basis of consolidation Third-party project costs primarily consist of subcontracted research The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial and development costs and purchased materials incurred on behalf statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings up to of customers as part of funded projects, together with direct 31 March 2008.
The purchase method of accounting has been material costs used in product manufacture.
Under this method, the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed in the period are included in the consolidated Profit recognition income statement from the date control is obtained to the date that Profit on the supply of professional services on cost plus or time and control is lost usually on acquisition and disposal respectively.
materials contracts is recognised as the work is performed.
Profit on fixed-price contracts is recognised on a percentage of completion A subsidiary is an entity over which the Group has the power to basis once the contracts ultimate outcome can be foreseen with govern financial and operating policies in order to obtain benefits.
The principal estimation method used by the Potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible Group in attributing profit on contracts to a particular accounting are considered when determining control.
period is the preparation of forecasts on a contract by contract basis.
These focus on the costs to complete and enable an assessment to An associate is an undertaking over which the Group exercises be made of the most likely final out-turn of each contract.
significant influence usually from 20% to 50% of the equity voting Consistent contract review procedures are in place in respect of rights over financial and operating policy.
A joint venture is an contract forecasting.
Losses on completion are recognised in full as undertaking over which the Group exercises joint control.
Associates soon as they are foreseen.
and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method from the date of acquisition up to the date of disposal.
The Groups investments in associates and joint ventures are held at cost including goodwill on acquisition and any post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate less any impairment to the recoverable amount.
Where an associate or joint venture has net liabilities full provision is made for the Groups share of liabilities where there is a constructive or legal obligation to provide additional funding to the associate or joint venture.
74 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual Report Accounts 5 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting ml PROOF FIVE final............. proofreader final............. a c manager
