QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 notes to the financial statements notes to the financial statements The financial statements of subsidiaries, joint ventures and 1. significant accounting policies associates are adjusted if necessary to ensure compliance with Group accounting policies.
Accounting policies The following accounting policies have been applied consistently to On consolidation all intra-Group income, expenses and balances are all periods presented in dealing with items which are considered eliminated.
material in relation to the Groups financial statements.
Certain comparatives have been restated following the finalisation during Revenue the year of the fair values of acquisitions completed in the prior year.
Revenue net of value added and other sales taxes represents the Further details on the restatements are provided in note 40. value of work performed for customers, measured on the following bases: Basis of preparation The Groups financial statements have been prepared and approved n revenue from fixed-price contracts is recognised in proportion to by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting the value of the work performed and includes attributable profit.
Standards and Interpretation pronouncements as adopted by the Depending on the nature of the contract, revenue is recognised as EU Adopted IFRS and the Companies Act 1985 applicable to contractually agreed-upon milestones are reached, as units are companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial delivered or as the work progresses.
Variations, incentive statements also comply fully with IFRSs as issued by the International payments and other claims are included where there is Accounting Standards Board.
The Company has elected to prepare reasonable certainty that they will be settled: its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP: these are presented on pages 119 to 121. n revenue on cost plus and time and materials contracts is recognised as work is performed: The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain financial n royalty revenue is recognised on the earlier of the date on which assets and liabilities including derivative financial instruments, the income is earned and measurable with reasonable certainty financial instruments classified as fair value through profit and loss or cash is received: and or as available for sale.
Non-current assets held for sale are held at the lower of historic cost and fair value.
The Group is domiciled in n revenue from sales of products and licensing of technology is the United Kingdom.
The Groups functional currency is sterling and recognised on acceptance by the customer and when the amount unless otherwise stated the financial statements are rounded to the of revenue can be measured reliably.
Third-party project costs Basis of consolidation Third-party project costs primarily consist of subcontracted research The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial and development costs and purchased materials incurred on behalf statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings up to of customers as part of funded projects, together with direct 31 March 2008.
The purchase method of accounting has been material costs used in product manufacture.
Under this method, the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed in the period are included in the consolidated Profit recognition income statement from the date control is obtained to the date that Profit on the supply of professional services on cost plus or time and control is lost usually on acquisition and disposal respectively.
materials contracts is recognised as the work is performed.
Profit on fixed-price contracts is recognised on a percentage of completion A subsidiary is an entity over which the Group has the power to basis once the contracts ultimate outcome can be foreseen with govern financial and operating policies in order to obtain benefits.
The principal estimation method used by the Potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible Group in attributing profit on contracts to a particular accounting are considered when determining control.
period is the preparation of forecasts on a contract by contract basis.
These focus on the costs to complete and enable an assessment to An associate is an undertaking over which the Group exercises be made of the most likely final out-turn of each contract.
significant influence usually from 20% to 50% of the equity voting Consistent contract review procedures are in place in respect of rights over financial and operating policy.
A joint venture is an contract forecasting.
Losses on completion are recognised in full as undertaking over which the Group exercises joint control.
Associates soon as they are foreseen.
and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method from the date of acquisition up to the date of disposal.
The Groups investments in associates and joint ventures are held at cost including goodwill on acquisition and any post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate less any impairment to the recoverable amount.
Where an associate or joint venture has net liabilities full provision is made for the Groups share of liabilities where there is a constructive or legal obligation to provide additional funding to the associate or joint venture.
74 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual Report Accounts 5 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting ml PROOF FIVE final............. proofreader final............. a c manager FInAnCIAl sTATEmEnTs QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 notes to the financial statements continued Financing 1. significant accounting policies continued Financing represents the financial expense on borrowings accounted for using the effective rate method and the financial income earned Segmental information on funds invested.
Exchange differences on financial assets and Segmental information is presented in two formats: the primary liabilities and the income or expense from interest hedging format reflects the Groups management structure and markets in instruments that are recognised in the income statement are which the Group operates, whereas the secondary format is based included within interest income and expense in financing.
on geography i. e. location of customers.
The principal activities of the Group are managed through three sectors organised according Taxation to the distinct markets in which the Group operates: The taxation charge is based on the profit for the year and takes into n account taxation deferred because of temporary differences EMEA Europe, Middle East and Australasia which primarily between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting delivers technology solutions, consultancy and managed services purposes.
Current tax and deferred tax are charged or credited to to the Ministry of Defence in the UK, and civil and other the income statement, except where they relate to items charged or government customers in the UK and Australia: credited to equity in which case the relevant tax is charged or n QinetiQ North America which primarily provides technology and credited to equity.
services to the US Government: and Deferred taxation is the tax attributable to the temporary n Ventures which primarily comprises commercial product differences that appear when taxation authorities recognise and businesses and business venturing activities.
measure assets and liabilities with rules that differ from those of the consolidated financial statements.
The amount of deferred tax Segment results represent the contribution of the different provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or segments to the profit of the Group.
Corporate expenses are settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using allocated to the corresponding segments.
Unallocated items rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
comprise mainly profit on disposal of non-current assets, business divestments and unrealised impairment of investments, IPO costs, Any change in the tax rates are recognised in the income statement financing costs and taxation.
Eliminations represent inter-company unless related to items directly recognised in equity.
Deferred tax trading between the different segments.
liabilities are recognised on all taxable temporary differences excluding non-deductible goodwill.
Deferred tax assets are Segment assets comprise property, plant and equipment, goodwill recognised on all deductible temporary differences provided that it and other intangible assets, trade and other receivables, inventories is probable that future taxable income will be available against and prepayments and accrued income.
Unallocated assets represent which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are mainly corporate assets, including cash and cash equivalents and only offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset and deferred tax asset balances.
Segment liabilities comprise trade and there is an intention to settle balances net.
other payables, accruals and deferred income and retirement benefit obligations.
Unallocated liabilities represent mainly Goodwill corporate liabilities, current and deferred tax liabilities and bank Business combinations are accounted for under the purchase and other borrowings.
Segment assets and liabilities are as at the accounting method.
All identifiable assets acquired and liabilities end of the year.
and contingent liabilities incurred or assumed are recorded at fair value at the date control is transferred to QinetiQ, irrespective of the Research and development expenditure extent of any minority interest.
The cost of a business combination Research and development costs incurred on behalf of a customer is measured at the fair value of assets given, equity instruments as part of a specific project are chargeable to the customer on whose issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, behalf the work is undertaken.
The costs and the related income plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Any excess of the are included in their relevant income statement cost category and cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the revenue respectively.
net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised is capitalised as goodwill.
Goodwill is subject Internally funded development expenditure is capitalised in the to annual impairment reviews see overleaf.
If the cost of an balance sheet where there is a clearly defined project, the acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets acquired, expenditures are separately identifiable, the project is technically the difference is immediately recognised in the Consolidated and commercially feasible, all costs are recoverable by future Income Statement.
revenue and the resources are committed to complete the project.
Such capitalised costs are amortised over the forecast period of sales resulting from the development.
All other research and development costs are expensed to the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
If the research phase cannot be clearly distinguished from the development phase, the respective projectrelated costs are treated as if they were incurred in the research phase only and expensed.
75 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual Report Accounts 5 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting ml PROOF FIVE final............. proofreader final............. a c manager QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 notes to the financial statements continued Inventories 1. significant accounting policies continued Inventory and work-in-progress including contract costs are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Work-in-progress Intangible assets and manufactured finished goods are valued at production cost.
Intangible assets are recognised on business combinations at fair Production cost includes direct production costs and an appropriate value, which is calculated as the present value of future cash flows proportion of production overheads.
A provision is established when expected to be derived from those assets.
Internally generated the net realisable value of any inventory item is lower than its cost.
intangible assets are recorded at cost, including labour, directly attributable costs and any third-party expenses.
Purchased Bid costs intangible assets are recognised at cost less amortisation.
Intangible Costs incurred in bidding for work are normally expensed as assets are amortised over their respective useful lives on a straight incurred.
In the case of large multi-year government contracts the line basis as follows: bidding process typically involves a competitive bid process to determine a preferred bidder and then a further period to reach Intellectual property rights 28 years financial close with the customer.
In these cases, the costs incurred Development costs Useful economic life or unit of after announcement of the Group achieving preferred bidder status production method subject to a are deferred to the balance sheet within work-in-progress from the minimum amortisation of no less point financial close is reached and amortised over the life of the than straight line method over contract.
If an opportunity for which the Group was awarded economic life of 14 years preferred bidder status fails to reach financial close the costs Other 17 years deferred to that point will be expensed in the income statement Property, plant and equipment immediately it becomes likely that financial close will not be achieved.
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less depreciation.
Amounts recoverable on contracts and payments received Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other tangible non-current assets on account are depreciated on a straight line basis over their useful economic Amounts recoverable on contracts are included in trade and other lives to their estimated residual value as follows: receivables and represent revenue recognised in excess of amounts Freehold buildings 2025 years invoiced.
Payments received on account are included in trade Leasehold land and buildings Shorter of useful economic life and and other payables and represent amounts invoiced in excess of the period of the lease revenue recognised.
Plant and machinery 310 years Cash and cash equivalents Fixtures and fittings 510 years Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and short-term Computers 35 years deposits that are readily convertible into cash.
In the cash flow Motor vehicles 35 years statement overdraft balances are included in cash and equivalents.
Assets under construction are included in property, plant and Current and non-current liabilities equipment on the basis of expenditure incurred at the balance sheet Current liabilities include amounts due within the normal operating date.
In the case of assets constructed by the Group, the value cycle of the Group.
includes the cost of own work completed, including directly attributable costs but excluding interest.
Interest-bearing current and non-current liabilities are recognised at fair value and then stated at amortised cost with any difference The useful lives, depreciation methods and residual values applied between the cost and redemption value being recognised in the to property, plant and equipment are reviewed annually and if they income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective change significantly depreciation charges for current and future interest rate basis.
If the carrying amount of any asset exceeds its recoverable amount an impairment loss is recognised Provisions immediately in the income statement.
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, Investment property and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be The Group accounts for investment property using the cost model.
required to settle the obligation.
Where appropriate provisions are Investment property is recorded on the balance sheet at cost less determined by discounting the expected cash flows at the Groups any accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment weighted average cost of capital.
The fair value of investment property is reviewed annually by management or expert valuers where appropriate.
Non-current assets held for sale Where the carrying value of an asset will be recovered principally Impairment of tangible, goodwill, intangible and held for sale assets through a sale transaction rather than continuing use the asset is The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an classified as held for sale.
Held for sale assets are held at the lower indication that an asset may be impaired.
In addition, goodwill is of net book value and net realisable value.
Depreciation is not tested for impairment annually irrespective of any indication of charged on assets classified as held for sale.
If the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount, the respective asset or the assets in the cash generating unit are written down to their recoverable amounts.
The recoverable amount of an asset or a cash generating unit is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
The value in use is the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from an asset or cash generating unit calculated using an appropriate discount rate.
Impairment losses are expensed to the income statement.
76 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual Report Accounts 5 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting ml PROOF FIVE final............. proofreader final............. a c manager FInAnCIAl sTATEmEnTs QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 notes to the financial statements continued Loan issue costs 1. significant accounting policies continued Costs associated with the arrangement of bank facilities or the issue of loans are capitalised and deducted from the associated liability Financial instruments presented in the balance sheet.
Capitalised issue costs are released Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the over the estimated life of the facility or instrument to which they Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the relate using the effective interest rate method.
If it becomes clear contractual provisions of the instrument.
The derecognition of a that the facility or instrument will be redeemed early, the financial instrument takes place when the Group no longer controls amortisation of the issue costs will be accelerated.
the contractual rights that comprise the financial instrument, which is normally the case when the instrument expires or is sold, Leased assets terminated or exercised.
Leases are classified as finance leases when substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are held by the lessee.
Investments in debt and equity securities Investments held by the Group are classified as either a current Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in asset or as a non-current asset and being classified as available property, plant and equipment at the lower of the present value of for sale are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss minimum lease payments and fair value at the inception of the being recognised directly in equity, except for impairment losses.
Assets are then depreciated over the shorter of their useful When these investments are derecognised, the cumulative gain economic lives or the lease term.
Obligations relating to finance or loss previously recognised directly in equity is recognised in the leases, net of finance charges arising in future periods, are included income statement.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the The fair value of quoted financial instruments is their bid price at term of the lease.
Foreign currencies The fair value of unquoted equity investments is measured in Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of accordance with British Venture Capital Association BVCA exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
The Groups unlisted investments are usually held at fair liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at period-end rates.
value based upon the price of the most recent investment by the Any resulting exchange differences are taken to the income Group or a third-party less any impairment.
Gains and losses on designated forward foreign Derivative financial instruments exchange hedging contracts are matched against the foreign Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at cost and exchange movements on the underlying transaction.
thereafter held at fair value, being the market value for quoted Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries and associated instruments or valuation based on models and discounted cash flow undertakings and joint ventures, including any related goodwill, are calculations for unlisted instruments.
translated to sterling at the rate of exchange at the balance sheet Hedging fair value date.
The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries and Changes in the fair value of fair value hedges of currency risk or associated undertakings and joint ventures are translated to sterling interest rate risk are recognised in the income statement.
The using the average rates of exchange during the period.
Exchange hedged item is held at fair value with respect to the hedged risk adjustments arising from the re-translation of the opening net with any gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
investment and the results for the period to the period-end rate are taken directly to equity and reported in the Statement of Recognised Hedging cash flow Income and Expense.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as a cash flow hedge that are regarded as highly effective are recognised in equity.
Post-retirement benefits The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income The Group provides both defined contribution and defined benefit statement.
Where a hedged item results in an asset or a liability, pension arrangements.
The liabilities of the Group arising from gains and losses previously recognised in equity are included in the defined benefit obligations, and the related current service cost, are cost of the asset or liability.
Gains and losses previously recognised determined using the projected unit credit method.
Valuations for in equity are removed and recognised in the income statement at accounting purposes are carried out half yearly for the largest plans the same time as the hedged transaction.
and on a regular basis for other plans.
Actuarial advice is provided by external consultants.
For the funded defined benefit plans, the Hedging net investment excess or deficit of the fair value of plan assets less the present The changes in fair value of derivatives used to hedge the net value of the defined benefit obligation are recognised as an asset or investment in a foreign entity are recognised in equity until the net a liability respectively.
investment is sold or disposed.
Any ineffective portion is recognised directly in the income statement.
For defined benefit plans the actuarial cost charged to the income statement consists of current service cost, interest cost, expected return on plan assets and past service cost.
All of these elements are charged as a component of employee costs in the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full immediately through the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
77 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual Report Accounts 5 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting ml PROOF FIVE final............. proofreader final............. a c manager QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 notes to the financial statements continued The following new standards or interpretations to existing 1. significant accounting policies continued standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups future accounting periods.
They have not been early adopted in Contributions to defined contribution plans are charged to the these financial statements: income statement as incurred.
IFRs 8, Operating segments effective for annual periods beginning Share-based payments on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRS 8 requires an entity to report The Group operates share-based payment arrangements with financial and descriptive information about its reportable segments.
The fair value of equity settled options for share-based The Group will apply IFRS 8 from 1 April 2009 but it is not expected payments is determined on grant and expensed straight line over to have any significant impact on the Groups financial statements.
the period from grant to the date of earliest unconditional exercise.
The fair value of cash-settled options for share-based payments is The following standards and interpretations to existing standards determined each period end until exercised or they lapse.
The value have not yet been endorsed by the EU: is expensed straight line over the period from grant to the date of earliest unconditional exercise.
The fair value of both equity settled IAs 1, Amended Presentation of Financial statements: A Revised and cash settled share options is calculated by a binomial option Presentation effective for annual periods beginning on or after pricing model.
The charges for both equity and cash-settled share- 1 January 2009.
This revision is intended to improve users ability to based payments are updated annually for non-market-based analyse and compare information given in financial statements and vesting conditions.
included within the changes is the introduction of a statement of comprehensive income.
This is not expected to have any significant Share capital impact on the Groups financial statements.
Ordinary share capital of the Company is recorded as the proceeds received less issue costs.
IAs 23 Amendment, Borrowing Costs effective for qualifying assets for which the commencement date for capitalisation is on or Company shares held by the employee benefit trusts are held at the after 1 January 2009.
The amendment to IAS 23 requires borrowing consideration paid.
They are classified as own shares within equity.
costs that relate to assets that take a substantial period of time Any gain or loss on the purchase, sale or issue of Company shares is to get ready for use or sale to be capitalised as part of the cost of recorded in equity.
The Group has reviewed the potential impact of this amendment and does not consider it would have any material impact Restatement of prior periods for finalisation of fair values arising on on the Groups financial statements based on its current operations.
acquisitions The fair values of the net assets of acquired business are finalised IAs 32, Financial Instruments and related amended to IAs 1 within 12 months of the acquisition date, with the exception of Presentation of Financial statements effective for annual periods certain deferred tax balances.
All fair value adjustments are recorded beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
These amendments deal with with effect from the date of acquisition and consequently may the balance sheet classification of puttable financial instruments result in the restatement of previously reported financial results and obligations arising only on liquidation.
This is not expected to see note 40. have any significant impact on the Groups financial statements.
Recent accounting developments IFRs 2, share-based payment Amendment Vesting conditions and With effect from 1 April 2007 the Group has adopted IFRS 7, cancellations effective for annual periods beginning on or after Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
This amendment clarifies that vesting conditions required disclosures for financial instruments, but does not have any are only service conditions and performance conditions and that impact on the consolidated income statement or balance sheet.
other features of share-based payments are non-vesting conditions.
It also specifies that all cancellations, whether by the entity or by The following amendments and interpretations to published other parties, should receive the same accounting treatment.
This standards are also effective for accounting periods beginning on is expected to accelerate the recognition of share-based payment or after 1 April 2007: charges in respect of leavers which would not have any significant IFRIC 7, Applying the restatement approach under IAS 29: impact on the Groups financial statements given current employee attrition rates.
IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2: IFRIC 9, Reassessment of embedded derivatives: IFRIC 10, Interim financial reporting and impairment: IFRIC 11, IFRS2, Group and Treasury Share Transactions: and Amendment to IAS1, Presentation of financial statements capital disclosures.
None of these have any significant impact on the Groups financial statements.
78 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual Report Accounts 5 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting ml PROOF FIVE final............. proofreader final............. a c manager FInAnCIAl sTATEmEnTs QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 notes to the financial statements continued Business combinations 1. significant accounting policies continued Intangible assets recognised on business combinations have been valued using established methods and models to determine IFRs 3, Business Combinations Revised and related revisions to IAs estimated value and useful economic life, with input, where 27 Consolidated and separate Financial statements Revised both appropriate, from external valuation consultants.
Such methods effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. require the use of estimates which may produce results that are These revisions introduce some changes to the application of the different from actual future outcomes.
acquisition method of accounting for business combinations.
For example, all transaction costs will be expensed, all payments to The Group tests annually whether goodwill and reviews whether purchase a business will be recorded at fair value at the acquisition identified intangible assets have suffered any impairment.
This date, with some contingent payments subsequently re-measured at process is reliant on the use of estimates of the future profitability fair value through the income statement, and goodwill may be and cash flows of its cash generating units which may differ from calculated based on the parents share of net assets or it may the actual results delivered.
include goodwill related to the minority interest.
These revisions will impact the way in which the Group reports business combinations Post-retirement benefits in future periods, in particular the expensing of transaction costs The Groups defined benefit pension obligations and net income and adjustments to the fair value of contingent consideration statement costs are based on key assumptions including return on through the income statement.
plan assets, discount rates, mortality, inflation and future salary and pension increases.
Management exercise their best judgement, in IFRIC 12, service Concession Arrangements effective for annual consultation with actuarial advisors, in selecting the values for these periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008.
IFRIC 12 requires that assumptions that are the most appropriate to the Group.
Small certain elements of service concession agreements may be treated changes in these assumptions at the balance sheet date, individually as either a financial asset or an intangible asset.
The Group has or collectively, may result in significant changes in the size of the reviewed its long-term managed services agreements and does not deficit or the net income statement costs.
consider that IFRIC 12 is relevant to any of its operations.
Research and development expenditure IFRIC 13, Customer loyalty Programmes effective for annual periods Internally funded development expenditure is capitalised when beginning on or after 1 July 2008.
IFRIC 13 addresses accounting for criteria are met and is written off over the forecast period of sales loyalty award credits to customers who buy other goods and resulting from the development.
Management decides upon the services.
This is not expected to have any impact on the Groups adequacy of future demand and market for such new products in financial statements.
order to justify capitalisation of internally funded development expenditure, which can be difficult to determine when dealing with IFRIC 14, IAs 19 The limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, minimum such innovative technologies.
Actual product sales may differ from Funding Requirements and their Interaction effective for annual these estimates.
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008.
IFRIC 14 requires an entity to only recognise a surplus on a defined benefit postTax retirement scheme if there is an unconditional right to realise them In determining the Groups provisions for income tax and deferred at some point during the life of the plan or when the plan is settled.
tax it is necessary to assess the likelihood and timing of recovery of It can also require schemes with deficits to recognise additional tax losses created and to consider transactions in a small number deficits to reflect agreed future funding commitments.
of key tax jurisdictions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
To the extent that if the final outcome differs from the Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying tax that has been provided, adjustments will be made to income tax accounting policies and deferred tax provisions held in the period the determination The following commentary is intended to highlight those policies is made.
that are critical to the business based on the level of management judgement required in their application, their complexity and their Provisions potential impact on the results and financial position reported for Provisions relate to constructive obligations arising principally from the Group.
The level of management judgement required includes restructuring programmes.
Such provisions are calculated based on assumptions and estimates about future events which are estimates such as the expected calculation of redundancy costs or uncertain, the actual outcome of which may result in a materially the future marketability of surplus property from such programmes.
different outcome from that anticipated.
Actual costs incurred may differ from these estimates.
Revenue and profit recognition Unquoted equity investments The estimation process required to evaluate the potential outcome The Group usually judges the fair value of unquoted equity of contracts and projects requires skill, knowledge and experience investments using the valuation ascribed to the investment by from a variety of sources within the business to assess the status a third-party funding round or similar valuation event for that of the contract, costs to complete, internal and external labour investment.
In determining the value of an investment the Group resources required and other factors.
This process is carried out may use information from funding rounds, business plans and continuously throughout the business to ensure that project forecasts, market projections and other estimation techniques as and contract assessments reflect the latest status of such work.
These valuation techniques require estimates of the No profit is recognised on a contract until the outcome can be businesss future performance.
The actual businesss performance reliably estimated.
of investments may differ from these estimates.
79 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual Report Accounts 5 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting ml PROOF FIVE final............. proofreader final............. a c manager
