SHAREHOLDERS INFORMATION Notice of the annual general meeting Notice is hereby given that the annual general meeting of the company will be held in the conference room of the Atlantic Hotel, St. Bredale, Jersey, JE3 8HE, Channel Islands on 5 May 2009 at 08h15 for the following business: d The senior independent director, in addition to ORDINARY BUSINESS OF THE COMPANY the general annual retainer but in lieu of any 1 To receive and adopt the companys financial committee assignment fee, to receive an statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 additional US$85 000. and the reports of the directors and the auditors e The non-executive chairman, in addition to thereon.
the general annual retainer but in lieu of any 2 To elect Christopher Lewis Coleman whose committee assignment fee, to receive an appointment automatically ends on the day of the additional US$170 000. annual general meeting in accordance with the f An award to each director of restricted shares articles of association as a non-executive director.
being 1 200 ordinary shares per year.
The Mr Coleman was appointed to the board on shares are to vest over a three year period from 3 November 2008 and his election is recommended the date of the award, being 1 January 2010. by the board.
Vesting would accelerate on the following Mr Coleman is co-head of banking at N M Rothschild.
conditions: He is a board director of N M Rothshild & Sons i. termination other than resignation or Limited, chairman of Rothschild Bank International dismissal: Limited in the Channel Islands and serves on a ii.
voluntary retirement after the age of 65 number of other boards and committees of the with a minimum of three years service as Rothschild Group.
In terms of the definitions of the a director: and Combined Code and the Sarbanes Oxley Act, Mr iii.
change in control of the company.
Coleman is deemed an independent non-executive director.
6 To re-appoint BDO Stoy Hayward LLP as auditors of 3 To elect Jon Walden whose appointment the company.
automatically ends on the day of the annual general meeting in accordance with the articles of Notes association as a non-executive director.
Mr Walden The register of directors interests and copies of all service was appointed to the board on 3 November 2008 and contracts of the company will be available during normal is recommended by the board for election.
Mr business hours at the registered office from the date of this Walden is currently the managing director at Lex, a notice until the conclusion of the meeting.
A member subsidiary of HBOS plc, is the senior independent entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one non-executive director of Morgan Sindell plc and was or more proxies to attend, vote, speak and act in his her formerly a main board member of RAC plc.
A proxy need not be a member of the company.
For Previously he held various roles within RAC and also the convenience of members who are unable to attend the at Rank Xerox, having qualified as a chartered meeting but wish to be represented thereat, a proxy form is accountant at Touche Ross now Deloitte & Touche attached.
Attention is drawn to the fact that, if it is to be LLP.
In terms of the definitions of the Combined effective, a completed proxy form must reach Code and the Sarbanes Oxley Act, Mr Walden is Computershare Investor Services Channel Islands deemed an independent non-executive director.
Limited, at least 48 hours Saturday, Sunday and public holidays excluded before the time appointed for the 4 To receive and adopt the report of the remuneration meeting, being 14h15 on Thursday 30 April 2009. committee.
By order of the board 5 To approve fees payable to directors as follows: a A general annual retainer to all non-executive directors of US$50 000. b An annual committee assignment fee per committee served: i. audit committee US$35 000: ii.
remuneration committee US$25 000: and iii.
nomination and governance committee David J Haddon US$10 000.
Secretary c The chairman of a board committee to receive an additional premium to the committee 18 March 2009 assignment fee of US$15 000.
