FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of directors responsibilities and approval of the annual financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
The directors are also required to prepare financial statements for the group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The directors have chosen to prepare financial statements for the company in accordance with IFRS.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance of proper accounting records and the preparation, integrity and fair presentation of the financial statements of Randgold Resources Limited company and its subsidiaries group.
The directors also prepared the other information included in the annual report and are responsible for both its accuracy and its consistency with the financial statements.
The directors also have general responsibility for selecting suitable accounting policies and applying them consistently, and for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The going concern basis has been adopted in preparing the financial statements.
The directors have no reason to believe that the group and company will not be a going concern in the foreseeable future based on forecasts and available cash resources.
The viability of the company and the group is supported by the financial statements.
The financial statements have been audited by the independent accounting firm, BDO Stoy Hayward LLP, which was given unrestricted access to all financial records and related data, including minutes of all meetings of shareholders, the board of directors and committees of the board.
The directors believe that all representations made to the independent auditors during their audit were valid and appropriate.
BDO Stoy Hayward LLPs audit report is presented on page 77.
The maintenance and integrity of the Randgold Resources Limited website is the responsibility of the directors.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the report since it was initially presented on the website.
Legislation in Jersey and the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial information may differ from other jurisdictions.
DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO DTR4 The directors confirm to the best of their knowledge: The financial statements, presented on pages 78 to 107, have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as endorsed by the European Union, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the requirements of Companies Jersey Law 1991 and give a true and fair view of the profit of the group and company and of the assets, liabilities, financial position of the group and company as at 31 December 2008.
The annual report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the financial position of the group and the parent company, together with a description or the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The financial statements were approved by the board of directors on 18 March 2009 and are signed on its behalf by: P Litard DM Bristow Chairman Chief executive 76 | Randgold Resources
