Shareholders diary Randgold Resources is an African-focused gold mining and 800 exploration business with primary listings on the London Stock 600 Exchange and Nasdaq.
400 Financial year end 31 December Annual general meeting Tuesday 5 May 2009 Major discoveries to date include the 7.5 million ounce Morila deposit in southern Mali, the 200 7 million ounce Yalea deposit at Loulo in western Mali and the 4 million ounce Tongon deposit in the Cte dIvoire.
Randgold Resources financed and built the Morila mine which Announcement of quarterly results 0 since October 2000 has produced more than 5 million ounces of gold and distributed more First quarter Thursday 7 May 2009 than US$1.3 billion to stakeholders.
It also financed and built the Loulo project which started Second quarter Tuesday 4 August 2009 as two open pit mines in November 2005.
Since then, an underground mine has been Third quarter Tuesday 10 November 2009 developed at the Yalea deposit and a second underground operation is planned for the Gara Year end and fourth quarter Monday 8 February 2010 deposit.
First gold production from the companys new Tongon project is scheduled for the fourth quarter of 2010.
Stock exchange Ticker symbol Randgold Resources has an extensive portfolio of organic growth prospects, constantly replenished by intensive exploration programmes in Mali, Senegal, Burkina Faso, Cte Ticker symbols dIvoire, Ghana and Tanzania.
Its advanced targets include the significant new Massawa London Stock Exchange ords RRS Nasdaq Stock Market ADRs GOLD discovery in Senegal, currently at scoping study stage.
Key assets millions WEST millions AFRICA MALI Loulo mine SENEGAL Morila mine Massawa discovery BURKINA FASO Kiaka Tongon mine project development CTE DIVOIRE GHANA AFRICA millions Randgold Resources Annual Report 2008 London Stock Exchange: RRS TANZANIA Nasdaq: GOLD www.
com Cover: The resource triangle is the model for Randgold Resources exploration driven organic growth.
Generative work across some of Africas highest potential gold belts feeds a steady stream of prospects into the base of the triangle.
This constantly replenished stock of opportunities provides the candidates for a rigorous evaluation and promotion process that delivers advanced targets, projects and ultimately profitable operations.
Designed and produced by du Plessis Associates 02 | Randgold Resources Randgold Resources | Annual Report 2008 | Building a sustainably profitable business Building a sustainably profitable business 2008 Annual Report www.
