Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 Note 3.
The following standards and interpretations 1 NATURE OF OPERATIONS which have been recently issued or revised have not The company and its subsidiaries the group been adopted early by the group.
together with its joint ventures carry out gold mining Their expected impact is discussed below: activities and exploration.
Currently there are two AMENDMENT TO IAS 23 BORROWING COSTS operating mines in Mali, West Africa: effective for annual periods beginning on or after the Morila mine, which commenced production in 1 January 2009.
The amendment removes the October 2000, and the Loulo mine, which option of immediately recognising as an expense commenced production in November 2005.
The borrowing costs that relate to qualifying assets group also has a portfolio of exploration projects assets that take a substantial period of time to in West and East Africa.
The interests of the get ready for use or sale.
Instead, an entity will group in its operating mines are held through be required to capitalise borrowing costs Morila SA Morila which owns the Morila mine whenever the conditions for capitalisation are and Somilo SA Somilo which owns the Loulo met.
The company will apply amendments to IAS mine.
Randgold Resources holds an effective 23 from 1 January 2009, but it is not expected to 40% interest in Morila, following the sale to have any significant impact on the accounts of the AngloGold Ashanti Limited on 3 July 2000 of one company or group.
half of Randgold Resources wholly-owned AMENDMENT TO IFRS 2 SHARE-BASED subsidiary, Morila SA.
Management of Morila PAYMENT: VESTING CONDITIONS AND CANLimited, the 80% shareholder of Morila, is effected CELLATIONS effective for annual periods through a joint venture committee, with Randgold beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
This Resources and AngloGold Ashanti each amendment clarifies that vesting conditions are appointing one half of the members of service conditions and performance conditions the committee.
Other features of a share-based payment Services Mali SA Anser, a subsidiary of are not vesting conditions.
The purpose of AngloGold Ashanti, was the operator of Morila.
making the distinction is so as to be able to On 15 February 2008, Randgold Resources address the accounting for non-vesting assumed responsibility for the operatorship.
conditions, which were not previously covered by Randgold Resources holds an effective 80% IFRS 2.
The guidance in IFRS 2 covering the interest in Loulo.
The remaining 20% interest is accounting for vesting conditions is not affected held by the Malian government.
The amendment also Resources is the operator of Loulo.
specifies that all cancellations, whether by the The group has various exploration programmes entity or by other parties, should receive the same ranging from substantial to early stage in western accounting treatment.
The amendment is likely to Mali, around Morila and in Senegal, Burkina Faso, have a particular impact on entities operating Tanzania, Cte dIvoire and Ghana.
Save As You Earn SAYE schemes because it Site establishment has started at Tongon in Cte results in an immediate acceleration of the IFRS 2 dIvoire ahead of the main construction expense if an employee decides to stop programme and orders have been placed for all contributing to the savings plan, as well as a the long lead time items, including the mills and potential revision to the fair value of the awards mining fleet.
Progress has been made regarding granted to factor in the probability of employees the approval of the mining convention.
The company will apply amendments to IFRS 2 from 1 January 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 2009, but it is not expected to have any significant The principal accounting policies applied in the impact on the accounts of the company or group.
preparation of these consolidated financial statements AMENDMENTS TO IAS 1 PRESENTATION OF are set out below.
These policies have been FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: A REVISED PREconsistently applied to all the years presented, unless SENTATION effective for annual periods otherwise stated.
beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The Basis of preparation amendment to IAS 1 affects the presentation of The consolidated financial statements of Randgold owner changes in equity and of comprehensive Resources Limited and its subsidiaries have been income.
An entity will be required to present, in a prepared in accordance with International Financial statement of changes in equity, all owner changes Reporting Standards and Interpretations collectively in equity.
All non-owner changes in equity ie IFRS issued by the International Accounting comprehensive income are required to be Standards Board IASB as adopted by the European presented in one statement of comprehensive Union and in accordance with Article 104 of the income or in two statements a separate income Companies Jersey Law of 1991.
The consolidated statement and a statement of comprehensive financial statements also comply with |FRS as issued by income.
The standard does not change the the IASB, required as a result of our listing on Nasdaq recognition, measurement or disclosure of in the US.
The differences between IFRS as adopted specific transactions and other events required by the European Union and IFRS as issued by the IASB by other IFRSs.
The company will apply have not had a material impact on the consolidated amendments to IAS 1 from 1 January 2009, but it financial statements for the years presented.
The is not expected to have any significant impact on consolidated financial statements have been prepared the accounts of the company or group.
under the historical cost convention, as modified by the AMENDMENTS TO IAS 27 CONSOLIDATED AND revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets, and SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS effective various financial assets and financial liabilities for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July including derivative instruments which are carried at 2009.
This amendment relates in particular to fair value.
The preparation of financial statements in acquisitions of subsidiaries achieved in stages conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical and disposals of interests, with significant differences in the accounting treatment accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the depending on whether control is gained or not, or companys accounting policies.
The areas involving a a transaction simply results in a change in the percentage of the controlling interest.
The high degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the amendment does not require the restatement of previous transactions.
The amendment to IAS 27 consolidated financial statements, are disclosed in Randgold Resources | 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued must be adopted at the same time as IFRS 3 annual periods beginning on or after 1 January Revised.
The company will apply amendments to 2009.
This interpretation clarifies the definition of IAS 27 from 1 January 2010, but it is not expected a construction contract, the interaction between to have any significant impact on the accounts of IAS 11 and IAS 18 and provides guidance on how the company or group.
to account for revenue when the agreement for AMENDMENTS TO IAS 32 AND IAS 1 PUTTABLE the construction of real estate falls within the FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND OBLIGATIONS scope of IAS 18.
ARISING ON LIQUIDATION effective for annual For some entities, the interpretation may give rise periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. to a shift from the recognition of revenue using the This amendment results in certain types of percentage of completion method to the financial instrument that meet the definition of a recognition of revenue at a single time eg at liability, but represent the residual interest in the completion, upon or after delivery.
Affected net assets of the entity, being classified as equity.
agreements will be mainly those accounted for in The amendment requires entities to classify the accordance with IAS 11 that do not meet the following types of financial instruments as equity, definition of a construction contract as interpreted provided they have particular features and meet by the IFRIC and do not result in a continuous specific conditions: a puttable financial transfer ie agreements in which the entity transfers to the buyer control and the significant instruments: and, b instruments, or components of instruments, that impose on the entity an risks and rewards of ownership of the work in progress in its current state as construction obligation to deliver to another party a pro rata progresses.
The company will apply IFRIC 15 share of the net assets of the entity only on from 1 January 2009, but it is not expected to liquidation.
The company will apply amendments have any significant impact on the accounts of the to IAS 32 from 1 January 2009, but it is not company or group.
expected to have any significant impact on the IFRIC 16 HEDGES OF A NET INVESTMENT IN A accounts of the company or group.
FOREIGN OPERATION effective for annual AMENDMENTS TO IFRS 1 AND IAS 27 COST OF periods beginning on or after 1 October 2008.
AN INVESTMENT IN A SUBSIDIARY, JOINTLY IFRIC 16 clarifies that: a the presentation CONTROLLED ENTITY OR ASSOCIATE effective currency does not create an exposure to which an for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January entity may apply hedge accounting.
This amendment allows a first-time Consequently, a parent entity may designate as a adopter that, in its separate financial statements, hedged risk only the foreign exchange elects to measure its investments in subsidiaries, differences arising from a difference between its jointly controlled entities or associates at cost to own functional currency and that of its foreign initially recognise these investments either at cost operation: b the hedging instrument s may be determined in accordance with IAS 27 or deemed held by any entity or entities within the group, cost being either its fair value at the date of other than the entity being hedged: c while transition to IFRSs or its previous GAAP carrying IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and amount at that date.
The company will apply Measurement must be applied to determine the amendments to IFRS 1 and IAS 27 from amount that needs to be reclassified to profit or 1 January 2009, but it is not expected to have any loss from the foreign currency translation reserve impact on the accounts of the company or group.
in respect of the hedging instrument, IAS 21.
The AMENDMENT TO IAS 39 FINANCIAL INSTRUEffects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates MENTS: RECOGNITION AND MEASUREMENT: must be applied in respect of the hedged item.
ELIGIBLE HEDGED ITEMS effective for annual IFRIC 16 applies prospectively from its effective periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The company will apply IFRIC 16 from amendment clarifies how the principles that 1 January 2009, but it is not expected to have any determine whether a hedged risk or portion of impact on the accounts of the company or group.
cash flows is eligible for designation should be IFRIC 17 DISTRIBUTIONS OF NON-CASH applied in the designation of a one-sided risk in a ASSETS TO OWNERS ESTATE effective for hedged item, and inflation in a financial hedged annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. item.
The company will apply amendments to Prior to this interpretation, IFRSs did not address IAS 39 from 1 January 2010, but it is not expected how an entity should measure distributions of to have any impact on the accounts of the assets other than cash when it pays dividends.
Dividends payable were sometimes recognised at IFRIC 13 CUSTOMER LOYALTY PROGRAMMES the carrying amount of the assets to be effective for annual periods beginning on or after distributed and sometimes at their fair value.
The Interpretation addresses interpretation clarifies that: a dividend payable accounting by entities that grant loyalty award should be recognised when the dividend is credits such as points or travel miles to appropriately authorised and is no longer at the customers who buy other goods or services.
discretion of the entity: that an entity should Specifically, it explains how such entities should measure the dividend payable at the fair value of account for their obligations to provide free or the net assets to be distributed: and, that an entity discounted goods or services awards to should recognise the difference between the customers who redeem award credits.
The dividend paid and the carrying amount of the net interpretation requires entities to allocate some of assets distributed in profit or loss.
The the proceeds of the initial sale to the award credits interpretation also requires an entity to provide and recognise these proceeds as revenue only additional disclosures if the net assets being held when they have fulfilled their obligations.
They for distribution to owners meet the definition of a may fulfil their obligations by supplying awards discontinued operation.
IFRIC 17 applies to pro themselves or engaging and paying a third party rata distributions of non-cash assets except for to do so.
The company will apply IFRIC 13 from common control transactions.
It does not have to 1 January 2009, but it is not expected to have any be applied retrospectively.
The company will impact on the accounts of the company or group.
apply IFRIC 17 from 1 January 2010, but it is not IFRIC 15 AGREEMENTS FOR THE CONexpected to have any impact on the accounts of STRUCTION OF REAL ESTATE effective for the company or group.
84 | Randgold Resources IFRS 8 OPERATING SEGMENTS ESTATE The group has adopted the following standards which effective for annual periods beginning on or after are effective for the first time this year.
This standard requires an entity discussed below: to adopt the management approach to reporting IFRIC INTERPRETATION 11 IFRS 2 SHAREon the financial performance of its operating BASED PAYMENT - GROUP AND TREASURY SHARE TRANSACTIONS effective for annual segments.
Generally, the information to be periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007.
This reported would be what management uses interpretation addresses the classification of a internally for evaluating segment performance share-based payment transaction as equity or and deciding how to allocate resources to cash-settled, in which equity instruments of the operating segments.
Such information may be parent or another group entity are transferred, in different from what is used to prepare the income the financial statements of the entity receiving statement and balance sheet.
The standard also accounts of the company or group.
The company requires explanations of the basis on which the has applied IFRIC Interpretation 11 from segment information is prepared and 1 January 2008, but it has not had any impact on reconciliations to the amounts recognised in the the accounts of the company or group.
income statement and balance sheet.
The IFRIC INTERPRETATION 12 SERVICE CONcompany will apply IFRS 8 from 1 January 2009, CESSION ARRANGEMENTS effective for annual but it is not expected to have any significant periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008. impact on the accounts of the company or group.
This interpretation provides guidance to private IMPROVEMENTS TO IFRSs effective for annual sector entities on certain recognition and periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. measurement issues that arise in accounting This amendment takes various forms, including for public to private service concession the clarification of the requirements of IFRSs and arrangements.
The company has applied IFRIC the elimination of inconsistencies between Interpretation 12 from 1 January 2008, but it has standards.
The most significant changes cover not had any impact on the accounts of the the following issues: the classification of assets company or group.
and liabilities as held for sale where a nonIFRIC 14 AND IAS 19 THE LIMITS ON DEFINED controlling interest is retained: accounting by ASSET, MINIMUM FUNDING REQUIREMENTS companies that routinely sells assets previously AND THEIR INTERACTION for annual periods held for rental to others: accounting for loans beginning on or after 1 January 2008.
This given at a nil or below market rate of interest: the interpretation clarifies when refunds or reductions reversal of impairments against investments in in future contributions should be regarded as associates accounted for using the equity available in accordance with paragraph 58 of method: the timing of expense recognition for IAS 19, how a minimum funding requirement costs incurred on advertising and other might affect the availability of reductions in future promotional activity: and accounting for contributions and when a funding requirement properties in the course of construction.
The might give rise to a liability.
The company has company will apply improvements to IFRSs from applied IFRIC Interpretation 14 from 1 January 1 January 2009, but it is not expected to have any 2008, but it has not had any impact on the significant impact on the accounts of the accounts of the company or group.
AMENDMENTS TO IAS 39 AND IFRS 7: REREVISED IFRS 1 FIRST-TIME ADOPTION OF CLASSIFICATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUINTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING MENTS effective 1 July 2008 AMENDMENTS TO STANDARDS effective for annual periods IAS 39 AND IFRS 7: RECLASSIFICATION OF beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS - EFFECTIVE DATE revised version of IFRS 1 has an improved AND TRANSITION effective 1 July 2008.
This structure but does not contain any technical amendment permits an entity to reclassify nonchanges.
This revision is not applicable to the derivative financial assets other than those company, as it already prepares its financial designated at fair value through profit or loss by statements under IFRS.
the entity upon initial recognition out of the fair REVISED IFRS 3 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS value through profit or loss category in particular effective for annual periods beginning on or after circumstances.
The amendment also permits an 1 July 2009.
The basic approach of the existing entity to transfer from the available-for-sale IFRS 3 to apply acquisition accounting in all category to the loans and receivables category a cases and identify an acquirer is retained in this financial asset that would have met the definition revised version of the standard.
This includes of loans and receivables if the financial asset had much of the current guidance for the identification not been designated as available for sale, if the and recognition of intangible assets separately entity has the intention and ability to hold that from goodwill.
However, in some respects the financial asset for the foreseeable future.
The revised standard may result in very significant company has applied the amendment to IAS 39 changes, including: the requirement to write off all and IFRS 7 from 1 July 2008, but it has not had acquisition costs to profit or loss instead of any impact on the accounts of the company or including them in the cost of investment: the group.
requirement to recognise an intangible asset even Consolidation if it cannot be reliably measured: and, an option to The consolidated financial information includes the gross up the balance sheet for goodwill financial statements of the company, its subsidiaries attributable to minority interests which are and the companys proportionate share in joint ventures renamed non-controlling interests.
The revised using uniform accounting policies for like transactions standard does not require the restatement of and other events in similar circumstances.
Revised IFRS 3 Subsidiaries must be adopted at the same time as the Subsidiaries are entities over which the group has the amendment to IAS 27.
The company will apply power to govern the financial and operating policies, the IFRS from 1 January 2010, the impact on the generally accompanying an interest of more than one company and group will depend on future half of the voting rights.
consolidated from the date on which control is Randgold Resources | 85 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued transferred to the group.
They are fide-consolidated exploration income and costs not directly related to the from the date that control ceases.
The purchase mining operations are not allocated to segments.
method of accounting is used to account for the Foreign currency translation acquisition of subsidiaries by the group.
The cost of an FUNCTIONAL AND PRESENTATION CURRENCY acquisition is measured at the fair value Items included in the financial statements of each of the of the assets given, equity instruments issued groups entities are measured using the currency of the and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of primary economic environment in which the entity exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the operates the functional currency.
Identifiable assets acquired including financial statements are presented in US dollars, which mineral property interests and liabilities and contingent is the group and the companys functional and liabilities assumed in a business combination are presentation currency.
measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition TRANSACTIONS AND BALANCES date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value relevant functional currency using the exchange rates of the groups share of the identifiable net assets prevailing at the date of the transactions.
Foreign acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of exchange gains and losses resulting from the acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of settlement of such transactions and from the translation the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and directly in the income statement.
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised recognised in the income statement.
gains on transactions between group companies are Property, plant and equipment eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated UNDEVELOPED PROPERTIES unless the transaction provides evidence of an Undeveloped properties upon which the group has not impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting performed sufficient exploration work to determine policies of subsidiaries have been changed where whether significant mineralisation exists are carried at necessary to ensure consistency with the policies original acquisition cost.
Where the directors consider adopted by the group.
that there is little likelihood of the properties being Joint ventures exploited, or the value of the exploitable rights has Joint ventures are those entities in which the group diminished below cost, an impairment is recorded.
holds a long term interest and which are jointly LONG-LIVED ASSETS controlled by the group and one or more joint venture Long-lived assets including development costs and partners under a contractual arrangement.
The groups mine plant facilities are initially recorded at cost.
Where interest in such jointly controlled entities is accounted relevant the estimated cost of dismantling the asset and for by proportionate consolidation.
Under this method remediating the site is included in the cost of property, the group includes its share of the joint ventures plant and equipment, subsequently they are measured individual income and expenses, assets and liabilities at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
and cash flows on a line by line basis with similar items Development costs and mine plant facilities relating to in the groups financial statements.
Inter company existing and new mines are capitalised.
Development accounts and transactions are eliminated on costs consist primarily of direct expenditure incurred to consolidation.
establish or expand productive capacity and are The group recognises the portion of gains or losses on capitalised until commercial levels of production are the sale of assets by the group to the joint venture that achieved, after which the costs are amortised.
is attributable to the other joint venture partners.
The SHORT-LIVED ASSETS group does not recognise its share of profits or losses Short-lived assets including non-mining assets are from the joint venture that result from the purchase of shown at cost less accumulated depreciation and assets by the group from the joint venture until it resells impairment.
the assets to an independent party.
However, if a loss DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION on the transaction provides evidence of a reduction in Long-lived assets include mining properties, such as the net realisable value of current assets or an freehold land, metallurgical plant, tailings and raw impairment loss, the loss is recognised immediately.
water dams, power plant and mine infrastructure, as The results of joint ventures are included from the well as mine development costs.
Depreciation and effective dates of acquisition and up to the effective amortisation are charged over the life of the mine or dates of disposal.
over the remaining useful life of the asset, if shorter Investment in subsidiaries and joint venture based on estimated ore tonnes contained in proven Are stated at cost less any provisions for impairment in and probable reserves, to reduce the cost to estimated the financial statements of the company.
Proven and probable ore reserves accounted for when the company becomes entitled to reflect estimated quantities of economically receive them.
On the disposal of an investment, the recoverable reserves, which can be recovered in the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the future from known mineral deposits.
Total proven and carrying amount is charged or credited to the income probable reserves are used in the depreciation statement.
The remaining useful lives for Morila and Segment reporting Loulo are estimated at four and a minimum of 15 years A business segment is a group of assets and respectively.
Any changes to the expected life of the operations engaged in performing mining or other mine or asset are applied prospectively in calculating services that are subject to risks and returns that are depreciation and amortisation charges.
Short-lived different from those of other business segments.
A assets which include motor vehicles, office equipment geographic segment is engaged in providing products and computer equipment are depreciated over or services within a particular economic environment estimated useful lives of between two to five years but that is subject to risks and returns that are different from limited to the remaining mine life.
Residual values and those of segments operating in other economic useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Changes to the estimated environments.
The group has only one business segment, that of gold mining.
Segment analysis is residual values or useful lives are accounted for based on individual mining operations.
86 | Randgold Resources IMPAIRMENT Interest borrowing cost The carrying amount of the property, plant and Is recognised on a time proportion basis, taking into equipment of the group is compared to the recoverable account the principal outstanding and the effective rate amount of the assets whenever events or changes in over the period to maturity.
Borrowing cost is expensed circumstances indicate that the net book value may not as incurred except to the extent that it relates directly to be recoverable.
The recoverable amount is the higher the construction of property, plant and equipment of value in use and the fair value less cost to sell.
In during the time that is required to complete and assessing the value in use, the expected future cash prepare the asset for its intended use, when it is flows from the assets is determined by applying a capitalised as part of property, plant and equipment.
discount rate to the anticipated pre-tax future cash Borrowing cost is capitalised as part of the cost of the flows.
The discount rate used is based on the US long asset where it is probable that the asset will result in bond rates.
An impairment is recognised in the income economic benefit and where the borrowing cost can be statement to the extent that the carrying amount measured reliably.
exceeds the assets recoverable amount.
Financial instruments The revised carrying amounts are amortised in line with These are measured as set out below.
A previously recognised instruments carried on the balance sheet include cash impairment loss is reversed if the recoverable amount and cash equivalents, receivables, accounts payable, increases as a result of a reversal of the conditions that borrowings and derivative financial instruments.
originally resulted in the impairment.
This reversal is Derivatives recognised in the income statement and is limited to the The group uses derivative financial instruments such as carrying amount that would have been determined, net gold forward contracts to manage the risks associated of depreciation, had no impairment loss been with commodity prices.
Derivatives are initially recognised in prior years.
Assets are grouped at the recognised at fair value on the date a derivative lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable contract is entered into and are subsequently recash flows cash generating units for purposes of measured to their fair value.
The estimates of future The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss discounted cash flows are subject to risks and depends on whether the derivative is designated as a uncertainties including the future gold price.
It is hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item therefore reasonably possible that changes could being hedged.
The group designates certain occur which may affect the recoverability of mining derivatives as hedges of highly probable forecast assets.
The fair value of Stripping costs derivative financial instruments that are traded on an All stripping costs incurred costs incurred in removing active market is based on quoted market prices at the overburden to expose the ore during the production phase of a mine are treated as variable production balance sheet date.
The fair value of financial instruments not traded on an active market is costs and as a result are included in the cost of inventory produced during the period that the stripping determined using appropriate valuation techniques.
the inception of the transaction, the group documents Inventories the relationship between hedge instruments and Include ore stockpiles, gold in process and supplies hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and spares and are stated at the lower of cost or net and strategy for undertaking various hedge realisable value.
The cost of ore stockpiles and gold transactions.
The group also documents its produced is determined principally by the weighted assessment, both at hedge inception and on an average cost method using related production costs.
ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used Costs of gold inventories include all costs incurred up in hedging transactions have been and will continue to until production of an ounce of gold such as milling be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or costs, mining costs and directly attributable mine cash flows of hedged items.
Refer to Note 21 for general and administration costs but exclude transport treatment of the groups gold contracts.
costs, refining costs and royalties.
Net realisable value CASH FLOW HEDGE is determined with reference to current and future The effective portion of changes in the fair value of estimations of market prices.
Morila uses a selective derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow mining process and has a number of grade categories.
hedges is recognised in equity in the hedging reserve.
Full grade ore is defined as ore above 1.4g t and The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is marginal ore is defined as ore between 1.0g t and recognised immediately in the income statement.
1.4g t. Mineralised waste is between 0.7g t and 1.0g t Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the and waste being less than 0.7g t. Full grade ore and income statement in the periods when the hedged item marginal ore form part of the inventory.
Under present will affect profit or loss for instance when the forecast market conditions the mineralised waste is classified as sale that is hedged takes place.
All stockpile grades are currently being instrument expires or is sold or terminated, or when a processed and all ore is expected to be fully hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge processed.
This does not include high grade tailings at accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in Morila, which are carried at zero value due to equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised uncertainty as to whether they will be processed when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised through the plant.
For Loulo, Yalea material less than in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction 0.7g t is classified as mineralised waste and is not in is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or inventory, while material less than 0.5g t from Gara is loss that was reported in equity is immediately regarded as mineralised waste and is not in inventory.
transferred to the income statement.
The processing of ore in stockpiles occurs in The fair values of derivative instruments used for accordance with the life of mine processing plan that hedging purposes are disclosed in Note 20. has been optimised based on the known mineral Movements on the hedging reserve in shareholders reserves, current plant capacity and mine design.
The full fair value of a Stores and materials consist of consumable stores and hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset are valued at weighted average cost after appropriate or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged impairment of redundant and slow moving items.
item is more than 12 months: it is classified as a current Consumable stock for which the group has asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are brought on to the balance sheet.
hedged item is less than 12 months.
Randgold Resources | 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Receivables Rehabilitation projects undertaken, included in the estimates, are charged to the provision as incurred.
Are recognised initially at fair value.
There is a Environmental liabilities, other than rehabilitation costs, rebuttable presumption that the transaction price is fair which relate to liabilities arising from specific events, value unless this could be refuted by reference to are expensed when they are known, probable and may market indicators.
Subsequently, receivables are be reasonably estimated.
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest Provisions method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for Are recognised when the group has a present legal or impairment of trade receivables is established when constructive obligation as a result of past events where there is objective evidence that the group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the original terms of receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered Current tax Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the indicators that the trade receivable may be impaired.
The amount of the provision is the difference between taxable income for the year calculated using rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective by the balance sheet date.
It includes adjustments for tax expected to be payable or recoverable in respect of interest rate.
The amount of the provision is recognised previous periods.
Deferred taxation Cash and cash equivalents Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance method, on temporary differences arising between the sheet at cost.
For the purpose of the cash flow tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
on hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short However, if the temporary difference arises from initial term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other months or less at the date of purchase and bank than a business combination that at the time of the overdrafts.
In the balance sheet, bank overdrafts are transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit included in borrowings in current liabilities.
or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax is Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
Available-fordate and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability sale financial assets are designated on acquisition.
They are normally included in current assets and are is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be carried at fair value, however current market conditions resulted in managements decision to reclassify these available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary as non current in order to more accurately reflect their differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and nature.
Where a decline in the fair value of an availablejoint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of for-sale financial asset constitutes objective evidence the temporary difference is controlled by the group and of impairment, the amount of the loss is recognised in it is probable that the temporary difference will not the income statement as part of finance costs.
reverse in the foreseeable future.
Borrowings Share capital Are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds options are shown in equity as a deduction from the net of transaction costs and the redemption value is proceeds.
recognised in the income statement over the period of Employee benefits the borrowings using the effective interest method.
PENSION OBLIGATIONS Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless The group has defined contribution plans.
A defined the group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance contribution plan is a pension plan under which the group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
Accounts payable The group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold Accounts payable and other short term monetary sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits liabilities, are initially recognised at fair value and relating to employee service in the current and prior subsequently carried at amortised cost using the periods.
For defined contribution plans, the group pays effective interest method.
contributions to publicly or privately administered Rehabilitation costs provident funds on a mandatory, contractual or The net present value of estimated future rehabilitation voluntary basis.
The group has no further payment costs is provided for in the financial statements and obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The capitalised within mining assets on initial recognition.
contributions are recognised as employee benefit Rehabilitation will generally occur on closure or after expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are closure of a mine.
Initial recognition is at the time of the recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund disturbance occurring and thereafter as and when or a reduction in the future payments is available.
The estimates are TERMINATION BENEFITS reviewed annually to take into account the effects of Termination benefits are payable when employment is inflation and changes in estimates and are discounted terminated before the normal retirement date, or using rates that reflect the time value of money.
Annual whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy increases in the provision due to the unwinding of the in exchange for these benefits.
The group recognises discount are recognised in the income statement as a termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed finance cost.
The present value of additional disturbances and changes in the estimate of the to either: terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without rehabilitation liability are capitalised to mining assets against an increase in the rehabilitation provision.
The possibility of withdrawal: or providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage rehabilitation asset is amortised as noted previously.
Benefits falling due more than Exploration and evaluation costs 12 months after balance sheet date are discounted to The group expenses all exploration and evaluation present value.
expenditures until the directors conclude that a future PROFIT-SHARING AND BONUS PLANS economic benefit is more likely than not of being realised, ie probable.
While the criteria for concluding The group recognises a liability and an expense for that an expenditure should be capitalised is always bonuses.
The group recognises a provision where probable, the information that the directors use to make contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that determination depends on the level of exploration.
that has created a constructive obligation.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure on SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS brownfield sites, being those adjacent to mineral The fair value of the employee services received in deposits which are already being mined or exchange for the grant of options or shares after developed, is expensed as incurred until the 7 November 2002 is recognised as an expense.
The directors are able to demonstrate that future total amount to be expensed rateably over the vesting economic benefits are probable through the period is determined by reference to the fair value of completion of a prefeasibility study, after which the options or shares determined at the grant date, the expenditure is capitalised as a mine excluding the impact of any non-market vesting development cost.
Non-market vesting conditions are consists of a comprehensive study of the viability included in assumptions about the number of options of a mineral project that has advanced to a stage that are expected to become exercisable or the number where the mining method, in the case of of shares that the employee will ultimately receive.
This underground mining, or the pit configuration, in estimate is revised at each balance sheet date and the the case of an open pit, has been established, difference is charged or credited to the income and which, if an effective method of mineral statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
processing has been determined, includes a The proceeds received on exercise of the options net of financial analysis based on reasonable any directly attributable transaction costs are credited assumptions of technical, engineering, operating to equity.
economic factors and the evaluation of other Finance leases relevant factors.
The prefeasibility study, when combined with existing knowledge of the mineral Determining whether an arrangement is, or contains, a property that is adjacent to mineral deposits that lease is based on the substance of the arrangement are already being mined or developed, allow the and requires an assessment of whether fulfilment of the directors to conclude that it is more likely than not arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific that the group will obtain future economic benefit asset or assets and whether the arrangement conveys from the expenditures.
Leases of plant and equipment Exploration and evaluation expenditure on where the group assumes a significant portion of risks greenfield sites, being those where the group and rewards of ownership are classified as a finance does not have any mineral deposits which are lease.
Finance leases are capitalised at the estimated already being mined or developed, is expensed present value of the underlying lease payments.
Each until such time as the directors have sufficient lease payment is allocated between the liability and the information to determine that future economic finance charges to achieve a constant rate on the benefits are probable.
The information required finance balance outstanding.
The interest portion of the by directors is typically a final feasibility study finance payment is charged to the income statement however a prefeasibility study may be deemed to over the lease period.
The plant and equipment be sufficient where the additional work required to acquired under the finance lease are depreciated over prepare a final feasibility study is not sufficient.
the useful lives of the assets, or over the lease term if Exploration and evaluation expenditure relating to shorter.
extensions of mineral deposits which are already Operating leases being mined or developed, including expenditure Determining whether an arrangement is, or contains, a on the definition of mineralisation of such mineral lease is based on the substance of the arrangement deposits, is capitalised as a mine development and requires an assessment of whether fulfilment of the cost following the completion of an economic arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific evaluation equivalent to a prefeasibility study.
asset or assets and whether the arrangement conveys This economic evaluation is distinguished from a prefeasibility study in that some of the information a right to use the asset.
Leases in which a significant that would normally be determined in a portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are prefeasibility study is instead obtained from the retained by the lessor are classified as operating existing mine or development.
Payments made under operating leases are when combined with existing knowledge of the charged to the income statement on a straight-line mineral property already being mined or basis over the period of the lease.
developed allow the directors to conclude that Revenue recognition more likely than not the group will obtain future The company enters into contracts for the sale of gold.
economic benefit from the expenditures.
Costs Revenue arising from gold sales under these contracts relating to property acquisitions are also is recognised when the price is determinable, the capitalised.
These costs are capitalised within product has been delivered in accordance with the development costs.
terms of the contract, the significant risks and rewards Dividend distribution of ownership have been transferred to the customer Dividend distribution to the companys shareholders is and collection of the sales price is reasonably assured.
recognised as a liability in the groups financial These criteria are met when the gold leaves the mines statements in the period in which the dividends are smelt houses.
As sales from gold contracts are subject approved by the board of directors and declared to to customer survey adjustment, sales are initially shareholders.
recorded on a provisional basis using the groups best Earnings per share estimate of the contained metal.
Subsequent Is computed by dividing net income by the weighted adjustments are recorded in revenue to take into average number of ordinary shares in issue during the account final assay and weight certificates from the year.
refinery, if different from the initial certificates.
The Diluted earnings per share differences between the estimated and actual Is presented when the inclusion of potential ordinary contained gold have not been significant historically.
shares has a dilutive effect on earnings per share.
