FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND Derivative valuation JUDGEMENTS The company uses valuations obtained from banks for the mark-to-market estimation of the Loulo hedge book.
Some of the accounting policies require the application The banks use the following key inputs in the of significant judgement by management in selecting valuations: the appropriate assumptions for calculating financial estimates.
By their nature, these judgements are 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007 subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty and are based on historical experience, terms of existing LIBOR rates 3.92 - 1.83% 5.36 - 4.70% contracts, managements view on trends in the gold Spot gold prices US$865.00 US$836.50 mining industry and information from outside sources.
Gold lease rates 0.23 - 1.11% 0.12 - 0.26% Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the Share-based payments carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next Refer to Note 18 for the key assumptions used in financial year are: determining the value of share-based payments.
Future rehabilitation obligations Areas of judgement made in applying specific accounting policies that have the most significant effect The net present value of current rehabilitation estimates on the amounts recognised in the financial statements have been discounted to their present value at 3.5% are: per annum 2007: 4%, for Morila, being an estimate of EXPLORATION AND EVALUATION EXPENDITURE the prevailing interest rates.
A 3.5% 2007: 4% The group has to apply judgement in determining discount rate was used for Loulo.
Expenditure is whether exploration and evaluation expenditure should expected to be incurred at the end of the respective be capitalised or expensed.
For further information, including the this judgement based on the results of economic carrying amounts of the liabilities, refer to Note 14.
A evaluations, prefeasibility or feasibility studies.
Costs 1% change in the discount rate on the groups are capitalised where those studies conclude that more rehabilitation estimates would result in a US$1.5 million likely than not the group will obtain future economic 2007: US$1.2 million impact on the provision for benefit from the expenditures.
DEPRECIATION There are several methods for calculating depreciation, Gold price assumptions The following gold prices were used in the mineral ie the straight line method, the production method using ounces produced and the production method reserves optimisation calculations: using tonnes milled.
The directors believe that the tonnes milled method is the best indication of plant and US$ 2008 2007 infrastructure usage.
CLASSIFICATION AND VALUATION METHODOLOGY OF AUCTION RATE SECURITIES ARS Morila 650 525 The group has applied judgment in the classification of Loulo: open pit 650 550 the ARS.
These financial assets consist of auction rate Loulo: underground 650 550 securities with a par value of US$49 million and a Tongon 650 525 carrying value of US$38.6 million.
The trading market for these instruments has become substantially illiquid Changes in the gold price used could result in changes as a result of unusual conditions in the credit markets.
in the mineral reserve optimisation calculations.
Mine The company continues to receive interest payable on these securities.
As these investments have been modelling is a complex process and hence is it not illiquid for more than twelve months and there is no feasible to perform sensitivities on gold price certainty that they will become liquid within the next assumptions.
twelve months, the assets have been reclassified into Determination of ore reserves the non-current section of available-for-sale financial The group estimates its ore reserves and mineral assets to more accurately reflect their nature.
resources based on information compiled by Management estimates the fair value of these Competent Persons as defined in accordance with the investments at each reporting period.
Management Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, applies a mark to model in their valuation methods and Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves of December the model is based upon observable market inputs.
Reserves determined in this This method relies upon inputs from the ratings way are used in the calculation of depreciation, agencies in respect of the underlying collateral, amortisation and impairment charges, as well as the including credit ratings, likelihood of default and assessment of the carrying value of mining assets.
recoverability in the event of default.
Management There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating considers the primary indication of the carrying value of the ARS to be the credit rating and the continued ore reserves and assumptions that are valid at the time receipt of interest.
Where the ARS investments have of estimation may change significantly when new been down-graded below investment grade, this is information becomes available.
Changes in the deemed to be an indication of impairment.
forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, CARRYING VALUES OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND production costs or recovery rates may change the EQUIPMENT economic status of reserves and may, ultimately, result The group assesses at each reporting period whether in the reserves being restated.
there is any indication that these assets may be Uncertainties relating to transactions with a impaired.
If such indication exists, the group estimates contractor the recoverable amount of the asset.
The recoverable As explained in Note 25 to the financial statements, amount is assessed by reference to the higher of value there are uncertainties relating to the value of the in use being the net present value of expected future securities held in respect of advances to a contractor cash flows of the relevant cash generating unit and and also a claim relating to the Loulo development.
The fair value less cost to sell.
The estimates used for impairment reviews are based on detailed mine plans amounts reflected in the financial statements reflect the and operating plans.
Future cash flows are based on directors best estimate of the amount that will be estimates of: recovered in respect of the advances and the outcome the quantities of the reserves and mineral of the dispute relating to the cost of the development.
resources for which there is a high degree of Indirect taxes receivable confidence in economic extraction: Given their slow-moving nature, the group has had to future production levels: apply judgement in determining when amounts will be future commodity prices: recovered with respect to indirect taxes owing to Morila future cash cost of production, capital and Loulo by the Mali Government.
The amounts expenditure, close down, restoration and reflected in the financial statements are the directors environmental clean up: and best estimate of the timing of the recovery of these future gold prices an US$800 gold price was amounts.
For further information, including the carrying used for the current years impairment amount of the assets, refer to Note 7. calculations.
