Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 Note 3.
The following standards and interpretations 1 NATURE OF OPERATIONS which have been recently issued or revised have not The company and its subsidiaries the group been adopted early by the group.
together with its joint ventures carry out gold mining Their expected impact is discussed below: activities and exploration.
Currently there are two AMENDMENT TO IAS 23 BORROWING COSTS operating mines in Mali, West Africa: effective for annual periods beginning on or after the Morila mine, which commenced production in 1 January 2009.
The amendment removes the October 2000, and the Loulo mine, which option of immediately recognising as an expense commenced production in November 2005.
The borrowing costs that relate to qualifying assets group also has a portfolio of exploration projects assets that take a substantial period of time to in West and East Africa.
The interests of the get ready for use or sale.
Instead, an entity will group in its operating mines are held through be required to capitalise borrowing costs Morila SA Morila which owns the Morila mine whenever the conditions for capitalisation are and Somilo SA Somilo which owns the Loulo met.
The company will apply amendments to IAS mine.
Randgold Resources holds an effective 23 from 1 January 2009, but it is not expected to 40% interest in Morila, following the sale to have any significant impact on the accounts of the AngloGold Ashanti Limited on 3 July 2000 of one company or group.
half of Randgold Resources wholly-owned AMENDMENT TO IFRS 2 SHARE-BASED subsidiary, Morila SA.
Management of Morila PAYMENT: VESTING CONDITIONS AND CANLimited, the 80% shareholder of Morila, is effected CELLATIONS effective for annual periods through a joint venture committee, with Randgold beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
This Resources and AngloGold Ashanti each amendment clarifies that vesting conditions are appointing one half of the members of service conditions and performance conditions the committee.
Other features of a share-based payment Services Mali SA Anser, a subsidiary of are not vesting conditions.
The purpose of AngloGold Ashanti, was the operator of Morila.
making the distinction is so as to be able to On 15 February 2008, Randgold Resources address the accounting for non-vesting assumed responsibility for the operatorship.
conditions, which were not previously covered by Randgold Resources holds an effective 80% IFRS 2.
The guidance in IFRS 2 covering the interest in Loulo.
The remaining 20% interest is accounting for vesting conditions is not affected held by the Malian government.
The amendment also Resources is the operator of Loulo.
specifies that all cancellations, whether by the The group has various exploration programmes entity or by other parties, should receive the same ranging from substantial to early stage in western accounting treatment.
The amendment is likely to Mali, around Morila and in Senegal, Burkina Faso, have a particular impact on entities operating Tanzania, Cte dIvoire and Ghana.
Save As You Earn SAYE schemes because it Site establishment has started at Tongon in Cte results in an immediate acceleration of the IFRS 2 dIvoire ahead of the main construction expense if an employee decides to stop programme and orders have been placed for all contributing to the savings plan, as well as a the long lead time items, including the mills and potential revision to the fair value of the awards mining fleet.
Progress has been made regarding granted to factor in the probability of employees the approval of the mining convention.
The company will apply amendments to IFRS 2 from 1 January 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 2009, but it is not expected to have any significant The principal accounting policies applied in the impact on the accounts of the company or group.
preparation of these consolidated financial statements AMENDMENTS TO IAS 1 PRESENTATION OF are set out below.
These policies have been FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: A REVISED PREconsistently applied to all the years presented, unless SENTATION effective for annual periods otherwise stated.
beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The Basis of preparation amendment to IAS 1 affects the presentation of The consolidated financial statements of Randgold owner changes in equity and of comprehensive Resources Limited and its subsidiaries have been income.
An entity will be required to present, in a prepared in accordance with International Financial statement of changes in equity, all owner changes Reporting Standards and Interpretations collectively in equity.
All non-owner changes in equity ie IFRS issued by the International Accounting comprehensive income are required to be Standards Board IASB as adopted by the European presented in one statement of comprehensive Union and in accordance with Article 104 of the income or in two statements a separate income Companies Jersey Law of 1991.
The consolidated statement and a statement of comprehensive financial statements also comply with |FRS as issued by income.
The standard does not change the the IASB, required as a result of our listing on Nasdaq recognition, measurement or disclosure of in the US.
The differences between IFRS as adopted specific transactions and other events required by the European Union and IFRS as issued by the IASB by other IFRSs.
The company will apply have not had a material impact on the consolidated amendments to IAS 1 from 1 January 2009, but it financial statements for the years presented.
The is not expected to have any significant impact on consolidated financial statements have been prepared the accounts of the company or group.
under the historical cost convention, as modified by the AMENDMENTS TO IAS 27 CONSOLIDATED AND revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets, and SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS effective various financial assets and financial liabilities for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July including derivative instruments which are carried at 2009.
This amendment relates in particular to fair value.
The preparation of financial statements in acquisitions of subsidiaries achieved in stages conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical and disposals of interests, with significant differences in the accounting treatment accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the depending on whether control is gained or not, or companys accounting policies.
The areas involving a a transaction simply results in a change in the percentage of the controlling interest.
The high degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the amendment does not require the restatement of previous transactions.
The amendment to IAS 27 consolidated financial statements, are disclosed in Randgold Resources | 83
