qxd:Layout 1 17 3 09 06:29 Page 99  A wide range of information for shareholders and investors is Shareholdersecurity &: Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice, www.
com offers to buy shares at a discount, or offers of free reports about the Company.
Details of any share-dealing facilities that the Ordinaryshares Company endorses will be included in Company mailings or on 8  9psharesinissueat our website.
More detailed information can be found at 31 December 2008, which were held by 21,208 shareholders.
uk  Shareview The latest information on the Rank ordinary share price is The Shareview portfolio service from the Companys registrar available in the Investors & Press area of the www.
com gives shareholders more control of their Rank shares and other website.
Closing share prices for the previous business day are investments, including: quoted in most daily newspapers and, throughout the working direct access to data held for them on the share register, day, time-delayed share prices are broadcast on the text pages of including recent share movements and dividend details: the principal UK television channels.
a recent valuation of their portfolio: and a range of information and practical help for shareholders, Capitalgainstax including how you can elect to receive communications For the purpose of calculating UK capital gains tax on a disposal electronically.
of ordinary shares in the Company held since 31 March 1982 including shares held in the predecessor company, The Rank It is easy and free to set up a portfolio shareholders will just Organisation Plc, the price of the Companys ordinary shares at need the shareholder reference printed on their proxy form or .
Please visit the following website for more effects of the rights issue in January 1990, the enhanced share details:www.
co. uk alternative in July 1993, the sub-division and consolidation of shares in March 1994, the enhanced scrip dividend in March 2009nancialcalendar 1998, and the 18 for 25 sub-division and share consolidation 23 April Annual general meeting and interim management aligned with the 65p special dividend payment which took statement place in March 2007.
More information regarding these 31 July Interim results announcement adjustments is available on thewww.
October Interim management statement December Pre-close trading update  The sale or purchase of shares must be done through a  stockbroker or share-dealing service provider.
The London Stock We have a shareholder frequently asked questions section on  our website which provides answers to many questions that gives details of a number of companies offering shareshareholders have: dealing services.
com investor shareholders faqs For more information, please visit the Investor Centre Tools page atwww.
com Registrar Rank has also arranged a panel of low-cost providers, details ,  of which can be found on the Shareholder Services pages within  quoting the Investors & Press area of the Companys website: referencenumber1235, EquinitiLimited, AspectHouse, Spencer www.
com Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA Tel: from the UK  0871 384 2098 and from outside the UK 44 121 415 7161. to encourage shareholders to either buy or sell shares.
 Shareholders in any doubt about what action to take are with hearing difficulties.
Calls to both of the UK numbers are recommended to seek financial advice from an independent charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other telephony financial adviser authorised pursuant to the Financial Services provider costs may vary.
: ShareGift Frances Bingham, company secretary Shareholders with a very small number of shares, the value of Dan Waugh, director of investor relations which may make it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider , aregisteredcharity The Rank Group Plc administered by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
Statesman House Further information about ShareGift is available at Stafferton Way www.
org or by writing to: Maidenhead Berkshire SL6 1AY ShareGift 17 Carlton House Terrace Tel: 01628 504 000 London SW1Y 5AH Fax: 01625 504 042 Tel: 020 7930 3737 www.
