Parent company accounting policies Accounting convention Financial instruments The financial statements are prepared under the Financial instruments held for trading are historical cost convention as modified by the classified as current assets and current revaluation of financial instruments and share liabilities, and are stated at fair value, with based remuneration and in accordance with the any resulting gain or loss recognised in the Companies Act 1985 and applicable United profit and loss account.
As permitted Where the Company has the positive intent by s. 230 of the Companies Act 1985, no profit and ability to hold a financial instrument until and loss account is presented for Reckitt its maturity, the instruments are stated at Benckiser Group plc.
amortised cost less any impairment losses Foreign currency translation recognised in the profit and loss account.
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies The fair value of financial instruments classified are translated at the rate of exchange on the as held for trading is their quoted bid price day the transaction occurs or at the contracted at the balance sheet date.
rate if the transaction is covered by a forward exchange contract.
Financial instruments classified as held for trading are recognised derecognised by Assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign the Company on the date it commits to currency are translated at the exchange rate purchase sell the instrument.
Financial ruling on the balance sheet date or, if instruments held to maturity are recognised appropriate, at a forward contract rate.
fide-recognised on the day they are transferred Taxation to by the Company.
The tax charge is based on the profit for Capital transactions the period and takes into account taxation When the Company repurchases equity deferred due to timing differences between share capital, the amount of the consideration the treatment of certain items for taxation paid, including directly attributable costs, is and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax recognised as a charge to equity.
Repurchased liabilities are provided for in full and deferred shares are either held in Treasury in order to tax assets are recognised to the extent that satisfy employee options, or cancelled and, they are considered recoverable.
in order to maintain capital, an equivalent Fixed assets amount to the nominal value of the shares Fixed asset investments are valued at cost cancelled is transferred from Retained Earnings less impairment.
to the Capital Redemption Reserve.
Employee share schemes Cash and cash equivalents Incentives in the form of shares are provided Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash to employees under share option and restricted balances and other deposits with a maturity share schemes.
Any shortfall between the cost of less than three months when deposited.
to the employee and the fair market value of Cash flow statement the awards at date of grant is charged to the Reckitt Benckiser Group plc has presented income statement over the period to which a Group cash flow statement in its Annual the performance criteria relate, with the Report and Accounts 2008, therefore as credit taken directly to the retained earnings permitted by FRS 1, Cash Flow Statements, reserve.
Additional employer costs in respect the Directors have not prepared a cash flow of options and awards are charged to the statement for the Company.
income statement account over the same period with the credit included in equity.
Where awards are contingent upon future events an assessment of the likelihood of these conditions being achieved is made at the end of each reporting period and reflected in the accounting entries made.
Where the Company grants rights to its equity instruments to employees of the group, and such share based compensation is accounted for as equity-settled in the consolidated financial statements of the group, UITF 44 requires the subsidiaries to record an expense for such compensation in accordance with FRS 20, Share based payments, with a corresponding increase recognised in equity as a contribution from the parent.
Consequently, in the financial statements of the parent Reckitt Benckiser group plc, the Company has recognised an addition to fixed asset investments of the aggregate amount of these contributions of 51.5m in 2008, with a credit to equity fo the same amount.
