Parent company independent auditors report to the members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc We have audited the parent company financial In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, Opinion statements of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc for the Company has not kept proper accounting In our opinion: the year ended 31 December 2008 which records, if we have not received all the the parent company financial statements comprise the Parent company balance sheet, information and explanations we require for give a true and fair view, in accordance the Parent company accounting policies and our audit, or if information specified by law with United Kingdom Generally Accepted the related notes.
These parent company regarding Directors remuneration and other Accounting Practice, of the state of the financial statements have been prepared under transactions is not disclosed.
Companys affairs as at 31 December 2008: the accounting policies set out therein.
We read other information contained in the We have also audited the information in the the parent company financial statements Annual Report and consider whether it is Directors Remuneration Report that is and the part of the Directors Remuneration consistent with the audited Group financial described as having been audited.
Report to be audited have been properly statements.
The other information comprises prepared in accordance with the Companies We have reported separately on the Group only the Chief Executives Statement, the Board Act 1985: and financial statements of Reckitt Benckiser Group of Directors and Executive Committee, the plc for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Chairmans Statement, the Business Review the information given in the Report of the 2008, the Report of the Directors including Directors is consistent with the parent Respective responsibilities of Directors statements on Corporate governance, the company financial statements.
and auditors unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Report and all of the other information listed Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration on the contents page.
We consider the Report and the parent company financial implications for our report if we become aware  LLP statements in accordance with applicable law of any apparent misstatements or material Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors and United Kingdom Accounting Standards inconsistencies with the Group financial London United Kingdom Generally Accepted statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend 10 March 2009 Accounting Practice are set out in the to any other information.
Directors responsibilities section of the Report Notes: of the Directors.
Basis of audit opinion The maintenance and integrity of the We conducted our audit in accordance with Reckitt Benckiser Group plc website is the Our responsibility is to audit the parent International Standards on Auditing UK and responsibility of the Directors: the work company financial statements and the part Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
carried out by the auditors does not involve of the Directors Remuneration Report to be An audit includes examination, on a test basis, consideration of these matters and, audited in accordance with relevant legal and of evidence relevant to the amounts and accordingly, the auditors accept no regulatory requirements and International disclosures in the parent company financial responsibility for any changes that may have Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
statements and the part of the Directors occurred to the financial statements since This report, including the opinion, has been Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also they were initially presented on the website.
prepared for and only for the Companys includes an assessment of the significant members as a body in accordance with Section Legislation in the United Kingdom governing estimates and judgements made by the 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for the preparation and dissemination of Directors in the preparation of the parent no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this financial statements may differ from company financial statements, and of whether opinion, accept or assume responsibility for legislation in other jurisdictions.
the accounting policies are appropriate to the any other purpose or to any other person Companys circumstances, consistently applied to whom this report is shown or into whose and adequately disclosed.
hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations We report to you our opinion as to whether which we considered necessary in order to the parent company financial statements give provide us with sufficient evidence to give a true and fair view and whether the parent reasonable assurance that the parent company company financial statements and the part financial statements and the part of the of the Directors Remuneration Report to Directors Remuneration Report to be audited be audited have been properly prepared are free from material misstatement, whether in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
We also report to you whether in our opinion In forming our opinion we also evaluated the the information given in the Report of the overall adequacy of the presentation of Directors is consistent with the parent information in the parent company financial company financial statements.
statements and the part of the Directors The information given in the Report of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
Directors includes that specific information presented in the Business Review 2008 that is cross referred from the Review of the activities and development of the Groups business section of the Report of the Directors.
