88 Combined financial statements Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Accounting policies The Reed Elsevier combined financial statements are prepared dividends from joint ventures and net capital expenditure, but in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards before payments in relation to exceptional restructuring and IFRS as endorsed by the European Union and as issued by the acquisition related costs.
Reconciliations between reported International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The combined and adjusted figures are provided in note 11. financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, as explained on page 59.
Foreign exchange translation The combined financial statements are presented in The Reed Elsevier accounting policies under IFRS are set pounds sterling.
Additional information providing a translation out below.
into euros of the primary Reed Elsevier combined financial statements and selected notes is presented on pages 127 to 141.
Basis of preparation The equalisation agreement between Reed Elsevier PLC and Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate Reed Elsevier NV has the effect that their shareholders can be of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each regarded as having the interests of a single economic group.
balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are The Reed Elsevier combined financial statements the combined denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate financial statements represent the combined interests of both prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences sets of shareholders and encompass the businesses of Reed arising are recorded in the income statement other than Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV and their where hedge accounting applies as set out below.
respective subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, together with the two parent companies, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated at Elsevier NV the combined businesses.
exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items and cash flows of foreign operations are In preparing the combined financial statements, subsidiaries translated at the average exchange rate for the period.
of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV are Significant individual items of income and expense and cash accounted for under the purchase method and investments in flows in foreign operations are translated at the rate prevailing associates and joint ventures are accounted for under the equity on the date of transaction.
Exchange differences arising are method.
All transactions and balances between the combined classified as equity and transferred to the translation reserve.
When foreign operations are disposed of, the related cumulative translation differences are recognised within the income On acquisition of a subsidiary, or interest in an associate statement in the period.
or joint venture, fair values, reflecting conditions at the date of acquisition, are attributed to the net assets, including Reed Elsevier uses derivative financial instruments, primarily identifiable intangible assets, acquired.
This includes those forward contracts, to hedge its exposure to certain foreign adjustments made to bring accounting policies into line with exchange risks.
Details of Reed Elseviers accounting policies those of the combined businesses.
The results of subsidiaries in respect of derivative financial instruments are set out below.
sold or acquired are included in the combined financial statements up to or from the date that control passes from Revenue or to the combined businesses.
Revenue represents the invoiced value of sales less anticipated returns on transactions completed by performance, excluding Minority interests in the net assets of the combined businesses customer sales taxes and sales between the combined are identified separately from combined shareholders equity.
Minority interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original acquisition and the minority share of Revenues are recognised for the various categories of turnover changes in equity since the date of acquisition.
as follows: subscriptions on periodic despatch of subscribed product or rateably over the period of the subscription where These financial statements form part of the statutory performance is not measurable by despatch: circulation on information to be provided by Reed Elsevier NV, but are not for despatch: advertising on publication or over the period of a legal entity and do not include all the information required online display: and exhibitions on occurrence of the exhibition.
to be disclosed by a company in its financial statements under the UK Companies Act 1985 or the Dutch Civil Code.
Additional Where sales consist of two or more independent components information is given in the Annual Reports and Financial whose value can be reliably measured, revenue is recognised Statements of the parent companies set out on pages 142 to 184. on each component as it is completed by performance, based A list of principal businesses is set out on page 195. on attribution of relative value.
In addition to the figures required to be reported by applicable Employee benefits accounting standards, adjusted profit and operating cash flow The expense of defined benefit pension schemes and other figures have been presented as additional performance post-retirement employee benefits is determined using measures.
Adjusted figures are shown before amortisation the projected unit credit method and charged in the income of acquired intangible assets and goodwill impairment, statement as an operating expense, based on actuarial exceptional restructuring and acquisition related costs, assumptions reflecting market conditions at the beginning of the disposals and other non operating items, related tax effects and financial year.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in movements in deferred taxation assets and liabilities that are the statement of recognised income and expense in the period in not expected to crystallise in the near term.
Adjusted operating which they occur.
Past service costs are recognised immediately profits are also grossed up to exclude the equity share of taxes to the extent that benefits have vested, or, if not vested, on a in joint ventures.
Adjusted operating cash flow is measured after straight line basis over the period until the benefits vest.
Overview Operating and financial review Our business Governance Financial statements and other information 89 Combined financial statements Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Accounting policies continued Net pension obligations in respect of defined benefit schemes Movements in deferred tax are charged or credited in the are included in the balance sheet at the present value of scheme income statement, except when they relate to items charged or liabilities, less the fair value of scheme assets.
Where schemes credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also are in surplus, ie assets exceed liabilities, the net pension assets recognised in equity.
Deferred tax credits in respect of share are separately included in the balance sheet.
Any net pension based remuneration are recognised in equity to the extent asset is limited to the extent that the asset is recoverable that expected tax deductions exceed the related expense.
through reductions in future contributions.
Goodwill The expense of defined contribution pension schemes and On the acquisition of a subsidiary or business, the purchase other employee benefits is charged in the income statement consideration is allocated between the net tangible and as incurred.
intangible assets on a fair value basis, with any excess purchase consideration representing goodwill.
Goodwill Share based remuneration arising on acquisitions also includes amounts corresponding The fair value of share based remuneration is determined at to deferred tax liabilities recognised in respect of acquired the date of grant and recognised as an expense in the income intangible assets.
statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period, taking account of the estimated number of shares that are expected Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment to vest.
Market based performance criteria are taken into at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately account when determining the fair value at the date of grant.
in the income statement and not subsequently reversed.
Non-market based performance criteria are taken into account when estimating the number of shares expected to vest.
The On disposal of a subsidiary or business, the attributable amount fair value of share based remuneration is determined by use of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss of a binomial or Monte Carlo simulation model as appropriate.
All Reed Elseviers share based remuneration is equity settled.
Intangible assets Borrowing costs Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination All interest on borrowings is expensed as incurred.
The cost are stated in the balance sheet at their fair value as at the of issuing borrowings is generally expensed over the life of the date of acquisition, less accumulated amortisation.
Internally borrowings so as to produce a constant periodic rate of charge.
generated intangible assets are stated in the balance sheet at the directly attributable cost of creation of the asset, Taxation less accumulated amortisation.
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax payable on the current year taxable profits, adjustments in respect of prior Intangible assets acquired as part of business combinations year taxable profits, and the movements on deferred tax that comprise: market related assets eg trade marks, imprints, are recognised in the income statement.
brands : customer related assets eg subscription bases, customer lists, customer relationships : editorial content: The tax payable on current year taxable profits is calculated software and systems eg application infrastructure, product using the applicable tax rates that have been enacted, delivery platforms, in-process research and development : or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
contract based assets eg publishing rights, exhibition rights, supply contracts : and other intangible assets.
Internally Deferred tax is the tax arising on differences between the generated intangible assets typically comprise software and carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial systems development where an identifiable asset is created statements and their corresponding tax bases used in the that is probable to generate future economic benefits.
computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are Intangible assets, other than brands and imprints determined generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences to have indefinite lives, are amortised systematically over their and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that, estimated useful lives.
The estimated useful lives of intangible based on current forecasts, it is probable that taxable profits assets with finite lives are as follows: market and customer will be available against which deductible temporary differences related assets 3 to 40 years: content, software and other can be utilised.
Deferred tax is not recognised on temporary acquired intangible assets 3 to 20 years: and internally differences arising in respect of goodwill that is not deductible developed intangible assets 3 to 10 years.
Brands and imprints for tax purposes.
determined to have indefinite lives are not amortised and are subject to impairment review at least annually.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is expected to be settled or the asset realised.
Full provision is made for deferred tax which would become payable on the distribution of retained profits from foreign subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures.
90 Combined financial statements Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Inventories and pre-publication costs Inventories and pre-publication costs are stated at the lower of Property, plant and equipment are stated in the balance sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation.
No depreciation is provided cost, including appropriate attributable overhead, and estimated net realisable value.
Pre-publication costs, representing costs on freehold land.
Freehold buildings and long leases are depreciated over their estimated useful lives up to a maximum incurred in the origination of content prior to publication, are expensed systematically reflecting the expected sales profile of 50 years.
Short leases are written off over the duration of the lease.
Depreciation is provided on other assets on a straight over the estimated economic lives of the related products, generally up to five years.
line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: leasehold improvements shorter of life of lease and 10 years: plant Leases 3 to 20 years: office furniture, fixtures and fittings 5 to 10 years: computer systems, communication networks and equipment Assets held under leases which confer rights and obligations similar to those attaching to owned assets are classified 3 to 7 years.
as assets held under finance leases and capitalised within property, plant and equipment and the corresponding liability Investments Investments, other than investments in joint ventures and to pay rentals is shown net of interest in the balance sheet as obligations under finance leases.
The capitalised value of the associates, are stated in the balance sheet at fair value.
Investments held as part of the venture capital portfolio assets is depreciated on a straight line basis over the shorter of the periods of the leases or the useful lives of the assets are classified as held for trading, with changes in fair value reported through the income statement.
The interest element of the lease payments is allocated so as to produce a constant periodic rate of charge.
investments are classified as available for sale with changes in fair value recognised directly in equity until the investment Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity a straight line basis over the period of the leases.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight line basis over is brought into the net profit or loss for the period.
All items recognised in the income statement relating to investments, the term of the relevant lease.
other than investments in joint ventures and associates, are reported as non operating items.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, call Available for sale investments and venture capital investments deposits and other short term highly liquid investments and are held in the balance sheet at fair value.
held for trading represent investments in listed and unlisted securities.
The fair value of listed securities is determined Assets held for sale based on quoted market prices, and of unlisted securities on managements estimate of fair value based on standard Assets of businesses that are available for immediate sale in their current condition and for which a sales process has been valuation techniques, including market comparisons and discounts of future cash flows, having regard to maximising initiated are classified as assets held for sale, and are carried the use of observable inputs and adjusting for risk.
Independent at the lower of amortised cost and fair value less costs to sell.
valuation experts are used as appropriate.
Non-current assets are not amortised or depreciated following their classification as held for sale.
Liabilities of businesses Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for held for sale are also separately classified on the balance sheet.
under the equity method and stated in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in Reed Elseviers share Discontinued operations of net assets, less any impairment in value.
A discontinued operation is a component of the combined businesses that represents a separate major line of business Impairment or geographical area of operations that has been disposed At each balance sheet date, reviews are carried out of the of or is held for sale.
When an operation is classified as carrying amounts of tangible and intangible assets and goodwill discontinued, the comparative income and cash flow statements to determine whether there is any indication that those assets are re-presented as if the operation had been discontinued from have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the start of the comparative period.
the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell, of the asset is estimated in order to Financial instruments determine the extent, if any, of the impairment loss.
Where the Financial instruments comprise investments other than asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from investments in joint ventures or associates, trade receivables, other assets, value in use estimates are made based on the cash and cash equivalents, payables and accruals, provisions, cash flows of the cash generating unit to which the asset borrowings and derivative financial instruments.
Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are tested for impairment at least annually and whenever there Investments other than investments in joint ventures and is any indication that the asset may be impaired.
associates are classified as either held for trading or available for sale, as described above.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is estimated to be less than its net carrying amount, the net carrying amount of the asset or cash generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised immediately in the income statement in administration and other expenses.
Overview Operating and financial review Our business Governance Financial statements and other information 91 Combined financial statements Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Accounting policies continued Trade receivables are carried in the balance sheet at invoiced On adoption of IAS39 Financial Instruments, adjustments were value less allowance for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
made either to the carrying value of hedged items or to equity, Irrecoverable amounts are estimated based on the ageing as appropriate, to reflect the differences between the previous of trade receivables, experience and circumstance.
UK GAAP carrying values of financial instruments and their carrying values required to be reported under IAS39.
Any Borrowings other than fixed rate borrowings in designated transition gains or losses on financial instruments that qualified hedging relationships and for which the carrying value is for hedge accounting were reflected in equity and remain in adjusted to reflect changes in the fair value of the hedged risk, equity until either the forecasted transaction occurs or is no payables, accruals and provisions are recorded initially at fair longer expected to occur.
value and subsequently at amortised cost.
Provisions Derivative financial instruments are used to hedge interest Provisions are recognised when a present obligation exists as rate and foreign exchange risks.
Changes in the fair value a result of a past event, and it is probable that settlement of the of derivative financial instruments that are designated and obligation will be required.
Provisions are measured at the best effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at net of tax directly in equity in the hedge reserve.
If a hedged the balance sheet date.
firm commitment or forecasted transaction results in the recognition of a non financial asset or liability, then, at the time Shares held in treasury that the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or Shares of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV that are losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised repurchased by the respective parent companies and not in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset cancelled are classified as shares held in treasury.
For hedges that do not result in the recognition of consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised is recognised as a deduction from equity.
Shares of the parent in the income statement in the same period in which the companies that are purchased by the Reed Elsevier Group plc hedged item affects net profit or loss.
Any ineffective portion Employee Benefit Trust are also classified as shares held in of hedges is recognised immediately in the income statement.
treasury, with the cost recognised as a deduction from equity.
Derivative financial instruments that are not designated as Critical judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty hedging instruments are classified as held for trading and The most significant accounting policies in determining the recorded in the balance sheet at fair value, with changes in financial condition and results of the Reed Elsevier combined fair value recognised in the income statement.
businesses, and those requiring the most subjective or complex judgement, relate to the valuation of goodwill and intangible Where an effective hedge is in place against changes in the assets, share based remuneration, pensions, taxation and fair value of fixed rate borrowings, the hedged borrowings are property provisioning.
The carrying amounts of goodwill and adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being intangible assets are reviewed at least annually, the key areas hedged with a corresponding income or expense included of judgement being in relation to the forecast long term growth in the income statement within finance costs.
The offsetting rates and the appropriate discount rates to be applied to gains or losses from remeasuring the fair value of the related forecast cash flows.
The charge for share based remuneration derivatives are also recognised in the income statement within is determined based on the fair value of awards at the date of finance costs.
When the related derivative expires, is sold grant by use of binomial or Monte Carlo simulation models as or terminated, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting, appropriate, which require judgements to be made regarding the cumulative change in fair value of the hedged borrowing share price volatility, dividend yield, risk free rates of return and is amortised in the income statement over the period to maturity expected option lives.
Key estimates in accounting for defined of the borrowing using the effective interest method.
benefit pension schemes are determined in conjunction with independent actuaries and include the life expectancy of The fair values of interest rate swaps, interest rate options, members, expected salary and pension increases, inflation, the forward rate agreements and forward foreign exchange return on scheme assets and the rate at which future pension contracts represent the replacement costs calculated using payments are discounted.
Reed Elseviers policy is to make market rates of interest and exchange.
The fair value of long provision for tax uncertainties where it is considered probable term borrowings is calculated by discounting expected future that tax payments may arise.
Property provisions are determined cash flows at market rates.
based on managements estimates of future sublease income.
Cash flow hedge accounting is discontinued when a hedging Standards and amendments effective for the year instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no IFRIC14 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any Funding Requirements and their Interaction, clarifies how cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised to assess the limit in IAS19 Employee Benefits on the amount in equity is either retained in equity until the firm commitment or of a defined benefit pension surplus that can be recognised forecasted transaction occurs, or, where a hedged transaction is as an asset.
Adoption of this interpretation has not significantly no longer expected to occur, is immediately credited or expensed impacted the measurement, presentation or disclosure of in the income statement.
employee benefits in the combined financial statements.
92 Combined financial statements Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Accounting policies continued Standards, amendments and interpretations Amendment to IFRS2 Share Based Payment effective for the 2009 financial year.
The amendment clarifies that cancellations not yet effective New accounting standards and amendments and their expected of share options, whether by the entity or holder, should be accounted for as an acceleration of the vesting period.
The impact on the future accounting policies and reporting of Reed Elsevier are set out below.
amendment also restricts the definition of a vesting condition to a condition that includes an explicit or implicit requirement IFRS8 Operating Segments effective for the 2009 financial to provide services.
Any other conditions are non-vesting conditions, which have to be taken into account to determine year.
IFRS8 sets out requirements for disclosure of information about an entitys operating segments, its products and services, the fair value of the equity instruments granted.
The amendment is not expected to significantly impact the measurement, the geographical areas in which it operates, and its major customers.
presentation or disclosure of share based remuneration in the combined financial statements.
Adoption of this standard is not expected to change significantly the disclosure of information in respect of Reed Elseviers Amendments to IFRS3 Business Combinations effective operating segments.
The amendments introduce changes that will require future transaction related costs Amendment to IAS23 Borrowing Costs effective for the 2009 financial year.
The amendment removes the option to including professional fees to be expensed and adjustments to contingent consideration to be recognised in income and immediately recognise as an expense borrowing costs relating to assets requiring a substantial period of time to get ready will allow non-controlling interests to be measured either at fair value or the proportionate share of net identifiable assets.
for use or sale and requires such costs to be capitalised.
Adoption of this standard will change our accounting policy Amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial on borrowing costs but is not expected to significantly impact the measurement, presentation or disclosure of borrowing Statements effective for the 2010 financial year.
The amendments introduce changes to the accounting for partial costs in the combined financial statements.
disposals of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
Adoption of these amendments is not expected to significantly impact the Amendment to IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements effective for the 2009 financial year.
The amendment introduces measurement, presentation or disclosure of future disposals.
changes to the way in which movements in equity must be disclosed and requires an entity to disclose separately each Amendment to IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement effective for the 2010 financial year.
component of other comprehensive income not recognised in profit or loss.
The amendment also requires disclosure The amendment clarifies the eligibility of hedge accounting for inflation and hedging with options.
Adoption of this amendment of the amount of income tax relating to each component of other comprehensive income as well as several other minor is not expected to have a significant impact on the measurement, presentation or disclosure of financial instruments in the disclosure amendments.
Other than as described above, this amendment is not expected to significantly change combined financial statements.
the presentation of the combined financial statements.
Additionally, a number of interpretations have been issued which are not expected to have any significant impact on Reed Elseviers accounting policies and reporting.
