168 Reed Elsevier NV Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Group accounting policies These consolidated financial statements, which have been Parent company financial statements prepared under the historic cost convention, report the In accordance with 2:402 of the Dutch Civil Code, the parent statements of income, cash flow and financial position of company financial statements only contain an abridged profit Reed Elsevier NV.
Unless otherwise indicated, all amounts and loss account.
shown in the financial statements are in millions of euros.
Combined financial statements As required by a regulation adopted by the European Parliament, The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in combined financial statements are set out on pages 88 to 92. accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as endorsed by the European Union and as issued These include policies in relation to intangible assets.
Such by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
assets are amortised over their estimated useful economic lives which, due to their longevity, may be for periods in excess The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a of five years.
going concern basis, as explained on page 165.
Basis of valuation of assets and liabilities The Reed Elsevier combined financial statements presented Reed Elsevier NVs 50% economic interest in the net assets in pounds sterling on pages 84 to 126 form an integral part of of the combined businesses has been shown on the consolidated the notes to Reed Elsevier NVs statutory financial statements.
balance sheet as investments in joint ventures, net of the The primary combined financial statements and selected notes assets and liabilities reported as part of Reed Elsevier NV.
are presented in euros on pages 127 to 141.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
As a consequence of the merger of the companys businesses Cash and cash equivalents are stated at fair value.
Other with those of Reed Elsevier PLC, described on page 54, the assets and liabilities are stated at historical cost, less provision, shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC can if appropriate, for any impairment in value.
be regarded as having the interests of a single economic group, enjoying substantially equivalent ordinary dividend and capital Foreign exchange translation rights in the earnings and net assets of the Reed Elsevier Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate combined businesses.
of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are The Reed Elsevier NV consolidated financial statements are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the presented incorporating Reed Elsevier NVs investments in rate prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences the Reed Elsevier combined businesses accounted for using arising are recorded in the income statement.
The gains the equity method, as adjusted for the effects of the equalisation or losses relating to the retranslation of Reed Elsevier NVs arrangement between Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC.
50% interest in the net assets of the combined businesses are The arrangement lays down the distribution of dividends and classified as equity and transferred to the translation reserve.
net assets in such a way that Reed Elsevier NVs share in the profit and net assets of the Reed Elsevier combined businesses When foreign operations are disposed of, the related cumulative equals 50%, with all settlements accruing to shareholders translation differences are recognised within the income from the equalisation arrangements taken directly to reserves.
Further detail is provided in note 1.
Taxation Because the dividend paid to shareholders by Reed Elsevier NV The tax expense represents the sum of the tax payable on the is equivalent to the Reed Elsevier PLC dividend plus, other than current year taxable profits, adjustments in respect of prior in special circumstances, the UK tax credit received by certain year taxable profits and the movements on deferred tax that Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders, Reed Elsevier NV normally are recognised in the income statement.
Tax arising in joint distributes a higher proportion of the combined profit attributable ventures is included in the share of results of joint ventures.
Reed Elsevier PLCs share in this difference in dividend distributions is settled with Reed Elsevier The tax payable on current year taxable profits is calculated NV and is credited directly to consolidated reserves under using the applicable tax rate that has been enacted, or equalisation.
Reed Elsevier NV can pay a nominal dividend on its substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
R shares held by a subsidiary of Reed Elsevier PLC that is lower than the dividend on the ordinary shares.
Equally, Reed Elsevier NV has the possibility to receive dividends directly from Dutch affiliates.
Reed Elsevier PLC is compensated by direct dividend payments by Reed Elsevier Group plc.
The settlements flowing from these arrangements are also taken directly to consolidated reserves under equalisation.
Overview Operating and financial review Our business Governance Financial statements and other information 169 Reed Elsevier NV Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Group accounting policies continued Deferred tax is the tax arising on differences between the Movements in deferred tax are charged and credited in the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial income statement, except when they relate to items charged statements and their corresponding tax bases used in the or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using is also recognised in equity.
the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences Critical judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that, Critical judgements in the preparation of the combined financial based on current forecasts, it is probable that taxable profits statements are set out on page 91. will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective Recently issued standards, amendments and interpretations Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected and their impact on future accounting policies and reporting to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset have been considered on page 92 of the combined financial is realised.
Full provision is made for deferred tax which statements and are not expected to have a significant impact would become payable on the distribution of retained profits on the consolidated financial statements.
from foreign subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures.
