Designed and produced by 197 35 Communications Our business Our strengths Our strategy Reed Elsevier Board photography by Annual Reports and Financial Statements Julian Calder Reed Elsevier is a world leading provider of professional information and We hold leadership positions Deliver authoritative content through 2008 Printed by online workflow solutions in the Science, Medical, Legal, Risk Information in large global markets sustained leading brands St Ives Westerham Press Ltd, and Analytics, and Business sectors.
by the increasing demand for ISO14001, FSC certified and CarbonNeutral Credits Deliver high quality, essential content professional information to our professional customers.
Based in over 200 locations worldwide, we create authoritative content We invest in new sources of delivered through market leading brands, enabling our customers to find content to widen and differentiate the essential data, analysis and commentary to support their decisions.
We deliver authoritative content This report has been printed on revive 50:50 our product offering, expanding into Silk paper.
This paper is made from pre and of the highest quality through new segments and geographic regions post consumer waste and virgin wood fibre, Our content and solutions are increasingly embedded in the workflows market leading brands, enabling independently certified in accordance with of our customers making them more effective and Reed Elsevier a more our professional customers to find the FSC Forest Stewardship Council.
It is manufactured at a mill that is certified valued partner.
the essential data, analysis and to ISO14001 environmental management commentary to support their standards.
The pulp is bleached using decisions an elemental chlorine free ECF process.
com Drive online solutions The inks used are all vegetable oil based.
For a detailed operating review turn to page 14 For a detailed description of the business turn to page 33 Leverage our leadership brands and authoritative proprietary content Our content and solutions are Elsevier is a leading provider of scientific, technical and medical information and solutions.
The Science & to deliver innovative, solutionsTechnology division is the worlds largest global academic journal publisher, producing over 200,000 new research increasingly embedded in our articles in some 1,100 journals every year, with ScienceDirect, its flagship electronic product, accessed by over oriented products that become customers workflows making 11 million users.
The Health Sciences division publishes over 700 journals and 2,000 books and clinical reference embedded in customer workflows works annually and offers an extensive portfolio of online tools in education, practitioner reference and point of care.
them more effective and Reed and enable Reed Elsevier to become Elsevier a more valued partner an increasingly valued partner www.
com For a detailed operating review turn to page 16 For a detailed description of the business turn to page 35 The CO emissions produced from 2 We generate a large part of our the production and distribution of the revenues from subscription and LexisNexis is a leading provider of legal, tax, regulatory, risk information and analytics, and business information Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 solutions to professional, corporate and government customers worldwide.
LexisNexis provides authoritative other recurring revenue streams have been neutralised through forestry and content through trusted market leading brands which, enabled by technology, offers online information solutions Improve cost efficiency energy friendly projects around the world.
increasingly integrated within the customer workflow.
In risk information and analytics, LexisNexis assists customers in managing risk through identity verification, insurance risk evaluation, employment screening Leverage the scale, skill sets, and fraud prevention.
technology, resources and collective Our focus on operational efficiency allows us to deliver good operating experience of our businesses to www.
com margin while funding investment in improve cost efficiency For a detailed operating review turn to page 18 new products For a detailed description of the business turn to page 37 Reed Exhibitions is the worlds leading organiser of trade exhibitions.
Through strongly branded, highly targeted events, Reed Exhibitions provides the forum for exhibitors and attendees to do business, develop contacts and gain The quality of our profits is industry insights.
Every year there are over 470 events in 37 countries, bringing together over seven million active Reshape and strengthen portfolio event participants worldwide.
With over 2,700 employees in 38 offices around the globe, Reed Exhibitions serves underpinned by strong cash flow 44 industries worldwide.
generation Allocate capital and resources through a combination of internal www.
com investment and selective acquisitions For a detailed operating review turn to page 20 We recruit and cultivate the best For a detailed description of the business turn to page 39 to pursue opportunities that talent to serve our customers and accelerate our strategic and Reed Business Information is a leading global provider of information and marketing solutions to decision makers manage our business with enterprise, business progress and professionals.
Its portfolio of market leading brands makes it the preferred communication partner across a range of markets from agriculture to technology.
Reed Business Information publishes over 400  and exceptional business magazines, directories and newsletters: it provides access to over 200 online communities and produces commitment an increasing number of job sites, lead generation, data and other online services.
Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Information solutions www.
