182 Reed Elsevier NV Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Independent auditors report on the parent company financial statements to the shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV Report on the company financial statements Opinion In our opinion, the company financial statements give a true We have audited the accompanying company financial statements 2008 which are part of the financial statements and fair view of the financial position of Reed Elsevier NV as at 31 December 2008 and of its result for the year then ended of Reed Elsevier NV, Amsterdam, which comprise the balance sheet as at 31 December 2008 the profit and loss account in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands for the year then ended, the parent company reconciliation of shareholders funds and the notes, as set out in pages 179 to 181.
Managements responsibility Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Pursuant to the legal requirement under 2:393 sub 5 part f Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the company financial statements in accordance of the Netherlands Civil Code, we report, to the extent of our competence, that the report of the Supervisory Board and the with accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Executive Board are consistent with the company financial statements as required by 2:391 sub 4 of the Netherlands Code, and for the preparation of the Report of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board in accordance with Part 9 of Civil Code.
Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
This responsibility includes: designing, implementing and maintaining internal Deloitte Accountants B. V. J P M Hopmans control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of the company financial statements that are free from material Amsterdam The Netherlands misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies: and making accounting 18 February 2009 estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances.
Auditors responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law.
This law requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the company financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the company financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the company financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entitys preparation and fair presentation of the company financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the company financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
