Overview Operating and financial review Our business Governance Financial statements and other information 149 Reed Elsevier PLC Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Group accounting policies Basis of preparation Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax payable on the These consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention in accordance with current year taxable profits, adjustments in respect of prior year taxable profits and the movements on deferred tax that applicable accounting standards.
They report the consolidated statements of income, cash flow and financial position of are recognised in the income statement.
Tax arising in joint ventures is included in the share of results of joint ventures.
Reed Elsevier PLC, and have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS The tax payable on current year taxable profits is calculated as endorsed by the European Union and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
using the applicable tax rate that has been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going Deferred tax is the tax arising on differences between the concern basis, as explained on page 145. carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their corresponding tax bases used in the Unless otherwise indicated, all amounts shown in the financial statements are in millions of pounds.
computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are The basis of the merger of the businesses of Reed Elsevier PLC generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that, and Reed Elsevier NV is set out on page 54. based on current forecasts, it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences Determination of profit The Reed Elsevier PLC share of the Reed Elsevier combined can be utilised.
results has been calculated on the basis of the 52.9% economic interest of the Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders in the Reed Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset Elsevier combined businesses, after taking account of results arising in Reed Elsevier PLC and its subsidiaries.
Full provision is made for deferred tax which would become payable on the distribution of retained profits from paid to Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders are, other than in special circumstances, equalised at the foreign subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures.
gross level inclusive of the UK tax credit received by certain Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders.
In Reed Elsevier PLCs Movements in deferred tax are charged and credited in the income statement, except when they relate to items charged consolidated financial statements, an adjustment is required to equalise the benefit of the tax credit between the two sets of or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also recognised in equity.
shareholders in accordance with the equalisation agreement.
This equalisation adjustment arises on dividends paid by Critical judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Reed Elsevier PLC to its shareholders and reduces the consolidated attributable earnings by 47.1% of the total Critical judgements in the preparation of the combined financial statements are set out on page 91. amount of the tax credit.
Standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the combined financial statements are set out on pages 88 to 92.
Recently issued standards, amendments and interpretations and their impact on future accounting policies and reporting Investments have been considered on page 92 of the combined financial statements and are not expected to have a significant impact Reed Elsevier PLCs 52.9% economic interest in the net assets of the combined businesses has been shown on the balance on the consolidated financial statements.
sheet as investments in joint ventures, net of the assets and liabilities reported as part of Reed Elsevier PLC and its subsidiaries.
Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
Foreign exchange translation Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising are recorded in the income statement.
The exchange gains or losses relating to the retranslation of Reed Elsevier PLCs 52.9% economic interest in the net assets of the combined businesses are classified as equity and transferred to the translation reserve.
When foreign operations are disposed of, the related cumulative translation differences are recognised within the income statement in the period.
