68 Directors remuneration report Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Directors remuneration report continued LTIP shareholding requirement Reed Elseviers unfunded unapproved pension arrangement for salary above the cap.
The shareholding requirement for the Reed Elsevier Chief Executive Officer is three times salary and for other executive Prior to 1 November 2007, Erik Engstrom was not a member directors two times salary.
Executive directors have five years to build up their shareholding to the required level.
The shareholding of any company pension scheme and Reed Elsevier made annual contributions of 19.5% of his salary to his personal pension plan.
requirement must be met in order to vest the designated LTIP awards and once met, is a condition of ongoing participation From 1 November 2007 contributions to his designated retirement in the LTIP.
account ceased and he became a member of the UK defined benefit pension arrangement.
Details of directors shareholdings, as at 31 December 2008, are set out on page 74.
As at 31 December 2008, those directors In respect of Ian Smith, Reed Elsevier will pay him a cash who were granted an LTIP award in 2006, and who are subject allowance in lieu of pension equal to 30% of base salary to ongoing shareholding requirements, well exceeded their per annum.
requirement in order to vest this award in February 2009.
Gerard van fide Aast was a member of the UK defined benefit Treatment of the special distribution for share-based incentives pension arrangement until the termination of his employment In January 2008 a special distribution was paid on ordinary on 31 December 2008.
On the termination date his period shares in Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
of pensionable service was increased by eight months, reflecting his mitigated notice period.
The special distribution was not attributed to any unvested share-based awards nor to any vested share options that had Andrew Prozes, a US-based director, is provided with a mixed been granted under the incentive plans.
None of these awards arrangement of defined benefit and defined contribution.
In was therefore adjusted as a result of the consolidation of share accordance with US legislation, he has no defined retirement capital in January 2008. age.
On 17 July 2007, he became vested in an annual pension of US$300,000.
His basic pension continues to accrue at a rate Other employee share plans of $42,857 per annum for each completed year of service between UK-based executive directors are eligible to participate in 17 July 2007 and 1 February 2011.
In addition, Andrew Prozes the HMRC approved all-employee UK Savings-Related Share will be entitled to receive an enhancement to his annual Option Scheme SAYE.
US-based directors are eligible to pension unless he resigns or if his employment is terminated participate in the all-employee US-based Employee Stock by Reed Elsevier for cause prior to 1 February 2011.
Any such Investment Plan EMSIP.
Under the EMSIP, employees are able enhancement will be equal to $3,720.93 times the number of to purchase Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV securities completed calendar months between 1 July 2007 and the date at the prevailing market price, with commissions and charges of termination or, if earlier, 1 February 2011.
For these purposes, being met by Reed Elsevier.
his termination date shall be deemed to be 12 months after he ceases employment.
Dilution The estimated dilution over a ten-year period from outstanding Patrick Tierney retired on 30 January 2008 and became fully awards over Reed Elsevier PLC shares under all share-based vested in his pension in November 2007.
The pension is reduced plans was 7.4% of the Reed Elsevier PLC share capital at by the value of any other retirement benefits payable by Reed 31 December 2008.
The estimated dilution over the same Elsevier or any former employer other than those attributable period in respect of outstanding awards over Reed Elsevier NV to employee contributions.
shares was 7.6% of the Reed Elsevier NV share capital at 31 December 2008.
The pension arrangements for all directors UK and non-UK include life assurance cover whilst in employment, an entitlement to a pension in the event of ill health or disability and a spouses Retirement benefits and or dependants pension on death.
Retirement benefit provisions are set in the context of the total remuneration for each executive director, taking account of age The increase in the transfer value of the directors pensions, after and service and against the background of evolving legislation deduction of contributions, is shown in the table below.
Transfer and practice in Reed Elseviers major countries of operation.
values for the UK directors have been calculated in accordance Base salary is the only pensionable element of remuneration.
with the guidance note GN11 published by the UK Institute of Actuaries and Faculty of Actuaries.
The transfer values at Sir Crispin Davis is provided with a UK defined benefit pension 31 December 2008 have been calculated using the transfer value arrangement targeting a pension of 45% of salary at his basis adopted by the trustees from 1 October 2008. retirement age of 60.
Mark Armour and Erik Engstrom are provided with UK defined benefit pension arrangements under The transfer value in respect of individual directors represents which they accrue a pension of 1 30th of salary for every year a liability in respect of directors pensions entitlement, and is of service up to a maximum of two thirds of salary.
The pension not an amount paid or payable to the director.
is provided through a combination of: the main UK Reed Elsevier Pension Scheme for salary restricted to a cap, determined annually on the same basis as the pre-April 2006 Inland Revenue earnings cap, and
