Overview Operating and financial review Our business Governance Financial statements and other information 59 Structure and corporate governance Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Structure and corporate governance continued Elsevier Reed Finance BV In reaching this conclusion, the directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have had due regard to the following.
Elsevier Reed Finance BV has established policy guidelines, which are applied to all Elsevier Reed Finance BV companies.
The boards After taking account of available cash resources, committed bank facilities that back up short term borrowings and term debt of Elsevier Reed Finance BV have adopted schedules of matters that are required to be brought to them for decision.
Procedures issued in January 2009, no borrowings fall due within the next two years that require refinancing from resources not already are in place for monitoring the activities of the finance group, including a comprehensive treasury reporting system.
The major available to Reed Elsevier.
The strong free cash flow of the risks affecting the finance group have been identified and evaluated business which for the three years ended 31 December 2008 and are subject to regular review.
The controls in place to manage was 999m, 717m and 756m respectively before exceptional these risks and the level of residual risk accepted are monitored restructuring and acquisition related costs, resources and by the boards.
The internal control system of the Elsevier Reed committed back up facilities in place, and Reed Elseviers ability Finance BV group is reviewed each year by the external auditors.
to access debt capital markets, taken together, provide confidence that Reed Elsevier will be able to meet its obligations as they fall Annual review due.
Further information on liquidity can be found on pages 24, 25 As part of the year end procedures, the audit committees and and 27 in the Chief Financial Officers Report and in note 19 of the boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, Reed Elsevier combined financial statements.
Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV review the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk management during US certificates the last financial year.
The objective of these systems is to As required by Section 302 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve and by related rules issued by the US Securities and Exchange business objectives.
Accordingly, they can only provide Commission, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material Officer of Reed Elsevier PLC and of Reed Elsevier NV certify misstatement or loss.
in the respective Annual Reports 2008 on Form 20-F to be filed with the Commission that they are responsible for establishing The boards have confirmed, subject to the above, that the and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures and that respective risk management and control systems provide they have: reasonable assurance against material inaccuracies or loss and have functioned properly during the year.
designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that material information relating to Reed Elsevier is made Responsibilities in respect of the financial statements known to them: The directors of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV are required evaluated the effectiveness of Reed Elseviers disclosure to prepare financial statements as at the end of each financial controls and procedures: period, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs, and of the profit or loss, of the respective companies and their based on their evaluation, disclosed to the Audit Committees subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
They are responsible and the external auditors all significant deficiencies in the for maintaining proper accounting records, for safeguarding design or operation of disclosure controls and procedures assets, and for taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect and any frauds, whether or not material, that involve fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are also responsible management or other employees who have a significant role for selecting suitable accounting policies and applying them in Reed Elseviers internal controls: and on a consistent basis, making judgements and estimates that are prudent and reasonable.
presented in the Reed Elsevier Annual Report 2008 on Form 20-F their conclusions about the effectiveness of the Applicable accounting standards have been followed and the disclosure controls and procedures.
Reed Elsevier combined financial statements, which are the responsibility of the directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed A Disclosure Committee, comprising the company secretaries Elsevier NV, are prepared using accounting policies which of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV and other senior comply with International Financial Reporting Standards.
Reed Elsevier managers, provides assurance to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer regarding their Going concern Section 302 certifications.
The directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, having made appropriate enquiries, consider that adequate resources Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 requires the Chief exist for the combined businesses to continue in operational Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Reed Elsevier PLC existence for the foreseeable future and that, therefore, it is and of Reed Elsevier NV to certify in the respective Annual Reports appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 2008 on Form 20-F that they are responsible for maintaining 2008 financial statements.
adequate internal control structures and procedures for financial reporting and to conduct an assessment of their effectiveness.
The conclusions of the assessment of internal control structures and financial reporting procedures, which are unqualified, are presented in the Reed Elsevier Annual Report 2008 on Form 20-F.
