160 Reed Elsevier PLC Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Independent auditors report on the parent company financial statements to the members of Reed Elsevier PLC We have audited the parent company financial statements We read the other information contained in the Reed Elsevier of Reed Elsevier PLC for the year ended 31 December 2008 Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008, as described the company financial statements which comprise the parent in the contents section including the unaudited parts of the company balance sheet, the parent company reconciliation of Remuneration Report, and consider whether it is consistent shareholders funds, the parent company accounting policies, with the audited company financial statements.
We consider the and the related note on page 159.
These parent company implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent financial statements have been prepared under the accounting misstatements or material inconsistencies with the company policies set out therein.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Reed Elsevier Annual Reports We have also audited the information in the parts of the and Financial Statements 2008.
Directors Remuneration Report presented in the Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 the Basis of audit opinion Remuneration Report that are described as having been We conducted our audit in accordance with International audited.
We have reported separately on the consolidated Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing financial statements of Reed Elsevier PLC for the year ended Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, 31 December 2008 of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the company financial statements and the parts of the Remuneration This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, Report described as having been audited.
It also includes an in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state by the directors in the preparation of the company financial to the companys members those matters we are required to statements, and of whether the accounting policies are state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or applied and adequately disclosed.
assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors assurance that the company financial statements and the parts The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report of the Remuneration Report described as having been audited and the company financial statements in accordance with are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
They are in the company financial statements and the parts of the also responsible for the preparation of the other information Remuneration Report described as having been audited.
contained in the Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 including, together with the directors of Opinion Reed Elsevier NV, the Remuneration Report.
In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the company financial statements The company financial statements give a true and fair view, and the parts of the Remuneration Report described as having in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted been audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory Accounting Practice, of the state of the companys affairs requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK as at 31 December 2008: and Ireland.
the company financial statements and the parts of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the company financial Remuneration Report described as having been audited statements give a true and fair view and whether company have been properly prepared in accordance with the financial statements and parts of the Remuneration Report Companies Act 1985: and to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our the information given in the directors report is consistent opinion, the directors report is consistent with the company with the company financial statements.
The information given in the directors report includes the Business Review that is cross referred Deloitte LLP from pages 12 to 46 and 50 to 53 of the Reed Elsevier Annual Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Reports and Financial Statements 2008.
London United Kingdom In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has 18 February 2009 not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the company is not disclosed.
