notice oF Meeting PAGE 40 41 Notice is hereby given that the 35th annual general meeting noTes of the Company will be held at New Mills, Wotton-under-Edge, 1.
The Company pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Gloucestershire Gl12 8JR on Friday 10th October 2008 at noon.
You Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only those will be asked to consider and pass the resolutions below.
Resolutions shareholders registered in the register of members of the 8 and 9 inclusive will be proposed as special resolutions.
All other Company as at 6pm on 8th October 2008 shall be entitled to resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
attend or vote at the aforesaid annual general meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
ordinary resolutions Changes to entries on the relevant register of securities after 6pm 1.
To receive and adopt the reports of the directors and auditors and on 8th October 2008 shall be disregarded in determining the the financial statements for the year ended 30th June 2008: rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to exercise the members rights to attend and to 3.
To re-elect as a director of the Company A C G Roberts, who is speak and vote at the meeting.
A proxy need not be a member retiring by rotation: of the Company and the appointment of a proxy will not preclude 4.
To re-elect as a director of the Company G McFarland, who is a member from attending and voting at the meeting.
A form of retiring by rotation: proxy is enclosed for this purpose.
To elect as a director of the Company W H Whiteley: 3.
If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, is given discretion as to how the votes the subject of those proxies are 6.
To approve the Directors remuneration report contained in the cast, and the voting rights in respect of those discretionary Annual report 2008: proxies, when added to the voting rights in the Company already 7.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Company and to held by the Chairman, result in the Chairman having a notifiable authorise the directors to determine their remuneration: obligation under the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules, the Chairman will make the special resolutions necessary notifications to the Company and the Financial 8.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution: Services Authority.
As a result, any member holding 3% or more That the Company be and is hereby unconditionally authorised to of the voting rights in the Company who grants the Chairman make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of a discretionary proxy in respect of some or all of those voting the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 20p each in the rights and so would otherwise have a notification obligation capital of the Company ordinary shares provided that: under the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules, need not make a separate notification to the Company and to the Financial i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to Services Authority.
be purchased is 7,278,854: ii the maximum price that may be paid for an ordinary share 4.
The following documents will be available for inspection at the is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle registered office of the Company during normal business hours market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the 8.00am - 4.15pm : london Stock Exchange Daily Official list for the 10 business 1 copies of the executive directors service contracts and letters days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary of appointment of non-executive directors: and share is purchased: 2 new Articles of Association iii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 20p: The new Articles of Association will also be available for inspection iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the earlier of the at the offices of Norton Rose, 3 More london Riverside, london conclusion of the annual general meeting to be held in 2009 SE1 2AQ during normal business hours 9.00am until 5.30pm.
All and 31st December 2009 unless such authority is renewed the documents will be available for inspection at the place of the prior to such time: and meeting from 11.30am until the meeting closes.
v the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which contract will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to such contract.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution: That the Articles of Association produced to the meeting and initialled by the chairman of the meeting for the purpose of identification be adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association.
By order of the Board A C G Roberts FCA New Mills Secretary Wotton-under-Edge Gloucestershire 15th August 2008 Gl12 8JR ANNUAl REPORT 2008 notice oF Meeting: CONTINUED noTes: ConTinueD representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to 5.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person the chairman and the chairman will vote or withhold a vote as nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to corporate representative in accordance with those directions: enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have shareholder has not appointed the chairman of the meeting as its someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General corporate representative, a designated corporate representative Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment will be nominated, from those corporate representatives right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder representatives will give voting directions to that designated as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and paragraph 2 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by icsa.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance shareholders of the Company.
includes a sample form of appointment letter if the chairman is 6.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the being appointed as described in 6 i above.
meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so 7.
The total number of voting rights as at the business day that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the chairman preceding the date of this notice in respect of the Companys of the meeting as its corporate representative to vote on a poll ordinary shares is 72,788,543.
There are no other classes of in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate shares nor any held in treasury.
aDopTion oF new arTiCLes oF assoCiaTion voTes oF members resoLuTion 9 Under the Companies Act 2006 proxies are entitled to speak Resolution 9 seeks approval for the adoption of new Articles of at general meetings and to vote on a show of hands whereas Association the New Articles.
The Company proposes to amend under the Current Articles proxies are only entitled to vote on a the existing Articles of Association the Current Articles to reflect poll.
The time limits for the appointment or termination of a proxy the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 which came into effect in appointment have been altered by the Companies Act 2006 so that April and October 2007 and April and October 2008.
As the bulk of the articles cannot provide that they should be received more than the remaining provisions will be brought into effect in October 2009 48 hours before the meeting or in the case of a poll taken more members of the Company will be asked to approve further changes than 48 hours after the meeting, more than 24 hours before the to the Articles at the next Annual General Meeting.
time for the taking of a poll, with weekends and bank holidays being permitted to be excluded for this purpose.
Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the arTiCLes wHiCH DupLiCaTe sTaTuTory provisions rights attached to a different share held by the shareholder.
Multiple Provisions in the Current Articles which replicate provisions corporate representatives may be appointed but if they purport contained in the Companies Act 2006 are in the main amended to to exercise their rights in different ways, then the power is treated bring them into line with the Companies Act 2006.
Certain examples as not being exercised.
The New Articles reflect all of these of such provisions include provisions as to the form of resolutions, new provisions.
the variation of class rights, the requirement to keep accounting records and provisions regarding the period of notice required to aGe oF DireCTors on appoinTmenT convene general meetings.
The main changes made to reflect this approach are detailed below.
The Current Articles contain a provision confirming that no director would be required to retire by reason of attaining the age of 70.
The previous provision requiring directors of public companies to retire ConveninG GeneraL meeTinGs anD annuaL at 70 in clause 293 of the Companies Act 1985 was repealed in GeneraL meeTinGs April 2007 and the provision is no longer required and so has been The concept of extraordinary general meetings has been removed removed from the New Articles.
by the Companies Act 2006 and the New Articles have been amended to reflect this change.
The provisions in the Current LimiT oF DireCTors Fees Articles dealing with the convening of general meetings and the length of notice required to convene general meetings are being The aggregate maximum amount of annual fees payable by the amended to conform to new provisions in the Companies Act 2006.
Company to the directors without the sanction of an ordinary In particular a general meeting to consider a special resolution can resolution of the Company has been increased in the New Articles be convened on 14 days notice whereas previously 21 days notice from 75,000 to 250,000. was required.
PAGE 42 43 ConFLiCTs oF inTeresT eLeCTroniC CommuniCaTions The Companies Act 2006 sets out directors general duties which Provisions of the Companies Act 2006 which came into force in largely codify the existing law but with some changes.
Under the January 2007 enable companies to communicate with members Companies Act 2006, from 1st October 2008 a director must avoid by electronic and or website communications.
The New Articles a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest continue to allow communications to members in electronic form that conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the companys interests.
and, in addition, they also permit the Company to take advantage of The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a the new provisions relating to website communications.
Before the director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of Company can communicate with a member by means of website another organisation.
The Companies Act 2006 allows directors communication, the relevant member must be asked individually of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, by the Company to agree that the Company may send or supply where appropriate, where the articles of association contain a documents or information to him by means of a website, and the provision to this effect.
The Companies Act 2006 also allows the Company must either have received a positive response or have articles of association to contain other provisions for dealing with received no response within the period of 28 days beginning with directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
The New the date on which the request was sent.
The Company will notify Articles give the directors authority to approve such situations and the member either in writing, or by other permitted means when to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt a relevant document or information is placed on the website and a with in a similar way to the current position.
member can always request a hard copy version of the document or information.
There are safeguards which will apply when directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
Firstly, only GeneraL directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will Several statutory references have been amended to take account of be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the the enactment of sections of the Companies Act 2006 and repeal decision the directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, of the corresponding sections of the Companies Act 1985.
Some will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The directors definitions have also been changed to bring them in line with the will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation Companies Act 2006 or added where the relevant concepts are no if they think this is appropriate.
longer dealt with in the Companies Act 2006.
Other miscellaneous It is also proposed that the New Articles should contain provisions non-material changes have been made to reflect current law and which will be effective from 1st October 2008 only relating to market practice.
confidential information, attendance at board meetings and availability of board papers to protect a director being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to the potential conflict has previously been authorised by the directors.
It is the Boards intention to report annually on the Companys procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers to authorise conflicts are operated effectively.
DireCTors inDemniTies anD Loans To FunD expenDiTure The Companies Act 2006 has in some areas widened the scope of the powers of a company to indemnify directors and to fund expenditure incurred in connection with certain actions against directors.
In particular, a company that is a trustee of an occupational pension scheme can now indemnify a director against liability incurred in connection with the companys activities as trustee of the scheme.
In addition, the existing exemption allowing a company to provide money for the purpose of funding a directors defence in court proceedings now expressly covers regulatory proceedings and applies to associated companies.
This change has been reflected in the New Articles.
