52 Financial statements Accounting policies Accounting policies For the year ended 31 December b Associates Basis of preparation Associates are all entities over which the group These consolidated financial statements have been has significant influence but not control, generally prepared in compliance with International Financial accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and Reporting Standards IFRSs and International 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee accounted for by the equity method of accounting and IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the are initially recognised at cost.
The groups investment European Union as at 31 December 2008. in associates includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss identified on acquisition.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, The groups share of its associates post-acquisition as modified by the revaluation of available for profits or losses is recognised in the income statement sale investments and certain financial assets and and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves liabilities including derivative instruments.
The cumulative postacquisition movements are adjusted against the Consolidation carrying amount of the investment.
a Subsidiaries Unrealised gains and losses on transactions between Subsidiaries are all entities including special purpose the group and its associates are eliminated to the entities over which the group has the power to extent of the groups interest in the associates.
govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half Segment reporting of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable A business segment is a group of assets and operations or convertible are considered when assessing whether engaged in providing products or services that are the group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are subject to risks and returns that are different from fully consolidated from the date on which control is those of other business segments.
A geographical transferred to the group.
They are fide-consolidated segment is engaged in providing products or services from the date that control ceases.
within a particular economic environment that are different from those of segments operating in other The group uses the purchase method of accounting economic environments.
to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost The primary segment for the group is the business of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the segment.
Business segments reported are: Textiles and assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities Washroom Services, Pest Control, Facilities Services, incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs Ambius and City Link with central items reported directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable separately as these cannot be reliably allocated across assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities segments.
Geographic or secondary segments are assumed in a business combination are measured United Kingdom, continental Europe, North America, initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, Asia Pacific and Africa.
irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value Foreign currency translation of the groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of the a Functional and presentation currency acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets Items included in the financial statements of each of of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised the groups entities are measured using the currency directly in the income statement.
of the primary economic environment in which Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised the entity operates the functional currency.
gains and losses on transactions between group The consolidated financial statements are presented companies are eliminated.
in sterling, which is the companys functional and presentation currency.
Any change in the parents controlling interest in a subsidiary that does not result in a loss of control in buying or selling shares to the minority is treated as a transaction with equity shareholders and is shown as a movement in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
Financial statements 53 Accounting policies assets is calculated using the straight-line method to b Transactions and balances allocate the difference between their cost and their Foreign currency transactions are translated into residual values over their estimated useful lives, the functional currency using the exchange rates as follows: prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the 4 to 5 years Vehicles settlement of such transactions and from the 3 to 10 years Plant, equipment including translation at reporting period end exchange rates equipment for rental, tropical of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in plants and their containers on rental foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement except when deferred in equity as qualifying 3 to 10 years Office equipment, furniture net investment hedges.
Foreign exchange differences and fittings for financing of investments which are considered Assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed quasi equity are reported in reserves.
Other annually and amended as necessary.
Fixed assets are foreign exchange differences are taken to the reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes income statement.
in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount c Group companies of the fixed asset may not be recoverable.
The results and financial position of all the group entities that have a functional currency different An assets carrying amount is written down immediately from the presentation currency are translated into to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount the presentation currency as follows: exceeds the higher of the assets fair value less cost to sell or value-in-use.
i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet For the purposes of assessing value-in-use, assets presented are translated at the closing rate are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are at the date of the balance sheet: separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating ii income and expenses for each income statement units and cash flow forecasts are made using are translated at average exchange rates: and assumptions consistent with the most up-to-date budgets and plans that have been formally approved iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised by management.
These cash flows are discounted using as a separate component of equity.
a pre-tax discount rate based on the weighted average On consolidation, exchange differences arising from cost of capital for the group, adjusted for the particular the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, risks of the cash-generating unit being reviewed and of borrowings and other currency instruments for impairment.
designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to shareholders equity.
When a foreign operation is sold, Business combinations such exchange differences are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Under the requirements of IFRS 3, all business combinations are accounted for using the purchase Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the method acquisition accounting.
The cost of a acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and business combination is the aggregate of the fair liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at period values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, end exchange rates.
liabilities incurred or assumed, equity instruments issued by the acquirer and any costs directly attributable Property, plant and equipment to the business combination.
The cost of a business Land and buildings comprise mainly factories and combination is allocated at the acquisition date by offices.
Provision for depreciation of freehold buildings recognising the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities is made in equal annual instalments of 1% to 2% of and contingent liabilities that satisfy the recognition cost.
Leasehold buildings classified as finance leases criteria, at their fair values at that date.
The acquisition are depreciated in equal annual instalments over date is the date on which the acquirer effectively obtains the shorter of the lease term or estimated useful control of the acquiree.
An intangible asset, such as life of the leased asset.
No depreciation is charged customer relationships, brands, patents and royalties, on freehold land or fixed assets under construction.
is recognised if it meets the definition of an intangible When properties are sold, the difference between asset in IAS 38, Intangible Assets and its fair value can sale proceeds and net book value is dealt with in be measured reliably.
The intangible assets identified in the income statement.
all acquisitions made since 1 January 1998 are goodwill, customer lists and relationships, reacquired franchise All other property, plant and equipment is stated rights and contract portfolios.
Consideration in excess at historical cost less depreciation.
Historical cost of net identifiable assets acquired in respect of minority includes expenditure that is directly attributable to interests in existing subsidiary undertakings is taken the acquisition of the items.
Depreciation on other directly to reserves.
54 Financial statements Accounting policies b Brands and patents Intangible assets Brands and patents acquired as part of a business Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated combination are initially measured at fair value and amortisation and accumulated impairment losses, amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful where applicable.
The main categories of intangible economic lives.
Expenditure incurred to develop, assets are as follows: maintain and renew brands and patents internally is recognised as an expense in the period incurred.
Intangible assets indefinite useful lives Separate values are not attributed to internally generated brands and patents.
Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an c Reacquired franchise rights acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of Reacquired franchise rights acquired as part of a the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary business combination in City Link represents the associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill in respect benefit to the group from the right to operate in of business combinations made since 1 January 1998 certain geographical regions.
These are initially is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill on the measured at fair value and amortised on a straightacquisition of associates is included in investments line basis over the remaining contractual period in associates.
Goodwill in respect of the acquisition of the franchise agreements which terminate on of subsidiaries made prior to January 1998 remains 25 October 2010. eliminated against reserves.
d Computer software Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried Acquired computer software licences are capitalised at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring losses previously recognised are not reversed.
Goodwill in to use the specific software and are amortised over is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose their estimated useful lives.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill Costs associated with maintaining computer software relating to the entity sold.
programs are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Costs that are directly associated with the production Intangible assets finite useful lives of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the group, and that will probably generate economic Intangible assets with finite useful lives are initially benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are measured at either cost or fair value and amortised recognised as intangible assets.
Direct costs include on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives, the software development employee costs and an which are reviewed on an annual basis.
The fair value appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
attributable to intangible assets acquired through a Computer software development costs recognised as business combination is determined by discounting the assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
expected future cash flows to be generated from that asset at the risk adjusted weighted average cost of e Research and development capital for the group.
The residual values of intangible Research expenditure is recognised as an expense assets are assumed to be nil.
Costs incurred on development projects The estimated useful economic lives of intangible assets relating to the design and testing of new or improved are as follows: products are recognised as intangible assets when it is probable that the project will be a success considering Customer lists and relationships: 5 16 years its commercial and technological feasibility and only if Brands and patents: 2 15 years the cost can be measured reliably.
Reacquired franchise rights: 3 5 years Other development expenditure is recognised as an expense as incurred.
Computer software: 3 5 years Development costs previously recognised as an expense The following are the main categories of intangible assets.
are not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period.
a Customer lists and relationships Development costs that have been capitalised are Customer lists and portfolios acquired as part of a amortised from the date the product is available for business combination are initially measured at fair value use on a straight-line basis over the period of its and amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful expected benefit.
Separate values are not attributed to internally generated customer list or relationships.
Financial statements 55 Accounting policies Borrowings Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, realisable value.
Cost is determined using the first-in, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are first-out FIFO method.
The cost of finished goods and subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference work in progress comprises design costs, raw materials, between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the direct labour, other direct costs and related production redemption value is recognised in the income statement overheads based on normal operating capacity.
over the period of the borrowings using the effective It excludes borrowing costs.
Net realisable value is interest method.
the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of Where fair value hedge accounting is applied, the business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
carrying value is adjusted for any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are Trade receivables attributable to the hedged risk.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the and subsequently measured at amortised cost using group has a continuing right to defer settlement of the the effective interest method, less provision for liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade date under both its committed bank credit facility and receivables is established when there is objective Euro Medium Term Note programme.
evidence that the group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms Deferred income tax of receivables.
The amount of the provision is Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the recognised in the income statement.
liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and Cash and cash equivalents their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, statements.
However, if the deferred income tax arises deposits held at call with banks and other short-term from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a highly liquid investments with original maturities of transaction other than a business combination that three months or less and subject to insignificant at the time of the transaction affects neither the changes in value.
In the cash flow statement, cash accounting nor the taxable profit or loss, it is not and cash equivalents are shown net of bank overdrafts.
Deferred income tax is determined Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current using tax rates and laws that have been enacted liabilities on the balance sheet.
or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred Share capital income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, extent that it is probable that future taxable profit from the proceeds.
will be available against which the temporary Where any group company purchases the companys differences can be utilised.
equity share capital Treasury shares, the consideration Deferred income tax is provided on temporary paid, including any directly attributable incremental differences arising on investments in subsidiaries costs net of income taxes, is deducted from equity and associates, except where the timing of the reversal attributable to the companys equity holders until the of the temporary difference is controlled by the group shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where and it is probable that the temporary difference will not such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any reverse in the foreseeable future.
consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income Tax is recognised in the income statement except to tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the the extent that it relates to items recognised directly companys equity holders.
in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
56 Financial statements Accounting policies c Other post-employment obligations Employee benefits Some group companies provide post-employment a Defined benefit pension obligations healthcare benefits to their retirees.
The entitlement The group operates a number of pension schemes to these benefits is usually conditional on the employee throughout the world.
The principal scheme is the UK remaining in service up to retirement age and the scheme, which has a number of defined benefit sections, completion of a minimum service period.
The expected which are now closed to new entrants other than the costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of Initial No 2 section, accounting for 0.5% of the total employment using an accounting methodology similar schemes liabilities, which remains open and a defined to that used for defined benefit pension plans.
The defined benefit scheme is gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, funded through payments to a trustee-administered and changes in actuarial assumptions, are charged or fund, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
credited to the consolidated statement of recognised A number of much smaller defined benefit and defined income and expense.
contribution schemes operate elsewhere which are also funded through payments to trustee-administered d Share-based compensation funds or insurance companies.
A defined benefit plan The group operates a number of equity-settled, is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension share-based compensation plans.
The economic cost benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, of awarding shares and share options to employees usually dependent on one or more factors such as is recognised as an expense in the income statement age, years of service and compensation.
A defined equivalent to the fair value of the benefit awarded.
contribution plan is a pension plan under which the The fair value is determined by reference to option group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
pricing models, principally Monte Carlo and adjusted Black-Scholes models.
The charge is recognised in the The asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in income statement over the vesting period of the award.
respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present At each balance sheet date, the group revises its value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance estimate of the number of options that are expected sheet date less the fair value of plan assets.
The defined to become exercisable.
Any revision to the original benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent estimates is reflected in the income statement with actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
a corresponding adjustment to equity immediately to The present value of the defined benefit obligation is the extent it relates to past service and the remainder determined by discounting the estimated future cash over the rest of the vesting period.
outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate The proceeds received net of any directly attributable bonds that are denominated in the currency in which transaction costs are credited to share capital the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to nominal value and share premium when the maturity approximating to the terms of the related options are exercised.
The group will recognise a pension surplus as an asset where there is an unconditional e Termination benefits right to a refund or where the group has sufficient Termination benefits are payable when an employment scope to reduce future pension contributions.
is terminated before the normal retirement date, or Current and past service costs, to the extent they have whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy vested, and curtailments are recognised as charges or in exchange for these benefits.
The group recognises credits against operating profit in the income statement.
termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed Interest costs on plan liabilities and the expected return to either: terminating the employment of current on plan assets are recognised in finance costs.
Actuarial employees according to a detailed formal plan without gains and losses arising from experience adjustments possibility of withdrawal: or providing termination and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage credited to the consolidated statement of recognised voluntary redundancy.
Benefits falling due more than income and expense.
12 months after the balance sheet date are discounted to present value.
b Defined contribution pension plans The group pays contributions to publicly or privately f Profit-sharing and bonus plans administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, The group recognises a liability and an expense for contractual or voluntary basis.
The group has no further bonuses and profit-sharing, based on a formula that payment obligations once the contributions have been takes into consideration the probability of certain paid.
The contributions are recognised as employee performance criteria being achieved.
A provision is benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions recognised where a contractual obligation exists or are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash where past practice indicates that there is a constructive refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
obligation to make such payments in the future.
Financial statements 57 Accounting policies For non-contract-based business, revenue represents g Holiday pay the value of goods delivered or services performed.
Paid holidays are regarded as an employee benefit and For contract-based business, revenue represents the as such are charged to the income statement as the sales value of work carried out for customers during benefits are earned.
An accrual is made at the balance the period.
Contract income is recognised in accounting sheet date to reflect the fair value of holidays earned periods on a straight-line basis over the life of the but not yet taken.
For long-term contracts involving the installation of equipment, revenue is recognised Provisions using the percentage completion method and Vacant property, environmental, self-insurance and represents the sales value of work executed during other provisions are recognised when the group has the period.
a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events and it is probable that an outflow of b Rental income resources will be required to settle the obligation: and Rental assets such as tropical plants, washroom if this amount is capable of being reliably estimated.
equipment, garments, linen, security equipment, etc If such an obligation is not capable of being reliably which are owned by group entities or where at least estimated it is classified as a contingent liability.
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of such equipment are retained by group entities are Vacant property provision is made in respect of vacant capitalised as fixed assets and depreciated over their and partly sub-let leasehold properties to the extent estimated useful lives.
that future rental payments are expected to exceed All rental income received or receivable in respect of future rental income.
Environmental provision is made rental assets is accounted for on an operating lease for all known liabilities to remediate contaminated land basis.
Income from the rental of these assets is credited on the basis of managements best estimate of the costs to revenue on a strict time apportioned basis.
Self-insurance provision is made for all claims incurred as at the balance sheet whether c Franchise income notified or not date based on actuarial assessments of Franchise income is recognised as services are provided the likely amounts of these liabilities.
Other provisions or continuing rights granted by the agreement are used.
are made for all other known liabilities that exist at the d Interest income year end based on managements best estimate as to Interest income is recognised on a time-apportioned the cost of settling these liabilities.
Provisions are not basis using the effective interest method.
When a recognised for future operating losses.
receivable is impaired, the group reduces the carrying Where there are a number of similar obligations, the amount to its recoverable amount, being the estimated likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement future cash flow discounted at the original effective is determined by considering the class of obligations interest rate of the instrument, and continues as a whole.
unwinding the discount as interest income.
Interest income on impaired loans is recognised either as When the effect of the time value of money is material, cash is collected or on a cost-recovery basis as provision amounts are calculated on the present value conditions warrant.
of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation.
The present value is calculated using Taxation forward market interest rates, as measured at the balance sheet reporting date, which have been adjusted The tax expense for the period comprises current for risks already reflected in future cash flow estimates.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to Revenue recognition items recognised directly in equity.
In this case the Revenue comprises the fair value for the rendering tax is also recognised in equity.
of services, net of value-added tax and other similar The current income tax charge is calculated on the sales-based taxes, rebates and discounts and after basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted eliminating sales within the group.
Revenue is at the balance sheet date in the countries where the recognised as follows: companys subsidiaries and associates operate and a Service revenue generate taxable income.
Management periodically Revenue excludes VAT and other similar sales-based evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect taxes, rebates and discounts and represents the to situations in which applicable tax regulation is amounts receivable for services rendered and goods subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions sold outside the group.
where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
58 Financial statements Accounting policies a Financial assets at fair value through Leases profit and loss Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Derivatives are categorised as held for trading unless group has substantially all the risks and rewards of they are designated as hedges.
Assets are classified ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance as current if they are either held for trading or are leases are capitalised at the leases inception at the expected to be realised within 12 months of the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the balance sheet date.
present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and b Loans and receivables finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets the finance balance outstanding.
with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the group The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance provides money, goods or services directly to a debtor charges, are included in other payables.
The interest with no intention of trading the receivable.
They are element of the finance cost is charged to the income included in current assets, except for maturities greater statement over the lease period so as to produce a than 12 months from the balance sheet date.
These are constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining classified as non-current assets.
Loans and receivables balance of the liability for each period.
The property, include trade and other receivables and cash and plant and equipment acquired under finance leases other equivalents.
are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of c Available-for-sale financial assets the asset or the lease term.
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and that are either designated in this category or not rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified in any of the other categories.
They are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under included in non-current assets unless management operating leases net of any incentives received from intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months the lessor are charged to the income statement of the balance sheet date.
on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Available-for-sale investments are fair valued and Dividend distribution changes to market values are recognised in equity.
On subsequent disposal or impairment, the accumulated Dividend distribution to the companys shareholders gains and losses, previously recognised in equity, are is recognised as a liability in the groups financial recognised in the income statement as gains and statements in the period in which the dividends are losses from investment securities.
Loans and approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim receivables and held-to-maturity investments are dividends are recognised when paid.
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, subject to impairment.
Financial instruments The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised there is objective evidence that a financial asset or when the group becomes a party to the contractual a group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case provisions of the relevant instrument and derecognised of equity securities classified as available for sale, a when it ceases to be a party to such provisions.
significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered as an indicator that Financial assets the securities are impaired.
If any such evidence exists The group classifies its investments in the following for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss categories: financial assets at fair value through the measured as the difference between the acquisition profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss investments and available-for-sale financial assets.
on that financial asset previously recognised in profit The classification depends on the purpose for which the or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the investments were acquired.
Impairment losses recognised in the classification of its investments at initial recognition the income statement on equity instruments are not and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting reversed through the income statement.
The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that financial assets Financial liabilities are impaired.
All financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost using All financial assets are held at amortised cost except the effective interest rate method except for derivatives, for derivatives, which are classified as held for trading which are classified as held for trading except where unless in a hedging relationship and certain assets they qualify for hedge accounting and are held at classified as available-for-sale, which are held at fair value.
Financial liabilities held at amortised cost include trade payables, accruals, vacant property provisions, deferred consideration and borrowings.
Financial statements 59 Accounting policies Fair value estimation Accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The fair value of any financial instruments traded in Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on active markets is based on quoted market prices at the the date a derivative contract is entered into and are balance sheet date.
The quoted market price used for subsequently re-measured at their fair value at the financial assets held by the group is the current bid balance sheet date.
The method of recognising the price: the appropriate quoted market price for financial resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative liabilities is the current ask price.
is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar nature of the item being hedged.
The group designates instruments are used for long-term debt.
Other certain derivatives as either 1 hedges of the fair value techniques, such as estimated discounted cash flows, of recognised assets or liabilities or 2 hedges of net are used to determine fair value for the remaining investments in foreign operations.
The fair value of interest rate and currency swaps is calculated as the present value The group documents at the inception of the transaction of the estimated future cash flows.
The fair value of the relationship between hedging instruments and forward foreign exchange contracts is determined hedged items, as well as its risk management objective using forward exchange market rates at the balance and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The fair value of financial instruments that The group also documents its assessment, both at hedge are not traded in an active market is determined by inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the using valuation techniques.
The group uses a variety derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are of methods and makes assumptions that are based on highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values of market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
a Fair value hedge The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are of trade receivables and payables are assumed to designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded approximate to their fair values.
The fair value of in the income statement, together with any changes in financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are by discounting the future contractual cash flows at attributable to the hedged risk.
the current market interest rate that is available to the group for similar financial instruments.
b Net investment hedge Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating Critical accounting estimates and assumptions to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated in equity: the gain or loss relating to the ineffective and are based on historical experience and other factors, portion is recognised immediately in the income including expectations of future events that are believed statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity to be reasonable under the circumstances.
are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
The group makes estimates and assumptions concerning c Derivatives that do not qualify for the future.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by hedge accounting definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk accounting.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative of causing a material adjustment to the carrying instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting amounts of assets and liabilities within the next are recognised immediately in the income statement.
financial year are discussed below.
d Cash flow hedge a Estimated impairment of goodwill The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging The group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered instrument relating to the effective portion of the any impairment in accordance with the accounting hedge is recognised in equity.
Any ineffective portion policy stated earlier under intangible assets goodwill.
is recognised in the income statement.
The gains or The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to been determined based on value-in-use calculations.
the consolidated income statement in the same period These calculations require the use of estimates and in which the hedged cash flows affect the consolidated assumptions consistent with the most up-to-date income statement.
budgets and plans that have been formally approved by management.
Discontinued operations b Valuation of acquired intangible assets A discontinued operation is a component of an entity Acquisitions may result in customer relationships, that has either been disposed of, or that is classified as brands and reacquired franchise rights being recognised.
held for sale, which represents a separate major line of These are valued using the excess earnings and relief business or geographical area of operations and is part from royalty methods.
In applying these methodologies of a single coordinated plan to dispose of a separate certain key judgements and estimates are required to line of business or geographical area of operations.
be made in respect of future cash flows.
60 Financial statements Accounting policies c Provision for impairment of trade receivables European Union, as at 31 December 2008 are not yet Provision is made against accounts that in the effective and have not been early adopted by the group.
estimation of management may be impaired.
This new standard each of the businesses, assessment is made locally requires identification and reporting of operating of the recoverability of accounts receivable and the segments on the basis of internal reports that creditworthiness of the customer.
Determining the are regularly reviewed by the board in order recoverability of an account involves estimation as to to allocate resources to the segment and assess the likely financial condition of the customer and their its performance.
The group will be amending ability to subsequently make payment.
its segmental information with effect from d Income taxes 1 January 2009 to comply with IFRS 8.
The group is subject to income taxes in numerous b IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs.
Significant judgement is required in of an existing standard requires the capitalisation determining the worldwide provision for income taxes.
of borrowing costs directly attributable to an There are many transactions and calculations for which acquisition, construction or production of a the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the qualifying asset one that takes a substantial ordinary course of business.
The group recognises period of time to get ready for use or sale as part liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of the cost of that asset.
The revised standard is not of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final expected to have any impact on the group.
The group tax outcome of these matters is different from the will adopt IAS 23 with effect from 1 January 2009. amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions c IFRS 2 amendment Share-based payment.
in the period in which such determination is made.
This revision of an existing standard deals with vesting conditions and cancellations.
It clarifies e Provision for vacant property and that vesting conditions are service conditions and environmental restoration performance conditions only.
Other features of a Significant judgement is required in determining share-based payment are not vesting conditions.
the worldwide provision for vacant property and The group will apply IFRS 2 amendment from environmental restoration.
It is not expected to have a environmental restoration tend to be long-term in material impact on the group or companys nature and the required use of an appropriate market financial statements.
discount rate and forecast future utilisation based upon managements best estimate determines the d IAS 1 amendment Presentation of financial level of provision required at the balance sheet date.
The amendment clarifies that The phasing and actual cash spend may be different some rather than all financial assets and liabilities from the original forecast utilisation spend.
classified as held for trading in accordance with IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and f Retirement benefits measurement are examples of current assets Defined benefit schemes are reappraised annually and liabilities respectively.
The group will apply by independent actuaries based upon actuarial the IAS 39 amendment from 1 January 2009. assumptions.
Significant judgement is required in It is not expected to have a material impact on determining these actuarial assumptions.
Refer to note the group financial statements.
24 for the principal assumptions used for the Rentokil Initial Pension Scheme in the United Kingdom.
e IAS 1 revised Presentation of financial statements.
This revision of an existing standard will prohibit g Self-insurance the presentation of items of income and expenses The group operates captive insurance companies that is, non-owner changes in equity in the in the UK and US.
These companies provide reinsurance statement of changes in equity.
All non-owner exclusively to certain companies within the group.
changes in equity will be required to be shown in Provision is made based on actuarial assessment of the a performance statement.
Where entities restate liabilities arising from the insurance coverage provided.
or reclassify comparative information, they will be The actuarial assessment of the reserve for future claims required to present a restated balance sheet as at necessarily includes estimates as to the likely trend of the beginning comparative period.
The group will future claims costs and as to the emergence of further apply IAS 1 revised from 1 January 2009. claims subsequent to the year end.
An actuarial review of claims is performed annually.
To the extent that actual The following interpretation to published standards claims differ from those projected, the provisions could is mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or vary significantly.
after 1 January 2008 but is not relevant to the groups operations: Standards, amendments and interpretations to a IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes.
IFRIC 13 published standards that are not yet effective is not relevant to the group operations because The following standards and amendments to existing none of the groups companies operate any standards or interpretations, as adopted by the loyalty programmes.
