Market review increased by 211 per cent and thermal coal prices were well in excess of the marginal Competitive environment benchmark prices increased by 99 per cent.
costs of production, reflecting strong demand Rio Tinto is a major producer in all the The West Texas Intermediate oil benchmark and constraints in supply.
As a result of metals and minerals markets in which it price peaked at US$147 per barrel in mid July declining demand stemming from the operates.
It is generally among the top five 2008 and during the same month, copper deterioration in global economic conditions, global producers by volume in each such prices reached a record level of almost the LMEX base metals price index a basket market.
It has market shares for different US$9,000 per tonne.
of the main LME traded base metals finished commodities ranging from five per cent to During the third quarter of 2008, the year 60 per cent below its March 2008 40 per cent.
however, global economic conditions began peak.
Spot aluminium and nickel prices Most of Rio Tintos competitors are to deteriorate, in part as a result of finished 2008 at around US$1,500 per tonne private sector companies which are publicly quoted.
Several are, like Rio Tinto, turbulence in the financial markets and US$11,000 per tonne, respectively, their diversified in terms of commodity exposure, stemming from the sub-prime mortgage lowest since 2003.
Spot copper prices ended but others are focused on particular crisis in the US.
In particular, the bankruptcy 2008 at approximately half of their level at commodities.
Metal and mineral markets are of Lehman Brothers, the US investment the beginning of the year and their lowest highly competitive particularly since bank, in September 2008, contributed to an since 2005. commodity prices are subject to price acceleration of economic deterioration.
The majority of Rio Tintos iron ore and declines in real terms as a result of Following the bankruptcy, risk premiums coal production is sold at annual contracted productivity gains, increasing technical expanded significantly and lending and prices rather than on the spot market.
sophistication, better management and general access to financing contracted.
Accordingly, Rio Tinto is experiencing advances in information technology.
Governments around the world took action significant deterioration in the pricing High quality, long life mineral resources, to restore confidence in financial markets environment for these commodities.
the basis of attractive financial returns, are and improve liquidity, including purchasing However, it reduced production of iron ore relatively scarce.
Nevertheless, Rio Tinto distressed assets, providing loan guarantees towards the end of the year as a result of holds interests in some of the worlds largest and through direct capital injections.
declining demand associated with lower deposits.
Despite these measures, financial steel production in Europe and Asia.
turbulence continued during 2008 and The impact of the deterioration in Economic overview contributed to a decline in global economic economic conditions on industrial minerals Between 2004 and 2007 the world economy growth and the emergence of recessionary prices has been less significant.
Gold prices grew at an average rate of around five per conditions in certain countries.
In particular, have increased, reflecting weak growth in cent a year on a purchasing power parity the US, UK, Eurozone and Japan all supply as well as golds attractiveness to basis source: IMF.
This favourable experienced declines in GDP during the some investors in times of increased economic environment generated strong second half of 2008 and Chinas economy financial uncertainty.
year on year growth in demand for grew at a slower rate in 2008 than in prior Adverse economic developments during commodities.
Although the mining industry years.
Slowing growth in China and certain 2008 have led to a shift in focus from responded by raising levels of investment, other developing countries reflected the fact maximising output to capital management there were significant lags in bringing on that those economies were much more and cost saving.
Despite this, Rio Tinto also new capacity.
Consequently, growth in dependent on external demand than was believes that recent developments have demand for certain commodities outpaced previously expected and is a result of the highlighted the value of pursuing a strategy of growth in supply, causing prices for those absolute fall in exports relative to investing in Tier 1 mining assets, which are commodities to increase.
In the case of China the lagged generally able to generate positive margins Most of the growth in demand during impact of previous policy tightening, over the whole of the economic cycle.
this period was attributable to China, which declines in equity markets and a correction experienced rapid economic growth as it in a slightly overheating property market Trend information entered a phase of mass urbanisation and have also contributed to the deceleration in Demand for the Groups products is closely industrialisation.
Chinas GDP expanded by growth.
Activity in the housing and aligned with global GDP.
Changes in the 13 per cent in 2007 source: Chinese automotive sectors has fallen alongside a fall GDP of developing countries will generally National Statistics and its consumption of in consumer confidence.
have a greater impact on demand for copper and aluminium increased by 35 per The deterioration in global economic commodities such as iron ore and coal, cent and 43 per cent, respectively, according conditions since the third quarter of 2008 which are significant inputs in the to the World Bureau of Metal Statistics.
has had a significant impact on demand for, development and improvement of Spot commodity prices eased slightly in and prices of, metals and minerals.
Conversely, changes in the the latter part of 2007 but during the first conditions of market shortages have been GDP of developed countries will have a half of 2008 the global economy continued transformed into excess supply.
Combined greater impact on industrial minerals, which to grow at a rate above the long term average.
primary base metals stocks on the London have many applications in consumer At the same time, metal and mineral Metals Exchange doubled during the second products.
Copper is used in a wide range of production levels were limited by a series of half of 2008, to their highest level since the applications and demand for it has tended to disruptions and constraints on the supply of mid-1990s.
This trend has been most grow in line with or slightly faster than certain inputs.
In part as a consequence of notable in the case of aluminium.
Trends in production of the these factors, Australian iron ore benchmark metals such as copper, where supply growth Groups minerals and metals, gross sales prices for the 2008-9 marketing year were has been more limited, there has been a revenue and underlying earnings are set out increased by 80 to 98 per cent compared to much lower rise in visible stocks.
in the Performance section of this 2008 previous levels, coking coal benchmark prices Prior to the economic downturn, metals Annual report.
