Reconciliation with Australian IFRS The Groups financial statements have been goodwill on acquisitions prior to 1998, shareholders funds under Australian IFRS prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted which was eliminated directly against equity include the residue of such goodwill, which by the European Union EU IFRS, which in the Groups UK GAAP financial amounted to US$752 million at differs in certain respects from the version statements, has not been reinstated.
of IFRS that is applicable in Australia was permitted under the rules governing the Save for the exception described above, Australian IFRS.
transition to EU IFRS set out in IFRS 1.
The the Group's financial statements drawn up Prior to 1 January 2004, the Groups equivalent Australian Standard, AASB 1, in accordance with EU IFRS are consistent financial statements were prepared in does not provide for the netting of goodwill with the requirements of Australian IFRS.
Under EU IFRS against equity.
As a consequence, Net earnings and Underlying earnings 2008 2007 US$m US$m Underlying earnings 10,303 7,443 Items excluded from Underlying earnings Profits less losses on disposal of interests in businesses a 1,470 1 Net impairment charges b 7,579 113 Impairment of discontinued operations b 827 Exchange differences and gains losses on derivatives: Exchange gains losses on US dollar net debt and intragroup balances c 960 156 Losses gains on currency and interest rate derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting d, e 22 34 Losses on commodity derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting f 95 Other exclusions g 534 209 Net earnings 3,676 7,312 Underlying earnings is an alternative measure of earnings, which is reported by Rio Tinto to provide greater understanding of the underlying business performance of its operations.
Underlying earnings and Net earnings both represent amounts attributable to Rio Tinto shareholders.
Items a to g below are excluded from Net earnings in arriving at Underlying earnings.
a Gains arising on the disposal of interests in recovery of tax relating to prior years.
It also g Other credits and charges that, individually, or in businesses relate principally to the sale of the includes tax relief for losses on US dollar aggregate if of a similar type, are of a nature or size Cortez gold mine and the Greens Creek mine.
to require exclusion in order to provide additional arising on the disposal of interests in undeveloped d Valuation changes on currency and interest rate insight into underlying business performance.
projects are not excluded from Underlying earnings.
derivatives which are ineligible for hedge b Charges relating to impairment of goodwill and accounting, other than those embedded in During 2008, the Group incurred advisory and other other non-current assets other than undeveloped commercial contracts.
costs related to the rejection by the board of the projects but including discontinued operations net e The currency revaluation of embedded US dollar pre-conditional takeover proposal from BHP Billiton amount US$8,406 million.
2008 includes derivatives contained in contracts held by entities which was withdrawn in November.
These costs impairment charges of US$15 million relating to whose functional currency is not the US dollar.
totalled US$270 million in 2008 and have been equity accounted units.
f Valuation changes on commodity derivatives, excluded from Underlying earnings.
Other charges c Exchange gains and losses on US dollar debt and in including those embedded in commercial contracts, excluded from Underlying earnings comprise costs intragroup balances.
The tax on exchange gains and that are ineligible for hedge accounting, but for relating to non recurring acquisitions, disposals and losses on external debt and intragroup balances which there will be an offsetting change in future similar corporate projects.
includes a benefit of US$254 million through Group earnings.
4 Rio Tinto 2008 Summary financial statements
