Shareholder information Rio Tinto share ownership SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS Under the UK Disclosure and Transparency person with voting power of five per cent or Holdings Australia Pty Limited in Rio Tinto Rules and the Australian Corporations Act, more in Rio Tinto Limited, is required to Limited, the shareholders who have provided any shareholder of Rio Tinto plc with voting provide the companies with notice.
such, or an equivalent, notice are: rights of three per cent or more or any Excluding the interest held by Tinto Rio Tinto plc Date of Number of Percentage Rio Tinto Limited Date of Number of Percentage 1 notice shares of issued notice shares of issued share capital share capital 1 Barclays PLC 12 Jul 2006 42,129,019 4.02 Shining Prospect Pte.
Ltd, a Singapore based entity result of the proposed arrangements between Group on a joint decision matter.
Tinto Holdings owned by Chinalco Aluminum Corporation of Rio Tinto and Chinalco announced to the Australian Australia Pty Limited may only vote its shares in China acquired 119,705,134 Rio Tinto plc shares Securities Exchange on 12 February 2009, Rio Tinto Rio Tinto Limited to give effect to the DLC voting on 1 February 2008.
Through the operation of and Chinalco have become associates in relation to arrangements.
Corporations Act as modified, this gives these Rio Tinto Limited, giving by reason of that 2.
As far as it is known, Rio Tinto is not directly or entities and their associates voting power of 9.32 association Rio Tinto the same voting power in indirectly owned or controlled by another per cent in the Rio Tinto Group on a joint decision Rio Tinto Limited as Chinalco and Chinalco the corporation or by any government.
matter, making them substantial shareholders of same voting power as Tinto Holdings Australia Pty 3.
Rio Tinto is not aware of any arrangement which Rio Tinto Limited as well as of Rio Tinto plc.
As a Limited in Rio Tinto Limited and in the Rio Tinto may result in a change of control.
Tinto Holdings Australia Pty Limited is a wholly 2.
Other large registered shareholders are nominees who owned subsidiary of Rio Tinto plc.
hold securities on behalf of beneficial shareholders.
