Technology and Innovation implemented in early 2008.
This includes the million in 2007 compared with US$118 The Technology & Innovation T&I group installation of real time, on line equipment million in 2006.
The increase was due to the consists of a central team of technology monitoring systems.
By the end of 2008, over higher level of activity, reflected also by professionals and a number of technology 400 monitoring systems had been installed higher staff numbers, and the continued centres that develop leading practice and on haul trucks across the Group.
Significant development and deployment of leading promote improved practice in mining and benefits are already in evidence.
For operational practice across the Group.
processing, asset management, strategic example, at Rio Tinto Coal Australia Hail production planning, and project Creek Mine, the ability to monitor and 2008 OPERATING PERFORMANCE development, execution and evaluation.
influence the truck operators use of the Safety Emphasis is given to common and visible service brake is expected to save over T&I is committed to the safe operation of measures of operational effectiveness, the improvement of analytical tools and US$250,000 annually in brake repair costs.
its facilities and to the safe deployment of development of staff capability and With this same programme, Rio Tinto Iron its personnel.
As a consequence of a single, effectiveness.
Ore has also targeted savings in excess of low severity injury, the T&I all injury Most work is dedicated to current US$900,000 and other business units such as frequency rate was 0.24 for 2008 compared technologies and operations but a separate KUC have been able to identify and prevent with 0.00 in 2007.
Innovation Centre focuses on step change component failures.
The consequence is safer innovation to confer competitive advantage operations, more productive use of Innovation in development of orebodies likely to be equipment and lower maintenance costs.
T&Is Innovation Centre aims to implement available to the Group in the future.
During 2007, RTIO completed order of Group wide change improvements in the The total number of employees in T&I at magnitude studies on a further expansion to application of technology on behalf of the year end was 351, compared with 378 at 320 million tonnes per annum Mt a. T&I Group.
year end 2007. applied the IPT Strategic Production Planning The Group has adopted a strategic Grant Thorne, Group executive T&I, is SPP approach at RTIO, commencing in programme entitled Mine of the Future.
August 2007 which delivered results in This comprises an interlinking set of projects March 2008.
T&I, together with RTIO aimed at delivering demonstrable step STRATEGY developed strategic scheduling and valuation change improvements in productivity, cost T&Is strategy is to underpin operational models and evaluated a variety of options in performance and product quality in both excellence in the business units and to order to identify the most valuable resource surface and underground mining operations increase the contribution of technology to development sequence and mining and associated mineral recovery the Groups vision of industry leadership.
processing approach, which increased the technologies.
expansion base case valuation substantially.
A key strategy in pursuit of the Mine of T&Is objectives include: In addition, the possibility of a further the Future is the establishment of long Working with the business units to deploy potential expansion beyond 320 Mt a was term relationships with world class research technology solutions that increase earnings.
The work was recognised in 2008 and development providers.
For example, Developing a pipeline of valuable new when the RTIO SPP team was awarded the the Group has established an exclusive long investment projects.
Terry Palmer Award, an internal Rio Tinto term strategic partnership with the Positioning the Group to develop orebodies award, for its achievements in innovation, Australian Centre for Field Robotics ACFR that are likely to require innovative mining collaboration and contribution to the at the University of Sydney which resulted in solutions.
the formation of the Rio Tinto Centre for The payload management initiative Mine Automation.
KEY ACHIEVEMENTS which is led by the IPT Mining team was The first breakthrough delivered by the The Improving performance together IPT asset instrumental in improving haul truck fleet Centre for Mine Automation is the successful management programme that started in performance at a number of the Groups development and deployment of 2004 was instrumental in assisting Iron Ore mines in 2008.
At the seven Pilbara Iron sites autonomous blast hole drilling in the Company of Canada in making significant where payload management is in special Pilbara.
This exclusive partnership also improvements to its mining and ore delivery focus, the average load carried by each truck leverages the Groups progress in the fleet performance in 2008.
Production is has increased by more than five per cent.
deployment of driverless haul trucks through affected in winter months by issues with Also, load variability has reduced on average a partnership with Komatsu.
At extremely by more than ten per cent.
Closer operation Through Mine of the Future, the Group low temperatures, most mechanical and to design limits and avoidance of overloading is also focused on the operation of the first electrical systems are stressed.
In mid 2007 were the basis for an additional 15 million Autonomous Iron Ore mine, designated Pit the T&I team working together with the IOC tonnes of material movement in 2008 A, which is located at the West Angelas mine asset management team implemented the without risk of increased equipment damage.
Pit A combines autonomous IPT programme to help address these drilling with autonomous trucks and is fully reliability issues.
In 2008, mine production FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE integrated with the RTIO remote operations fleet availability improved to 78 per cent 2008 compared with 2007 centre in Perth which controls the movement from average historical levels of 75 per cent.
The T&I gross cost in 2008 was US$158 of equipment.
Pit A achieved a significant This improvement in mine fleet performance million, compared with US$160 million in milestone in December 2008 when the coupled with similar improvements in the 2007.
Staffing and expenditure was autonomous truck fleet was commissioned reliability of the ore delivery system constrained to respond to the deterioration alongside the Groups autonomous drill rig, contributed to improvements in production in global economic outlook.
providing a launch platform for full at IOC in 2008. operation in 2009.
The Asset Management Centre Mine 2007 compared with 2006 A long term partnership with Curtin Monitoring and Control programme was The T&I group gross cost was US$160 University was established in early 2008, 76 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Performance continued reliability and performance of coal mine project.
With construction now resulting in the formation of the Rio Tinto equipment across the Group, including the largely complete, responsibility for the QMM Centre for Materials and Sensing in Mining.
implementation of asset management project in Madagascar was handed back to The partnership explores the use of standards, technical systems and global the Minerals product group at year end.
advanced materials in mining applications metrics to compare and monitor the to increase the operational life of performance of both heavy mobile Technical Risk Evaluation equipment.
The partnership also facilitates equipment and fixed plant.
The Technical Risk Evaluation Centre, the transfer of advanced oil industry sensing The IPT programme for Asset whose staff are deliberately reserved from technologies into mining applications.
Management continued to deliver strong involvement in the formulation of major Innovations underground mining results in 2008, assisting the business units investment proposals, provides independent activities in 2008 continued to focus on the block cave method which is of particular to realise over US$200 million in pretax cash review and advice on the adequacy of risk relevance to the large copper orebodies flow benefits.
Installation of real time on identification and mitigation at key points currently under development.
Technologies line equipment maintenance monitoring in the project approvals process.
The Centre progressed include rapid mechanical systems has led to continued improvement also sets standards for Risk Analysis and development of shafts and tunnels, remote in areas such as heavy mobile equipment Management more generally across the monitoring in underground mining and availability and economic extension of Group and in 2008 initiated the innovative underground crushing and engine and component life.
development of a Group wide risk sizing solutions.
The Centre also introduced a management and reporting system.
The Groups capabilities in the field of comprehensive suite of training programmes processing and recovery were enhanced by in 2008 to ensure the functional Production Technology Services the formation of the Rio Tinto Centre for development of asset management Production Technology Services comprises Advanced Mineral Recovery, which is a long professionals across the Group.
Several new the central team of technology professionals term partnership with Imperial College asset management Communities of Practice deployed from five regional hubs who London.
Progress was made on advancing were introduced in 2008 to improve provide the breadth of experience and a breakthrough technology targeted to remove collaboration and knowledge sharing.
multi-disciplinary approach to support barren material from copper ore in order to existing business activity and the pursuit of significantly lift head grades.
In addition, Strategic Production Planning new, profitable growth.
The staff are breakthroughs in flotation control offer the The focus of the Strategic Production deployed at the request of business units potential to materially increase recovery in Planning SPP Centre is to establish leading and the technology centres within T&I.
practice and develop Group wide solutions in mineral resource development, orebody OUTLOOK Production Technology knowledge and mine planning.
Attention is In response to the global economic The Production Technology Centre directed to developing the skills of staff who downturn, T&I has re-aligned its 2009 addresses core mining and processing are involved in these processes.
The Centre priorities to support the Groups new key production processes.
The IPT programme also oversees the Groups resource and initiatives and commitments.
T&I will for Production Technology continued to reserves estimation and reporting process as reduce controllable operating costs and deliver strong results in 2008.
The well as the core technical systems.
T&I plans to programme assisted the operating business A key element of the Strategic reduce its gross operating costs by US$40 units in realising over US$400 million in Production Planning process is SPPs million, or 25 per cent from 2008 levels.
pre-tax cash flow benefits in 2008 and will cooperation with business units to develop The number of employees is expected to remain a key programme in 2009. comprehensive plans and valuations of be reduced by about 100, or 30 per cent.
Specific mining initiatives included strategic development options.
Development These reductions are necessary as a result of haul truck payload management, off road options which are considered typically lower business unit demand for T&I services tyre demand reduction, and the include mining and processing methods and as the business units continue to reduce development of an explosives safety capacities, infrastructure alternatives and their operating and capital expenditures.
Despite these reductions, T&I is dedicated to The Production Technology Centre also Results from SPP provide a logical maintaining the critical capabilities focuses on core metallurgical capability and resource development framework for more necessary to support and retain the Groups delivery of processing improvements.
During detailed studies and investment decision future growth options.
2008, the Centre focused on the making.
For 2009, T&Is operating priority will be implementation of a structured methodology to assist businesses to reduce unit operating to identify and eliminate specific points of Project Development costs by intensifying the focus on improving loss throughput, recovery, and grade at the The Project Development Centre provides operational excellence and increasing the Groups processing operations.
Common guidance, support and training for all contribution of technology to the Groups measures for the performance of aspects of capital projects, from prevision of industry leadership.
T&I will concentrators and other fixed plant were feasibility through to execution and continue to work with Group businesses to introduced globally to enable monitoring and commissioning.
It also performs a deliver measurable increases in earnings sustain improvements.
governance function by conducting project and will continue to assist from a reviews and reporting back to Group technological viewpoint in the selection of Asset Management operations.
The Centre manages capital the most attractive investment The Asset Management Centre focuses on projects on behalf of the business units and opportunities.
the effective choice and deployment of the is responsible currently for the execution of Groups equipment for mining and the Argyle Diamond underground project, processing.
During 2008, it focused on the Kestrel mine extension and the Clermont Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 77
