Production and reserves Mineral resources Resources are stated as additional to the As required by the Australian Securities consideration of mining, economic and reserves reported earlier.
Where operations Exchange, the following tables contain other factors.
While in the judgement of the Competent Person there are realistic are not managed by Rio Tinto the resources details of other mineralisation that has a expectations that all or part of the Mineral are published as received from the managing reasonable prospect of being economically Resources will eventually become Proved or company.
Where new project resources are extracted in the future but which is not yet Probable Reserves, there is no guarantee that reported for the first time, additional classified as Proved or Probable Reserves.
this will occur as the result depends on information about them can be viewed on This material is defined as Mineral further technical and economic studies and the Rio Tinto web site, in the section titled Resources under the JORC Code.
Estimates prevailing economic conditions in the what we produce.
of such material are based largely on future.
open cut: U G underground: D O dredging resources are presented here for the first time gg Hope Downs 1 Marra Mamba resources have operation: S M solution mining.
following technical and economic studies.
The increased due to remodelling and additional b Following completion of technical and economic timeline and options for development for this drilling data.
studies some resources at Sangaredi were project are under review given the current global hh Hope Downs 1 detritals resources have upgraded to reserves.
c Rio Tinto acquired the operating assets of Alcan p Open pit resources at Northparkes have ii Hope Downs Brockman resources have increased with effect from 24 October 2007 and Duciedecreased as a result of upgrading to reserves.
as a result of the development of new resource Wenlock resources are presented here for the q Underground resources at Northparkes have models incorporating additional drilling and the first time.
The Weipa deposit includes the decreased as a result of upgrading resources to reporting of new deposits for the first time.
resource for Ely as the deposit is contiguous.
jj Resources at Iron Ore Company of Canada IOC Resources at Weipa decreased through r Following completion of technical and economic have decreased following conversion of resources conversion to reserves.
Rio Tinto has an 80 per studies the resource at Heruga is reported for the to reserves and technical and economic studies.
cent interest in the Awaso mine in Ghana but the first time.
Resources are reported as marketable product, resource estimate is still under review.
s Stockpiles at Palabora decreased as the material using process upgrade factors derived from d Following completion of technical and economic was transferred for processing.
current IOC concentrating and pellet operations.
studies the resource at Jadar is reported for the t Following completion of technical and economic The in situ material equivalent is 3,121 million first time.
The borate resource tonnage is studies the resource at Resolution is reported for tonnes at 38 per cent iron.
expressed in terms of marketable product, the first time.
kk Robe River pisolite resources were reduced whereas the lithium resource is expressed as in u Following completion of technical and economic following a boundary re-evaluation.
studies the resource at Bunder is reported for the ll Following completion of technical and economic e Coal type: SC steam thermal coal, MC first time.
studies, Robe River detrital resources are metallurgical coking coal.
v On 5 March 2008, Rio Tinto completed the sale reported for the first time.
f Following completion of economic studies at of its interest in the Cortez joint venture to its mm Following completion of technical and economic Blair Athol and Hail Creek, coal resources have partner.
studies the resource at Simandou is reported for been increased.
w On 16 April 2008, Rio Tinto completed the sale of the first time.
The timeline and options for g Resources at Maules Creek have decreased as a its interest in the Greens Creek joint venture to development for this project are under review result of economic studies.
given the current global economic setting.
h Following completion of economic studies coal x Resources at Marandoo Marra Mamba have nn Following completion of technical and economic resources have been increased at Warkworth.
decreased following the development of new studies the resource at Sulawesi is reported for Technical studies have led to a reclassification of resource models incorporating additional drilling the first time.
The timeline and options for resources.
as well as conversion of resources to reserves.
development for this project are under review i Resources at Cordero Rojo have increased y Mt Tom Price high grade resources have given the current global economic setting.
following the acquisition of a federal lease, increased due to new pit designs and resource oo The Potasio Rio Colorado resource is shown as drilling and technical studies.
estimated recoverable tonnes of potash.
j Resources at Decker have decreased as a result z Mt Tom Price Marra Mamba resources have pp Resources at RBM have decreased following of upgrading resources to reserves and technical increased due to a new pit design and resource technical studies.
qq Resources at Ranger have increased as a result k Resources at Bingham Canyon have increased as aa Paraburdoo Brockman resources have increased of the development of a new resource model a result of updates to the resource model with due to new pit designs and resource models.
incorporating results from additional drilling as additional drilling and technical and economic bb Following completion of technical and economic well as technical and economic studies.
Molybdenum grades reflect studies the resource at Western Turner Syncline rr Resources at Rssing have decreased following reconciliation of model and plant grades.
is reported for the first time.
conversion of resources to reserves and the l Resources at Eagle have increased as a result of cc Resources in this category consist of 32 deposits, development of a new pit design incorporating a the development of a new resource model 24 of which are wholly owned by Hamersley Iron.
new resource model and results from additional incorporating data from additional drilling.
The Shovelanna resource 50 per cent Hamersley drilling.
m Changes in inferred resources at Escondida Iron is not included as mining lease applications In January 2009, Rio Tinto announced that it had resulted from technical and economic studies as are currently awaiting grant.
signed definitive agreements to sell its 100 per well as additional drilling.
dd Hamersley Brockman process ore resources have cent interests in the Potasio Rio Colorado project n Under the terms of a joint venture agreement decreased following technical studies.
The Potasio Rio Colorado between Rio Tinto and FCX, Rio Tinto is entitled ee Detrital resources have decreased following sale was completed on 5 February 2009. to a direct 40 per cent share in resources geological re-evaluation.
