Aluminium curtailing higher cost production.
The specialty markets, and producing primary favourable cost position, especially aluminium at some of the lowest cost, most regarding energy inputs, will benefit it technologically advanced aluminium smelters in the industry.
during the current global economic downturn.
Rio Tinto Alcan is well regarded for its At 31 December 2008, Rio Tinto Alcan leadership in research and technology as had operating assets of US$35,730 million well as its leading position in clean, excluding Packaging, which accounted for hydroelectric generation.
It has decided to 60 per cent of the Groups operating assets divest its Engineered Products unit of seven and compared to US$43,885 million of downstream businesses, as well as the operating assets at 31 December 2007.
In 2008, Rio Tinto Alcan contributed At 31 December 2008, Rio Tinto Alcans US$23,839 million in revenue and US$1,184 bauxite production was the highest in the million in underlying earnings, which industry, at 35.0 million tonnes per annum, accounted for 41 per cent and 12 per cent of up from 31.4 million tonnes in 2007 on a the Groups gross sales revenue and 12 month comparative basis.
At the same underlying earnings, respectively, compared time, Rio Tinto Alcan had a leading position to US$7,359 million of revenue and US$1,097 in alumina refining and full ownership or million of underlying earnings in 2007.
The participation in 24 aluminium smelters with year 2008 was the first full 12 months of a total annual capacity of nearly 4.2 million combined Rio Tinto and Alcan operations.
Jacynthe C ote tonnes, the vast majority of which are At year end Rio Tinto Alcan employed Chief executive, Rio Tinto Alcan located in OECD countries.
approximately 39,000 people worldwide, The aluminium product group, Rio Tinto In the current environment of weaker excluding the Packaging unit.
Alcan, is the global leader in the aluminium than average demand, the group retains a Jacynthe Ct, chief executive, Rio Tinto industry.
Its operations, which are closely competitive advantage, as about two thirds Alcan, succeeded Dick Evans who retired on integrated across the world, include mining of its aluminium is produced in the lowest 1 February 2009 and is based in Montreal, high quality bauxite, refining alumina for cost segment of the industry and it is Canada.
both primary aluminium production and Aluminium production Mined bauxite Underlying earnings contribution 2006-2008 Rio Tinto share 000 tonnes Rio Tinto share million tonnes US$m 04 12.8 04 837 06 746 05 Price & exchange 05 15.6 854 12 06 16.3 06 845 Ination 37 07 1,473 Volume 07 20.9 11 4,062 08 35.0 08 Costs 36 Tax & other 425 Bauxite reserves Aluminium group underlying earnings contribution 07 1,097 Rio Tinto share million tonnes US$m Price & exchange 207 04 1,146 04 331 Ination 55 05 1,211 05 Volume 930 392 06 1,193 06 746 Costs 86 07 1,387 07 1,097 Tax & other 495 08 1,966 08 1,184 08 1,184 Alumina production Underlying earnings contribution A reconciliation of the net earnings with underlying Rio Tinto share 000 tonnes earnings for 2006, 2007 and 2008 as determined 04 2,231 under EU IFRS is set out on page 37.
05 2,963 All amounts presented by the product groups exclude 06 3,247 net interest and other centrally reported items.
3,877 07 12% 08 9,009 38 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Performance Maximising free cash flow.
gas GHG intensity power, sourced in many STRATEGY cases from hydroelectricity.
Rio Tinto Alcan intends to focus on the OVERVIEW OF SUSTAINABLE Total GHG emissions were 32.5 million following initiatives to retain its position as DEVELOPMENT tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent in 2008 the global leader in the aluminium industry: Safety 16.8 from direct and 15.7 from indirect Maximising shareholder return and value Rio Tinto Alcan and its employees are emissions, representing a 4.8 per cent generated from the groups high quality dedicated to leadership in health, safety, and improvement in on site GHG emissions per assets.
environmental practices at our workplaces tonne of product over a 2007 baseline.
This is Improving the groups relative position on and insofar as they affect the communities the result of operational efficiency the global cost curve of aluminium assets.
The ultimate goal improvements, retrofitting with best in class Achieving excellence in health, safety and environmental performance, including in remains zero harm.
Regrettably, two technology, and the closure of some relation to climate change.
fatalities occurred during the year at underperforming operations.
Rio Tinto Alcan Continuing excellence in operations and Engineered Products sites.
contributes 65 per cent of Rio Tintos total industry leading technology.
Key priorities for reducing major risks GHG emissions.
Attaining preferred supplier status with include diligent contractor management, Total greenhouse gas emissions responsiveness to customer needs and controlling pedestrian safety, improving lock Million tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent market dynamics.
out, tag out systems, as well as addressing 04 10.7 Becoming an employer of choice.
confined space entry, lifting devices, and 05 11.4 06 11.9 working at heights.
An initiative has been 07 32.7 KEY ACHIEVEMENTS launched to improve the Process Safety 08 32.5 Record bauxite and alumina production Management System to prevent collapse, Rio Tinto levels, and 57 per cent of aluminium fire, and explosion as well as the release of Rio Tinto including former Alcan smelters achieved record hot metal toxic, reactive, flammable, or explosive production levels.
In downstream operations, a large On target delivery of announced synergies, scale man machine interface programme Projects are currently under way to improve with the integration of Alcan achieving an plays a vital role in fatality prevention overall site performance, including cost and after tax saving of US$585 million.
production, in support of GHG and energy Commissioning of the Sohar smelter in During the integration of Alcan, focus targets.
Several of these are being Oman and first production of aluminium.
has been on the implementation of the undertaken through the groups business Investment of an additional US$300 Rio Tinto HSE performance standards and improvement process, each supported by a million to further the modernisation of the reporting definitions, while retaining the detailed action plan to bridge the gap Kitimat aluminium smelter in British elements of leading practice within Alcan.
between current and targeted performance.
This will establish clear global priorities and Pre-feasibility study for two additional common business standards aimed at INTEGRATION OF ALCAN phases of a new AP50 smelting technology achieving world class performance and a The integration of Alcan delivered after tax pilot plant to evaluate the addition of sustainable culture of excellence.
The synergy savings of US$585 million in 2008. another 150,000 to 170,000 tonnes of integration process is progressing as In July 2007, after tax synergies were capacity.
This includes the associated targeted at US$600 million by 2009 year end.
Official inauguration of the newly opportunities for knowledge transfer In November 2007, the target was raised to commissioned pilot plant for the treatment between colleagues, including training US$1.1 billion in 2010.
Current synergies of spent potlining in Saguenay, Quebec.
programmes in auditing and pre-task represent 53 per cent of the revised target and Significant progress on the construction of assessment, accident investigation, and were achieved using only 50 per cent of the the expansion of the Yarwun alumina performance standards.
planned operational expenditure at US$47 refinery in Australia.
Rio Tinto Alcans all injury frequency million.
Continuing expansion of capacity at the rate AIFR of 1.24 at the end of 2008 Rio Tinto Alcan maintains strong Gove alumina refinery in Australia.
represented a 25 per cent reduction over the discipline and focus on the importance of Effective transition of Lannemezan 2007 integrated Rio Tinto and former Alcan successful integration, and on leveraging workforce to new employment following baseline.
shared resources within the Rio Tinto Group.
The benefits delivered to date are derived All injury frequency rate Successful financial and cultural integration from a range of business areas, from new Per 200,000 hours worked between Rio Tinto Aluminium and Alcan revenue opportunities to operational 04 1.46 with minimum loss of key resources.
In the 1.41 06 1.45 New effective global leadership structure current economic climate, integration 07 1.67 in place.
As a result, Rio Tinto 08 1.24 Alcan remains focused on delivering greater Rio Tinto KEY PRIORITIES FOR 2009 benefits and on maximising value by Rio Tinto including former Alcan Delivering commitments to health, safety optimising processes and reducing costs.
and environmental objectives, and to Synergies have accelerated over the past year customers and stakeholders, while Greenhouse gas emissions and were delivered ahead of plan by 39 per adjusting to current market conditions.
While Rio Tinto Alcan is the largest cent.
With the Integration Steering Increasing efficiency and speed of contributor to Rio Tintos greenhouse gas Committee and Integration Management execution throughout the organisation.
emissions due to the nature of aluminium Office continuing to oversee the process, we Maintaining focus on growth opportunities smelting, it nevertheless occupies a leading remain on track to reach the targeted and strategic capabilities.
position in the generation of low greenhouse synergies.
Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 39 Aluminium group continued wholly owned bauxite mines at Weipa and 2008.
Alumina production includes both FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Gove in Australia and from operating smelter grade and specialty aluminas, with a 2008 compared with 2007 combined bauxite mines located in Brazil, Ghana and wide range of products from hydrate to In 2008, Rio Tinto Alcans contribution to Guinea, in which it holds interests.
calcined, fused, activated and tabular underlying earnings was US$1,184 million, The bauxite business strengths include: aluminas.
These serve many industrial an increase of US$87 million from 2007.
If, The largest reserves and resources in the purposes in chemical, refractory, ceramics, for illustrative purposes only, the underlying industry, which are expected to ensure tiles, glass and abrasives applications.
earnings of Rio Tinto Alcan for 2007 were sufficient bauxite supply to sustain Commitments to the specialty alumina presented on a combined basis, including the Rio Tinto Alcans long term growth market are balanced with the groups results of Alcan from 1 January 2007, Rio strategy.
internal demand for smelter grade alumina Tinto Alcan's contribution to underlying earnings would have been US$2,825 million Annual production capacity that supports from Primary Metal operations.
Rio Tinto Alcans contribution to both internal alumina production and demand reduces Rio Tinto Alcans exposure underlying earnings in 2008 was lower than significant sales to third parties.
to adverse developments in alumina pricing its contribution in 2007 on a combined basis Scope for expansion of annual production and assists in the management of supply principally as a result of higher costs, the in the long term.
and demand during cyclical fluctuations.
absence of tax benefits and a sharp decline Interests in three of the four largest Additional strengths of the alumina business in LME prices during the second half of 2008, bauxite mines in the world Weipa, Porto include: coupled with the continuing economic Trombetas and Sangaredi, located in the Recognised technological capability downturn in most markets.
The average top three bauxite reserve countries backed by a strong research and aluminium price in 2008 was US$2,595 per Australia, Brazil and Guinea.
tonne compared with US$2,646 per tonne in Regional concentration of reserves Weipa, Deployment of leading technology in 2007.
The average ingot product realisation Ely, Gove, which is expected to provide the expansion projects under way or planned for 2008 was US$2,753 compared to basis for future optimisation opportunities at Gove and Yarwun.
These results exclude based on their geographical proximity.
Modern, best in class assets with Alcan Packaging as it is classified as a expansion optionality.
discontinued operation, but include The Weipa mine, located at Cape York, Procurement synergies through ownership downstream operations of Engineered Australia, contains reserves of 1,736 million of the north eastern Australia alumina Products.
tonnes and resources of 1,603 million tonnes refineries at Gove, Yarwun and QAL.
Their In terms of revenue and prices, the first including the adjacent Ely mining lease.
proximity to the Weipa and Gove bauxite nine months of 2008 were in line with The mine has an annual production capacity mines provides opportunities for expectations, until the fourth quarter saw a of 21.0 million tonnes and is Rio Tinto operational optimisation as experience, dramatic collapse in aluminium prices from Alcans largest bauxite mine.
In 2008, the best practices and supply chain benefits above US$2,000 per tonne to the region of mine further increased its production are shared.
Depressed demand is expected to capacity by 2.8 million tonnes from 18.2 continue in 2009 and Rio Tinto has delayed million tonnes in 2007.
Bauxite from Weipa The Gove refinery is a wholly owned two plans to introduce new production capacity.
is either sold to third parties or shipped to million tonnes per annum plant which is in In terms of production volumes, the portfolio Gladstone for processing at the Yarwun and the final stages of commissioning of its 1.8 of assets operated well, although there was a the 80 per cent owned Queensland Alumina million tonnes per annum expansion.
The one month interruption at the Yarwun Limited QAL refineries.
Gove refinery is located next to the Gove alumina refinery and two aluminium The Gove mine in the Northern Territory, bauxite mine.
smelters were affected by power failures.
co-located with the Gove alumina refinery, The Yarwun refinery, located in contains bauxite reserves of 175 million Gladstone, has a current nameplate capacity 2007 compared with 2006 not combined tonnes and resources of 46 million tonnes as of 1.4 million tonnes per annum and is In 2007, Rio Tinto Alcans contribution to at 31 December 2008, with an annual undergoing expansion to increase capacity underlying earnings was US$1,097 million, production capacity of over 6.0 million to 3.4 million tonnes per annum.
Significant an increase of 47 per cent compared with tonnes.
The Gove refinery consumes most of capital expenditure commitments had 2006.
The higher contribution was due the mines output, although some output is already been made to the expansion before mainly to the one off impact of the sold to third parties.
the start of the downturn.
reduction in the Canadian tax rates Outside Australia, the group owns 12 per QAL, located in Gladstone, Australia, is attributable to the Alcan businesses, but was cent of the Porto Trombetas bauxite mine in one of the worlds largest alumina refineries also supported by higher aluminium prices.
Its share of reserves is 25 million with a capacity of just under four million The average aluminium price in 2007 was tonnes and share of resources is 48 million tonnes per annum.
QAL operates in the US$2,646 per tonne compared with tonnes as at 31 December 2008, amounting second quartile of the industry cash cost US$2,557 per tonne in 2006.
These results to a share of annual production capacity of curve and has opportunities for further exclude Alcan Packaging as it is classified as 2.0 million tonnes.
Rio Tinto also owns development.
22.95 per cent of the Sangaredi mine in The ten per cent owned So Luis Guinea and 80 per cent of the Awaso mine also known as Alumar refinery in Brazil, BAUXITE & ALUMINA OPERATIONS in Ghana, constituting shares of annual has a current capacity of 1.5 million tonnes Bauxite production capacity of 6.0 million tonnes per annum.
At 31 December 2008, Rio Tinto Alcans and 0.6 million tonnes, respectively.
In addition, Rio Tinto Alcan also owns the bauxite production was 35.0 million tonnes 1.5 million tonnes per annum Jonquire per annum, up from 31.4 million tonnes in Alumina Vaudreuil alumina refinery in Quebec, 2007 on a 12 month comparative basis.
Rio Tinto Alcans share of alumina production Canada and the 0.6 million tonnes per Rio Tinto produces bauxite from its two capacity was 9.0 million tonnes at the end of annum Gardanne refinery in France, which 40 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Performance of which are located in OECD countries.
produces mainly specialty alumina and small quantities of smelter grade alumina below Smelting facilities 50,000 tonnes per annum.
Both refineries As with any commodity business, the operate in the fourth quartile of the industry position on industry cost of production cash cost curve.
Other wholly owned refinery rankings is important in determining relative operations relate to specialty alumina, in profitability.
Rio Tinto enjoys a strong which four smaller plants combine with position, as around two thirds of the capacity Gardanne and part of Jonquire Vaudreuil to of its aluminium production network is provide around 750,000 tonnes of annual located in the first quartile of the industry production capacity.
As part of its integration with former cash cost curve, with another 20 per cent Alcan operations, Rio Tinto Alcan has located in the second quartile.
Only seven established its global Bauxite and Alumina per cent and six per cent of Rio Tinto Alcans The Gove alumina refinery, northern Australia.
current smelting capacity lies in the third and fourth quartiles of the industry cash cost 2008 operating performance curve respectively.
Certain smelters operating Rio Tinto Alcans share of bauxite production outside the first two quartiles of the cost was 35.0 million tonnes in 2008, which curve will be closed during 2009, including represents an increase of 12.1 per cent the smelting operations at the Anglesey compared to 2007 on a 12 month comparable Aluminium Metal joint venture in Wales due basis including former Alcan and Rio Tinto to the uncertainty of power supply and operations combined.
This increase reflects renewal arrangements and the Beauharnois higher capacity as well as an increase in both smelter in Quebec, which was commissioned internal requirements and external demand in 1943 and uses Sderberg technology.
in the first nine months of 2008.
Demand Rio Tinto Alcan believes that its contracted significantly during the final favourable position on the cost curve will quarter of 2008, as a result of the global prove increasingly valuable during the economic slowdown.
Two new post Panamax current economic situation as pricing and Alumina for aluminium smelting is shipped bulk ore carriers were acquired to support the industrys average cash costs fluctuate, from Gove.
influenced by factors such as energy costs, Production of bauxite at Weipa in 2008 currency revaluations and possible was 20.0 million tonnes beneficiated and greenhouse gas emission costs.
The group is calcined, 9.9 per cent higher than in 2007. a low cost aluminium producer as a result of Weipa bauxite shipments rose by 5.0 per the following factors: the majority of which is owned by Rio Tinto cent to 19.5 million tonnes.
Rio Tinto Alcans smelter grade alumina implementation of industry leading, In Australasia, Rio Tinto Alcan has production for 2008 was 5.9 per cent higher proprietary Aluminium Pechiney AP ownership interests in four smelters, three in than in 2007 at 8.3 million tonnes on a 12 series pre-bake cell technology, one of the Australia and one in New Zealand.
The Bell month comparable basis including former most efficient aluminium smelting Bay smelter in Australia is wholly owned, Alcan and Rio Tinto operations combined.
technologies in the world from an energy while interests in the other three facilities The specialty alumina business produced and operating cost perspective.
The total 759,000 tonnes of alumina on a 12 month A modern smelter fleet, with over 70 per annual attributable production capacity in comparable basis including former Alcan and cent of overall smelting capacity being less this region is 1.07 million tonnes as at Rio Tinto operations combined.
than 30 years old, a significantly greater 31 December 2008.
A temporary blockage in the residue proportion than the industry average.
In Oman, the new Sohar smelter started pipeline at the Yarwun refinery during the Ownership of around half of its smelters metal production in June 2008.
It is on track third quarter resulted in curtailed operations electricity generation needs, compared to to reach full production in the first quarter and 113,000 tonnes of lost production.
an industry average of approximately of 2009 at an initial capacity of 360,000 Essential maintenance was conducted 30 per cent.
The smelter uses the during this period and full capacity was Continued industry leadership and most up to date AP36 technology and is restored in August.
operational expertise, demonstrated by expected to be positioned in the first At Gove, slower commissioning led to a safety improvements and an ability to quartile of the industry cost curve.
revision of the 2008 production target to extract on average 1.1 per cent per annum Rio Tinto Alcan has a substantial 2.3 million tonnes.
A detailed programme of production capacity improvement.
presence in Europe with ownership interests work completed in 2008 identified a series in seven smelters, primarily in France and of debottlenecking projects that provide a The largest concentration of smelting assets the UK.
Their total annual production pathway for further increases in the capacity is located in Canada, where Rio Tinto Alcan capacity at 31 December 2008 was one of the refinery.
has ownership interests in nine smelters, million tonnes.
seven of which are wholly owned.
Eight of Rio Tinto Alcan owns a single smelter in PRIMARY METAL OPERATIONS the smelters are located in Quebec and one the US as well as an interest in a smelter in At 31 December 2008, Rio Tinto Alcan had in British Columbia.
Together, these two smelters full ownership or participation in 24 capacity in Canada is 1.8 million tonnes as of represent a total annual production capacity smelters with a total annual capacity of 31 December 2008.
All of this capacity is of 245,000 tonnes.
Rio Tinto completed the nearly 4.2 million tonnes, the vast majority powered by clean, renewable hydroelectricity, sale of its 50 per cent interest in the preRio Tinto 2008 Annual report 41 Aluminium group continued 2008, the group consolidated its resources to 2008 operating performance bake Line 3 of the Ningxia smelter in China create a new global technology organisation In 2008, Rio Tinto Alcan produced 4.06 in January 2009. in Asia, Europe and North America.
million tonnes of primary aluminium, Rio Tinto Alcan actively continues to maintaining a similar level to 2007 Power facilities seek to lower unit energy consumption while production volumes of 4.08 million tonnes Aluminium smelters are long term reducing and eventually eliminating on a 12 month comparable basis including investments, with electricity costs typically emissions, including greenhouse gases.
former Alcan and Rio Tinto operations representing around one quarter of industry Rio Tinto Alcan continues to develop combined.
Secure, long life AP50 smelting technology and is currently Smelters continued to produce close to and competitively priced electricity supply is undertaking the potential development of capacity during 2008, with the exception of of vital importance.
an AP50 plant in the Saguenay region of the Anglesey Aluminium UK joint venture As of 31 December 2008, Rio Tinto Quebec.
In March 2008, a start was made on and the New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Alcan owns electricity generating capacity of 5,310 megawatts, compared to developing the next generation of AP Limited NZAS joint venture.
Anglesey 5,076 megawatts at the end of 2007.
AP-Xe is expected to provide Aluminium Metal operated at levels of sufficient to meet approximately half of high performance technology required for approximately 80 per cent due to technical electricity needs, a proportion far above the future greenfield and brownfield issues, and NZAS at about 87 per cent due to industry average, while long term power expansions.
This technology is designed to power availability constraints at the purchase contracts account for an additional be retrofitted to previous AP series cells.
beginning of the year and a transformer 46 per cent.
Furthermore, 74 per cent of While most savings are expected from failure in the fourth quarter of 2008.
The electricity supply is derived from greenfield applications, significant savings Lannemezan smelter in France, with an hydroelectric and nuclear power.
could also be achieved in retrofitted cells.
annual capacity of 50,000 tonnes, was The majority of power facilities are AP-Xe is an example of Rio Tinto Alcans permanently shut down in March 2008. located in proximity to the Canadian focus on step changes in energy aluminium smelters.
Six separate wholly consumption, environmental impact, RIO TINTO ALCAN PROJECTS owned power stations located on the and full economic cost so as to maintain In light of changing demand dynamics in the Pribonka and Saguenay rivers in Quebec and extend its position as industry aluminium industry and budgetary comprise a generation capacity of 2,919 technology leader.
constraints, Rio Tinto Alcan has decided in megawatts.
In 2008, a major refurbishment Advanced technology is sold to third 2008 to defer certain projects in its capital programme was completed at these power parties.
In addition to being a viable expenditure programme.
It has reduced its stations.
The water management system business, this reinforces Rio Tinto Alcans capital expenditure budget for 2009 and with its associated dams, reservoirs and position as a partner of choice for joint plans to shut down certain smelters during catchment areas, covers an area of 73,800 ventures given its combination of 2009.
Despite these reductions, the group will square kilometres.
The wholly owned technological ability and management skills.
selectively continue to commit capital to Kemano power station in British Columbia To further advance the creation of value, certain high priority projects during 2009 and has a capacity of 896 megawatts and Rio Tinto Alcan is pursuing initiatives to also remains prepared to rapidly recommence primarily supplies electricity to the wholly reduce capital requirements of new projects that have been deferred as and when owned Kitimat smelter.
These energy assets aluminium smelters.
This aspect of the market conditions improve.
are the result of construction efforts that business may prove increasingly valuable in took place over a period of 50 years, making accessing future growth options, as trends in Bauxite & Alumina such facilities extremely difficult and costly the supply side of the industry are moving Weipa Rio Tinto: 100 per cent to replicate today.
away from the developed world due to A US$30 million feasibility study is under In Europe, Rio Tinto Alcan has three diminishing availability of competitively way to develop a new bauxite operation to wholly owned power stations in the UK, priced, secure power.
the south of the existing Weipa bauxite totalling 500 megawatts of capacity, and one Technological leadership has furthered mine and port.
If approved, Weipas total in Norway with a total of 26 megawatts.
Of sustainable development initiatives with the bauxite production capacity would increase this European generating capacity, 420 commissioning of a wholly owned facility in from 21 million tonnes in 2008 to 35 million megawatts is coal fired while the remainder Saguenay, Quebec, to treat the spent tonnes.
The mine development would take is based on hydropower.
potlining that results from the aluminium three years to construct.
In Australia, the group has a 42.1 per smelting process.
cent share of the Gladstone Power Station Yarwun Rio Tinto: 100 per cent with a capacity of 708 megawatts to supply Other businesses Expansion of the Yarwun alumina refinery the Boyne Island smelter.
The Primary Metal business recognises the in Gladstone, Queensland, is expected to opportunities available to it as an industry cost about US$1.8 billion with most of this Technology leader, and participates in a number of already committed.
The expansion will In addition to its power capabilities, businesses related to aluminium smelting, increase capacity to 3.4 million tonnes per Rio Tinto Alcan exercises undisputed such as the production and sale of cathode annum and is expected to more than double industry leadership with regard to research blocks, anodes, aluminium fluoride and annual production by 2011.
The strategy is to create calcined coke, as well as the provision of are expected towards the end of 2010. value by maximising the value of existing engineering services, sale of smelting Further to the groups ongoing assets, supporting operational excellence equipment, and electricity sales where commitment to reduce greenhouse gas and growth through technology, and generation is surplus to production needs.
emissions and improve energy efficiency, the addressing key issues for aluminium These operations are present worldwide, refinery will incorporate a 160 megawatt gas smelting such as energy consumption, with particular emphasis in North America fired cogeneration facility, thus making gas environmental impact and logistics.
The facility is 42 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Performance Madagascar in partnership with a Malagasy strict precautions, but the new recycling expected to reduce carbon dioxide emissions company are currently being considered.
process will enable spent potlining per tonne of alumina by 35 per cent relative The preliminary concept study has been components to be recycled, providing the to coal.
completed and this indicates potential for a aluminium industry with a sustainable The expanded refinery is expected to 1.85 million tonnes per annum refinery with solution for these by-products.
operate in the second quartile of the industry expansion capability to 3.7 million tonnes cash cost curve.
There remains potential for per annum.
Rio Tinto Alcan will continue Kitimat Rio Tinto: 100 per cent the refinery to be further expanded to over with its studies for this project.
In October 2008, Rio Tinto announced an four million tonnes per annum.
additional sustaining investment of Primary Metal US$300 million in the modernisation of the Gove Rio Tinto: 100 per cent Sohar Rio Tinto: 20 per cent Kitimat aluminium smelter in British The 1.8 million tonnes per annum expansion On 12 June 2008, Sohar Aluminium poured Columbia, Canada, bringing total of the Gove alumina refinery in Australia continues, although technical challenges and the first metal at its newly constructed investments in the project to date to US$500 soft market conditions resulted in 2008 smelter in Oman.
The state of the art smelter million.
Full scale investment in the production of 2.3 million tonnes.
uses Rio Tinto Alcans benchmark AP 36 modernisation project of about Associated infrastructure includes a deep technology the most efficient and US$2.5 billion has been delayed pending an water port, a township and an oil fired power environmentally friendly technology improvement in market conditions.
The expansion cost is currently commercially available.
With an initial The modernisation project will replace US$2.3 billion and is expected to bring the capacity of 360,000 tonnes per annum, the outdated smelting methods with industry Gove refinery to a total capacity of smelter is on track to reach full production leading AP35 prebake technology and 3.0 million tonnes per annum, making it one in the first quarter of 2009.
In addition to its increase current production from 245,000 of the largest alumina refineries in the world.
equity interest in the project, Rio Tinto tonnes per year to approximately 400,000 Following completion of the expansion, the Alcan assumes responsibility for technical tonnes per year, representing expansion of refinery is expected to operate in the second and operational support as well as sales and more than 60 per cent.
The facility will take quartile of the industry cash cost curve.
marketing of all metal exported.
The smelter increased advantage of available power from Alternative energy sources such as coal is expected to be positioned in the first the Kemano hydroelectric facility, with a which could be backhauled by the bauxite quartile of the industry cost curve.
A second capacity of 896 megawatts, and leverage ships are currently being evaluated, which potline of similar size is currently being access to the Pacific Rim in terms of raw could result in a further reduction in cash discussed among the joint venture partners.
Under the original agreement, Rio Tinto completed, the smelter is expected to be Alcan has rights to up to 60 per cent of this positioned in the first quartile of the So Luis Alumar Rio Tinto: 10 per cent second potline.
A 2.1 million tonnes per annum expansion of the Alumar refinery in Brazil Rio Tinto Alcan Hydropower Rio Tinto: 100 per cent AP50 pilot plant, Quebec share 210,000 tonnes is under way and On 28 October 2008, the group announced a Rio Tinto: 100 per cent progress on construction is approximately US$228 million investment in a new 225 In May 2008, Rio Tinto Alcan announced that 85 per cent advanced as of 31 December megawatt high efficiency turbine at the it is going forward with a pre-feasibility study 2008.
The project will cost an estimated Shipshaw power station in Saguenay, for two additional phases to the AP50 pilot US$200 million Rio Tintos share.
The project is expected to plant for which preparatory work has begun expected to be positioned in the first quartile be completed in December 2012.
The study is evaluating of the industry operating cost curve once Shipshaw power station is a major the potential for an additional 150,000 to construction is completed in mid 2009. component of Rio Tinto Alcans extensive 170,000 tonnes of capacity to the pilot plant hydroelectric network, which has a total as well as a possible subsequent expansion.
Guinea Rio Tinto: 50 per cent capacity of approximately 2,919 megawatts This AP50 pilot plant will use the newest In May 2004, Rio Tinto Alcan and Alcoa in Quebec.
Furthermore, on 30 January generation of AP technology.
It will be signed a memorandum of understanding for 2008, the group announced an investment powered exclusively by hydroelectricity.
the proposed development and construction in its Lochaber, Scotland hydroelectric Representing a potential investment of up to of an alumina refinery in the Bok region of facilities, which will include the installation US$2.5 billion, the expanded plant would Guinea.
The refinery, with a proposed initial of new hydroelectric turbo generator.
also become the platform for future AP capacity of 1.7 million tonnes per annum, technology developments.
would be built in the Kamsar area and Spent potlining facility would receive its bauxite supply from the Rio Tinto: 100 per cent Alma Rio Tinto: 100 per cent Compagnie des Bauxites fide Guine, a joint In June 2008, Rio Tinto Alcan inaugurated The Alma smelter in Quebec is one of venture in which Rio Tinto Alcan has a its US$225 million facility for the treatment Rio Tinto Alcans most modern and efficient 22.95 per cent indirect interest through its of spent potlining.
A potential expansion project, participation in Halco Mining.
A preQuebec, this unique industrial scale pilot announced in April 2008 and currently in feasibility study has already been completed plant is expected to have the capacity to pre-feasibility, would add approximately and the project is expected to be positioned recycle approximately 80,000 tonnes of 170,000 tonnes to the current production in the first quartile of the industry cost spent potlining per year using proprietary of slightly more than 400,000 tonnes, curve.
Spent potlining is the residual making Alma one of the largest smelters in material generated in the fide-lining of pots North America.
The cost of the Alma Madagascar Rio Tinto: 51 per cent in the smelting of aluminium, composed of expansion is estimated at approximately Options for development of a greenfield carbon and various inert elements.
The project has been deferred bauxite mine and alumina refinery in typically pre-treated and put in landfill with due to the current economic downturn.
Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 43 Aluminium group continued cooperation agreement will provide for global economy recovers.
Cameroon various other types of project support.
Rio Tinto: 47 per cent and 100 per cent Primary Metal outlook In October 2005, Rio Tinto Alcan signed a Sarawak Rio Tinto: 60 per cent Demand and pricing for Rio Tinto Alcans memorandum of understanding with the In August 2007, Rio Tinto Alcan and Cahya products were adversely affected by the Government of Cameroon, which was then Mata Sarawak Berhad signed a heads of deterioration of the global economic amended in November 2007, to provide for agreement for the proposed development of situation towards the end of 2008.
Rio Tinto the expansion of the Alucam smelter and a smelter in the State of Sarawak, Malaysia.
Alcan expects this very difficult market development and construction of a Pre-feasibility work has been undertaken environment to prevail during 2009 and to greenfield aluminium smelter.
Under the and joint venture agreements are being continue to impact its operations.
agreed upon terms, Alucam, a joint venture in which Rio Tinto Alcan owns a 47 per cent finalised.
Under the joint venture, detailed Rio Tinto Alcan has initiated a variety of interest, would build a 300 megawatt power feasibility studies on the design, targeted measures to conserve cash.
These dam and a 200,000 tonne per year engineering, construction, commissioning actions include production curtailments, expansion of the existing smelter.
In and operation of a smelter with an initial significant reductions in capital addition, a 930 megawatt power dam would capacity of 720,000 tonnes will be expenditures and additional cost, be developed together with a 400,000 tonne undertaken.
The smelter is expected to have procurement and working capital initiatives.
per year greenfield aluminium smelter by the capability to be expanded to 1.5 million In 2009 there will be an 11 per cent Rio Tinto Alcan on a 100 per cent basis.
When completed, the reduction in aluminium production brought expansion and the greenfield smelter are at smelter is expected to be positioned in the about by permanent closure of the different stages of development, but when first quartile of the industry cost curve.
Beauharnois smelter in Quebec, Canada, and completed both would be positioned in the production curtailments that started in 2008 first half of the industry cost curve.
OUTLOOK at the Dunkerque France, Lochaber UK, On 20 January 2009, Rio Tinto Alcan Lynemouth UK, and  Boyne Island Smelters Limited announced measures to curtail production France smelters and at the SORAL Norway Rio Tinto: 59 per cent and cut costs.
This involves a reduction in joint venture.
Rio Tinto Alcan and its joint venture the global workforce of approximately 1,100 In addition, reduced capacity will result partners are investing in two projects to roles 300 contractors and 800 employees, from equipment failure at Tiwai Point New modernise and extend the life of the Boyne and substantial cost reduction programmes Zealand : reduced production due to energy Island aluminium smelter in Australia.
supply issues at Alucam Cameroon : the sale first project is related to the necessary of Rio Tinto Alcans 50 per cent interest in replacement of two carbon baking furnaces, Bauxite & Alumina outlook an aluminium smelter in the Ningxia which supply anodes to two of the smelters The unprecedented, severe decline in global province of China: and due to unsuccessful reduction lines.
The second project is related economic conditions and the aluminium power negotiations, the anticipated ending to the replacement of mobile cranes and metal market towards the end of 2008 are of smelting operations at Anglesey upgrade of associated runways on two expected to continue throughout 2009 Aluminium Metal in the UK at the end of reduction lines.
Both projects are high bringing with it reduced global demand for September 2009 when its current power priority end of life replacements and are bauxite and alumina.
required in order for the reduction lines to As a result of the weaker outlook Bauxite Rio Tinto Alcan believes that its position continue operating.
The crane and runway and Alumina has implemented alumina on the industry cost curve, its pipeline of refurbishment project is also required in production curtailments totalling six per long term value creation options as well order to meet current safety standards and cent and is implementing substantial cost as these short term cash preserving statutory regulations.
and capital reduction programmes, and measures will assist the group in the current project reviews in line with other measures economic situation.
Coega Rio Tinto: 80 per cent being implemented across the Rio Tinto As a result of power supply shortages in Alcan product group.
ALCAN ENGINEERED PRODUCTS South Africa, the smelter project at Coega Production at the Jonquire Vaudreuil Alcan Engineered Products is a global has been delayed indefinitely pending alumina refinery in the Saguenay region of sector-leading business strongly committed confirmation that ESKOM, South Africas Quebec is to be temporarily curtailed by to developing innovative, value added national power utility, will be able to supply 400,000 tonnes, while the Gardanne products for a broad range of markets and electricity under the Electricity Supply refinery in France will see a 15 per cent applications.
The portfolio consists of seven Agreement signed in November 2006.
The cutback of about 105,000 tonnes.
downstream businesses: aerospace, non project team has been reduced, with small The reduction in alumina refinery commodity aluminium rolled products, teams retained in Port Elizabeth and production will necessarily result in reduced aluminium extrusions, cable, composite Johannesburg.
Rio Tintos major products, automotive components and bauxite resources in Weipa and Guinea are international trade.
Saudi Arabia at the low end of the cost curve and well Regrettably, two fatalities occurred In December 2008, Rio Tinto Alcan and positioned to supply internal demand and during the year at Engineered Products Maaden announced that their relationship third party demand when the outlook operations.
The overall Recordable Case Rate will be one of cooperation rather than one of improves.
continued to improve and at 0.95 was a 19 equity partnership and in March 2009 signed These measures are being taken to per cent improvement on 2007. two key agreements in support of the project.
reduce levels of debt, conserve cash flow and As at 31 December 2008, the business The technology transfer agreement provides better align production with demand to unit operated at 97 operating sites in 34 Maaden with Rio Tinto Alcans industryensure the division is well positioned to take countries.
Following the acquisition of Alcan leading AP smelting technology, while the advantage of improved conditions when the Inc. in October 2007, Rio Tinto decided to 44 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Performance divest Alcan Engineered Products.
The sale process is ongoing.
2008 operating performance Following favourable market conditions and a record performance in 2007, the 2008 business environment proved very challenging.
Market conditions deteriorated over the course of the year and the business was affected by a number of operating issues including equipment breakdowns and a casthouse fire.
An asset integrity audit was conducted from which a follow up action plan is currently being formulated.
In response to the adverse impacts of the sharp economic downturn and one off operating issues, Engineered Products implemented a broad range of measures to reduce costs and conserve cash.
These generated approximately US$60 million in cost savings in 2008.
ALCAN PACKAGING Alcan Packaging is a global leader in value added specialty packaging, ranking first in flexible food, flexible pharmaceutical, plastic cosmetics and tobacco packaging.
It is one of the few participants in its product markets with a global reach.
Alcan Packagings strategy is to achieve operating excellence, moving toward fewer, larger, more specialised plants and to grow its business through innovation, partnership with multinational customers and development in emerging countries and regions.
The business delivers innovative packaging solutions using plastics, engineered films, aluminium, paper, paperboard and glass to customers Technology widens worldwide.
As at 31 December 2008, the energy advantage business unit comprised 131 operating sites in 31 countries and regions around the environmentally friendly smelter technology, and Electrical energy is so crucial to making world.
all plants using this technology are firmly in the aluminium, and the process is so energy Alcan Packagings Recordable Case Rate first quartile of the industry energy cost curve.
intensive, that the metal is sometimes called of 0.48 and lost time injury and illness rate Rio Tinto Alcan is now developing even solid electricity.
of 0.16 improved by 25 per cent and 36 per better smelting technology, helped by Ninety four per cent of Rio Tinto Alcans cent respectively compared with 2007, collaboration between science teams and energy supply for its smelter power requirements reaching the best levels in the industry.
researchers from Rio Tinto and the former Alcan.
is secured on a long term basis, with 64 per cent The potential divestment of the The focus is on energy efficient technologies coming from clean, sustainable hydroelectricity Packaging business unit was being explored such as the experimental AP-Xe which could and 11 per cent from nuclear energy.
by Alcan during the first half of 2007 and deliver even lower energy consumption as well In addition, technology developed by was confirmed as part of Rio Tintos as positive environmental impacts.
Rio Tinto Alcan is leveraging this favourable announcement of an agreed bid for Alcan on AP-Xe is not a single technology but a suite energy supply to greater effect.
The sale process for Alcan of technologies already in varying stages of costs serve to underscore the benefits of our Packaging is ongoing.
development, deployed in combination towards benchmark AP smelting technology in terms of improving energy efficiency and achieving low per-unit energy consumption, says Jacynthe greenhouse gas reductions.
All the key Ct, chief executive, Rio Tinto Alcan.
While the power position is one of Rio Tinto components of AP-Xe are currently undergoing Alcans critical success factors, from a trials in operating cells at various Rio Tinto Alcan sustainable development perspective, smelters.
Over the next three to five years, these maximising the use of renewable energy sources separate components will progressively be like hydro and nuclear clearly makes sense.
Our combined in various trial groups.
AP30 series is currently the industrys most Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 45
