Iron Ore in major steel markets, including the platform of mines and rail and port economic slowdown in China amid the severe infrastructure, which is designed to downturn in global financial markets.
respond rapidly to changes in demand for iron ore.
Following a programme of continuing investment, and a transition in shorter term In January 2009 it agreed to sell the Corumb focus from production growth to cost control, mine in Brazil for US$750 million.
RTIOs RTIOs portfolio of long life, low cost assets most significant mineral resource base is positions it to withstand cyclical fluctuations located in the Pilbara in Western Australia.
Its and take advantage of the eventual rebound.
portfolio of operations also includes At 31 December 2008, the Iron Ore group production in Canada, a major development had operating assets of US$7,632 million, project in West Africa and a project in India.
which accounted for 13 per cent of the RTIO operations, supported by integrated and Groups operating assets and compared to technologically advanced infrastructure US$9,311 million of operating assets at linking mines to port, will maintain its ability 31 December 2007.
In 2008, the Iron Ore to supply the largest and fastest growing group contributed US$16,527 million in markets.
RTIOs Australian portfolio also revenue and US$6,017 million in underlying includes the HIsmelt earnings, which accounted for 28 per cent plant south of Perth, and 58 per cent of the Groups gross sales which applies innovative technology to revenue and underlying earnings, convert iron ore fines with significant respectively, compared to US$9,193 million Sam Walsh impurities into high quality pig iron.
RTIO of revenue and US$2,664 million of Chief executive, Iron Ore group took responsibility for managment of underlying earnings in 2007.
At year-end Rio Tintos Iron Ore group is the second Dampier Salt during 2008 due to the RTIO employed 7,660 people in Western largest supplier to the worlds seaborne proximity of salt operations in Western Australia and 11,109 worldwide.
iron ore trade based on 2008 production.
All 2007 numbers have been Sam Walsh, chief executive Iron Ore, is It has a global supply capacity to serve restated to include Dampier Salt.
based in Perth, Western Australia.
both Pacific and Atlantic markets.
RTIO RTIO believes it is well positioned to meet the challenges posed by recent developments has established a global integrated Iron ore underlying earnings contribution Iron ore production Underlying earnings contribution 2006-2008 Rio Tinto share Rio Tinto share million tonnes US$m 04 107.8 04 578 06 2,265 05 Price & exchange 05 124.5 1,736 536 06 132.8 06 2,265 Ination 43 07 2,664 Volume 07 144.7 136 08 153.4 08 6,017 Costs 255 Tax & other 25 Iron ore reserves Underlying earnings contribution 07 2,664 Rio Tinto share million tonnes Price & exchange 3,654 04 1,512 Ination 71 05 2,339 Volume 165 446 06 2,430 Costs 07 2,449 Tax & other 51 58% 2,720 08 08 6,017 A reconciliation of the net earnings with underlying earnings for 2006, 2007 and 2008 as determined under EU IFRS is set out on page 37.
All amounts presented by the product groups exclude net interest and other centrally reported items.
66 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Performance in Rio Tintos drive to incorporate world class STRATEGY Agreement for the area.
R&D in its operations and vision for the Mine RTIOs strategy of remaining the worlds best In September, RTIOs HIsmelt pig ironTM of the Future positioned supplier of iron ore is a key making plant was awarded the prestigious.
component of the Groups strategy of Golden Gecko award for environmental Safety will continue as a priority focus maintaining a strong position in products excellence from the Western Australia throughout 2009.
Specific areas to focus on that underpin global economic growth.
The Expansion Projects teams include contractor familiarity and adherence seeks to expand its business by operating its construction of the Lang Hancock Railway to with Rio Tinto standards, the frequency of assets with an emphasis on maximising Hope Downs mine was also highly hand injuries and the continued risk of efficiency and therefore margins.
commended in the same awards.
driving related issues still the single In part due to the implementation of its During 2008, the Group was honoured greatest risk area across our operations.
investment programme during the past five at the Australian Business Arts Foundation years, RTIO has positioned itself to expand awards and the WA Business and the Arts OVERVIEW OF SUSTAINABLE its business while maintaining its ability to awards for its partnerships with leading DEVELOPMENT respond to changes in global demand for cultural organisations.
In Western Australia Safety iron ore. Rio Tinto strongly supports community Performance for the Iron Ore group While capital expenditure has been organisations such as the Perth International remained broadly in line with the previous reduced in response to the economic Arts Festival, SciTech, Black Swan Theatre year at a 0.93 all injury frequency rate downturn, RTIO believes it is capable of Company and Fiona Stanleys Telethon AIFR, compared with 0.96 in 2007.
Sadly, reactivating its planned expansions in the Institute for Child Health Research and the the performance was marred by a tragic Pilbara beyond 220 million tonne annual Committee for Perth.
double fatality in a dump truck incident at capacity, and IOC in Canada beyond 18 the Simandou project in Guinea in early million tonnes of pellets and concentrate in KEY PRIORITIES FOR 2009 November involving employees of a a short timeframe.
Projects in Guinea and Rio Tinto has long worked towards contractor.
Resources were put in place to India can be activated in response to increasing the employment of traditional support employees and affected families.
changes in market conditions and as the owners and other indigenous people.
In July The Dampier port upgrade project was Groups capital expenditure budget permits.
a goal of building indigenous participation completed in early 2008 with the excellent In addition to its reductions in capital to 20 per cent of the RTIO workforce by 2015 record of 2.3 million man hours lost time expenditure, RTIO has also introduced a was established.
This includes a commitment injury free.
series of initiatives to reduce its operating that any local Aboriginal person who The Corumb operation in Brazil was costs in order to enhance its flexibility.
finishes year-10 schooling will have the one of the recipients of the Chief Executives Production from the HIsmelt opportunity of a traineeship with Rio Tinto.
Safety Award in 2008, for its sustained ironmaking Commute services were introduced to excellence in safety performance.
All plant outside Perth was suspended for three assist indigenous workers from several operations conducted semi-quantitative risk months starting in December 2008.
RTIO is regional centres in Western Australia, as part assessments to identify potential fatality risks, reducing its level of employment and is in of a wider expansion of fly-in, fly-out with plans to mitigate those exposures.
Other the process of implementing certain programmes operating from regional centres safety initiatives included the improvement of structural reforms to consolidate its across the state.
The year 2009 will see an the Contractor Management System as well as operating units.
Similarly, at Corumb in escalation of activity in this area, a an improved pre-task risk assessment tool.
Brazil, RTIO has reduced employment levels.
fundamental aspect of Rio Tintos All injury frequency rate community licence to operate.
RTIO plans to KEY ACHIEVEMENTS Per 200,000 hours worked escalate a comprehensive network of land In November 2008, RTIO achieved a major 04 1.80 use agreements with traditional owners.
milestone with the completion of the Cape 05 1.55 Lambert upgrade to 80 million tonnes The environment will continue to be a 06 1.23 07 0.96 major focus for RTIO in 2009, particularly annual capacity Mt a, well ahead of 0.93 08 the more efficient use of energy and water.
Construction In the past year a number of studies continued on Mesa A in the Robe Valley and examined improved water management Greenhouse gas emissions Brockman 4 west of Tom Price, with both of practices in the Pilbara, such as harnessing Energy reduction plans have been rolled out these mines intended to enhance RTIOs dewatering discharge to achieve across the majority of Iron Ore sites, where production in the future.
environmental benefits and also providing energy champions have been appointed to Rio Tintos 50:50 joint venture with potential commercial opportunities for identify energy reduction opportunities.
Hancock Prospecting increased annual traditional owners.
Energy sub-metering and data tracking is production capacity at the Hope Downs RTIO will continue its strategy of being enhanced across the business to assist mine to 22 Mt a.
In addition, the Hope bringing advanced technology and this and meet imminent compliance Downs South extension was completed on innovative applications to its traditional requirements.
Energy consumption targets time and within budget, and the first ore open pit mining techniques, with a number are in place for all sites and progress will be was processed in November 2008.
In early of exciting projects already under way.
2009, Hope Downs South will be fully Several academic partnerships have been RTIOs total greenhouse gas GHG incorporated into the Pilbara network.
established, including a A$10.5 million emissions were 4.2 million tonnes of carbon In July 2008, RTIO achieved a significant partnership with Curtin University in Western dioxide equivalent in 2008.
In the past two milestone, reaching a major agreement with Australia to develop a world class innovation years increased production, longer rail and the Ngarluma people over the proposed centre dedicated to strategic research and truck hauls and increased stripping have expansion of coastal infrastructure in the development in materials and sensing in contributed to the emissions increase.
Pilbara, clearing the way for a mining.
The Centre will play a significant role comprehensive new Indigenous Land Use Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 67 Iron Ore group continued months of 2008, the impact of this decrease satisfactory outcome without resort to Total greenhouse gas emissions on RTIO was limited since the vast majority mandating rail access.
Million tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent of RTIOs sales during this quarter were at In November 2008 Rio Tinto appealed to 04 2.4 annual prices under long term contracts.
05 3.1 the Australian Competition Tribunal against 06 3.4 RTIO sold 15.8 million tonnes of iron ore at the decision of the Australian Federal 3.5 07 the spot rate during 2008.
However, most of Treasurer to declare its Pilbara rail network 08 4.2 these sales were made prior to the available for competitors seeking access to significant market deterioration from infrastructure, as provided for under the October 2008 and were consistently above Iron Ore is preparing for energy assessments Trade Practices Act 1974.
The hearing starts the benchmark contract price.
to meet the Australian Governments Energy in late 2009.
The decision of the Federal Treasurer is Efficiency Opportunities Act.
now stayed pending the outcome of that 2007 compared with 2006 RTIO will replace its ageing and appeal.
If the decision of the Treasurer is not RTIOs contribution to 2007 underlying inefficient power generation infrastructure overturned on appeal this would not of itself earnings was US$2,664 million, US$399 at the Pilbara coast with new generation allow access to third parties.
Rather they million higher than in 2006. plant which includes technology able to emit would be entitled to seek that access terms Demand for iron ore remained extremely 25 per cent less GHG emissions and have the be agreed or arbitrated, and additional strong across the product range throughout ability to retrofit a combined cycle which requirements would have to be met at this 2007, driven by the continuing robust could further reduce emissions in the future.
Housing and Town Services have second stage some within and some outside growth in global steel demand and implemented several initiatives to improve the control of those third parties.
If those production, significantly exceeding seaborne energy efficiency in towns and camps.
additional requirements are not met, or suppliers capacity to match.
Total Chinese RTIOs technology division continues to work are not able to be met, then access would iron ore imports rose from 326 million towards demonstrating a number of new not occur.
tonnes to 383 million tonnes, accounting for technologies which could significantly Rio Tinto also engaged with State more than 90 per cent of world growth.
reduce energy use and GHG emissions.
representatives during 2008 in relation to a Hamersley Iron and Robe River in Australia A number of these technologies, such as rail haulage regime being considered by the operated at record or near record levels of hybrid locomotives and alternative fuels for State.
The State has indicated that it will not production in 2007. haul trucks and trains, are being managed seek to unilaterally impose such a regime.
under an alliance with General Electric, Significant operational challenges OPERATIONS bringing together the Eco-magination and during 2008 were proactively managed to Iron ore Mine of the Future programmes.
In mitigate value destruction caused by Hamersley Iron Rio Tinto: 100 per cent addition, the division is studying new external events loss of a majority of Pilbara Hamersley Iron operates nine mines in technologies for alternative electricity power supply due to an explosion at Apache Western Australia, including three mines in generation, including the use of solar power.
Energys gas plant, and threats to commuter joint ventures, approximately 700 kilometres air services as a result of industrial action at of dedicated railway, and port and 2008 IN REVIEW National Jet Systems and internal events infrastructure facilities located at Dampier.
In April 2008, the High Court of Australia such as the ineffective industrial action These assets are run as a single operation ruled in RTIOs favour over the rights to its taken by a small number of trade union managed and maintained by Pilbara Iron.
Shovelanna deposit, east of Newman in the members in the rail division.
In November 2008, RTIO completed the Pilbara.
The decision upheld the Western final phase of construction of Pilbara Australian Minister for Resources decision to FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE infrastructure to support an annual terminate a rival exploration licence 2008 compared with 2007 production capacity of 220 Mt a. Dampier application by Cazaly Resources.
Another RTIOs contribution to 2008 underlying ports terminals at East Intercourse Island action by Cazaly Resources, calling into earnings was US$6,017 million, US$3,353 and Parker Point account for a combined question the rights held by the Rhodes Ridge million higher than in 2007. capacity of 140 Mt a, together with Cape Joint Venture Rio Tinto 50 per cent share to RTIO experienced strong demand for its Lamberts increased capacity of 80 Mt a. its eponymous deposit east of Yandicoogina, iron ore during the first nine months of RTIO made substantial investments in and applying for tenure over that area, is in 2008.
This was reflected in the 86 per cent rolling stock and replacement track across progress.
The Rhodes Ridge Joint Venture weighted average pricing increase achieved much of its rail network, including the rights have, notwithstanding, been renewed in June 2008 following RTIOs agreement acquisition of 40 new generation, energy by the State for a further annual term with Chinas Baosteel on the price for efficient locomotives.
Hamersley iron ore deliveries for the Hope Downs mine, a 50:50 joint venture In June 2008, RTIO, through Hamersley contract year commencing 1 April 2008. with Hope Downs Iron Ore Pty Ltd owned Iron, announced that it had reached During the final three months of 2008, by Hancock Prospecting Pty Ltd, enjoyed its agreement with Pilbara mining junior Iron however, RTIO experienced a contraction in first year as a significant contributor to the Ore Holdings IOH on commercial terms for demand for its iron ore, due to the global production of the Pilbara Blend iron ore an innovative mine gate sales arrangement, economic slowdown and in particular slower product.
This was complemented by the first enabling the purchase of iron ore from a economic growth in China.
Despite this production of ore from the Hope Downs new IOH mine at Phils Creek, 90 kilometres contraction in demand, RTIOs total South expansion, completed ahead of from Newman a deposit that would be shipments of iron ore for the full year 2008 schedule in November 2008. otherwise stranded by its remoteness from were 153 million tonnes, nine million RTIO also commenced several projects in infrastructure.
This innovative agreement tonnes higher than in 2007. connection with its plans to expand annual Although the price for iron ore on the production capacity beyond 220 million was hailed for demonstrating the use of a spot market decreased during the final three tonnes.
These included a US$149 million commercial agreement to reach a 68 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Performance commitment for studies in respect of a new mine at the Western Turner Syncline, near Tom Price, which has a projected annual capacity of up to 29 million tonnes.
Rio Tinto also invested US$500 million for a regional power upgrade in the Pilbara, including the installation of a new gas powered power plant adjacent to the 7 Mile rail operations centre.
This plant is intended to replace the ageing, steam driven turbine plants at Dampier and Cape Lambert.
Hamersley Irons total shipments of iron ore to major markets in 2008 Million tonnes China 73.0 Japan 28.5 Other Asia 17.9 Europe 1.3 Other 0.4 Total 121.2 NOTE: This table includes 100 per cent of all shipments through joint ventures.
Robe River Iron Associates Aerial view of the Mt Tom Price mine in Western Australia Rio Tinto: 53 per cent Robe River Iron Associates Robe is an unincorporated joint venture in which Robe Rivers total shipments of iron ore to efficient integration between rail and port Mitsui 33 per cent, Nippon Steel 10.5 per major markets in 2008 operations.
While challenges remain, during cent and Sumitomo Metal Industries 3.5 Million tonnes the second half of 2008, production rates per cent hold interests.
Robe River is the Japan 23.2 were regularly in excess of 200 million worlds fourth largest seaborne trader in China 19.6 tonnes on an annualised basis.
iron ore. Europe 4.5 A major gas explosion at Apache Robe River operates two open pit mining Other Asia 3.0 Energys Varanus Island plant off the Pilbara operations in Western Australia.
Mesa J is Total 50.3 coast effectively removed nearly two thirds located in the Robe Valley, south of the town of RTIOs power supply, necessitating urgent of Pannawonica.
The mine produces Robe 2008 operating performance curtailment of power usage and the sourcing River fines and lump, which are pisolitic iron of alternative supply from other sources.
The Rio Tinto operates its mines, rail and port ore products.
The West Angelas mine, outage lasted two months in June and July, operations in the Pilbara as an integrated opened in 2002, is located approximately however gas supplies in Western Australia system to maximise value through 100 kilometres west of the town of Newman.
are not expected to return to pre-incident efficiencies of scale and flexibility.
The assets The mine produces Marra Mamba iron ore levels until May 2009.
While contingency and operations of Hamersley Iron and Robe products, which are incorporated into the planning enabled the issue to be managed, River are effectively combined for operational Pilbara Blend.
operations were impacted, and a significant management purposes, notwithstanding the The upgrade of Cape Lambert port to an additional cost of approximately A$70 varying financial interests in the joint annual capacity of 80 million tonnes was million has been incurred up to the end ventures managed by RTIO.
Hamersley Irons total production in 2008 final step in the achievement of total annual The strike by a small number of was 125.1 million tonnes, 13 million tonnes export capacity of 220 Mt a. locomotive drivers in October and November more than the 112.1 million tonnes in 2007.
Work progressed during 2008 on the 2008 also produced challenges to efficiency, Robe Rivers total production in 2008 but were overcome with the assistance of the new US$901 million Mesa A Warramboo was 50.2 million tonnes, comprising 25.0 vast majority of rail workers who prevented mine west of Pannawonica township, which million tonnes from Mesa J, and 25.2 million any real impact, such that October was a is intended to replace Mesa J as the main tonnes from West Angelas.
Sales were 24.8 record month for tonnes railed.
source of Robes pisolite production once the million tonnes of Mesa J and 25.5 million In August a Cape Lambert rail car Mesa J deposit is depleted.
In September tonnes of West Angelas products.
These dumper was severely damaged in an 2008, Rio Tinto announced the US$257 results were achieved amid significant accident.
The dumper was returned to million upgrade of Pannawonica to support construction activity.
service in mid September 2008 after repair, the new mine.
One of RTIOs key projects during 2008 integrity and operational checks.
While out Robe River primarily exports under was the Drumbeat initiative, which was of service, RTIOs other four dumpers at medium and long term supply contracts with designed to eliminate bottlenecks across the Dampier and Cape Lambert operated at peak major integrated steel mill customers in system following the expansion to 220 Mt a, capacity, demonstrating the flexibility of the Japan, China, South Korea and Europe.
The Drumbeat port loading system and helping to minimise initiative focuses on improving rail assets loss of tonnage and demurrage.
such as rolling stock and achieving a more Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 69 Iron Ore group continued In November 2008, RTIO announced that, as 2008 operating performance daily production rate of 1,660 tonnes of pig a result of the global economic crisis and the Production of pellets and concentrates iron sustained over a five day period.
sudden decrease in Chinese demand for iron continued strongly through the year, which Due to substantial reduction in demand ore, it would cut its shipments by ten per highlighted the record mine performance for HIsmelt product, in December 2008 a cent from the expected 190-195 million from the first half and fide-bottlenecking three month shutdown was instituted.
RTIO tonnes on a 100 per cent basis for 2008. efforts at the plant.
will consider reopening HIsmelt in 2009, Production was subsequently limited across The demand for IOCs products following an assessment of prevailing the Pilbara, with significant redeployment of strengthened further in 2008 with market conditions.
As a result of this staff and assets to assist with new stockpiles concentrate prices increasing by 68.75 per decision an impairment charge of US$182 and operational shutdowns.
Initially cent and pellet prices by 86.67 per cent over million was recorded in 2008. operations at the Channar and Brockman 2 last years benchmark prices.
Interest in the HIsmelt technology mines were suspended.
This was followed by Total saleable production was 15.8 remains strong, and licence negotiations a two week general shutdown of all mine and million tonnes, up from 13.2 million tonnes continue with several Chinese and Indian rail operations across the Pilbara in late in 2007 during which a strike occurred.
steelmakers adding to the existing three December.
Operations at all mines were Pellet production was 12.6 million tonnes licences already agreed.
The European restarted in early January 2009.
11.3 million tonnes in 2007 with saleable Union supported ULCOS UltraLow Carbon concentrate being 3.2 million tonnes 1.9 dioxide CO Steelmaking consortium 2 Iron Ore Company of Canada million tonnes in 2007.
Higher production announced plans to build a HIsarna pilot Rio Tinto: 58.7 per cent levels and higher sales prices more than plant in Germany from 2010, combining RTIO operates Iron Ore Company of Canada offset higher input costs.
HIsmelt technology with an alternative iron IOC on behalf of shareholders Mitsubishi ore pre-treatment option in a quest to 26.2 per cent and the Labrador Iron Ore Minerao Corumbaense Reunida reduce the CO emissions of current steel 2 Royalty Income Fund 15.1 per cent.
Corumb Rio Tinto: 100 per cent technologies by at least 50 per cent.
IOC is Canadas largest iron ore pellet In January 2009, Rio Tinto announced the The winning of the Golden Gecko award producer based on 2008 production.
It sale of Corumb to the Brazilian diversified for environmental excellence was an operates an open pit mine, concentrator and miner, Vale, for US$750 million.
The endorsement of the unique selling pellet plant at Labrador City, Newfoundland transaction is expected to close in the proposition of HIsmelt technology in a and Labrador, together with a 418 kilometre second half of 2009. world increasingly conscious of the need to railway to its port facilities in Sept-les, Corumb produced 2.0 million tonnes of limit industrys environmental footprint.
IOC has large ore reserves with low lump and fines iron ore in 2008, selling 1.8 levels of contaminants.
million tonnes to customers across South Minerals Products are transported on IOCs railway America, Europe and Asia.
A number of Dampier Salt Rio Tinto 68.4 per cent to Sept-les on the St Lawrence Seaway.
IOCs developments through the year led to In 2008 RTIO took responsibility for port on the St Lawrence Seaway is ice free all improved efficiency, including the Dampier Salt DSL.
DSL manages three salt year and handles both ocean going ore introduction of a dry-ore plant designed to operations located in the Pilbara and carriers and Lakers, providing competitive encourage a greater market for direct Gascoyne regions of Western Australia.
Salt access to all seaborne pellet markets and to reduction processes.
is produced by solar evaporation of natural the North American Great Lakes region.
IOC Work continued on a number of studies sea water at its Dampier and Port Hedland exports its concentrate and pellet products to to increase capacity substantially from operations, and by solar evaporation of a major North American, European and Asian approximately 2 Mt a to more than 12 Mt a, concentrated brine extracted from the steel makers.
together with early work towards natural aquifer that sits within the halite In December 2008, RTIO decided to establishing better barging arrangements layer beneath Lake MacLeod.
bring production into line with reduced and a new port in Uruguay.
Salt customers are located across Asia demand through a number of measures.
Corumb received the Chief Executives and the Middle East.
The majority are A pellet line was closed, and another Safety Award for the third time, firmly chemical companies who use salt as scheduled for a maintenance shutdown early establishing its leadership credentials in this feedstock for the production of chlorine and in 2009.
The capacity expansion programme most important aspect of operations.
caustic soda together known as chlor-alkali was suspended, including the PODS parallel production.
Salt is also used for food ore delivery system.
As with all slowdown HIsmelt preparation and other general purposes Rio Tinto: 60 per cent measures, the priority is to best position IOC including road fide-icing.
The HIsmelt iron making project at to take advantage of the eventual Kwinana in Western Australia is a joint improvement in market conditions.
2008 operating performance venture among Rio Tinto 60 per cent interest IOC employs approximately 2,000 Salt production and shipping increased to through its subsidiary, HIsmelt Corporation, people.
6.1 million tonnes and 5.9 million tonnes US steelmaker Nucor Corporation 25 per respectively Rio Tinto share, as recovery cent, Mitsubishi Corporation ten per cent, IOCs total shipments of iron ore to major from cyclones experienced in 2006 and and Chinese steelmaker Shougang markets in 2008 2007 continued, and with the Corporation five per cent.
commissioning of the two stages of a one Million tonnes Plant and process performance improved million tonne per annum expansion of the Europe 6.0 in 2008, and towards the end of the year, Lake MacLeod field.
The last stages of Asia Pacific 3.5 installation of process improvements repairs at Port Hedland following Cyclone North America 5.1 resulted in a fundamental improvement in George in 2007 have been extended and will Middle East 0.5 the output.
As a result of the improvements, be completed in the second quarter 2009.
Total 15.1 HIsmelt achieved a range of new Until recently, gypsum has also been dredge production records, including an average 70 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Performance A Waramboo deposits, which will sustain mined at Lake MacLeod.
This operation was and tear, delay and use of fuel.
Without pisolite production for the Robe River lump placed under care and maintenance drivers, the system revolutionises and fines products from 2010, when Mesa J in December 2008 due to the general productivity and the way mining has been mine stocks are scheduled for gradual demand for gypsum based wallboard being conducted.
The new mining process depletion.
Mesa A is expected to ramp up to reduced as a result of the downturn in Asian incorporates automated drilling, an alliance 25 Mt a capacity from 2011. housing markets.
Shipping of the remaining with Atlas Copco announced in September.
gypsum stocks will continue through 2009 The blast hole drill without an on board Brockman 4, a US$1.5 billion development as product leaching is completed.
operator is guided by satellite GPS to sink its of the Brockman 4 site as a 22 Mt a capacity holes in the pit floor on a precise grid.
mine, scheduled to be completed in 2010.
IRON ORE GROUP PROJECTS Drilling and blasting by this method would While there is scope to expand this to 36 RTIOs growth strategy has involved a revolutionise the speed of open pit Mt a capacity subject to favourable market commitment of more than US$9 billion to developments.
expand the global production platform for conditions.
The feasibility study Iron Ore Company of Canada into expanding Pilbara capacity beyond 220 Western Turner Syncline, a US$149 million Rio Tinto: 58.7 per cent Mt a capacity by 2012 was well advanced study into the establishment of a new mine In March 2008, IOC announced an before the economic slowdown began in the near Tom Price, with the ore to be fed into investment of C$500 million to increase its third quarter of 2008. the latters processing plant.
annual production of iron ore concentrate to Rio Tinto spent A$103 million in the 22 million tonnes.
In September 2008, it Pilbara on evaluation of iron ore deposits Hope Downs 4, Rio Tinto 50 per cent a announced a further investment of C$300 that form part of the medium to long term US$71 million pre-feasibility study into million to increase annual production of production plan.
Evaluation in 2008 largely developing the deposit, which is 45 iron ore concentrate to 22.8 million tonnes focused on the Nammuldi Silvergrass region kilometres east of the Hope Downs 1 mine.
and pellet production to 13.8 million tonnes and the Rhodes Ridge Joint Venture and No decision has been made yet on the preby 2011.
In December 2008, in response to RTIO is reassessing the expansion in the market conditions, IOC announced the context of the current economic situation.
A Remote Operations Centre ROC, suspension of these expansion projects.
A decision is expected in the first half of 2009, announced in December 2007, is a new re-start will be considered once market and a number of critical components of the facility located near Perth Airport, designed conditions improve.
to accommodate staff and electronic equipment to operate by remote control a Simandou Rio Tinto: 95 per cent Upgrade beyond 220 Mt a range of assets and processes in the Pilbara.
The Simandou project in eastern Guinea, west Rio Tinto has introduced an aggressive The new building, big enough for 350 Africa, lies within one of the best expansion programme during the past five people, is under construction and is undeveloped major iron ore provinces in the years, and remains well positioned to expected to be completed in mid-2009.
During the year RTIO conducted execute the next phase in its strategy.
advanced studies into establishing an iron ore Cape Lambert has been nominated as the Dampier power station, a US$538 million mine of 70 Mt a capacity, and potentially of preferred site for expansion of Pilbara port Rio Tinto US$425 million new plant is up to 170 Mt a capacity.
A number of options facilities beyond 220 Mt a.
Early planning expected to provide more efficient supply of are being reviewed to establish the most for reaching 320 Mt a involves construction power to Dampier and Cape Lambert ports efficient and economic means of of a new terminal Cape Lambert West and operations.
The 160MW station will transporting the mined ore from the project.
capable of berthing four Capesize ships, and have four open cycle gas turbines, and a Rio Tinto has spent nearly US$400 vacant and available land to the west of the 220kV transmission line is being built to million on the work necessary to develop a existing rail line was selected to Cape Lambert from the 7 Mile Rail long life iron ore mine at Simandou.
During accommodate stockpiles under this plan.
Operations site, where the new station is 2008, RTIO spent an average US$20 million During 2009 the economic slowdown sited.
When complete the new plant will per month on drilling, engineering and may lead to reduced competition, which may replace the ageing stations at Cape Lambert support.
RTIO has conducted exploration provide options for accelerated execution of and Dampier.
and development efforts throughout the 738 some projects, as well as improved cost square kilometre concession area.
A total of TM expectations when there are credible signs Mine of the Future 16 drill rigs has been deployed to complete, an industry leading of market recovery.
A key goal of RTIOs more than 200,000 metres of drilling on over plan announced by Rio Tinto in January is cutbacks in operations and projects is to 1,200 sites.
testing the implementation of a number of maintain a robust platform from which to In August, Rio Tinto received innovative mining technology applications capitalise on an upturn.
correspondence from the Guinean in the Pilbara.
Several of these are being Work has progressed in anticipation of Government purporting to rescind the introduced at Pit A at the West Angelas the next expansion of iron ore production Concession, the legality of which Rio Tinto mine, which has been designated as a capacity.
An array of projects designed to questioned.
In December it received further pioneer site for Mine of the Future trials.
The support increased production is under way, correspondence referring to a purported system consists of a fleet of Komatsu mining and some will be progressed through to compulsory relinquishment of the northern equipment that loads and hauls ore completion notwithstanding the short term half of the Concession whilst confirming automatically.
Artificial intelligence in the slowdown.
These will include: Rio Tintos entitlement to the southern half equipment learns the layout of the mine, of the Concession.
A number of political how to recognise and avoid other vehicles Mesa A Rio Tinto 53 per cent, a US$901 developments in Guinea since then have and obstacles, and how to ferry loads from million development of the Mesa occurred and RTIO has engaged in top level loading face to dump with the least wear Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 71 Iron Ore group continued discussions with various stakeholders in an costs and the implementation of various effort to clarify the status of the project.
Rio Tinto remains of the view that it has While reduced iron ore demand has complied with all its obligations in relation reduced the urgency of RTIOs capacity to the Concession such that it is entitled to expansion, in many cases RTIO will hold and retain the entire Concession.
It will postpone rather than cancel its expansion continue working with the Guinean projects.
Many expansion projects are Government to seek to resolve this matter sufficiently advanced to enable a rapid on that basis.
resumption in response to increased demand The project has employed an average such as the Automated Train Operations workforce of 1,800 staff and contractors project in the Pilbara.
across the year, 90 per cent of them In every case, increases in market Guinean, operating from offices in Conakry demand will be the key factor.
RTIO has and Kerouane, and construction camps at invested a substantial portion of its earnings Canga East and Oueleba in the mining since 2003 in expanding and improving its concession.
production network, including developing The International Finance Corporation two world class ports capable of maintaining the private sector arm of the World Bank a 220 Mt a capacity.
This has left it in an Group retains a five per cent stake in the ideal position to capitalise on a market project and is working with Rio Tinto to recovery.
develop it in an environmentally and socially sustainable way.
The successful implementation of this project will include a competitive infrastructure solution, which may be dependent upon the outcome of the analysis of transportation alternatives.
Orissa, India Rio Tinto: 51 per cent Orissa is one of the key iron ore regions of the world.
RTIO has a joint venture with the state owned Orissa Mining Corporation to develop its iron ore leases.
With expectations of significant infrastructure and industrial development in India in the medium and long term, Rio Tinto remains keen to contribute to the development of the Indian iron ore sector.
Rio Tinto has continued discussions with major domestic iron ore and steel companies and expects to commence mining in 2009.
OUTLOOK The operations of RTIO are in broad alignment with the market demand for iron ore, with imminent expansions able to match increased demand.
There is clearly a consolidation of the industry under way, during which time the advantages of Rio Tinto being the only producer with a truly global supply strategy should become more apparent.
RTIO will maintain its focus on creating value through reducing discretionary costs and cutting waste wherever possible to preserve margins.
In early 2009 an organisational restructuring was under way to eliminate 4,400 full time equivalent roles.
Capital expenditure reduction targets for 2009 and 2010 are estimated at US$5 billion, comprising US$1.4 billion in 2009 and US$3.6 billion in 2010.
Other cost reductions are expected to be achieved through reduced market pressures on input 72 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report
