Markets and strategy Outlook for 2009 downturns.
Deleveraging of balance sheets, housing activity.
Following the sharp decline in industrial the need to rebuild savings and for Chinese metals demand is expected to output during the second half of 2008, many governments to eventually rein in ballooning rise at a single digit rate in 2009.
This is metals markets have entered 2009 with fiscal deficits will restrict future rates of much slower than the over 20 per cent rates prices at their lowest level in several years.
of growth realised in recent years and will Whilst the precise shape and length of the In the case of the Chinese economy, not be enough to offset a much bigger current downturn is uncertain, economic which now accounts for one third of decline in consumption in other markets.
activity continues to decline and forward commodity consumption and to which These headline annual changes mask a indicators suggest any recovery is unlikely to metals markets are therefore particularly quarterly pattern of improvement in metals begin until the second half of the year.
The exposed, growth came to a standstill towards demand over the course of the year but current pace of contraction is such that a large body of commentators expect the the end of 2008.
Projections for 2009 have given the development of a large stock and world economy in 2009 to record its first year fallen alongside this observed slowdown and capacity overhang, even with this profile, on year fall since the Second World War.
greater recognition of trade and investment prices seem unlikely to be able to stage This poor macroeconomic outlook linkages to other parts of the world.
The much of a rebound during 2009. prevails despite government attempts to central government has responded More positively, despite reductions in bolster economic activity through fiscal aggressively, announcing a four trillion costs, many metals prices are now below the spending and tax reductions as well as renminbi US$585 billion stimulus package operating costs of marginal industry reducing interest rates and injecting cash last November.
producers and the supply side of the into lending markets.
However, lower equity This has a particular focus on metals industry is responding.
This suggests that and housing prices are putting downward intensive public infrastructure spending.
further downside risk to prices is becoming pressure on indebted consumers and Reductions in interest rates and easing in limited.
expectations of a prolonged downturn and bank reserve ratios will also allow for greater Spot prices in bulk commodity markets tighter access to finance are holding back lending whilst cuts in taxes will be are currently below benchmark price levels investment and trade.
additional contributions to the direct set in the first half of 2008.
However, the Even when a recovery does take place spending stimulus.
But whilst these outcome of price negotiations for the the strength of the upturn may be muted.
measures will be supportive there are 2009 10 marketing year will depend on the Recessions associated with reduced credit significant headwinds from weaker export extent and timing of any recovery in spot and declines in house and equity values are demand.
An inventory overhang is expected markets as destocking cycles end and typically deeper and are longer than other to hold back any immediate recovery in economic growth bottoms out.
Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 31 The Palabora mine in the Limpopo region of South Africa has been producing and refining copper since 1956.
Although Palabora is already a long life operation, it continues to provide future opportunities for the Group through the development of block caving capabilities, providing technological expertise which can be applied at underground copper projects such as Oyu Tolgoi, Resolution and Bingham Canyon.
