Shareholder information DIVIDENDS days prior to the announcement and are Dividend reinvestment plan DRP Both Companies have paid dividends on then declared payable in sterling by Rio Tinto offers a DRP to registered their shares every year since incorporation Rio Tinto plc and in Australian dollars by shareholders, which provides the in 1962.
The rights of Rio Tinto shareholders Rio Tinto Limited.
opportunity to use cash dividends to to receive dividends are explained under the On request, shareholders of Rio Tinto plc purchase Rio Tinto shares in the market free description of the Dual Listed Companies can elect to receive dividends in Australian of commission.
See Taxation on page 169 for Structure on page 172. dollars and shareholders of Rio Tinto an explanation of the tax consequences.
Limited can elect to receive dividends in Due to local legislation the DRP cannot be Dividend policy sterling.
Shareholders requiring further extended to shareholders in the US, Canada The aim of Rio Tintos progressive dividend information should contact Computershare.
Please contact policy is to increase the US dollar value of Computershare for further information.
ordinary dividends over time, without 2008 dividends cutting them during economic downturns.
The 2008 interim and final dividends were MARKET LISTINGS AND SHARE PRICES The rate of the total annual dividend, in determined at 68.0 US cents and at 68.0 US Rio Tinto plc US dollars, is determined taking into account cents per share respectively and the The principal market for Rio Tinto plc shares the results for the past year and the outlook applicable translation rates were US$1.8759 is the London Stock Exchange LSE.
The interim dividend is and US$1.46885 to the pound sterling and As a constituent of the Financial Times set at one half of the total ordinary dividend US$0.8791 and US$0.6701 to the Australian Stock Exchange 100 index FTSE 100, for the previous year.
Rio Tinto plc shares trade through the Stock dividend policy, the final ordinary dividend Final dividends of 46.29 pence per share Exchange Electronic Trading Service SETS for each year is expected to be at least equal and of 101.48 Australian cents per share will system.
to the previous interim dividend.
A final dividend of Central to the SETS system is the 272 US cents per Rio Tinto plc ADR each electronic order book on which an LSE Dividend determination representing four shares will be paid by member firm can post buy and sell orders, The majority of the Groups sales are JPMorgan Chase Bank NA to ADR holders on either on its own behalf or for its clients.
Buy transacted in US dollars, making this the 9 April 2009. and sell orders are executed against each most reliable measure for the Groups global The charts below set out the amounts of other automatically in strict price, then size, business performance.
It is Rio Tintos main interim, final and special cash dividends paid priority.
The order book operates from reporting currency and consequently the or payable on each share or ADS in respect of 8.00 am to 4.30 pm daily.
From 7.50 am to natural currency for dividend determination.
each financial year, but before deduction of 8.00 am orders may be added to, or deleted Dividends determined in US dollars are any withholding tax.
from the book, but execution does not occur.
risk position assumed by the member firm greatest volume of trades on the book which Use of the order book is not mandatory taking on the trade being unwound or the can be executed, then matches the orders, but all trades, regardless of size, executed end of the business day.
leaving unexecuted orders on the book at over the SETS system are published Closing LSE share prices are published in the start of trading.
The only exception to this is most UK national newspapers and are also All orders placed on the order book are where a Worked Principal Agreement WPA available during the day on the Rio Tinto firm and are for standard three day is entered into for trades greater than eight and other websites.
While the order book is vital to times Normal Market Size NMS.
Rio Tinto Rio Tinto plc has a sponsored American all market participants, orders are plc has an NMS of 100,000 shares.
Depositary Receipt ADR facility with anonymous, with the counterparties being Publication of trades entered under a WPA is JPMorgan Chase Bank NA JPMorgan under revealed to each other only after execution delayed until the earlier of 80 per cent of the a Deposit Agreement, dated 13 July 1988, as 168 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Shareholder information amended on 11 June 1990, as further Rio Tinto plc ADSs as reported on the NYSE ADR holders amended and restated on 15 February 1999 composite tape.
ADR holders may instruct JPMorgan as to and as further amended and restated on As at 19 February 2009, there were how the shares represented by their ADRs 18 February 2005 when JPMorgan became 51,785 holders of record of Rio Tinto plcs should be voted.
Of these holders, 276 had registered Registered holders of ADRs will have the evidence Rio Tinto plc American Depositary addresses in the US and held a total of Annual report and Summary financial Shares ADS, each representing four 290,009 Rio Tinto plc shares, representing statements and interim reports mailed to ordinary shares.
The shares are registered 0.028 per cent of the total number of them at their record address.
ADR holders with the US Securities and Exchange Rio Tinto plc shares issued and outstanding can receive the Annual report and Summary Commission SEC, are listed on the New as at such date.
In addition, 77,626,696 financial statements and interim reports on York Stock Exchange NYSE and are traded Rio Tinto plc shares were registered in the request.
name of a custodian account in London Rio Tinto is subject to the US Securities Rio Tinto plc shares are also listed on which represented 7.729 per cent of the and Exchange Commission SEC reporting Euronext.
publicly held Rio Tinto plc shares issued and requirements for foreign companies.
A Form The following table shows share prices outstanding.
These shares were represented 20-F, which corresponds with the Form 10-K for the period indicated, the reported high by 19,406,674 Rio Tinto plc ADSs held of in US public companies, will be filed with and low middle market quotations, which record by 41,378 ADR holders.
Rio Tintos Form 20-F and other represent an average of bid and asked prices, certain accounts of record with registered filings can be viewed on the Rio Tinto for Rio Tinto plcs shares on the LSE based addresses other than in the US hold shares, website as well as the SEC web site at on the LSE Daily Official List, and the in whole or in part, beneficially for US www.
gov highest and lowest sale prices of the persons.
Individuals who are not Rio Tinto Limited shares are listed on the approximately 0.072 per cent of the total liable to income tax at the higher rate will Australian Securities Exchange ASX and the number of Rio Tinto Limited shares issued have no further tax to pay.
Higher rate tax New Zealand Securities Exchange.
The ASX and outstanding as of such date.
In addition, payers are liable to tax on UK dividends at is the principal trading market for Rio Tinto nominee accounts of record with registered 32.5 per cent which, after taking account of Limited shares.
The ASX is a national stock addresses other than in the US may hold the tax credit, produces a further tax liability exchange operating in the capital city of Rio Tinto Limited shares, in whole or in part, of 25 per cent of the dividend received.
each Australian State with an automated beneficially for US persons.
Dividend reinvestment plan DRP Closing ASX share prices are published Investment warning The taxation effect of participation in the in most Australian newspapers and are also Past performance of shares is not necessarily DRP will depend on individual available during the day on the Rio Tinto a guide to future performance.
Shareholders will generally be and other websites.
shares and investments and the income liable for tax on dividends reinvested in the The table on the next page sets out, for derived from them can go down as well as DRP on the same basis as if they had received the periods indicated, the high and low up, and investors may not get back the the cash and arranged the investment.
The closing sale prices of Rio Tinto Limited shares amount they invested.
dividend should, therefore, be included in based upon information provided by the ASX.
There is no established trading market in the TAXATION The shares acquired should be added to US for Rio Tinto Limiteds shares.
UK resident individuals shareholdings in shareholdings at the date and at the net cost As at 19 February 2009, there were Rio Tinto plc shown on the share purchase advice.
The 150,547 holders of record of Rio Tinto Taxation of dividends actual cost of the shares, for Rio Tinto plc Limited shares.
franking credit amount included in their subject to capital gains tax on the disposal of income.
Should the franking credits exceed those shares.
Capital gains tax the tax due, the excess is refunded to the Generally, disposal of shares held on Shareholders who have any queries on resident individual.
capital account would give rise to a capital capital gains tax issues are advised to The effect of the dividend imputation gain or loss.
A capital gain arises when the consult their financial adviser.
system on non resident shareholders is that, proceeds on disposal are greater than the Details of relevant events since 31 March to the extent that the dividend is franked, no cost base of shares.
A capital loss arises 1982 and adjusted values for Rio Tinto plc Australian tax will be payable and there is an when the proceeds on sale are less than the securities as at that date are available from exemption from dividend withholding tax.
cost base or reduced cost base.
A withholding tax is normally levied at capital gain arises on shares held for at least the rate of 15 per cent when unfranked 12 months, individual, trust and Australian resident individuals dividends are paid to residents of countries superannuation fund shareholders may be shareholdings in Rio Tinto Limited with which Australia has a taxation treaty.
eligible for a capital gains tax discount.
Taxation of dividends Most Western countries have a taxation Shareholders are advised to seek the The basis of the Australian dividend treaty with Australia.
A rate of 30 per cent advice of an independent taxation imputation system is that when Australian applies to countries where there is no consultant on any possible capital gains tax resident shareholders receive dividends from taxation treaty.
Rio Tinto Limited, they may be entitled to a Since 1988, all dividends paid by credit for the Australian tax paid by the Rio Tinto Limited have been fully franked.
US resident individuals Group in respect of that income, depending It is the Groups policy to pay fully franked The following is a summary of the principal on the tax status of the shareholder.
The Boards UK tax, Australian tax and US Federal The application of the system results in expect Rio Tinto Limited to be able to pay income tax consequences of the ownership the Australian tax paid by the Group being fully franked dividends for the foreseeable of Rio Tinto plc ADSs, Rio Tinto plc shares allocated to shareholders by way of franking future.
and Rio Tinto Limited shares the Groups credits attaching to the dividends they ADSs and shares by a US holder as defined receive.
Such dividends are known as Dividend reinvestment plan DRP below.
It is not intended to be a franked dividends.
A dividend may be partly Shareholders will generally be liable for tax comprehensive description of all the tax or fully franked.
The current Rio Tinto on dividends reinvested in the DRP on the considerations that are relevant to all classes Limited dividend is fully franked and the same basis as if they had received the cash of taxpayer.
Future changes in legislation franking credits attached to the dividend are and arranged the investment.
The dividend may affect the tax consequences of the shown in the distribution statement should therefore be included in the annual ownership of the Groups ADSs and shares.
tax return as assessable income.
It is based in part on representations by The extent to which a company can The shares acquired should be added to the Groups depositary bank as Depositary frank a dividend depends on the credit the shareholding at the date of acquisition at for the ADRs evidencing the ADSs and balance in its franking account.
Credits to the actual cost of the shares, which is the assumes that each obligation in the deposit this account can arise in a number of ways, amount of the dividend applied by the agreements will be performed in accordance including when a company pays company shareholder to acquire shares and any with its terms.
tax or receives a franked dividend from incidental costs associated with the You are a US holder if you are a another company.
The dividend is required acquisition, including stamp duty, will form beneficial owner of the Groups ADSs and to be included in a resident individual part of the cost base or reduced cost base of shares and you are: a citizen or resident of shareholders assessable income.
In addition, the shares for capital gains tax purposes.
the United States, a domestic corporation, an an amount equal to the franking credit estate whose income is subject to United attached to the franked dividend is also Capital gains tax States federal income tax regardless of its included in the assessable income of the The Australian capital gains tax legislation is source, or a trust if a United States court can resident individual, who may then be complex.
If shareholders have acquired exercise primary supervision over the trusts 170 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Shareholder information administration and one or more United Inheritance tax Service Circular 230, holders are hereby States persons are authorized to control all Under the UK Estate Tax Treaty, a US holder, notified that, any discussion of US federal tax substantial decisions of the trust.
who is domiciled in the US and is not a issues contained or referred to in this report This section applies to US holders only if national of the UK, will not be subject to UK or any document referred to herein is not shares or ADSs are held as capital assets for inheritance tax upon the holders death or on intended or written to be used, and cannot tax purposes.
This section does not apply to a transfer during the holders lifetime unless be used by holders for the purpose of shareholders who are members of a special the ADSs and shares form part of the avoiding penalties that may be imposed on class of holders subject to special rules, business property of a permanent them under the United States Internal including a dealer in securities, a trader in establishment in the UK or pertain to a fixed Revenue Code, such discussion is written for securities who elects to use a mark-tobase situated in the UK used in the use in connection with the matters addressed market method of accounting for securities performance of independent personal herein, and holders should seek advice based holdings, a tax-exempt organisation, a life services.
In the exceptional case where ADSs on their particular circumstances from an insurance company, a person liable for or shares are subject both to UK inheritance independent tax adviser.
alternative minimum tax, a person that tax and to US Federal gift or estate tax, the actually or constructively owns ten per cent UK Estate Tax Treaty generally provides for Dividends or more of Rio Tintos voting stock, a person tax payments to be relieved in accordance Dividends on the Groups ADSs and shares that holds shares or ADSs as part of a with the priority rules set out in the Treaty.
will generally be treated as dividend income straddle or a hedging or conversion for purposes of US Federal income tax.
In the transaction, or a US holder whose functional Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax case of Rio Tinto Limited shares, the income currency is not the US dollar.
Transfers of Rio Tinto plc ADSs will not be will be the net dividend plus, in the event of This section is based on the Internal subject to UK stamp duty provided that the a dividend being subject to withholding tax, Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its transfer instrument is not executed in, and the withholding tax.
legislative history, existing and proposed at all times remains outside, the UK.
Dividend income will not be eligible for regulations, published rulings and court Purchases of Rio Tinto plc shares are the dividends received deduction allowed to decisions, and on the convention between subject either to stamp duty at a rate of 50 US corporations.
the United States of America and United pence per 100 or to stamp duty reserve tax Dividends paid by Qualified Foreign Kingdom, and the convention between the SDRT at a rate of 0.5 per cent.
Conversions Corporations QFCs are subject to a United States of America and Australia which of Rio Tinto plc shares into Rio Tinto plc maximum rate of income tax of 15 per cent.
may affect the tax consequences of the ADSs will be subject to additional SDRT at a This maximum rate applies to taxable years ownership of the Groups ADSs and shares.
rate of 1.5 per cent on all transfers to the beginning before 1 January 2009.
Both These laws and conventions are subject to Depositary or its nominee.
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited expect to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
be QFCs throughout this period.
To qualify US holders should consult their own tax Australian taxation of shareholdings in for the 15 per cent maximum income tax adviser regarding the United States federal, Rio Tinto Limited rate on dividends the stock of the QFC must state and local and foreign and other tax Taxation of dividends be held for more than 60 days during the consequences of owning and disposing of US holders are not normally liable to 121 day period beginning on the date which shares and ADSs in their particular Australian withholding tax on dividends is 60 days before the ex-dividend date.
paid by Rio Tinto Limited because such For the purposes of the Conventions and dividends are normally fully franked under EXCHANGE CONTROLS AND FOREIGN of the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as the Australian dividend imputation system, INVESTMENT amended, the Code US holders of ADSs are meaning that they are paid out of income Rio Tinto plc treated as the owners of the underlying that has borne Australian income tax.
Any There are no UK foreign exchange controls or other restrictions on the import or export shares.
unfranked dividends would suffer Australian of capital or on the payment of dividends to The summary describes the treatment withholding tax which under the Australian non resident holders of Rio Tinto plc shares applicable under the Conventions in force at income tax convention is limited to 15 per or that affect the conduct of Rio Tinto plcs the date of this report.
cent of the gross dividend.
The Bank of England, however, administers financial sanctions against UK taxation of shareholdings in Capital gains specified targets related to certain regimes.
Rio Tinto plc US holders are not normally subject to any There are no restrictions under Rio Tinto Taxation of dividends Australian tax on the disposal of Rio Tinto plcs memorandum and articles of US holders do not suffer deductions of UK Limited ADSs or shares unless they have association or under UK law that limit the withholding tax on dividends paid by been used in carrying on a trade or business right of non resident owners to hold or vote Rio Tinto plc.
Dividends carry a tax credit wholly or partly through a permanent Rio Tinto plc shares.
equal to one ninth of the net dividend, or establishment in Australia, or the gain is in ten per cent of the net dividend plus the tax the nature of income sourced in Australia.
The tax credit is not repayable to Under current Australian legislation, the US holders.
Gift, estate and inheritance tax Reserve Bank of Australia does not restrict Australia does not impose any gift, estate or the import and export of funds and no Capital gains inheritance taxes in relation to gifts of permission is required for the movement of A US holder will not normally be liable to UK shares or upon the death of a shareholder.
funds into or out of Australia, except that tax on capital gains realised on the restrictions apply to certain financial disposition of Rio Tinto plc ADSs or shares Stamp duty transactions relating to specified individuals unless the holder carries on a trade, An issue or transfer of Rio Tinto Limited and entities associated with certain regimes.
profession or vocation in the UK through a shares does not require the payment of The Department of Foreign Affairs and permanent establishment in the UK and the Australian stamp duty.
Trade has responsibility for the ADSs or shares have been used for the administration of restrictions relating to purposes of the trade, profession or vocation US Federal income tax terrorists and their sponsors, and the former or are acquired, held or used for the purposes United States Internal Revenue Service Iraqi regime.
Circular 230 Notice To ensure compliance with Internal Revenue Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 171 Shareholder information continued Rio Tinto Limited may be required to deduct fixed in an Equalisation Ratio which has be held for payment on the relevant shares withholding tax from foreign remittances of remained unchanged at 1:1.
The Sharing at a later date.
dividends, to the extent that they are Agreement has provided for this ratio to be Rio Tinto shareholders have no direct unfranked, and from payments of interest.
revised in special circumstances where, for rights to enforce the dividend equalisation There are no restrictions under the example, certain modifications are made to provisions of the Sharing Agreement.
constitution of Rio Tinto Limited that limit the share capital of one Company, such as The DLC Dividend Share can also be the right of non residents to hold or vote rights issues, bonus issues, share splits and utilised to provide the Group with flexibility Rio Tinto Limited shares.
share consolidations, but not to the share for internal funds management by allowing However acquisitions of interests in capital of the other.
Outside these specified dividends to be paid between the two parts shares in Australian companies by foreign circumstances, the Equalisation Ratio can of the Group.
Such dividend payments are of interests are subject to review and approval only be altered with the approval of no economic significance to the by the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of shareholders under the Class Rights Action shareholders of either Company, as they will Australia under the Foreign Acquisitions and approval procedure described under Voting have no effect on the Groups overall Takeovers Act 1975 the Takeovers Act.
In addition, any adjustments are resources.
Takeovers Act applies to any acquisition of required to be confirmed by the auditors.
15 per cent or more of the outstanding One consequence of the DLC merger is Voting rights shares of an Australian company or to any that Rio Tinto is subject to a wide range of In principle, the Sharing Agreement provides transaction that results in one non resident, laws, rules and regulatory review across for the public shareholders of Rio Tinto plc or a group of associated non residents, multiple jurisdictions.
Where these rules and Rio Tinto Limited to vote as a joint controlling 15 per cent or more of an differ Rio Tinto, as a Group, aims to comply electorate on all matters which affect Australian company.
The Takeovers Act also with the strictest applicable level.
shareholders of both Companies in similar applies to any transaction which results in a Consistent with the creation of a single ways.
These are referred to as Joint group of non associated non residents combined enterprise under the DLC merger, Decisions.
Such Joint Decisions include the controlling 40 per cent or more of an directors of each Company act in the best creation of new classes of share capital, the Australian company.
Persons who are interests of Rio Tinto as a whole.
When appointment or removal of directors and proposing such acquisitions or transactions matters may involve a conflict of interests auditors and the receiving of annual are required to notify the Treasurer of their between the shareholders of each Company financial statements.
The Treasurer has the power to they must be approved under the Class voted on a poll.
order divestment in cases where such Rights Action approval procedure.
The Sharing Agreement also provides for acquisitions or transactions have already To ensure that the boards of both the protection of the public shareholders of occurred.
The Takeovers Act does not affect Companies are identical, resolutions to each Company by treating the shares issued by the rights of owners whose interests are held appoint or remove directors must be put to each Company as if they were separate classes in compliance with the legislation.
shareholders of both as a joint electorate as of shares issued by a single company.
So Joint Decisions as described under Voting decisions that do not affect the shareholders of DUAL LISTED COMPANIES STRUCTURE rights, and it is a requirement that a person both Companies equally require the separate In 1995, Rio Tinto shareholders approved can only be a director of one Company if approval of the shareholders of both the terms of the dual listed companies that person is also a director of the other Companies.
Matters requiring this approval merger the DLC merger which was Company.
So, for example, if a person was procedure are referred to as Class Rights designed to place the shareholders of both removed as a director of Rio Tinto plc, he or Actions and are voted on a poll.
Companies in substantially the same she would also cease to be a director of Thus, the interests of the shareholders of position as if they held shares in a single Rio Tinto Limited.
each Company are protected against enterprise owning all of the assets of both decisions which affect them and the shareholders in the other Company Companies.
As a condition of its approval of Dividend rights differently, by requiring their separate the DLC merger, the Australian Government The Sharing Agreement provides for approval.
For example, fundamental required Rio Tinto plc to reduce its dividends paid on Rio Tinto plc and elements of the DLC merger cannot be shareholding in Rio Tinto Limited to 39 per Rio Tinto Limited shares to be equalised on a changed unless approved by shareholders cent by the end of 2005.
Consistent with the net cash basis, that is without taking into under the Class Rights Action approval commitments made to the Australian account any associated tax credits.
Government in 1995, the Rio Tinto plc Dividends are determined in US dollars and Exceptions to these principles can arise in shareholding in Rio Tinto Limited has been are then, except for ADR holders, translated situations such as where legislation requires reduced over time and it now stands at and paid in sterling and Australian dollars.
the separate approval of a decision by the approximately 37.5 per cent.
The Companies are also required to appropriate majority of shareholders in one Following the approval of the DLC announce and pay their dividends and other Company and where approval of the matter merger, both Companies entered into a DLC distributions as close in time to each other by shareholders of the other Company is not Merger Sharing Agreement the Sharing as possible.
Agreement through which each Company In the unlikely event that one Company Where a matter has been expressly agreed to ensure that the businesses of did not have sufficient distributable reserves categorised as either a Joint Decision or a Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are to pay the equalised dividend or the Class Rights Action, the directors do not have managed on a unified basis, to ensure that equalised capital distribution, it would be the power to change that categorisation.
If a the boards of directors of each Company is entitled to receive a top up payment from matter falls within both categories, it is the same, and to give effect to certain the other Company.
The top up payment treated as a Class Rights Action.
In addition, arrangements designed to provide could be made as a dividend on the DLC the directors can determine that matters not shareholders of each Company with a Dividend Share, or by way of a contractual expressly listed in either category should be common economic interest in the combined payment.
put to shareholders for their approval under enterprise.
If the payment of an equalised dividend either procedure.
In order to achieve this third objective, would contravene the law applicable to one To facilitate the joint voting the Sharing Agreement provided for the ratio of the Companies, then they may depart arrangements each Company has entered of dividend, voting and capital distribution from the Equalisation Ratio.
However, into shareholder voting agreements.
Each rights attached to each Rio Tinto plc share should such a departure occur, then the Company has issued a Special Voting Share and to each Rio Tinto Limited share to be relevant Company will put aside reserves to 172 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Shareholder information to a special purpose company held in trust the voting arrangements relating to the If one of the thresholds specified above is by a common Trustee.
breached then, subject to certain limited Rio Tinto plc has issued its Special exceptions and notification by the relevant Voting Share RTP Special Voting Share to Capital distribution rights Company, such persons may not attend or RTL Shareholder SVC and Rio Tinto Limited If either of the Companies goes into vote at general meetings of the relevant has issued its Special Voting Share RTL liquidation, the Sharing Agreement provides Company, may not receive dividends or Special Voting Share to RTP Shareholder for a valuation to be made of the surplus other distributions from the relevant SVC.
The total number of votes cast on Joint assets of both Companies.
If the surplus Company, and may be divested of their Decisions by the public shareholders of one assets available for distribution by one interest by the directors of the relevant Company are voted at the parallel meeting Company on each of the shares held by its Company.
These restrictions will continue to of the other Company.
The role of these public shareholders exceed the surplus apply until such persons have either made a special purpose companies in achieving this assets available for distribution by the other public offer for all of the publicly held shares is described below.
Company on each of the shares held by its of the other Company, or have reduced their In exceptional circumstances, certain public shareholders, then an equalising controlling interest below the thresholds public shareholders of the Companies can be payment between the two Companies shall specified, or have acquired through a excluded from voting at the respective be made, to the extent permitted by permitted means at least 50 per cent of the Companys general meetings because they applicable law, such that the amount voting rights of all the shares held by the have acquired shares in one Company in available for distribution on each share held public shareholders of each Company.
excess of a given threshold without making by public shareholders of each Company These provisions are designed to ensure an offer for all the shares in the other conforms to the Equalisation Ratio.
The that offers for the publicly held shares of Company.
If this should occur, the votes cast objective is to ensure that the public both Companies would be required to avoid by these excluded shareholders will be shareholders of both Companies have the restrictions set out above, even if the disregarded.
equivalent rights to the assets of the interests which breach the thresholds are Following the Companies general combined Group on a per share basis, taking only held in one of the Companies.
The meetings the overall results of the voting on account of the Equalisation Ratio.
directors do not have the discretion to Joint Decisions and the results of voting on The Sharing Agreement does not grant exempt a person from the operation of these separate decisions will be announced to the any enforceable rights to the shareholders of rules.
stock exchanges, published on the Rio Tinto either Company upon liquidation of a Under the Sharing Agreement, the website and advertised in the Financial Company.
Companies agree to cooperate to enforce the Times and The Australian newspapers.
restrictions contained in their articles of Limitations on ownership of shares and association and constitution and also agree Rio Tinto plc merger obligations that no member of the Rio Tinto Group shall At a Rio Tinto plc shareholders meeting at The laws and regulations of the UK and accept a third party offer for Rio Tinto which a Joint Decision will be considered, Australia impose restrictions and obligations Limited shares unless such acceptance is each Rio Tinto plc share will carry one vote on persons who control interests in public approved by a Joint Decision of the public and the holder of its Special Voting Share quoted companies in excess of defined shareholders of both Companies.
will have one vote for each vote cast by the thresholds that, under certain public shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited.
circumstances, include obligations to make a Guarantees The holder of the Special Voting Share is public offer for all of the outstanding issued In 1995, each Company entered into a Deed required to vote strictly and only in shares of the relevant company.
The Poll Guarantee in favour of creditors of the accordance with the votes cast by public threshold applicable to Rio Tinto plc under other Company.
Pursuant to the Deed Poll shareholders for and against the equivalent UK law and regulations is 30 per cent and to Guarantees, each Company guaranteed the resolution at the parallel Rio Tinto Limited Rio Tinto Limited under Australian law and contractual obligations of the other shareholders meeting.
Company and the obligations of other The holders of Rio Tinto Limited As part of the DLC merger, the persons which are guaranteed by the other ordinary shares do not actually hold any memorandum and articles of association of Company, subject to certain limited exceptions.
Beneficiaries under the Deed voting shares in Rio Tinto plc by virtue of Rio Tinto plc and the constitution of Poll Guarantees may make demand upon the their holding in Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto Limited were amended with the guarantor thereunder without first having cannot enforce the voting arrangements intention of extending these laws and recourse to the Company or persons whose relating to the Special Voting Share.
regulations to the combined enterprise and, obligations are being guaranteed.
The in particular, to ensure that a person cannot obligations of the guarantor under each Rio Tinto Limited exercise control over one Company without Deed Poll Guarantee expire upon At a Rio Tinto Limited shareholders meeting having made offers to the public termination of the Sharing Agreement and at which a Joint Decision will be considered, shareholders of both Companies.
It is under other limited circumstances, but only each Rio Tinto Limited share will carry one consistent with the creation of the single in respect of obligations arising after such vote and, together with the Rio Tinto Limited economic enterprise and the equal termination and, in the case of other limited ordinary shares held by Tinto Holdings treatment of the two sets of shareholders, circumstances, the publication and expiry of Australia, the holder of its Special Voting that these laws and regulations should due notice.
The shareholders of the Share will carry one vote for each vote cast operate in this way.
The articles of Companies cannot enforce the provision of by the public shareholders of Rio Tinto plc in association of Rio Tinto plc and the the Deed Poll Guarantees.
Tinto Holdings constitution of Rio Tinto Limited impose Australia and the holder of the Special restrictions on any person who controls, SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Voting Share are required to vote strictly, and directly or indirectly, 20 per cent or more of General shareholder enquiries only, in accordance with the votes cast for the votes on a Joint Decision.
If, however, Computershare Investor Services PLC and and against the equivalent resolution at the such a person only has an interest in either Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited parallel Rio Tinto plc shareholders meeting.
Rio Tinto Limited or Rio Tinto plc, then the are the share registrars for Rio Tinto plc and The holders of Rio Tinto plc ordinary restrictions will only apply if they control, Rio Tinto Limited, respectively.
All enquiries shares do not actually hold any voting shares directly or indirectly, 30 per cent or more of and correspondence concerning in Rio Tinto Limited by virtue of their the votes at that Companys general shareholdings, other than shares held in holding in Rio Tinto plc and cannot enforce meetings.
Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 173 Shareholder information continued ADR form, should be directed to the Individual Savings Account ISA AU only respective registrar.
Their addresses and Stocktrade offers UK residents the To find out more about Investor Centre, go telephone numbers are given under Useful opportunity to hold Rio Tinto plc shares in an to www.
Existing PEPs or ISAs may also be notify Computershare promptly in writing of transferred to Stocktrade.
Further information Unsolicited mail and telephone calls any change of address.
can be obtained from Stocktrade whose Rio Tinto is aware that some shareholders Enquiries concerning Rio Tinto plc and details are given under Useful addresses.
have had occasion to complain that outside Rio Tinto Limited shares held in ADR form organisations have used information should be directed to JPMorgan Chase Bank Corporate nominee service obtained from the Companies share NA whose address and telephone number Computershare in conjunction with registers for their own purposes.
Rio Tinto, are also given under Useful addresses.
Rio Tinto plc, have introduced a corporate like other companies, cannot by law refuse Shareholders can obtain details about nominee service for private individuals.
to supply such information provided that the their own shareholding on the internet.
Full Further information can be obtained from organisation concerned pays the appropriate details, including how to gain secure access Computershare.
to this personalised enquiry facility, are Shareholders in the UK, who wish to available from Computershare.
Publication of financial statements reduce the amount of unsolicited mail and Website: www.
com Shareholders wishing to receive the Annual telephone calls they receive, should register report and Full financial statements and or the with The Mailing Preference Service and The Consolidation of share certificates Annual report and Full financial statements in Telephone Preference Service whose details If a certificated shareholding in Rio Tinto plc electronic rather than paper form should are set out on page 181. is represented by several individual share register their instruction on the certificates, they can be replaced by one Computershare website.
Rio Tinto on the web consolidated certificate.
There is no charge Rio Tinto maintains a substantial amount of for this service.
Share certificates should be eTree information on its website, including this sent to Computershare together with a letter Rio Tinto is a founding member of eTree and previous annual reports, many other of instruction.
an environmental and global Computershare publications and links to Group company initiative.
It is an incentive programme websites.
Share certificates name change designed to inspire shareholders to switch to It is the responsibility of the directors to Share certificates in the name of The RTZ using electronic communications, rather ensure that processes are in place to Corporation PLC remain valid than paper, whilst also making a valuable maintain information and preserve the notwithstanding the name change to contribution to the environment.
integrity of the Rio Tinto website.
Legislation Rio Tinto plc in 1997.
Computershares UK eTree team have in the UK governing the preparation and partnered with the Woodland Trust, the UKs dissemination of financial statements may Share warrants to bearer leading woodland conservation charity differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
All outstanding share warrants to bearer of dedicated to the protection of our native Website: www.
com Rio Tinto plc have been converted into woodland heritage.
In Australia they have registered ordinary shares under the terms of partnered with Landcare.
Landcare is a General enquiries a Scheme of Arrangement sanctioned by the uniquely Australian partnership between the If you require general information about the Court in 2001.
Holders of any outstanding community, government and business to do Group please contact share warrants to bearer should contact the something practical about protecting and questions@riotinto.
For all other company secretary of Rio Tinto plc for an repairing our environment.
enquiries please contact the relevant application form in order to obtain their Websites: www.
au company secretary or share registrar.
rights to registered ordinary shares.
com Publications Former Alcan Inc. Shareholders Investor Centre The following publications are on the website Former Alcan Inc. shareholders who have not Investor Centre is Rio Tintos free, secure, but hardcopies can be obtained free of charge tendered their Alcan shares to the Rio Tinto self-service website, where you can manage on request from the company secretaries: offer of US$101.00 per Common share are your shareholdings online, 24 hours a day at still entitled to claim their funds by sending a your own convenience.
The website enables 2008 Annual report letter of transmittal together with their stock you to: 2008 Full financial statements certificate to Computershare Investor Services 2008 Summary financial statements Inc. whose details are given under Useful View your share balance 2008 Parent entity financial statements for addresses.
A copy of the letter of transmittal Change your address Rio Tinto Limited can be downloaded from the Rio Tinto View payment and tax information The way we work Rio Tintos statement of website.
com shareholders Update payment instructions business practice 12365 registrars 12572. asp Review magazine Rio Tintos quarterly In addition shareholders who register their magazine for shareholders Low cost share dealing service email address on Investor Centre, can be Stocktrade operates the Rio Tinto Low Cost notified electronically of events such as Copies of the 2008 annual reports for the following listed Rio Tinto Group companies Share Dealing Service which provides a annual general meetings, and can receive are available on those companies websites simple telephone facility for buying and shareholder communications such as the or on request: selling Rio Tinto plc shares.
Basic annual report or notice of meeting commission is 0.5 per cent up to 10,000, electronically online.
The service aims to be Bougainville Copper Limited reducing to 0.2 per cent thereafter, subject to more convenient and better for the Coal & Allied Industries Limited a minimum commission of 15.
Energy Resources of Australia Limited information is available from Stocktrade, a Palabora Mining Company Limited division of Brewin Dolphin Securities, which UK only is authorised and regulated by the Financial To find out more about Investor Centre, go Services Authority.
Their details are given to www.
co. uk riotinto under Useful addresses.
