Energy and Minerals The Minerals part of the group comprises largest suppliers of these products in its Rio Tinto Minerals RTM, a global leader in key markets, the US and Asia.
Its coal borates and talc supply and science, and interests are located in Australia and the Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium RTIT, the market US and supply the seaborne traded and leader in titanium dioxide feedstock, used in Australian and US domestic markets.
the manufacture of pigments for paint and plastics.
During the year management of These interests comprise Rio Tinto Coal Australia RTCA which manages the groups Dampier Salt was transferred to the Rio Tinto interests in nine coal mines in Queensland Iron Ore group due to geographic proximity.
and New South Wales, and Rio Tinto Energy At 31 December 2008, the Energy & America RTEA which owns and operates Minerals group had operating assets of four open cut coal mines in Montana and US$5,639 million, which accounted for ten Wyoming.
Rio Tinto is seeking to divest per cent of the Groups operating assets RTEA.
The group also manages Colowyo Coal compared to US$6,517 million of operating in Colorado, US: Colowyo was separated from assets at 31 December 2007.
In 2008, the the remainder of RTEA late in the year as it is Energy & Minerals group contributed not part of an asset divestment programme.
US$10,998 million in revenue and US$2,887 The groups reserve and resource position in million in underlying earnings, which thermal and coking coal is sufficient to accounted for 19 per cent and 28 per cent underpin significant greenfield and of the Groups gross sales revenue and brownfield expansions in the future.
underlying earnings, respectively, compared Preston Chiaro Rio Tinto Uranium supplies uranium to US$7,403 million of revenue and US$687 Chief executive, Energy & Minerals group oxide produced at its majority owned mines million of gross sales revenue and The Energy & Minerals group comprises in Australia and Namibia to electric power underlying earnings in 2007. thermal coal, coking coal, uranium, utilities worldwide.
Rio Tinto Uranium is Preston Chiaro, chief executive, Energy borates, talc and titanium dioxide currently the worlds largest uranium supplier.
& Minerals, is based in London.
It is one of the Uranium reserves Mined coal Underlying earnings contribution 2006-2008 Rio Tinto share 000 pounds U O Rio Tinto share million tonnes 3 8 US$m 04 157.4 04 70,983 06 891 Price & 05 05 153.6 117,826 114 exchange 06 162.3 06 121,594 Ination 83 07 136,027 Volume 07 155.6 11 140,511 08 160.5 08 Costs 203 Tax & other 43 Energy and minerals underlying earnings contribution 07 687 Mined uranium Price & US$m Rio Tinto share 000 pounds U O 1,901 3 8 exchange 04 13,170 04 661 Ination 90 05 05 869 Volume 197 14,511 06 12,561 06 891 Costs 129 07 12,616 07 687 Tax & other 63 2,887 08 14,200 08 08 2,887 A reconciliation of the net earnings with underlying Coal reserves Underlying earnings contribution Rio Tinto share million tonnes earnings for 2006, 2007 and 2008 as determined 04 under EU IFRS is set out on page 37.
2,184 05 2,184 All amounts presented by the product groups exclude 06 1,975 net interest and other centrally reported items.
07 1,936 28% 08 2,002 58 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Performance was a major landmark in a project which, the crane he was driving overturned.
The STRATEGY notwithstanding many complex second occurred at RBM when a security The Energy & Minerals groups core purpose environmental, social and technical guard was fatally shot while trying to is to maximise the value it creates from challenges, could become a model for future apprehend a suspect who was stealing scrap supplying the worlds mineable energy and projects in Africa and elsewhere in the metal.
The third occurred at RTITs Havre-Stminerals needs.
The group focuses its developing world.
Pierre port when a cable being used to resources on excellence in operations: large During 2008, negotiations progressed at position a contract vessel broke free and scale, long life, cost competitive assets: the Richards Bay Minerals RBM on the struck an employee.
quality of investment opportunities: and divestment of 26 per cent of the business to RTITs Quebec Iron and Titanium QIT, or operating in a responsible and sustainable a consortium of historically disadvantaged Fer et Titane, RBM, and QMM achieved manner.
A key part of the Energy & Minerals groups in order to meet the requirements of significant improvements in statistical safety groups strategy is to ensure it is a leading legislation governing broad based economic performance with AIFR improving by 49 per advocate of, and investor in, the sustainable empowerment in the South African mining cent, 47 per cent and 11 per cent respectively.
Rio Tinto Minerals AIFR improved by 16 per continued to dedicate resources and funds to Rssing Uranium has continued on its cent and at RTCA by 20 per cent.
The injury the development of low emission coal growth path, with total production of nine severity rate, a measure of the seriousness of technology through Hydrogen Energy, its million pounds in 2008, the first time this injuries, decreased in all businesses except joint venture with BP, through COAL21 in volume has been achieved since 1988.
Rio Tinto Energy America RTEA and Energy Australia, and in several low emission coal The first sale of uranium from Australia Resources of Australia ERA.
research organisations in the US and to China was completed in 2008, following Rssing achieved 2.8 million lost time Australia.
the ratification of a bilateral safeguards injury free hours for the first time and the With a global nuclear power resurgence agreement between the two governments.
QMM titanium project achieved in excess of under way driven in large part by the need Following a review of its asset portfolio, 12 million hours lost time injury free.
RTEAs for baseload electricity generation that the group sold the Tarong coal mine to Sustainable Development Communities minimises emissions of greenhouse gases, Tarong Energy Corporation and the Kintyre Programmes were nationally recognised by Rio Tinto aims to maintain its position as uranium project in Australia to a joint the US Office of Surface Mining and the one of the worlds leading uranium suppliers venture comprising Cameco Corporation National Mining Association with the Good to power this growth.
At both Namibias Rssing and Energy Significant progress was made on All injury frequency rate Resources of Australias ERA Ranger mine, a development of the Clermont coal mine and Per 200,000 hours worked number of opportunities for further low cost construction started on an extension of the 04 1.79 brownfield expansion are under Kestrel underground coal mine.
ERA also owns the Jabiluka Operational excellence programmes in 06 07 0.87 deposit, one of the worlds largest all businesses continued to deliver 0.65 08 undeveloped uranium deposits.
In addition improvements by systematically eliminating to the significant and sustainable operating waste, reducing process variability, and assets at Rssing and ERA, Rio Tinto has engaging and empowering the workforce.
Greenhouse gas emissions increased uranium exploration activity Many operations delivered record production In line with the groups strategy to be a around the world.
and sales results throughout the year and leading advocate of sustainable future uses Its minerals strategy is market driven and safety performance continued to improve.
of coal, Energy & Minerals continued to focuses on optimising volumes and product dedicate resources to the development of mix to create value by directing resources KEY PRIORITIES FOR 2009 clean coal technology.
A key focus is to toward high value growth sectors in both Continue to improve safety performance ensure energy and climate change are mature and emerging markets.
Market Maximise free cash flow considered in business decisions.
differentiation requires technical and Continue to operate in a responsible and In 2007 Hydrogen Energy was launched, marketing expertise so the group maintains sustainable manner during the global a 50:50 joint venture with BP which aims to R&D facilities in Europe, Canada and the US economic downturn develop low carbon energy projects around to develop new products and support Meet customer needs to position the group the world.
The groups strategic intent is to customers.
as the supplier of choice when the global use Hydrogen Energy to build a low carbon It focuses on meeting customers economy begins to recover energy business reliant on fossil fuel needs for consistent quality, on time Retain and continue to develop the best feedstocks that will ultimately leverage delivery and responsiveness: by providing people Rio Tintos capabilities in identifying, technical support to customers on the use of acquiring and operating large long life coal minerals in consumer products: setting and OVERVIEW OF SUSTAINABLE assets.
Gasification opens new and larger meeting aggressive business improvement DEVELOPMENT markets for coal and the aim is to maximise targets: and establishing stock points to Safety returns across the emerging coal gasification supply demand growth in emerging Safety performance and awareness continued value chain.
Early positioning will convey an economies.
to be a major focus of all operations.
In 2008 important element of competitive the all injury frequency rate AIFR was 0.65 advantage.
A key to unlocking value will be KEY ACHIEVEMENTS compared to 0.87 in 2007. proactively to shape government policy to RTIT began production of ilmenite at the Regrettably, three fatalities occurred in support and enable initial projects.
QIT Madagascar Minerals QMM mineral 2008.
The first occurred at Rio Tinto Hydrogen Energy will initially focus on sands operation at Fort Dauphin in Minerals Luzenac operations where a the production of hydrogen for sale to Madagascar.
First production in December mobile crane driver was fatally injured when utilities generating electricity and carbon Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 59 Energy & Minerals group continued remained favourable given the challenges capture and storage technology to sequester relative prices.
that most uranium producers faced in trying carbon dioxide from the atmosphere.
The RTEAs year end shipment total was to expand production or bring new first projects are being pursued in Abu Dhabi 133.3 million tonnes for 2008, compared to production into operation.
In addition to uranium prices in the longer term are Rio Tinto is a member of COAL21, a increases in pricing and production volumes, expected to remain well above the levels voluntary fund established by Australian RTEAs high margin HL&P broker contract seen for most of the last two decades.
black coal producers to support the performed at 100 per cent in 2008.
High Higher pricing and higher volumes at development of low emission coal margin export sales and other broker sales Rssing Uranium were partially offset by technologies.
Members pledge 20 cents per also boosted earnings.
However, quality lower sales at ERA.
Sales at ERA decreased to tonne of coal produced to the fund.
considerations and operational issues Rio Tinto committed A$9.76 million to the resulted in Colowyo making a pre-tax loss of 11.6 million pounds compared to the 2007 fund in 2008.
US$17.1 million in 2008. volume of 11.7 million pounds.
Both RTEA and RTCA have a number of Consistent with the worldwide mining However, results continued to be NPV positive optimisations and energy industry, RTCA and RTEA experienced an affected by increasing operating costs for reduction projects being researched or increase in the input prices of materials and consumables, particularly sulphuric acid.
A number of optimisation supplies in 2008 resulting in higher variable addition, significant costs were incurred at projects have been identified throughout costs of mining.
At RTCA costs were higher Rssing for aggressive stripping of the group.
as a result of higher royalties due on overburden to expose ore that will ensure Total greenhouse gas GHG emissions increased revenues.
There were extensive the consistency of the quantity and the were 10.1 million tonnes of carbon dioxide ship queues particularly for thermal coal.
grade of plant feed for the next few years.
Energy and Minerals Towards the end of the year cost benefits ERA unit costs were adversely affected by operations each account for about half of were obtained from price reductions in the the need to build ore inventory in line with this total.
purchase of equipment parts and the current life of mine plan.
The majority of RTMs greenhouse gas consumables.
In uranium, earnings benefited from the emissions are from its Boron Operations in Diesel prices at RTEA increased by more one off US$495 million sale of the Kintyre California, the first mining operation to than 31.6 per cent in 2008.
Explosives costs uranium project in Western Australia.
register its GHG emissions to the California increased by 26 per cent.
Improved Minerals earnings reflected Climate Action Registry.
An energy Labour costs also increased significantly, improved volumes and prices.
These were management plan has been in place since reflecting the competitive regional labour partially offset by increased freight rates and 2002, and during 2008 RTIT sites undertook shortage and steadily increasing healthcare sulphuric acid and zinc oxide input prices.
audits to identify opportunities for GHG and costs.
Tyre costs increased with the worldwide RTIT recorded earnings of US$295 million energy reduction.
shortage of large mining equipment tyres.
Revenue Unscheduled repairs at Jacobs Ranch and increased by 15 per cent due to strong Total greenhouse gas emissions Colowyo increased maintenance and metallic prices which delivered robust Million tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent contractor costs.
At the same time, strip ratios margins on iron, steel and powder products.
04 8.8 05 increased as reserves got deeper, resulting in These increases were partially offset by price 9.1 06 9.5 the requirement to move increasing volumes pressures on consumables, energy and 07 9.7 of overburden.
08 10.1 Non cash costs at RTEA also increased The weakening of the US dollar against due to a change in the asset base, a new end the Australian dollar reduced earnings at FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE of mine closure estimate that incorporated a Australian operations.
The Namibian:US dollar 2008 compared with 2007 change in discount rates and a fixed asset exchange rate was favourable, positively The Energy & Minerals groups 2008 sales verification requiring some write offs that impacting earnings from Rssing by US$40 revenue was US$10,998 and its contribution accelerated depreciation.
million in 2008. to underlying earnings was US$2,887 Uranium oxide is typically sold under million, US$2,200 million more than in long term contracts, with pricing determined 2007 compared with 2006 2007.
Increases in the cost of basic both by fixed prices negotiated several years The Energy groups 2007 contribution to materials, fuel, explosives and labour were in advance, and by market prices at time of underlying earnings was US$484 million, more than offset by production growth and delivery.
Higher market prices and the net of US$27 million project costs, US$222 improved commodity prices in coal, expiration of older contracts containing million less than in 2006. uranium, borates and metallics.
price caps contributed to an eight per cent Continuing coal chain infrastructure Higher prices for coal were realised as a increase in uranium revenues in 2008 bottlenecks and allocation cutbacks in result of increases in hard coking, semi-soft compared to 2007.
Australia resulted in ongoing production and thermal coal prices.
In addition, overall Uranium spot prices continued to cutbacks and higher demurrage costs.
production volumes increased as a result of demonstrate volatility, falling well below The results also reflected the softening higher production at RTCA and RTEA.
term prices in 2008 after being well above of coking coal prices although there were At RTCA hard coking coal production in 2007 as financial speculators liquidated increases in thermal coal prices and the rose 20 per cent to 7.4 million tonnes from stocks throughout the year.
The long term stronger uranium oxide market.
The 6.2 million in 2007 in spite of continuing uranium price remained relatively strong at weakening of the US dollar against the coal chain infrastructure bottlenecks and US$95 per pound in the first half of the year, Australian dollar reduced earnings at several weather events early in the year.
In falling to US$70 by December.
For all operations, the Hunter Valley there was continued focus fall in spot prices through most of the year, rising fuel prices and the tightness of the on production of semi-soft coal in favour of the spot market strengthened in November labour supply market continued to place thermal coal to take advantage of higher and December and the longer term prospects pressure on operating results.
60 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Performance Despite lower volumes of uranium sold, higher market prices and the expiration of older contracts containing price caps contributed to a 69 per cent increase in uranium revenues in 2007 compared to 2006.
At ERA results were affected by production losses associated with a severe rain event and flooding of the pit.
Minerals earnings were adversely affected by a tax charge related to the borates business.
RTIT recorded earnings of US$164 million, up from US$152 million in 2006.
RTIT earnings benefited from a 15 per cent revenue increase, largely due to strong co-product prices.
OPERATIONS Energy Rio Tinto Coal Australia Rio Tinto: 100 per cent Rio Tinto Coal Australia manages the groups Australian coal interests.
These include, in Queensland: the Blair Athol Rio Tinto: 71 per cent, Kestrel Rio Tinto: 80 per cent, Tarong Rio Tinto: 100 per cent and Hail Creek Rio Tinto: 82 per cent coal mines and the The new QMM mineral sands mining operation in southern Madagascar.
Clermont deposit Rio Tinto: 50 per cent.
The sale of the Tarong mine to Tarong Energy Corporation was announced in 2007 and this sale took effect from 31 January 2008. sells principally to the Japanese market increased by 11 per cent to 4.0 million RTCA also provides management generally based on annual agreements.
Hail Creek total production was services to Coal & Allied Industries Coal & Kestrel and Hail Creek sell mainly 6.0 million tonnes, an increase of 21 per cent.
Allied for operation of its four mines located metallurgical coal to customers in Japan, In the Hunter Valley production also within the Hunter Valley in New South south east Asia, Europe and Central increased at all operations.
Coal & Allied Rio Tinto: 75.7 per America, generally on annual agreements.
semi soft coal increased by one million cent is publicly listed on the Australian Coal & Allied produces thermal and semi tonnes to take advantage of stronger prices.
Securities Exchange and had a market soft coal.
Most of its thermal coal is sold Vessel queues in New South Wales were capitalisation of A$6.5 billion US$5.7 under contracts to electrical or industrial relatively stable in 2008. billion at 31 December 2008.
Coal & Allied customers in Japan, Korea and elsewhere in An investment programme by the wholly owns Hunter Valley Operations, has Asia.
The balance is sold in Europe and owners and operators of the coal ports at an 61 per cent interest in Mount Thorley Australia.
Coal & Allieds semi soft coal is Newcastle and Dalrymple Bay on the eastern Operations, a 42 per cent interest in the exported to steel producing customers in seaboard of Australia is expected to result in contiguous Warkworth mine, and a 30 per Asia and Europe under a combination of additional port capacity from 2010. cent interest in the Bengalla mine which long term contracts and spot business.
abuts its wholly owned Mount Pleasant RTCA and Coal & Allied collectively Rio Tinto Energy America development project.
Coal & Allied also has employ approximately 3,200 people.
Rio Tinto: 100 per cent a 37 per cent interest in Port Waratah Coal Rio Tinto Energy America wholly owns and Services coal loading terminal.
2008 operating performance operates four open cut coal mines in the In New South Wales, Coal & Allied was RTCAs 2008 contribution to underlying Powder River Basin of Montana and an active participant in a review of port earnings was US$1,721 million, US$1,475 Wyoming, US, and has a 50 per cent interest allocation set up by the state government to million higher than in 2007.
This was driven in, but does not operate, the Decker mine in work with industry to achieve a long term by increases in hard coking, semi-soft and Montana.
RTEA also manages the groups framework.
The Government of New South thermal coal prices.
interest in Colowyo Coal in Colorado, US.
Wales has announced a proposal which Hard coking coal production from the The second largest US coal producer based includes long term contracts to underpin Queensland coal operations increased by on sales volume, RTEA sells its ultra low sulphur investment in port and rail: triggers to build 20 per cent in 2008 compared with 2007. coal to electricity generators predominantly new port capacity on demand: and a Higher production was achieved at all in mid-western and southern states.
proposal for a fourth terminal, to be Queensland operations despite loss of In April, RTEA obtained rights to a managed by Port Waratah Coal Services.
In volume in January and February due to federal coal tract adjacent the Cordero Rojo addition, the Federal Government has severe flooding.
Total production at Blair mine with an estimated 266.2 million announced A$1 billion in funding to the Athol increased from 7.9 million tonnes to tonnes of in place coal.
The acquisition will ARTC to increase rail track capacity in the 10.2 million tonnes primarily as a result of extend the operating life of the mine.
Rio Tinto is exploring options to sell exploitation of port capacity allowing Blair Athol produces thermal coal and most of RTEA.
Kestrels total production Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 61 Energy & Minerals group continued production from 2008 through to 2014.
The columns was completed as part of the heap RTEA employed 2,159 people at year end radiometric sorter will upgrade lower grade leach project.
The project is expected 2008 ore and allow an additional 2.4 million ultimately to lower treatment operating pounds of uranium oxide to be produced costs, enabling lower grade of uranium oxide 2008 operating performance over a five year period from 2008. to be treated successfully.
Capital equipment A record for coal production and sales was ERA employs 448 people.
acquisitions associated with the life of mine posted by RTEA overall with a year end extension project for the new mining area shipment total of 133.3 million tonnes.
Site 2008 operating performance are in place and supported increased mining specific annual coal production records were ERAs 2008 contribution to underlying activity in 2008 as well as improved plant set at Antelope 32.5 million tonnes, Jacobs earnings was US$141 million, US$103 availability and efficiency contributing to Ranch 38.2 million tonnes and Spring million 271 per cent higher than in 2007. higher uranium metal output for the year.
This was This was driven by a rise in the average A pushback on the south wall in Trolley the result of strong customer demand for Powder River Basin coal and was supported realised price of uranium oxide from 10 area has extended the life of the phase by incremental expansions at Antelope and US$25.06 per pound to US$32.53 per pound one pit to 2011.
The mine is positioned for Spring Creek and installation of an overland despite sales being lower at 11.6 million higher volumes in 2009 and beyond.
conveyor at Jacobs Ranch mine.
Record pounds compared to the 2007 volume of The current approved life of mine overburden movement volumes were also 11.7 million pounds.
The 2008 sales figures extensions will take the mine life to 2020 recorded at Jacobs Ranch and Spring Creek include no borrowed material.
and further potential opportunities exist to during 2008.
Recovery work following 2007 flooding extend both the mine life and production was successful in allowing production to volumes depending on the long term price Energy Resources of Australia return to normal levels, including access to outlook and costs of production.
Activities Rio Tinto: 68.4 per cent higher grade ores in 2008 with no adverse will continue to focus on continuous net Energy Resources of Australia ERA is a environmental consequences.
In December present value NPV growth, improving publicly listed company and had a market 2008 ERA received a A$188 million US$130 margins and creation of options from capitalisation of A$3.6 billion US$2.5 million settlement relating to the 2007 potential resources and reserves.
billion at 31 December 2008. flooding and losses arising from Cyclone Studies undertaken during 2008 are Since 1981 ERA has mined ore and Monica and the failure of the acid plant in showing support for an expansion plan that produced uranium oxide at its Ranger open 2006.
Further work has been completed to includes heap leaching with production up pit mine, 250 kilometres east of Darwin in reduce the impact of future weather events to 13 million pounds per year.
ERA also has on the mines performance.
compares to the base case which is limited title to the adjacent Jabiluka mineral lease, ERA continued to work with the Mirarr, to existing tank leach capacity of ten million which in 2003 was put on long term care traditional owners of the land on which pounds per year U O.
The current work is 3 8 and maintenance.
Ranger and Jabiluka are the mining lease is located.
The Mirarr not yet complete and therefore has not been surrounded by, but remain separate from, continued delivery of a cultural awareness used for the 2009 annual life of mine plan.
the World Heritage listed Kakadu National program to all new ERA employees and The current life of mine plan is based on an Park, and especially stringent environmental participated in environmental and cultural expanded tank leach case.
It is anticipated requirements and governmental oversight heritage management programmes.
that future plans will include heap leaching apply.
Increasing indigenous employment is a which will be supported by the current The Ranger mine is the second largest significant focus including the provision feasibility study targeted for approval mid uranium mine in the world and ERA is the of training and employment opportunities.
ERA has The year saw the number of indigenous Rssing currently employs approximately considerable operational experience and a employees increase from 65 to 95 21 per 1,300 people.
well established market position and is cent of the workforce.
Improving on this focused on maximising value from resources result will continue to be a focus for 2009.
2008 operating performance available on existing lease areas which are Operating results for 2008 were much considered highly prospective.
Rssing Uranium Rio Tinto: 68.6 per cent improved from 2007.
Production volumes In line with the groups strategy of Rssing Uranium produces and exports increased as a result of improved grades seeking additional production volumes and uranium oxide from Namibia to power from the mine as well as improved long term expansions to supply the current utilities globally.
Rssing continues to play a availability and efficiency of both fixed and favourable market environment, ERA put major role in the Namibian economy, both in mobile plant.
significant effort into achieving growth terms of GDP contribution of around ten per Total uranium production at Rssing through capitalising on opportunities for cent as well as education, employment and increased to 9.0 million pounds in 2008, expansion and extension of production training.
In 2008 the company was compared to 6.7 million pounds in 2007, an including an extension of the existing recognised by one of Namibias leading increase of 34 per cent.
The increase was Ranger mine through exploration, and business journals as a major contributor to due to higher grades at Rssing as well as installation of additional processing national human capital development.
the stripping campaign carried out in 2007 equipment to treat low grade and Notable achievements for 2008 were the to expose ore reserves for mining.
lateritic ore. attainment of 2.9 million lost time injury In 2008 the mine focused on ERAs capital expansion projects to free hours and the production of nine maintaining stability in the process and radiometrically sort low grade ores and million pounds of uranium oxide, the improving the head grade by applying a process laterite ore were commissioned highest since 1988.
The company continues better blending strategy.
The laterite processing plant to implement innovative practices aimed at will contribute approximately 0.88 million enhancing internal efficiency.
pounds per annum of uranium oxide to Commissioning of the heap leach test 62 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Performance Minerals project in Madagascar and a 50 per cent Rio Tinto Minerals Rio Tinto: 100 per cent interest in Richards Bay Minerals RBM in RTM comprises borates and talc mines, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa.
refineries, and shipping and packing Both QIT and RBM produce titanium facilities on five continents.
dioxide feedstock used by customers to Rio Tinto Minerals supplies nearly 40 per manufacture pigments for paints and surface cent of global demand for refined borates coatings, plastics and paper.
They also and 25 per cent of global demand for talc.
produce iron, steel and zircon co-products.
Minerals markets include automotive, QMM produces ilmenite from beach sands construction, telecommunications, which is transshipped to Canada for onward agriculture and consumer products industries.
processing into titanium dioxide slag.
More than one million tonnes of refined QITs proprietary process technology borates are produced at Boron Operations, enables it to supply both the sulphate and the organisations principal borate mining chloride pigment manufacturing methods.
and refining operation in Californias Mojave QIT has the capacity to produce 400,000 Desert.
Borates are essential to plants and tonnes of upgraded slag UGS per annum part of a healthy diet for people.
They are and is currently improving its smelter also key ingredients in hundreds of products facility to process ilmenite from the essential to an acceptable standard of living, Madagascar project into a new high grade chief among them: insulation fibreglass, slag product.
textile fibreglass, and heat resistant glass RBMs ilmenite has a low alkali content 54 per cent of world demand : ceramic and which makes its feedstock suitable for the RBM meets charter enamel frits and glazes ten per cent : chloride pigment process.
RBM has the five years early detergents, soaps and personal care products capacity to produce one million tonnes of four per cent : agricultural micro-nutrients feedstock annually.
Richards Bay Minerals has met the ownership one per cent : and other uses including RTIT employs approximately 4,100 requirements of South Africas Mining Industry wood preservatives and flame retardants people.
Charter five years ahead of the required 31 per cent.
RTM operates talc mines including the 2008 operating performance The charter implements social and worlds largest, in south west France and Titanium dioxide production increased by economic reforms for broad based black processing facilities in Austria, Australia, four per cent compared with 2007 as the economic empowerment that includes Belgium, Canada, France, Italy, Japan, UGS plant reached record production levels.
transferring equity ownership to historically Mexico, Spain and the US.
Talcs enhance Titanium dioxide pigment is the disadvantaged South Africans.
performance in hundreds of applications, principal end use market for feedstocks In December, RBM signed an agreement including paper, paints, polymers, ceramics, manufactured by RTIT.
Global titanium with an approved consortium by which 24 per and personal care products.
This complexity dioxide pigment demand slowed significantly cent of RBM will be transferred to a group demands an in depth understanding not across all sectors paint, plastics and comprising local communities and investors, only of talcs properties and functions but coatings following the knock on effect of with a further two per cent to be transferred to also of its full range of applications and user the slump in construction activity and the a trust for the benefit of RBM employees.
weak automotive sector in the second half of In September 2008, the equity of the joint In total Minerals employs approximately the year.
venture was valued by Rand Merchant Bank at 2,600 people.
Markets for iron and steel co-products around R19 billion about US$1.9 billion.
strengthened further from 2007, resulting in Rio Tintos interest in RBM was therefore valued 2008 operating performance a significant contribution to earnings.
RTIT is at approximately R9bn about US$900 million.
Total borates production rose by nine per actively leveraging the allocation of iron Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton, which owns cent from 560,000 tonnes boric oxide in units across its range of metallics co-products the other 50 per cent, will facilitate the 2007 to 610,000 tonnes in 2008, with strong HPI, steel billet, iron and steel powders to funding of the equity acquisitions by the demand in Asia Pacific offsetting the maximise returns amid changing market incoming consortium of shareholders.
Part of slowdown in the North American housing conditions.
this facilitation will mean the host industry.
Total talc production declined by communities and employees benefit trust will nine per cent compared from 1,281,000 ENERGY & MINERALS not need to raise funds for their stake in RBM.
tonnes in 2007 to 1,163,000 tonnes in 2008, GROUP PROJECTS Cameron McRae, managing director of with sales in Europe offsetting volume The main Energy group coal development RBM, said: We are pleased to be able to fully declines in North America driven by the projects in Australia are the extension of the empower RBM five years earlier than the housing and automotive sector slowdown.
Kestrel mine and the construction of the legislation requires.
RBM will continue to new Clermont mine to replace the nearby support the community development Rio Tinto Iron and Titanium Blair Athol mine that reaches the end of its programmes running in the host communities.
Quebec Iron & Titanium life in 2012.
Both projects are at an RBM has been a key generator of employment Rio Tinto: 100 per cent, advanced stage of construction and have in Kwa-Zulu Natal and will continue to be so Richards Bay Minerals supply contracts in place.
Due to the over coming decades.
Rio Tinto: 50 per cent economic slowdown, work at Kestrel will be RBM will now apply to have its mining RTIT comprises the wholly owned Quebec slowed in 2009 and consideration given to rights converted to new order rights with the Iron & Titanium QIT in Quebec in Canada, deferring capital expenditure at Clermont, Department of Minerals and Energy.
an 80 per cent share in the QMM ilmenite which is due to start production in 2010.
Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 63 Energy & Minerals group continued Rio Tinto Coal Australia Clermont Rio Tinto Energy America Energy Resources of Australia Rio Tinto: 50.1 per cent Rio Tinto: 100 per cent Rio Tinto: 68.4 per cent RTCA and its joint venture partners During 2008, RTEA completed construction In September 2007 ERA announced an approved additional investment of and commissioning of the Jacobs Ranch extension to the Ranger open pit at a capital US$475 million to bring total investment to overland conveyor and in pit crusher project.
cost of A$57 million to extend mining until US$1,290 million for the development of the This has reduced emissions and operating 2012.
The pushback, when combined with Clermont thermal coal mine in central costs in addition to providing latent capacity optimisation of the existing pit, added an Queensland.
The additional costs covered for expansion from around 38 million additional 10.7 million pounds of contained scope changes and cost inflation.
tonnes to over 45 million tonnes per annum.
The majority of Clermont, which is situated 15 the additional production from the extension is expected to occur in 2011. kilometres south east of the Blair Athol mine, QIT Madagascar Minerals Studies to examine options to further will become one of Australias largest thermal Rio Tinto 80 per cent expand the mine and increase production coal producer when it reaches full capacity, The QMM project was approved in 2005 and from the processing plant continued in 2008. which is scheduled for 2013.
The mine will consists of the development of a mineral Exploration and evaluation activity be brought into production to replace Blair sand mine and separation plant, and port increased in 2008 with ERA spending Athol, due to close in 2015, and will use Blair facilities in southern Madagascar as well as US$13.7 million compared to US$11.8 million Athols existing infrastructure and market an upgrade of QITs ilmenite smelting in 2007.
The work focused on near mine position.
To date construction has progressed facilities in Canada.
extensions to the Ranger orebody.
Due to slightly behind plan but with first coal The Government of Madagascar this and other evaluation work ERAs production expected as planned in 2010. contributed US$35 million to the resources at Ranger increased from 111 establishment of the port as part of its million pounds of contained uranium oxide Rio Tinto Coal Australia Kestrel Growth Poles project funded by the World to 254 million pounds.
The project has adhered to its RTCA and its joint venture partners schedule: however, cost inflation and foreign Rssing Uranium Rio Tinto: 68.6 per cent approved investment of US$991 million for exchange effects increased the cost to After years of operating below capacity the extension of the Kestrel mine.
This US$1.18 billion from the original estimate of during a period of low uranium prices, in represents a 20 year investment in the US$1.03 billion.
First ilmenite production December 2005 approval was granted to Bowen Basin of Queensland to help meet occurred at the end of 2008. restore annual production capacity to 8.8 Asian demand for metallurgical coal.
Given The mine will be a key initial customer million pounds per annum and extend the the late year global financial turmoil and of the deep sea multi-use public port at life of the operation to 2020.
Total uncertainty in steel demand for 2009 and Ehoala, providing the base load to help incremental and sustaining capital cost of beyond, output from the existing Kestrel establish the port.
Over time, it is expected the expansion was US$112 million.
operation will be slowed in 2009. the port will make an important In 2008, drilling programmes were Completion of the development project is contribution to economic development of completed for numerous orebodies on the still expected in 2012. the region.
The current programme is focused on RTIT will manage the port operations.
At proving up the main pit which remains open Coal & Allied Mount Pleasant the end of the life of the mine, the port will at depth.
Rssing completed construction of Rio Tinto: 75.7 per cent of Coal & Allied come under the responsibility and control of and started test work on a trial column 100 per cent of Mount Pleasant the Government of Madagascar.
assembly for a heap leach pilot plant.
In 2006, Coal & Allied started a feasibility Extensive engagement and consultation Rssing also completed a conceptual layout study on the Mount Pleasant coal mine with the Government of Madagascar, local for the full scale plant on the existing project located adjacent to the Bengalla coal people, and community leaders has taken tailings dam.
mine near Muswellbrook in the Hunter place over many years.
The World Bank is On behalf of the Rssing Uranium Board Valley, NSW.
With continued uncertainty involved in a development role and non and shareholders, Rio Tinto acquired a 20.9 surrounding coal chain infrastructure in the government organisations, including the per cent interest in Extract Resources Ltd, Hunter Valley, and weaker markets, a Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Fauna and Flora the company which owns the Rssing South decision to develop has been deferred.
International and Missouri Botanical deposit.
This stake is valued at NA$520 Gardens have been involved in planning million and comprises 15.1 per cent directly Coal & Allied Lower Hunter Land environmental and conservation strategies.
and 5.8 per cent through an interest in Rio Tinto: 75.7 per cent Kalahari Minerals plc.
This interest will be In 2006 Coal & Allied signed a Kazan trona Rio Tinto 100 per cent sold to Rssing.
memorandum of understanding with the The Kazan trona project is located 35 Extract recently announced its maiden NSW Government to facilitate the provision kilometres northwest of Ankara in Turkey.
JORC compliant resource estimate based on of extensive land conservation corridors in Rio Tinto completed pre-feasibility studies in the exploration results for the North Zone of the Lower Hunter under a land offset 2008 but has now commenced divestment of Rssing South of 102 million tonnes at 460 scheme.
The remaining 20 per cent is being the project as soda ash is no longer parts per million which equates to 103 considered for land development.
Extensive considered to be core to Rio Tintos strategy.
million pounds of contained metal.
community consultation continued through Rssing will seek to negotiate a joint 2008.
Coal & Allied submitted concept plans OUTLOOK venture for the development of Rssing to the Government for the southern lands Overview South with Extract Resources as this will in November 2007 and will do so for the The diverse markets being served by the provide optimal value to the shareholders of northern lands in early 2009.
Government groups operations are all likely to be both Rssing and Extract Resources.
approval of these plans is awaited.
adversely affected by the global economic 64 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Performance downturn, albeit differentially due to both geography and market sector.
Energy markets are generally least affected as electric power demand is relatively inelastic.
This is especially true for low cost, base load power stations such as those fired by uranium or low cost thermal coal.
At the other end of the spectrum are commodities needed to produce durable goods such as automobiles and appliances, which have seen rapid declines in sales as the effects of the downturn have spread around the world.
The Energy & Minerals group is responding to the economic crisis by focusing management attention on cash conservation.
Non essential capital expenditures have been deferred wherever possible, and a range of initiatives will focus on working capital reductions, operating cost efficiencies, procurement efficiencies, and some reductions in employee and contractor numbers.
Energy Coking coal markets are likely to be the most severely affected by the global economic downturn as a result of the decline in steel demand since the end of 2008.
Kestrel mine coking coal is forecast to reduce by 15 per cent in 2009 in response to the slowdown in the world steel industry.
This will be offset by higher thermal coal production.
Demand for thermal coal and for uranium remains robust in both domestic US and seaborne traded coal markets, and globally for uranium.
RTEA has fully sold its output for 2009, whereas RTCA typically fixes prices for both coking and thermal coal in association with the Japanese fiscal year 1 April - 31 March.
Prices for seaborne traded coals, both thermal and coking, are expected to be much lower in 2009 than for 2008.
Minerals RTM experienced a significant slowdown in demand for its products in the last few Hail Creek hailed as months of 2008.
This market weakness is mine of the year expected to last well into 2009.
Product volumes could be lower by 30 Rio Tinto Coal Australias Hail Creek won the These were the industry award for safety per cent or more, although pricing has held Australian Coal Mine of the Year award at the innovation, the state road safety award, record up surprisingly well.
Primary end use 2008 Mining Prospect Awards in Sydney.
The production rates in 2008 despite severe weather markets with significantly lower demand award highlights best practice and innovation in and flooding, the highest percentage of women include electronics eg flat panel displays, in the mining operations of any coal mine in the coal mining industry.
circuit boards, and other components and Queensland, low employee turnover rates, Our mine was recognised for insulation fibreglass for the housing strong investments in the local community, achievements in safety innovation, record industry.
Paints and coatings are also regional trainee and apprenticeship production rates, community engagement and expected to be hard hit in terms of both programmes, Traditional Owner cultural heritage employee programmes, said Andrew Woodley, volumes and price as the housing and work, and receiving the Corporate Citizens general manager.
He said Hail Creek had a automotive markets remain depressed.
Award from Nebo Shire in recognition of number of achievements during the year community partnerships.
that supported winning the big prize over a strong field of nominees.
