Other operations MARKETING scope, process standardisation and ensuring a flexible short term response to Rio Tinto aims to maximise the value of its marketing best practice, while retaining the the challenges of the economic slowdown, low cost asset base through high essential local knowledge of our customers especially in terms of cash flow performance sales and marketing.
management, business units remain focused facing sales and marketing activity is It is axiomatic in this relationship that on positioning themselves for future growth conducted at each business unit, or in some both the business unit and Marketing Centre opportunities while maximising profit in the cases at a product group level, supported by must define and be accountable for the short term.
a small central function, the Marketing subsequent delivery of improved cash flow.
The changed economic conditions make Centre.
The Centre collaborates with The Marketing Centre has a rolling target of the aim of maximising asset value through business units to provide rigorous and working with business units to identify in marketing even more imperative.
In 2009, focused support to the development of marketing strategies and their tactical excess of US$100 million of incremental work will begin on further developing an execution, performance measurement and cash flow each year.
integrated supply chain to better match monitoring, as well as talent development.
This kind of collaboration has generated demand with supply, accelerating Rio Tintos Strategically, we ensure that all our over US$700 million in incremental cash entry into the Indian market and improving business units have a robust five year flow for Rio Tinto during 2008.
As an our short term price forecasting capability.
marketing strategy that combines a distinct example of results achieved, a business unit 2009 will also see expansion of our sales positioning in target segments with clear worked with the Marketing Centre to and marketing hub in Singapore to better customer value propositions and supporting determine how the customer portfolio serve our Asian markets.
price, product, customer and supply chain should change based on a projected view of strategies.
As a result, the 2007 2008 operating performance: Tactically the focus is on capturing value business unit is implementing significant Marketing centre operating performance 2007 2008 opportunities and developing and delivering changes to its core customer base as well as Incremental cash ow target vs actual US$m short term plans aligned with each business to its product portfolio which will position it Target 2007 129 units marketing strategy.
Typically this will to take advantage of geographic shifts in Actual 2007 251 Target 2008 250 include determining elements such as target demand away from historical markets and Actual 2008 716 prices, volume of spot term business and deliver significant incremental cash flow working capital management.
This structure enables us to deliver the As economic conditions have changed in One Rio Tinto agenda of realising cash flow 2008, our focus on executing a marketing The Marketing Centres total costs in 2008 benefits through economies of scale and strategy remains paramount.
Whilst were equal to the budget of US$8.5 million.
RIO TINTO MARINE Ocean freight businesses globally.
During 2008, Rio Tinto The all injury frequency rate AIFR for Ocean freight is an important part of Marine handled over 100 million tonnes of Rio Tinto Marine during 2008 was 0.25, Rio Tintos marketing.
Seaborne cargo dry bulk cargo, a 28 per cent increase on representing a substantial improvement on transportation is managed by Rio Tinto 2007 volumes.
Cash operating costs of 2007 results due to better contractor Marine to provide the Group with a US$20 million were incurred for the management and a demonstrated comprehensive capability in all aspects of management of freight contracts valued at unwillingness to accept poor safety marine transportation, global freight US$2.9 billion during the year.
markets and the international regulatory Rio Tinto Marine leverages the Groups Rio Tinto Marine received two awards for environment.
substantial cargo base to obtain a low cost good risk and safety management at the Rio Tinto seeks to enhance value for mix of short, medium and long term freight annual Seacare Authority awards in Sydney, itself and its customers by actively cover.
It seeks to create value by improving Australia.
Marines onboard Risk Register participating along the supply chain in the competitive position of the Groups system was joint winner under Best delivering the Groups products to market.
Workplace and Safety Management System, The identification and execution of freight Rio Tintos product diversity and global entered as a collaborative effort with ship solutions enable Rio Tintos business units to coverage affords Rio Tinto Marine the ability managers ASP.
deliver added value to customers, while to combine internal and complementary During 2008 Rio Tinto Marine took exerting greater influence on vessel external trade flows to increase vessel possession of two new bulk carriers, RTM selection, operational safety, scheduling utilisation and profitability.
Piiramu and RTM Weipa, with the final two practices, port efficiency and cost The Groups HSE and vessel assurance vessels in a series of five to be delivered management.
standards for freight are set and maintained during 2009.
These vessels will be used The Marine group consists of by Rio Tinto Marine, one of three equal principally for the transportation of bauxite approximately 70 shipping professionals, shareholders in RightShip, a ship vetting from Rio Tinto Alcans mine at Weipa, located principally in Melbourne, Singapore, specialist, promoting safety and efficiency in Queensland.
These purpose built vessels London and Montreal, supporting Rio Tinto the global maritime industry.
deliver volume and efficiency advantages on 78 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Performance long term competitive advantage for Rio vessel capacity set to deliver from 2009 niche trade routes, guaranteeing supply and Tintos products, developing delivered through 2011.
Long lead times for new eliminating freight cost variability.
product solutions for customers and building vessels saw large premiums paid for second Rio Tinto Marine assumed responsibility enterprise value through freight remains hand vessels in all segments.
for the expanded seaborne transportation unchanged.
Rio Tinto Marine will continue Slowing global demand and reduced requirements of Rio Tinto Alcan during to position the Group for the future by access to financial credit combined in the 2008.
The Rio Tinto and Alcan combination creating advantageous freight opportunities.
second half of 2008 to lead freight prices has increased the Groups global cargo base, substantially lower across all dry bulk vessel particularly in Panamax and Handy vessel Freight market segments.
In contrast to the first half, new classes, and provided a greater presence in The dry bulk shipping market had a year of vessel ordering all but ceased, second hand the Atlantic.
This has afforded enhanced freight opportunities, cargo combinations mixed fortunes during 2008, with freight vessel prices plummeted, prospective owners and the realisation of synergies.
prices achieving new highs followed by a fall re-evaluated recent vessel orders and many The close collaboration of Rio Tinto to the lowest rates seen for many years.
The market participants found themselves in Marine with the Groups operations recently Baltic Dry Index BDI, an index of dry bulk financial distress.
identified a solution to supply tugs to the ship chartering rates, started the year from a The outlook is expected to see dry bulk new port servicing QIT Madagascar Minerals high base and increased another 27 per cent freight prices remain more subdued during QMM.
The development of a strategy for to its May peak.
A relaxation in demand for bulk future tug boat requirements at Dampiers Weaker demand and negative sentiment carriers during the last quarter of 2008 saw iron ore port operations resulted in two tugs, drove freight price declines for much of the fleet utilisation reduced to levels more which had been in service at Dampier for 15 second half, with the BDI closing down 93 commensurate with historic norms.
Lower years, being replaced with modern vessels per cent over the calendar year.
fleet utilisation is expected to be better suited to moving a growing volume of The first half of 2008 was characterised maintained, with new dry bulk fleet larger sized bulk carriers.
The vessels being by strong demand for dry bulk commodities, deliveries ensuring the sector remains replaced at Dampier were ideally suited to combined with supply constraints and port adequately supplied as global trade growth the smaller scale Madagascar operation and congestion, resulting in increased long haul resumes.
The removal of older vessels for were consequently reallocated, saving on trade and high fleet utilisation.
The high demolition, along with the cancellation of capital expenditure in a tight secondhand demand on a stretched fleet of vessels drove some new vessel orders, will somewhat market, and eliminating the need to charter both spot and period time charter prices to temper the ultimate rate of dry bulk fleet tugs in a high priced environment.
Shipyard order books swelled growth.
Although the market environment changed rapidly in 2007 and continued to grow in rapidly during 2008, the mission of creating 2008, resulting in a large tranche of new LAND Kennecott Land Rio Tinto: 100 per cent Daybreak, encompasses 1,800 hectares and development of select commercial projects.
Kennecott Land was established in 2001 to is entitled to develop approximately 20,000 Revenues in 2008 were US$30 million.
capture value from the non mining land and residential units and nearly 14 million Kennecott Land is in the process of water rights assets of Kennecott Utah square feet of commercial space.
Daybreak is studying development opportunities for the Copper.
Kennecott Lands holdings are over well advanced, with over 1,850 home sales remaining non Daybreak landholdings.
50 per cent of the remaining undeveloped completed since opening in June 2004.
At Development potential is approximately land in Utahs Salt Lake Valley.
full build out, the community will house 163,000 residential units and 58 million Approximately 16,000 hectares of the 50,000 to 60,000 residents.
Kennecott Land square feet of commercial space.
Land use 37,000 hectares owned is developable land develops the required infrastructure and entitlements for future projects will be and is all within 20 miles 32km of prepares the land for sale to home builders sought following an internal business case downtown Salt Lake City.
and commercial users: and where analysis on lands which are suitable for Kennecott Lands first community, appropriate, engages in the ownership and development.
