Ashtead Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Corporate responsibility report | 43 Corporate responsibility report The Group is fully committed to the highest standards of Employees corporate responsibility.
It places a high priority on compliance Our employees are our greatest asset and we place enormous with all legislative and regulatory requirements, and on the value on the welfare and commitment of our employees, as well maintenance of high ethical standards, across the Group.
as the superior level of service they provide for our customers.
We continually seek to improve our performance in terms At 30 April 2008, we had approximately 9,500 employees across of employee development and health and safety in particular, the Group.
Our employees all bene t from extensive on the job as without the highest standards in these areas, our business training schemes and are highly incentivised to deliver superior model simply would not work.
We continue to take action consistently through the year to maintain and develop Across our territories, we have made and continue to implement arrangements aimed at involving employees in the Groups the following Environment, Health and Safety EHS affairs.
For example, regular meetings are held at pro t centres commitments to form part of our day-to-day business: to discuss performance and enable employees to input into ways Prevention of avoidable pollution of improving performance and service levels.
Prevention of accidents and occupational ill health amongst our staff We pride ourselves on many of our staff remaining with us Minimisation of energy, material usage and the production throughout their careers, something which is increasingly of waste uncommon in the commercial world.
Many of our most senior Effective and responsible waste management and disposal staff started out at entry level within our pro t centres and their continuity of employment is testament to Ashteads focus on This year, as was our stated aim last year, we have made employee development.
We are committed to ensuring equal signi cant progress in formalising and recording individual opportunities for all our staff, as well as to prioritising local corporate responsibility initiatives and to increasing the reporting employment, such that our businesses predominantly recruit of these at Group level.
Initially, we have focused our efforts at from the areas immediately around our facilities.
We make every formalising our environment, health and safety approach on the reasonable effort to give disabled applicants and existing UK, where there is greater general awareness of the importance employees becoming disabled, opportunities for work, training of these issues and where, because of A-Plants greater focus and career development in keeping with their aptitudes and on larger, national accounts, there is more pressure from our abilities.
In addition, we constantly measure the effectiveness customers for us to be able to document and report on these of our Human Resources processes.
The Board intends, however, that in time we will expand these formalisation and documentation processes in Sunbelt Health and safety which, on the ground, is already taking many of the same steps.
We have extensive programmes to develop and maintain the highest standards of health and safety for our employees and A key step in this programme was the recruitment and to draw our customers attention to the importance of these appointment in October 2007 to A-Plants operating board, issues for their own employees.
A copy of the relevant formal of a new environment, health and safety director, reporting to statement of the Groups policy on health and safety is required Sat Dhaiwal, A-Plants chief executive and a Group board director.
to be displayed at pro t centres in both the UK and the US.
The creation of this role has enabled us to bring together a range We make a considerable annual investment in ensuring that our of initiatives which have long been in place within A-Plant, into rental equipment meets or exceeds the latest safety standards, a single holistic programme.
as well as providing health and safety advice and materials for customers and staff as required, to accompany each rental.
Since making this important appointment, A-Plant has also begun the process of working towards ISO 14001 Environmental We also employ an internal health and safety audit team to management and OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health & Safety ensure that the correct health and safety precautions are in place management accreditation.
When completed, the accreditation throughout every aspect of our business.
We track and analyse process will provide an independent assessment probably such incidents as do occur to enable us to identify recurrent by the British Standards Institute of the appropriateness of our issues and implement preventative improvements across our management systems in these areas.
A-Plant aims to achieve UK and US networks.
