44 | Ashtead Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Corporate responsibility report Corporate responsibility report Continued This year, we have placed greater emphasis on normalising Initiatives in recent years have included the introduction this data between the UK and the US, to ensure it is comparable, by A-Plant of a Hand-Arm Vibration labelling system for our as well as on comparing and contrasting Sunbelt and A-Plants equipment and tool hire eet.
Too much exposure to hand-arm performance.
This analysis has established that there are vibration can cause hand-arm vibration syndrome and carpal currently a greater number of incidents per head in the UK than tunnel syndrome.
The new labelling system follows the Traf c in the US.
Whilst we are still studying the reasons for this and Light method of indicating possible risks to prolonged exposure the implications, it is mainly re ective of the greater number to vibration recommended by the Hire Association Europe.
of equipment movements in the UK, due to the shorter average rental period and lower rental rates.
Delivery of our equipment, Safeguarding the environment including the loading and unloading of equipment onto our The Group is committed to taking reasonable actions to delivery truck eet, generates the greatest number of health minimise the risk of adverse impact on the environment from and safety incidents impacting our staff.
We achieve this by a policy of: investing regularly in the renewal of our rental eets to ensure Over the last year, Sunbelt had 535 reported incidents relative that the equipment we provide to our customers mostly to a workforce of 7,300 whilst the UK had 384 incidents relative incorporates the latest environmental management thinking to a workforce of 2,500.
It should be understood that an incident available from our chosen manufacturers.
At 30 April 2008 for this purpose does not necessarily mean that an employee theaverage age of our eet was approximately 2.5 years.
Rather it represents an event that, under our investing in our network of pro t centres to ensure that they health and safety management policies, we want to track and are adequately equipped to operate in a safe and secure way, report for monitoring and learning purposes.
Key matters which are addressed in this programme are: wash-down bays to collect Legislation in the US and UK fide fines reportable accidents and safely dispose of materials released when we inspect and under rules which make the data non-comparable between clean equipment returned from rent: enclosed paint booths the two countries but comparable within each country relative and spray shops to ensure that repainting of equipment can to other businesses.
Under these fide nitions, which generally be conducted safely and securely: bunded fuel tanks and encompass more accidents in the US than in the UK, Sunbelt designated spill areas to ensure secure fuelling of our eet and, had 296 OSHA recordable accidents in 2007 8 which, relative where relevant, vehicles: and proper arrangements to ensure to total employee hours worked, gave a Total Incident Rate the collection and secure disposal of waste fuels and oils, TIR of 2.46 2006 7: 3.05.
In the UK, A-Plant had 29 tyres and other old or broken parts released as we service RIDDOR reportable incidents which again, relative to total and maintain our rental equipment.
employee hours worked, gave a RIDDOR reportable rate investing in a modern and ef cient delivery truck eet to of 0.64 2006 7: 0.92.
Relative to national average statistics ensure that our vehicles are purchased with the latest available for the construction industry in their respective markets, emissions management and fuel ef ciency available from both Sunbelt and A-Plant performed well.
Employee education and awareness is key to improving safety We also support the initiatives of the Carbon Trust in the standards across our businesses.
The Group is at the forefront management of harmful carbon dioxide emissions.
We have of the drive to promote higher standards and to educate our participated regularly in their annual surveys and are committed employees and also our customers, about new and improved in future to reporting on our carbon dioxide consumption in methods of ensuring all employees operate in a safe environment.
Across the Group our estimated total CO 2 emissions were 220,000 tonnes comprising 189,000 tonnes In the US, for example, we have a National Training Centre for Sunbelt and 31,000 tonnes for A-Plant.
located in North Carolina which is complemented by our Rentals Resource Library, a reference source of information related speci cally to our companys eet of rental equipment and including detailed information on safety techniques and regulations.
Our health and safety training courses, often mandatory for employees, are also available for customers and can be tailored to the speci c type of equipment being used such as scaffolding, aerial work platforms and forklifts, as well as being held on-site as required.
