Performance Exploration Copper exploration in Chile.
The Group has had a sustained commitment year period 2000 to 2008, divestment of proximity to opportunities.
At the same to exploration since 1946 and considers Exploration group projects has returned time, programmes are prioritised on a global exploration to be one of its core US$977 million for a net pre tax exploration basis so that only the most attractive competencies.
Mature Group operations, spend of approximately US$226 million.
such as Weipa, the Pilbara and Rssing, were Over the period this translates to an average At the end of 2008, the Exploration Tier 1 greenfield discoveries by Rio Tinto.
Tier 1 discovery cost of just over US$28 group was actively exploring in 26 countries, The value of these discoveries is still being million per deposit.
and assessing opportunities in a further 15, realised by both mine production and The following table shows the for a broad range of commodities including successful brownfield exploration after more Exploration groups Tier 1 discoveries since bauxite, copper, coking coal, iron ore, than 40 years.
2000: industrial minerals, diamonds, nickel and Continuing this legacy, since 2000, the uranium.
The number of employees and Exploration group has identified two of the Year Discovery Commodity Location contractors was 625 and 115 respectively largest copper opportunities in the world at 2000 Potasio resulting in a full time equivalent headcount Resolution in Arizona, US and La Granja in Rio Colorado Potash Argentina of 694.
Exploration has also delivered the worlds 2002 Resolution Copper US largest known undeveloped high grade iron ore 2004 Simandou Iron ore Guinea STRATEGY resource, at Simandou in Guinea, as well as the 2005 La Granja Copper Peru The purpose of exploration is to add value to the Group by discovering or acquiring Caliwingina channel iron deposits in the 2005 Caliwingina Iron ore Australia resources that can increase future cash flows.
Exploration identified the 2007 Caliwingina A fundamental element of the Groups Potasio Rio Colorado potash deposit in North Iron ore Australia business strategy is a clear focus on finding Argentina which Rio Tinto has sold to Vale, the 2008 Sulawesi Nickel Indonesia and mining only the largest, lowest cost, largest potash discovery in South America, and 2008 Mutamba resources that are profitable at all parts of in 2008 handed over to the product groups for Chilubane Titanium Mozambique the natural price cycle and that deliver a further evaluation the Sulawesi nickel deposit sustainable competitive advantage.
These in Indonesia and the Mutamba and Chilubane The Exploration group is organised are described as Tier 1 resources.
geographically into regional multiGreenfield exploration, which aims to A significant proportion of exploration commodity teams.
This provides a local establish completely new operating business expenditure is returned to Rio Tinto through presence, an in-depth understanding of the units, involves geographic or commodity the sale of Tier 2 discoveries.
Over the nine operating environment and in-country Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 73 Exploration continued Expenditure on evaluation projects reported ilmenite rich Mutamba and Chilubane heavy diversification away from existing Group separately by each of the Rio Tinto product mineral sand deposits in Mozambique, as operations.
The greenfield portfolio groups is included in this summary.
well as the Tier 2 Bunder diamond deposit comprises primarily opportunities in in India, were transferred to product group bauxite, copper, iron ore, energy and 2008 compared with 2007 evaluation teams.
The Jadar lithium borate minerals coal and uranium.
Gross cash expenditure on exploration and project in Serbia, thought to be the largest Brownfield exploration is directed at evaluation in 2008 was US$1,134 million, lithium deposit outside South America, was sustaining or growing the existing Group an increase of US$560 million over 2007 identified as a valuable but non core asset business units.
The brownfield environment gross expenditure.
This primarily reflects the and is being prepared for divestment.
provides the easiest opportunity for creating progression of high quality advanced Order of magnitude studies commenced value through exploration as the Group controls highly prospective title around its projects within the exploration and at the Regina potash property in existing operations where the likelihood of evaluation pipeline.
Gross expenditures are Saskatchewan, Canada which Rio Tinto has finding additional resources is strong.
With offset by US$489 million cash proceeds from sold to Vale, the Tamarack nickel-copper processing infrastructure already in place, the sale of the Kintyre and Corani prospect in Minnesota, US, and at the Altai this means capital expenditure properties, Wafi and Hidden Valley royalties, Nuurs coking coal property in Mongolia.
requirements for developing additional and various other interests, which is net of These projects, as well as earlier stage orebodies are usually lower than in a the impairment of shares during 2008.
The opportunities at Amargosa in Brazil bauxite greenfield setting.
pre-tax charge to underlying earnings of and Crowsnest in British Columbia, Canada US$645 million is net of the US$489 million coking coal are expected to provide the SAFETY of total proceeds from the divestments Group with the next crop of potential The exploration all injury frequency rate has mentioned above.
fallen from 1.25 at the end of 2007 to 0.97 At the Simandou iron ore, Guinea, La at the end of 2008.
This reduction has come 2007 compared with 2006 Granja copper, Peru and Resolution from a focused effort to reduce drilling Gross cash expenditure on exploration and copper, US greenfield evaluation projects, related injuries primarily through evaluation in 2007 was US$574 million, a inferred resources were published in the first improved supervision of drill contractors US$229 million increase over 2006, half of 2008.
Subsequent drilling at all three and increased training for drill supervisors.
reflecting an increase in the number of high properties continues to return additional quality projects in the exploration and significant mineralisation.
All injury frequency rate evaluation pipeline.
Gross expenditures are In the brownfield exploration Per 200,000 hours worked offset by US$253 million cash proceeds from environment, drilling at the Bingham 04 0.95 the divestment of the Peasquito royalty, Canyon mine delineated additional copper 05 0.55 06 0.88 shares in Anatolia Minerals, the Southdown resources and a zone of molybdenum- 07 1.25 iron ore deposit and various other interests.
dominated mineralisation beneath the 0.97 08 The pre tax charge to underlying earnings in current open pit.
2007 was US$321 million net of the US$253 At Energy Resources of Australia, the FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE million of total proceeds from divestments exploration programme focused on defining Exploration expenditures reported by mentioned above.
the Ranger 3 Deeps deposit located east of Rio Tinto include exploration and evaluation the current open pit.
A similar near mine spends in both the greenfield and brownfield 2008 OPERATING PERFORMANCE programme is now under way on the environments.
Evaluation includes all Two Tier 1 greenfield discoveries, the Rssing mine property in Namibia.
pre-feasibility and feasibility study work.
Sulawesi nickel deposit in Indonesia and the Significant exploration results during 2008 Greenfield projects JORC Category Simandou Inferred 2.25 billion tonnes @ 66 per cent iron La Granja Inferred 2.77 billion tonnes @ 0.51 per cent copper Resolution Inferred 1.34 billion tonnes @ 1.51 per cent copper Eagle East Exploration Target 2 3 million tonnes @ 0.8 0.9 per cent nickel Sulawesi Inferred 162 million tonnes @ 1.62 per cent nickel Mozambique mineral sands Exploration Target 7 12 billion tonnes @ 3 4.5 per cent Total Heavy Mineral Bunder Inferred 37 million tonnes @ 0.74 carats per tonne Jadar Inferred 114 million tonnes @ 1.8 per cent Li O and 13.1 per cent B O 2 2 3 Tamarack South Exploration Target 5 11 million tonnes @ 1.0 1.1 per cent nickel and 0.6 0.7 per cent copper Brownfield sites Bingham Canyon Indicated and Inferred 640 million tonnes @ 0.46 per cent copper Bingham Canyon Exploration Target 500 600 million tonnes @ 0.1 0.15 per cent molybdenum Corumb Exploration Target 8 10 billion tonnes @ 52 55 per cent iron Ranger 3 Exploration Target 15 20 million tonnes containing 30,000 - 40,000 tonnes of uranium oxide 74 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Performance OUTLOOK intensive drilling of advanced projects to the In 2009, the scope of exploration re-invigoration of early stage activities.
programmes will be reduced significantly as Reactivation of major drilling programmes part of the Groups cost saving measures.
will await an improvement in the market The Exploration group will explore for a environment.
narrower range of commodities in a total of Divestment of Tier 2 assets will continue 14 countries.
The global number of where real value can be realised, with a employees in 2009 will be reduced to 300 target of 100 per cent of the annual people.
greenfield exploration budget being Focus in 2009 will shift from cost returned to the Group.
The next crop of potential discoveries Project Commodity Country Stage Tamarack nickel copper US Order of Magnitude Crowsnest coking coal Canada Project of Merit Amargosa bauxite Brazil Project of Merit Altai Nuurs coking coal Mongolia Order of Magnitude drilling to be of a grade and quantity Rio Tinto product group.
Further work on Progress of a project sufficient to be potentially economic when these projects is broadly defined as The evolution of a project from target compared to peer deposits currently in Evaluation.
testing to commissioning can take ten to production.
The two main evaluation study phases 20 years involving a series of study stages Projects which attract the interest of are Pre-feasibility and Feasibility studies.
to reach investment approval and the relevant Rio Tinto product group are Pre-feasibility involves an evaluation of implementation.
progressed to Order of Magnitude Study.
This results in a much The early stages represent a progressive Order of Magnitude is an assessment of all clearer understanding of the preferred increase in confidence in the technical and possible options to establish if there could project concept and the key issues.
The economic parameters used to decide be a viable project, and whether its Feasibility study sees the focus switch to whether the project meets Rio Tintos investment criteria.
Early stages of project potential value is sufficient to justify optimisation and engineering of a single evolution are broadly termed Exploration.
committing significant sums of money to a scenario identified through the PreThese stages of work are the responsibility detailed investigation programme.
This finally freezes and of the Exploration group.
potential showstoppers are identified fully defines the scope in order to tie the Target generation and testing involves during this stage.
project down with a high degree of the progression from concept to proof of A successful Order of Magnitude Study certainty as to the specifications of what mineralisation at the prospect.
results in the declaration of a discovery will be constructed.
A Project of Merit is defined where and the transfer of project management mineralisation has been identified through from the Exploration group to the relevant Opportunities are tested and screened by several different stages of work Target Project Order of Prefeasibility Feasibility generation Commissioning of merit magnitude study study and testing Exploration Evaluation Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 75
