Other information Corporate governance Business review Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 Shareholder information 147 Financial calendar 2009-2010 Ex entitlement to C Shares April 22, 2009 Record date for entitlement to C Shares April 24, 2009 Annual General Meeting, Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, London 11.00am April 30, 2009 Deadline for receipt of C Share elections 5.00pm June 5, 2009 Record date for dividend payable on C Shares June 5, 2009 Allotment of C Shares July 1, 2009 Payment of C Share redemption monies July 2, 2009 Purchase of ordinary shares for CRIP participants By July 8, 2009 Announcement of interim results July 30, 2009 Ex entitlement to C Shares October 28, 2009 Record date for entitlement to C Shares October 30, 2009 Deadline for receipt of C Share elections 5.00pm December 4, 2009 2009 financial year end December 31, 2009 Allotment of C Shares January 4, 2010 Payment of C Share redemption monies January 5, 2010 Purchase of ordinary shares for CRIP participants By January 8, 2010 Preliminary announcement 2009 full year results February, 2010 2009 Annual report published March, 2010 Registrar A low-cost, execution only share-dealing service for the purchase and sale of Our Registrar is Computershare Investor Services PLC.
When making contact with Rolls-Royce Group plc shares is also available from NatWest Stockbrokers.
NatWest the Registrar please quote your Shareholder Reference Number SRN.
This is an Stockbrokers is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority and is 11-digit number, which usually starts with the letterCand which can be found on a member of the London Stock Exchange and PLUS.
For details please contact the right hand side of your share certificate.
You can speak to a member of the NatWest Stockbrokers, Waterhouse Square, 138-14 Holborn, London EC1N 2TH.
Registrars Rolls-Royce team by calling 44 0 870 703 0162 between 8.30am to Tel: 44 0 870 600 3070 5.30pm Monday to Friday or you can write to them at Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS13 8AE.
Share price You can obtain the current market price of the Companys shares on our website at Information available on the internet www.
com or from Teletext, Ceefax or similar services or on the London You can access copies of the Annual report, Company announcements and much Stock Exchange website at www.
ADR programme You can also visit our Registrars website at For further information about the US ADR programme, please contact your broker www-uk.
com investor to: or write to: view your account balance, values and history: The Bank of New York Mellon view your payment history: Shareholder Relations update your bank details: PO Box 11258 register to receive electronic shareholder communications: Church Street Station download forms: New York, NY 10286 deal in Rolls-Royce shares online: Toll free telephone for callers from the US: 1-888-BNY-ADRS 1-888-269-2377 vote online for forthcoming general meetings: For callers outside the US: 1-201-680-6825 view your holdings in all companies registered with Computershare and Website: www.
create a portfolio: and track the market value of your portfolio.
Unsolicited mail The Company is legally obliged to make its share register publicly available.
As a Share dealing service consequence, you may receive mail you have not asked for.
If you want to limit the Our Registrar offers both internet and telephone dealing services.
You can deal amount of personally addressed unsolicited mail you receive, and you have a over the telephone or on the internet Monday to Friday from 8.00am to 4.30pm UK registered address, please write to the Mailing Preference Service MPS, excluding Bank holidays.
Real time trading is available on the internet during DMA House, 70 Margaret Street, London W1W 8SS or register by telephoning market hours and there is no need to open a trading account in order to deal.
fee for the service is 0.5 per cent of the value of each sale or purchase of shares subject to a minimum fee of 15.
The maximum value of shares you can trade ShareGift using the internet is 25,000 for purchases and 50,000 for sales.
Please note that The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity donation scheme for the internet dealing service is only available to existing shareholders.
shareholders with small numbers of shares which may be uneconomic to sell.
Details of the scheme are available from ShareGift at www.
org or you can The fee for the Telephone Share Dealing Service is one per cent of the value write to Orr Mackintosh Foundation, 17 Carlton House Terrace, London SW1Y 5AH.
of the transaction subject to a minimum fee of 15.
Stamp duty of 0.5 per cent is also payable on all purchases.
Shareholder information continued 148 Warning to shareholders We are aware that some shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
You can report approaches basedbrokerswho target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn made by unauthorised firms to the FSA either by calling 44 0 845 606 1234 out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
Shareholders are or by completing the online reporting form at advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
or offers of free company reports.
Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
More detailed information can be found on the If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: FSA website www.
Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation: Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved by visiting www.
Rolls-Royce Group plc's registered office is 65 Buckingham Gate, London, SW1E 6AT.
The Directors present the Annual report for the year ended December 31, 2008 which includes the business review, corporate governance and audited financial statements for the year.
References to Rolls-Royce, theGroup, the Company, we, orourare to Rolls-Royce Group plc and or its subsidiaries, or any of them as the context may require.
Pages 01 to 84, inclusive, of this Annual report comprise a Directorsreport that has been drawn up and presented in accordance with English company law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Business review 12 Our strategy 01 Introduction 13 Our business 02 Chairmans statement 26 Review of operations 04 Chief Executives review The consistent strategy the Group has pursued for over 27 Civil aerospace 20 years has created a broadly based business which is 29 Defence aerospace resilient in the face of short-term challenges and which 31 Marine is well positioned for future growth.
33 Energy 35 Engineering and Technology 37 Operations 39 Services 42 Corporate responsibility 54 Finance Directors review Corporate governance 65 Board of directors 83 Other statutory information 69 Board committees 84 Annual report and the financial statements 70  report 80 Internal control and risk management 81 Shareholders and share capital Financial statements Contents listed on page 85 Other information 146 Group five-year review 147 Shareholder information 02 04 10 11 Designed by Radley Yeldar London Typeset by Charnwood Technic Art Limited This document is printed on Revive 50:50 Silk which has been independently certied according to the rules of the Forestry Stewardship Council FSC.
Revive 50:50 Silk contains 50% recycled bre bleached in an Elementally Chlorine Free ECF process.
The manufacturing mill is accredited with the ISO 14001 Environmental Standard.
This document has been printed using 20 25 41 54 vegetable based inks and is recyclable.
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements This Annual report has been prepared for the members of the Company only.
The Company, its Directors, employees or agents do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person in Printed by St Ives Westerham Press Ltd. ISO 14001:2004, connection with this document and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
This Annual report contains certain forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current facts.
In particular, all statements that express forecasts, expectations and projections with respect to future matters, including trends in results of operations, margins, growth rates, overall market trends, the impact of interest or exchange rates, the availability of financing to the Group, anticipated cost savings or synergies and the completion of the Groups strategic transactions, are forward-looking statements.
By their nature, these statements and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements and forecasts.
The forward-looking statements reflect the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual report, and will not be updated during the year.
Nothing in this Annual report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2008 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2008 Technology creates global opportunities Rolls-Royce plc 2009 Rolls-Royce Group plc Registered office: 65 Buckingham Gate London SW1E 6AT T 020 7222 9020 F 020 7227 9170 www.
com Company number 4706930 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2008 Technology creates global opportunities Contents 01 Introduction 02 An integrated, global power systems business 04 Technology creates global opportunities 06 Chairmans statement The Group delivered a strong underlying profit and cash performance, and our order book increased by 21 per cent.
The business is well diversied and we have a strong balance sheet with no net debt.
07 Chief Executives review 2009 will be a very dicult year for the global economy.
Our well diversied portfolio, the scale of our installed base and the strength of our balance sheet all give us confidence that Rolls-Royce can successfully respond to current challenges and develop the business for the longer term.
12 Independent auditorsreport 13 Board of directors 14 2008 Summary financial statement 20 Summary consolidated income statement 21 Summary consolidated balance sheet 22 Summary five-year review 23 Shareholder information Rolls-Royce Group plc is incorporated as a public limited company and is registered in England under the UK Companies Act 1985 with the registered number 4706930.
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements This Annual review and summary financial statement has been prepared for the members of the Company only.
The Company, its Directors, employees or agents do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person in connection with this document and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
This Annual review and summary financial statement contains certain forward-looking statements.
The forward-looking statements reflect the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual review and summary financial statement, and will not be updated during the year.
Nothing in this Annual review and summary financial statement should be construed as a profit forecast.
Find out more online The full Annual report is available on the Groups website which can be found at: www.
com investors Introduction 0 01 1 Rolls-Royce is a global business providing and supporting integrated power systems for use on land, at sea and in the air.
The Group has a balanced business portfolio with leading market positions.
We power over 30 civil aircraft types, from small executive jets through to large passenger aircraft.
Defence aerospace Rolls-Royce is the worlds second largest 1.7bn defence aero-engine manufacturer, Underlying revenue providing around 25 per cent of the worlds military engines.
Our portfolio covers all major sectors, including transport, helicopters, combat, trainers and tactical aircraft.
Marine We are a global leader in marine propulsion 2.2bn for cruise, fast vessel, naval and oshore markets Underlying revenue and a world leader in ship design for the oshore sector.
We support 2,000 commercial marine customers and 70 navies use our propulsion systems and marine equipment.
Energy Rolls-Royce is a world leader in power for the 0.8bn oil and gas industry and our gas turbines have Underlying revenue a growing presence in the electrical power generation market.
Our skills and technology will also address the growing global market for nuclear power.
Services 52% The Group seeks to be the customers first Group sales choice for services by developing long-term relationships.
Our comprehensive support contracts enable us to add value for our customers by using our technology, Our skills, technologies and systems skills and data management expertise.
integration capabilities give us strength in global markets.
Underlying revenues reect actual US$ exchange rates on settled derivative contracts.
Reconciliation of underlying results is provided in note 2 on page 99 and note 5 on page 103 of the full Annual report.
An integrated, global 02 power systems business Address four global markets Our consistent We are a leading integrated power systems company operating in the civil and defence aerospace, marine and energy markets.
strategy is based on Invest in technology, infrastructure and capability five key elements Over the past five years, we have invested 3.7 billion in research and development.
We invest approximately 30 million annually in training and over 300 million a year on capital projects.
x Develop a competitive portfolio of products and services We have more than 50 current product programmes and we are involved in many of the future projects in the markets we serve.
These key projects will define the power systems market for many years.
Grow market share and installed product base Across the Group, the installed base of engines in service is expected to generate attractive returns over many decades.
Add value for our customers through the provision of product-related services We seek to add value for our customers with aftermarket services that will enhance the performance and reliability of our products.
Closeness to our customers underpinned by core We recognise that our customers determine our strategy and organisation.
characteristics Domain knowledge A deep understanding of our customers and the way in which our products and services are used.
x Integrated systems Integrating our products into systems that deliver increased value for our customers.
Technological superiority Gaining competitive advantage through continuous investment in technology.
Operational excellence Constantly working to meet and exceed customer expectations.
Organisational capability Attracting and retaining the best people globally.
Brand Recognised globally, our brand embodies qualities that create a common focus for all our people worldwide.
A broad product portfolio which have helped shape A growing company operating in markets with long-term growth prospects our business today A business balanced between products and services provision Able to exploit major new opportunities x across four Civil aerospace: Broadest engine range in the world key markets Defence aerospace: Europes biggest engine maker Marine: World-leading systems provider and integrator Energy: World leader in oil and gas, and growing power generation opportunities x Resilient today with strong 03 growth potential for the future Our growth during the last 20 years has been achieved organically delivering a and through partnerships and acquisitions.
20 year track record Organic growth Our broad product range and expanding service provision have delivered growth globally.
of growth Partnerships We increasingly develop products with risk and revenue sharing partners and through h strategic long-term relationships.
Acquisition Major acquisitions such as Allison and Vickers have enabled growth in key sectors.
A strong record of investment in and a commitment research and development Investment in research and development during 2008 to R&D creating high We invest in world-class, cost-eective technology, in order to develop products that add value for barriers to entry our customers, improve eciency and reduce environmental impact.
h The increasing contribution from services an increasing We have grown our services revenues ten per cent Underlying service revenues 2008 compound over the past ten years.
Services now contribution 4,755 account for more than 50 per cent of total sales.
4,265 from services 3,901 3,457 3,251 h 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 with an expanding Trent 700 AE 2100 Bergen Diesels Trent 1000 product portfolio BR710 Industrial Trent LiftFan for JSF Trent 900 Tay 611C RR300 h AE 3007 1987 BR715 TP400 Trent XWB BR725 Rolls-Royce is privatised Trent 800 F136 for JSF Trent 500 MT30 AE 1107C 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Technology creates global opportunities 04 A track record of developing businesses Marine is now the second largest Rolls-Royce business in revenue terms.
Transformed by the acquisition of Vickers in 1999, it has become a world leader in specialist ship design and the provision and integration of high technology systems.
A competitive portfolio We are Europes largest defence aero-engine company, with a product range that spans the key market sectors and a position on the worlds most important development programmes.
We have 18,000 engines in service with 160 customers worldwide.
The market sectors in which we operate are characterised by high barriers to entry, due to the advanced technologies and the routes to market required.
Here we feature just a handful of our 39,000 employees who are helping us to maximise the opportunities that our technology and customer knowledge have created.
05 A long-term business We power over 30 types of commercial aircraft, from business jets to the largest widebody airliners.
Our Trent engine family is enjoying particular success.
The Trent 900 has now been chosen by ten of the 13 operators that have ordered engines for the Airbus A380, the Trent 1000 for the Boeing 787 has been selected by around 50 per cent of operators and the Trent 700 has won 70 per cent of new orders for the Airbus A330.
The Trent XWB remains the only engine on oer for the Airbus A350 XWB.
New growth opportunities Renewed global demand for civil nuclear power represents a significant growth opportunity for Rolls-Royce.
We have developed a strong nuclear capability, through our experience of designing, manufacturing and supporting nuclear plant for naval submarines.
We have now established a new business unit to address the civil nuclear opportunity directly.
Supporting customers with innovative services We have developed a global network of service centres to support our customers.
Increasingly, we are adopting long-term service agreements with customers in all our market sectors, allowing us to work in partnership to maximise the eectiveness of their assets.
Chairmans statement 06 Simon Robertson I am very pleased to report that in dicult market conditions, Rolls-Royce has again performed well in 2008.
We delivered a strong underlying profit and cash performance and our order book increased from 45.9 billion in 2007 to 55.5 billion in 2008.
We are proposing a final payment to shareholders of 8.58p per share making 14.30p for the full year, an increase of ten per cent, reecting the Boards continuing confidence in the Groups business.
The adverse economic outlook inevitably We attach particular importance to our creates huge challenges for all businesses and businesses being run in a way which reects it is clear that Rolls-Royce will also be impacted.
That is why we It is dicult to determine the precise scale of decided last year to establish a new Board the impact on the Group until the severity committee, the Ethics Committee, under the of the current downturn is clearer.
However, chairmanship of Ian Strachan, to bring a better Rolls-Royce does enter this testing period with focus to this issue across the Group.
We have There have been a number of changes pursued a consistent strategy, which has to the Board during the year.
We have created a business that is well diversied in welcomed John McAdam and John Neill as terms of its products, customers and geography.
new non-executive directors, both of whom We also have a strong balance sheet with will bring valuable experience to the Board.
Early action was taken to reduce Helen Alexander has been appointed as operating costs and to put our pension schemes Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
We are therefore Carl Symon has retired from the Board during better prepared to deal with the uncertainties the year after nine yearsservice and I would which undoubtedly lie ahead.
like to thank him for his valuable contribution The Board is committed to improving the to the Group.
Sadly, Boris Federov, a valued environmental performance of our products member of our International Advisory Board, through continuous innovation and the died suddenly during the year.
For example, I would like to congratulate John Rose who since the first commercial jet engines were was recently made a Commandeur fide la produced our engineering expertise has helped Lgion dhonneur.
reduce aircraft fuel burn by 70 per cent and noise by 75 per cent.
We are also committed I would also like to thank the management and to reducing the carbon footprint of our all our employees for their dedication, hard work operations.
We have invested in new facilities and commitment to the success of the Group and implemented energy eciency measures over what has been a very demanding year.
that have delivered a reduction in greenhouse I am also indebted to my fellow directors for gas emissions of some 30 per cent over the support they have given to me personally the last decade.
We are actively developing and to the Group over this period.
opportunities in civil nuclear power and 2009 will clearly be a very dicult year for the other low carbon technologies.
world economy but I strongly believe that our The Board is determined to achieve and business is particularly well placed to respond maintain best practice in all areas of corporate to these challenges and to take advantage of responsibility, including all aspects of health the opportunities that will undoubtedly arise.
Unfortunately over the past two years we have Simon Robertson had to announce some redundancies.
The Board Chairman does not make such decisions lightly, as we take February 11, 2009 our responsibilities to our people very seriously.
However, in order to reduce our operating costs in response to the global economic upheavals, the Board felt these were decisions it had to take.
Chief Executives review 07 Sir John Rose Rolls-Royce performed strongly in 2008 in the face of increasingly challenging conditions.
Our results demonstrate the value of our consistent strategy.
The strength of our technology, the breadth of our product and service portfolio, our knowledge of the customer and the capabilities of our people continue to increase our resilience and enable us to develop the business for the longer term.
Our financial results reect the strength of our business model.
In 2008, Group sales increased to 9,082 million 2007 7,435 million, with underlying sales growth of 17 per cent.
The published loss before tax was 1,892 million 2007 profit 733 million.
This loss was caused primarily by the eects of the marking to market of various financial instruments, as is explained further in the Finance Directors review in the full Annual report, and the reported earnings do not reect the underlying trading performance of the Group in 2008.
Underlying profit before tax rose by ten per cent to 880 million 2007 800 million.
We ended the year with a net cash balance of 1,458 million 2007 888 million and a record order book of 55.5 billion 2007 45.9 billion.
As I write, the global economic crisis continues to intensify and it is impossible to be precise about its ultimate severity and duration.
What is certain is that all companies will be aected to varying degrees and it is clear that Rolls-Royce, its customers and suppliers will not be immune from this global crisis.
However, as a strong power systems company, Rolls-Royce has a number of characteristics which give me confidence that we will be able to deal eectively with the very considerable challenges and uncertainties that lie ahead.
A very dierent company It is worth recalling at the outset that the current crisis is not the first to which Rolls-Royce has had to respond.
In recent years our markets have been impacted by the events of September 11, 2001, the Gulf War in 2002 and the SARS epidemic in 2003.
As a business, we have also had to deal with a wide range of negative developments such as a weakening US dollar, high oil and commodity prices and delays in major new airframe programmes.
All these challenges have been eectively managed by the Group.
The drivers of the current global economic crisis clearly dier signicantly from previous downturns.
However, Rolls-Royce itself is also a very dierent company.
Our turnover in 2001 was around 6 billion, with only 38 per cent of our revenues derived from services.
We had a geared balanced sheet with average net debt of around 1 billion and a large and volatile pensions deficit.
Our order book of 16.7 billion was concentrated on traditional Western markets such as the UK and the US.
As a result, in the downturn that started in 2000 but was exacerbated by the tragedy of 9 11, the Group was less resilient than today.
Chief Executives review continued 08 Rolls-Royce is now well diversied by product, customer and geography.
Our revenues have increased to over 9 billion with over 50 per cent now derived from services.
Our order book has increased more than threefold to over 55 billion and is broadly spread across all the worlds principal markets.
Most signicantly of all, we have a strong balance sheet with no net debt.
Our long-term strategy of hedging currency risk has served us well, allowing a manageable and predictable deterioration in the sterling US dollar achieved rate over the past five years.
Our large installed base of over 54,000 engines supports a growing services business.
The scale of this services activity, together with the size of the order book and the longevity of our programmes, gives us much clearer visibility of future revenues.
All these characteristics increase the Groups resilience and despite the uncertain outlook, give us confidence for the future.
In this more challenging environment, operational performance, cost reduction and matching capacity to load will be particularly important.
In January 2008, we took early action to reduce costs by taking the dicult decision to reduce stang in support functions by 2,300 people.
This programme has been completed at no net cost to the Group and in 2009 will reduce our costs by 100 million.
A further proposed reduction of 1,5002,000 jobs in 2009 is expected to be cost neutral in the year, while delivering similar savings in 2010.
These programmes demonstrate our commitment to achieving and sustaining world-class levels of operational eciency and improving our competitiveness.
Developing the business It is clearly impossible to provide a forecast of the precise impact that the global crisis will have on Rolls-Royce.
However, it is clear that the Groups power systems portfolio whether for use on land, at sea or in the air provides products and services for which there will be a strong, global demand for the foreseeable future.
Importantly, the sectors in which the Group operates are characterised by high barriers to entry because of the advanced technologies required and routes to market which have to be established and maintained.
Rolls-Royce will be able to exploit these advantages over many years as the global economy recovers and resumes growth.
09 A long-term business The longevity of our programmes, the scale of our order book and the increasing importance of our services activity suggest that over the next ten years the Group can double in size through organic growth alone.
In civil aerospace, for example, based on our understanding of the order book and the long-term programmes in which we are involved, we see a market potential for around 8,000 wide-bodied aircraft over the next 20 years, a very significant opportunity for our Trent engine family.
Organic growth Trent aero engine Rolls-Royce has developed the Trent aero engine into a market leading family of large engines.
Investing for growth Rolls-Royce has a strong track record of developing businesses by investing in organic growth, partnerships and acquisitions.
Our civil aerospace business is a case in point.
Our acquisition of the Allison Engine Company in 1995 helped Rolls-Royce build up a strong position in the corporate and regional jet market through the highly successful AE 3007 programme.
Our joint venture with BMW in 1990 enabled us to establish a new centre of excellence in Germany for two shaft engines, an important strategic development which culminated in the Group buying out BMWs share of the joint venture in 1999.
Collaboration also played a key role in the development of the Trent programme, with Rolls-Royce agreeing an important series of risk and revenue sharing partnerships with a wide range of global companies.
Allison acquisition Our acquisition of the Allison Engine Company provided a strong presence in the regional aircraft and US defence markets.
Chief Executives review continued 10 Partnerships BR700 The BR700 engine series for corporate and regional jets was first developed in our joint venture with BMW.
The latest engine variant is the BR725 for the Gulfstream G650 aircraft.
A consistent approach We are taking the same approach to develop our marine business which was transformed by the acquisition of Vickers in 1999.
We gained access to new capabilities including design and integration systems, propulsion and control equipment, a global sales and services network and routes to market for the oshore and merchant sectors.
This combination of a strong ship design capability and the provision of high technology equipment and systems has enabled marine to improve its market access and broaden its product oering.
Defence aerospace has similarly been transformed from a narrowly focused business which was overly dependent on the UK to one which provides engines and service support on a global basis and across a wide range of sectors including fast jets, transport aircraft, unmanned vehicles, trainers and helicopters.
We have more than 160 customers in 103 countries, with the USA now accounting for around 45 per cent of defence aerospace revenues.
Vickers acquisition The Group already had a naval marine business but the acquisition of the Vickers group expanded our capability across the world in the commercial marine market.
Exploring new opportunities as a power systems company Looking ahead, the Group can take full advantage of its strong systems integration capability based on its knowledge of technology, its close understanding of customersneeds and its ability as a power systems company to apply these integration skills in support of the customer.
This will enable the Group to exploit its technological strengths in adjacent markets and to develop its existing businesses through partnerships and acquisitions.
A good example of this is civil nuclear.
In 2008, we established a new business unit to address the rapidly expanding global market for nuclear power generation which we estimate could be worth around 50 billion per year within 15 years.
The civil nuclear opportunity plays to our strengths.
11 It requires technological expertise, systems integration capabilities and a global supply chain, all of which we have developed during the 50 years we have designed, manufactured and supported nuclear reactors for the Royal Navys submarine eet.
We will also use this approach to take advantage of other opportunities to address distributed power and alternative energy.
New opportunities Our experience in the design, manufacture and support of nuclear plant for submarines allows us to address the growing civil nuclear market.
World-class people In responding to the short-term challenges we are currently facing and in developing the business for the longer term, our people are our strongest asset.
Rolls-Royce is a power systems company, powered by the knowledge, experience and imagination of all our employees across the world.
Our advantages are dependent on the contributions they make and in this increasingly challenging period I am particularly indebted to all of our people for everything they do in support of the business.
Future prospects The Group expects that in 2009 its global markets will be aected by reducing demand and the impact of nancing constraints.
We will continue to manage the consequences of airframe programme slippages.
Cash generation will be aected by the reduction in new orders and associated deposit intake and the impact on inventory of any delays or cancellations.
There are also likely to be requests for customer and supplier financial support which will be considered by the Group on a case by case basis.
In the current environment it is expected that in 2009 despite a cash outow, the average net cash balance of the Group will increase.
The Groups current view is that underlying revenues will continue to grow and underlying profits for the year will be broadly similar to those achieved in 2008.
Sir John Rose Chief Executive February 11, 2009 Independent auditorsreport 12 To the members of Rolls-Royce Group plc We have examined the summary financial statement which comprises the Opinion Summary consolidated income statement, Summary consolidated balance sheet, In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with the full annual and Summary  report set out on pages 14 to 21. financial statements, the Directorsreport and the  report of This statement is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Rolls-Royce Group plc for the year ended December 31, 2008 and complies with accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our work has been the applicable requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we regulations made thereunder.
are required to state to them in such a statement and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants, Registered Auditor work, for this statement, or for the opinions we have formed.
London February 11, 2009 Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual review and summary financial statement in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement within the Annual review and summary financial statement with the full annual financial statements and Directorsreport and the Directors remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual review and summary financial statement and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6The auditors statement on the summary financial statementissued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our report on the Groups full annual financial statements describes the basis of our audit opinion on those financial statements and the Directors remuneration report.
Board of directors 13 At February 11, 2009 Simon Robertson John Neill CBE Non-executive Chairman Non-executive director Chairman of the nominations committee A member of the audit and nominations committee Appointed to the Board in 2004, he is the founder member of Simon Robertson Associates LLP Appointed to the Board in November 2008, he is the Chief Executive of the Unipart Group of and a non-executive director of HSBC Holdings plc, Berry Bros & Rudd Ltd, and The Economist Companies.
He is a member of the Council and Board of Business in the Community and is a Newspaper Limited.
He is a director of The Royal Opera House Covent Garden Limited and a non-executive director of Charter plc.
He is Vice President of the Society of Motor Manufacturers Trustee of The Eden Project and the Royal Opera House Endowment Fund.
He is the former and Traders, BEN, the automotive industry charity and The Institute of the Motor Industry.
President of Goldman Sachs Europe Limited.
John Rishton Sir John Rose Non-executive director Chief Executive Chairman of the audit committee and a member of the ethics and nominations committees A member of the nominations committee Appointed to the Board in March 2007, he is Chief Executive Officer of Royal Ahold.
He began his Appointed to the Board in 1992, having joined Rolls-Royce in 1984, and has been Chief Executive career in 1979 at Ford Motor Company and held a variety of positions both in the UK and in Europe.
He is a Trustee of The Eden Project.
In 1994 he joined British Airways Plc where he was Chief Financial Officer from 2001 to 2005.
He is a former non-executive director of Allied Domecq.
Helen Alexander CBE Andrew B Shilston MA, ACA, MCT Non-executive director Finance Director Chairman of the remuneration committee and a member of the ethics and nominations committees Appointed to the Board in 2003 having joined Rolls-Royce in 2002, he was a non-executive director of Cairn Energy PLC until May 2008 and he was Finance Director of Enterprise Oil plc from 1993 Appointed to the Board in September 2007, she is a Senior Adviser of Bain Capital and a until 2002.
Age 53. non-executive director of Centrica plc.
She is Chair of the Advisory Board, Said Business School, Oxford University, a Trustee of the Tate Gallery and a governor of St Pauls GirlsSchool.
Former CEO of the Economist Group from 1997 to 2008, she was awarded a CBE for services to publishing in 2004.
Colin P Smith BSc Hons, FREng, FRAeS, FIMechE She was Chairman of PPA, the magazine industry trade association, from 2006 to 2008.
Director Engineering and Technology Appointed to the Board in 2005 having joined Rolls-Royce in 1974, he has held a variety of key Peter J Byrom BSc, FCA positions within Engineering, including Director Research and Technology and Director of Non-executive director Engineering and Technology Civil Aerospace.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, A member of the remuneration, ethics and nominations committees the Royal Aeronautical Society and the Institution of Mechanical Engineers.
Appointed to the Board in 1997, he is Chairman of Domino Printing Sciences plc and a Ian C Strachan non-executive director of AMEC plc.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society.
He was a director of N M Rothschild & Sons Limited from 1977 to 1996.
Non-executive director Chairman of the ethics committee and a member of the audit and nominations committees Iain C Conn Appointed to the Board in 2003, he is a non-executive director of Johnson Matthey plc, Xstrata plc, Non-executive director, Senior Independent Director Transocean Inc and Caithness Petroleum Limited.
He is the former Chief Executive of BTR plc, former A member of the audit and nominations committees Deputy Chief Executive 1991 to 1995 and Chief Financial Officer 1987 to 1991 of Rio Tinto plc, former non-executive Chairman of Instinet Group Inc and former non-executive director of Appointed to the Board in 2005, he is an executive director of BP p. l. c. having held a range of Commercial Union and Reuters Group plc.
Age 65. executive positions within the BP Group worldwide.
He is Chairman of the Advisory Board of The Imperial College Business School.
Mike J Terrett Professor Peter Gregson Chief Operating Officer Non-executive director Appointed to the Board in 2007, having joined Rolls-Royce in 1978, he has held a variety of senior positions in the development of new aero-engine programmes, including Managing Director of A member of the remuneration and nominations committees Airlines and President and Chief Executive Officer of International Aero Engines IAE based in the Appointed to the Board in March 2007, he is President and Vice-Chancellor of Queens University United States.
Prior to his appointment as Chief Operating Officer he was President Civil Belfast and serves on the Northern Ireland Economic Development Forum, the Council of CBI Aerospace.
He is a member of the Institute of Mechanical Engineers and a Fellow of the Royal Northern Ireland and the Steering Group of the US Ireland Research and Development Aeronautical Society.
He is a Fellow and Council Member of the Royal Academy of Engineering, a Member of the Royal Irish Academy, and Deputy Lieutenant of Belfast.
He was formerly Professor of Aerospace Tim Rayner Materials and Deputy Vice-Chancellor of the University of Southampton and has served on the General Counsel and Company Secretary Council for the Central Laboratory of the Research Councils.
He joined Rolls-Royce in 2007 having previously been General Counsel and Company Secretary at James M Guyette BSc United Utilities PLC.
President and Chief Executive Officer of Rolls-Royce North America Inc.
Appointed to the Board in 1998 having joined Rolls-Royce in 1997, he is a director of the PrivateBank and Trust Company of Chicago, Illinois and of priceline.
com Inc. Until 1995 he was Executive Vice President, Marketing and Planning of United Airlines.
Dr John McAdam Non-executive director A member of the remuneration and nominations committees Appointed to the Board in February 2008, he is Chairman of United Utilities PLC and Rentokil Initial plc, the Senior Independent Director of J Sainsbury plc and a non-executive director of Sara Lee Corporation.
He was the Chief Executive of ICI plc until ICIs acquisition by Akzo Nobel.
2008 Summary financial statement 14 The directors present the summary financial statement of Rolls-Royce Group plc for The Articles of Association also provide that no person may be appointed to the the year ended December 31, 2008.
It provides a summary of information office of chairman in an executive capacity or to the office of chief executive, contained in the Rolls-Royce Annual report 2008 the Annual report.
References to managing director or joint managing director of the Company, unless the Rolls-Royce, the Group, the Company, weorourare to Rolls-Royce Group plc and individual is a British citizen.
No person may be appointed to the office of director its subsidiaries, or any of them as the context may require.
The summary financial of the Company if, immediately following such appointment, the number of statement has been presented in accordance with English company law and the directors of the Company who are not British citizens would exceed one half of the liabilities of the directors in connection with the report are subject to the limitations total number of directors of the Company for the time being.
and restrictions provided by such law.
Subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association and any directions given by special resolution, the directors may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Summary directorsreport Independence of the non-executive directors Business review The Board applies a rigorous process in order to satisfy itself that its non-executive The business review can be found on pages 1 to 11. directors remain independent.
The Combined Code does not regard the Chairman as being independent in view of his unique role in corporate governance.
Payments to shareholders However, on his appointment as Chairman on January 1, 2005, Simon Robertson At the Annual General Meeting AGM on April 30, 2009, the directors will met the criteria for independence contained in the Combined Code.
His other recommend an issue of 85.8 C Shares with a total nominal value of 8.58p for each significant commitments are described on page 13.
The Board reviews the ordinary share.
Together with the interim issue on January 2, 2009 of 57.2 C Shares independence of the non-executive directors every year, based on the criteria in for each ordinary share with a total nominal value of 5.72p, this is the equivalent of the Combined Code.
This review was undertaken in 2008, and the Board a total annual payment to ordinary shareholders of 14.30p for each ordinary share.
concluded that all the non-executive directors other than the Chairman were independent in character and judgement.
The Board determined that Peter Byrom Corporate governance remains independent in character and judgement notwithstanding that he has Rolls-Royce attaches the highest priority to corporate governance, the system by served on the Board for more than nine years, that there are no relationships or which the Company is directed, managed and controlled in the interests of all its circumstances which are likely to affect his independent judgement and that he is stakeholders.
The Company is subject to the Combined Code on Corporate in no way dependent on the remuneration he receives from the Company.
Governance published in June 2006 by the Financial Reporting Council the Combined Code.
A copy of the code can be obtained free of charge from FRC Board effectiveness publications, telephone: 44 0 20 8247 1264, email: customer.
co. uk In 2008, the annual process to enable the Board to evaluate the effectiveness of its and online at: www.
The Board confirms that throughout 2008, performance involved the completion of a written questionnaire by the directors the Company complied with the Combined Code.
and a series of meetings between the Chairman and each individual director.
The Board reviewed the results of this exercise in February 2009.
Composition of the Board The review covered all aspects of corporate governance, including board and Simon Robertson chairs the Board of directors and Sir John Rose is the Chief committee structure, board dynamics, the conduct and frequency of board Executive.
The division of responsibilities between them is set down in writing and meetings, the consideration of strategic issues by the Board and the information agreed by the Board.
Iain Conn is the Companys Senior Independent Director.
The Board considered that it was operating effectively.
The Full details of the current members of the Board are shown on page 13. review identified the need for improvements in some areas, including revising the During the year, there were a number of Board changes: Dr John McAdam was format of the Board strategy sessions and improving the consistency of Board appointed as a non-executive director on February 19, 2008: Carl Symon retired as papers.
The Board agreed to encourage greater interaction between the Board and non-executive director at the AGM on May 7, 2008 and was succeeded by Helen management, for example, by arranging Board visits to Company facilities.
The Alexander CBE as chairman of the remuneration committee: and John Neill CBE Board has also asked to receive more regular reports on succession planning for joined the Board as a non-executive director on November 13, 2008. executives.
These improvements will be implemented in 2009.
The audit, Under the Companys Articles of Association, one third of the directors are remuneration and nominations committees have separately undertaken reviews subject to re-election every year, with each director also being subject to of their terms of reference and effectiveness during 2008. re-election at intervals of not more than three years.
Any director appointed during the year is separately required to retire and seek election by the shareholders at the Board committees next AGM.
The Board also requires any non-executive director who has served on The principal Board committees are the audit, remuneration and nominations the Board for more than nine years to be subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
committees and since September 2008, the ethics committee.
Membership of John Neill CBE, having been appointed to the Board during the year, will seek these committees is shown on page 13.
The ethics committee consists exclusively election by shareholders at the AGM.
The directors retiring under the annual of independent non-executive directors and is responsible for reviewing re-election provisions contained in the Articles of Association are Iain Conn, compliance with the Groups Global Code of Business Ethics which sets out the James Guyette, John Rishton and Simon Robertson.
They all offer themselves for principles to be followed by employees when conducting business.
terms of reference for all the Board committees are described in the Annual report.
Peter Byrom, having served more than nine years on the Board, is subject to The full terms of reference for the principal Board committees are available on the annual re-election by shareholders.
No other non-executive director has served for Groups website at www.
more than nine years on the Board.
In recommending Peter Byrom for re-election, the Board took account of the desirability of retaining a non-executive director with long experience on the Rolls-Royce Board.
The Board believes strongly that in a long-term, complex and technologically advanced business, it is essential that non-executive directors have the opportunity to acquire, over a number of years, the experience and knowledge of the businesses and the markets within which the Group operates.
15  for internal control 2 C Shares Since January 2009 the Company has issued non-cumulative The directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for redeemable preference shares C Shares as an alternative to paying a cash maintaining and reviewing its effectiveness from both a financial and an dividend.
Shareholders can choose to: operational perspective.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, redeem all C Shares for cash: rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to redeem all C Shares for cash and reinvest the proceeds in additional provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or ordinary shares using the C Share Reinvestment Plan CRIP operated by loss.
The Groups approach to internal control is based on the underlying principle Computershare Investor Services PLC the Registrar : or of line management's accountability for control and risk management.
reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control, the Board has taken Any C Shares retained attract a dividend of 75 per cent of LIBOR on the 0.1p account of the results of the work carried out to audit and review the activities of nominal value of each share, paid on a twice-yearly basis, and have limited the Group.
In certain circumstances the Company has the option to There is an ongoing process to identify, assess and manage risk, including compulsorily redeem the C Shares, at any time, if the aggregate number of those risks affecting the Groups reputation.
This process is subject to continuous C Shares in issue is less than ten per cent of the aggregate number of all improvement and has been in place throughout the financial year to which these C Shares issued, or on the acquisition or capital restructuring of the Company.
statements apply and up to the date of their approval.
In 2008, the effectiveness On a return of capital on a winding-up, the holders of C Shares shall be and consistency of risk management at all levels of the organisation has been entitled, in priority to any payment to the holders of ordinary shares, to the measured, improved and reported via the sector and function assurance repayment of the nominal capital paid-up or credited as paid-up on the framework.
C Shares held by them, together with a sum equal to the outstanding The Board has reviewed the risk management process and confirms that preferential dividend which will have been accrued but not been paid until ongoing processes and systems ensure that the Group continues to be compliant the date of return of capital.
with the Turnbull guidance as contained inInternal Control: Guidance for Directors The holders of C Shares are entitled to attend, speak and vote at a on the Combined Code.
general meeting only if a resolution to wind up the Company is to be considered, in which case they may vote only on such resolution.
Share capital and voting rights At December 31, 2008, the Companys authorised share capital was 3 B Shares Up to July 2008, the Company had issued B Shares as an alternative 3,500,050,000.60 and comprised: 2,499,999,998 ordinary shares of 20p: to paying a cash dividend.
Following a strategic financial review, the directors 2,000,000,000,000 C Shares of 0.1p: 1,000,000,000,000 B Shares of 0.1p: one Special concluded that the dilution caused by the conversion of B Shares to ordinary Share of 1: and 50,000 preference shares of 1. shares was inconsistent with the Groups strategy.
The only material difference On December 31, 2008, there were 1,843,740,136 ordinary shares and one between B Shares and C Shares is that C Shares do not carry the option to Special Share in issue.
The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
convert directly into ordinary shares.
C Shares can only be redeemed for cash.
The first issue of C Shares took place on January 2, 2009.
The C Shares are not listed.
All remaining B Shares were redeemed on September 22, 2008 and the Company has no intention of issuing further B Shares.
Share class rights The rights and obligations attaching to ordinary shares are set out in the 4 Special Share Certain rights attach to the special rights non-voting share Companys Articles of Association.
Special Share issued to HM Government Special Shareholder.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, the Treasury Solicitor may redeem 1 Ordinary shares Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the the Special Share at par at any time.
The Special Share confers no rights to Companys Annual report.
They are also entitled to attend and speak at dividends but in the event of a winding-up it shall be repaid at its nominal general meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more proxies or, if they value in priority to any other shares.
Certain Articles in particular those are corporations, corporate representatives, and to exercise voting rights.
relating to the foreign shareholding limit, disposals and the nationality of Holders of ordinary shares may receive a bonus issue of C Shares or a directors that relate to the rights attached to the Special Share may only be dividend and on liquidation may share in the assets of the Company.
Holders altered with the consent of the Special Shareholder.
The Special Shareholder of not less than ten per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the is not entitled to vote at any general meeting or any other meeting of any Company may requisition a general meeting of the Company.
Holders of not class of shareholders.
less than five per cent of the issued share capital of the Company or 100 holders holding shares with an average of not less than 100 per member 5 Preference shares The 50,000 preference shares were issued pursuant to the paid up on such shares which reflects the nominal value not the market Companys incorporation and were subsequently redeemed.
They cannot be value of the relevant shares may requisition the Company to give reissued.
shareholders notice of any resolution which may properly be moved at an AGM or may require the Company to circulate a statement of not more than 1,000 words with respect to a matter referred to in a proposed resolution or other business to be dealt with at a general meeting.
2008 Summary financial statement continued 16 Restrictions on transfer of shares and limitations on holdings Major shareholdings There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of the ordinary At February 11, 2009, the following companies had notified an interest in the shares or C Shares other than under the Articles of Association as described issued ordinary share capital of the Company in accordance with the Financial below, under restrictions imposed by law or regulation for example, insider Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules: trading laws or pursuant to the Companys share dealing code.
The Articles of % of issued Association provide that the Company should be and remain under United Company Date notied ordinary share capital Kingdom control.
As such, an individual foreign shareholding limit is set at 15 per Invesco Limited February 4, 2008 6.91 cent of the aggregate votes attaching to the share capital of all classes taken as a Legal and General Group Plc December 4, 2008 4.99 whole and capable of being cast on a poll and to all other shares that the directors determine are to be included in the calculation of such holding.
Political donations In line with its established policy, the Group made no political donations pursuant Shareholder agreements and consent requirements to the authority granted at the 2008 AGM.
However, the definition of political There are no known arrangements under which financial rights carried by any of donations is very broad and includes expenses legitimately incurred as part of the the shares in the Company are held by a person other than the holder of the shares process of talking to members of parliament to ensure that the issues and and no known agreements between the holders of shares with restrictions on the concerns of the Group are considered.
A resolution will therefore be proposed at transfer of shares or exercise of voting rights.
No disposal may be made to a the 2009 AGM seeking shareholder approval for the directors to be given authority non-Group member which, alone or when aggregated with, the same or a to make donations and incur expenditure which might otherwise be caught by connected transaction, constitutes a disposal of the whole or a material part of the terms of the Companies Act 2006.
During the year, one of our US subsidiaries either the nuclear business or the assets of the Group as a whole, without consent made a contribution towards the running expenses of a political action committee of the Special Shareholder.
PAC organised by its employees in an amount of US$23,700 2007: US$22,440.
PACs are a common feature of the US political system and do not require Authority to issue shares authorisation by shareholders under the Companies Act 2006.
At the AGM in 2008, authority was given to the directors to allot new ordinary shares up to a nominal value of 128,748,950, equivalent to one third of the issued Change of control share capital of the Company at February 6, 2008.
Such authority is valid until the Contracts and joint venture agreements AGM in 2009 or 18 months from May 7, 2008, whichever is the earlier.
A further There are a number of contracts and joint venture agreements which would allow special resolution was passed to effect a disapplication of pre-emption rights for a the counterparties to terminate or alter those arrangements in the event of a maximum of five per cent of the issued share capital of the Company at February 6, change of control of the Company.
The directors propose to renew these authorities at the AGM in 2009. confidential and their disclosure would be seriously prejudicial to the Company.
At the AGM in 2008, authority was given to the directors to allot new B Shares up to a nominal value of 350 million as an alternative to a cash dividend.
Such Borrowings and other financial instruments authority is valid until the AGM in 2009 or 18 months from May 7, 2008, whichever The Group has a number of borrowing facilities provided by various lenders.
The directors do not propose to renew this authority at the AGM facilities generally include provisions which may require any outstanding in 2009. borrowings to be repaid or the alteration or termination of the facility upon the At the AGM in 2008, authority was given to the directors to allot new C Shares occurrence of a change of control of the Company.
At December 31, 2008 these up to a nominal value of 350 million as an alternative to a cash dividend.
Such facilities were substantially undrawn.
The Group has entered into a series of authority is valid until the AGM in 2009 or 18 months from May 7, 2008, whichever financial instruments to hedge its currency, interest rate and commodity is the earlier.
The directors propose to renew this authority at the AGM in 2009. exposures.
These contracts provide for termination or alteration in the event that a change of control of the Company materially weakens the creditworthiness of the Authority to purchase own shares Group.
At the AGM in 2008, the Company was authorised by shareholders to purchase up to 182,161,998 of its own ordinary shares representing ten per cent of its issued Employee share plans ordinary share capital as at February 6, 2008.
The Company did not make use of this In the event of a change of control of the Company, the effect on the employee authority during 2008.
The authority for the Company to purchase its own shares share plans would be as follows: expires at the conclusion of the AGM in 2009 and a resolution to renew it will be Executive Share Option Plan All options granted have vested and are proposed at that meeting.
Consequently, no early vesting is currently possible.
It is not proposed to make any further grants under this plan, which terminates in Voting rights 2009.
Deadlines for exercising voting rights Performance Share Plan Awards would vest pro rata to service in the Electronic and paper proxy appointment and voting instructions must be received performance period, subject to remuneration committee judgement of by the Registrar not less than 48 hours before a general meeting.
Annual Performance Related Award deferred shares The shares would be Voting rights for employee share plan shares released from trust immediately.
Shares are held in various employee benefit trusts for the purpose of satisfying There are no provisions between the Company and its directors or employees awards made under the various employee share plans.
For shares held in a providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that are triggered in nominee capacity or if plan trust rules provide the participant with the right to vote the event of a takeover bid.
in respect of specifically allocated shares, the trustee votes in line with the .
For shares that are not held absolutely on behalf of specific individuals, the general policy of the trustees, in accordance with investor protection guidelines, is to abstain from voting in respect of those shares.
17 Annual report and the summary financial statement Summary of the  report This summary financial statement does not contain sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the results and the state of affairs of Rolls-Royce Introduction Group plc as the Annual report.
Shareholders may obtain a full copy of the The following paragraphs provide a summary of the Groups remuneration policy, Annual report free of charge either online at www.
com or by writing to which is described in more detail in the  report contained in the Company Secretary, Rolls-Royce Group plc, 65 Buckingham Gate, the Annual report.
Shareholders wishing to receive the Annual report in future A resolution will be put to shareholders at the AGM on April 30, 2009 inviting years should write to this address.
them to approve the  report.
The report of the auditors on the full financial statements of the Group was Remuneration committee unqualified.
It did not contain a statement under either Section 237 2 of the The remuneration committee has responsibility for making recommendations to Companies Act 1985 inadequate accounts or returns, or accounts not agreeing the Board on the Groups policy regarding executive remuneration.
The committee with records and returns or Section 237 3 failure to obtain necessary information determines, on the Boards behalf, the specific remuneration packages of the and explanations.
A resolution to reappoint the auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, and to Chairman, the executive directors and a number of senior executives.
The authorise the directors to determine their remuneration, will be proposed at the committee consists exclusively of independent non-executive directors.
Remuneration policy After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the The Board has adopted, on the recommendation of the committee, a Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the remuneration policy reflecting the following broad principles which it will continue foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis to apply in 2009: in preparing the financial statements.
the remuneration of executive directors and other senior executives should reflect their responsibilities and contain incentives to deliver the Groups The summary financial statement was approved by the Board on February 11, performance objectives: it must also be capable of attracting and retaining 2009. the individuals necessary for business success: a significant proportion of total remuneration should be based on Group and individual performance, both in the short and long term: and the system of remuneration should establish a close identity of interest between senior executives and shareholders through measures such as encouraging the senior executives to acquire shares in the Company.
When determining remuneration, the committee takes into account pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
The committee regularly reviews both the competitiveness of the Groups remuneration structure and its effectiveness in incentivising executives to enhance value for shareholders over the longer term.
It considers that a successful remuneration policy needs to be sufficiently flexible to take account of future changes in the Groups business environment and in remuneration practice.
The committee considers that there should be a continuing emphasis on those elements of remuneration, such as annual and long-term incentives, which directly influence the performance of senior executives.
For 2009, to ensure that executives are appropriately incentivised towards the achievement of stretching performance, a number of changes are being made to the Groups annual and long-term incentives as described on page 18.
Following these changes, executive directorstotal incentive package opportunity will be positioned between the lower quartile and the median of FTSE 100 practice.
The main components of remuneration The main components of remuneration comprise: Base salaries The committee believes that base salaries should be set at levels required to recruit and retain high quality senior executives.
Base salaries are set with reference to the levels in the relevant marketplace for companies of a similar size, internationality and complexity.
All salary increases must be justified on the basis of performance and are not automatic.
Following the March 1 review, there will be no increases in the base salaries of executive directors for 2009.
Annual incentives In 2008, executive directors and selected senior executives participated in the Annual Performance Related Award plan APRA.
Executive directors were eligible for awards up to 80 per cent of salary for the achievement of predetermined targets, or in the case of the Chief Executive up to 100 per cent.
It is possible for these awards to be increased by 20 per cent to reflect exceptional personal performance and for 2008 only, an additional 25 per cent if the Group achieves a target reduction in operating costs.
2008 Summary financial statement continued 18 For 2008, the measures for executive directors included underlying profit, average reaches the level of 1.5 multiplied by the value of the shares conditionally granted cash balance, cash flow, operating costs and individual contribution assessed with to them in their most recent PSP grant.
When this level is reached, it must be reference to the achievement of personal objectives and overall performance.
retained until retirement or departure from the Company.
Forty per cent of any APRA bonus depends on personal objectives.
In 2008, the level of achievement against the financial measures was sufficient Pension arrangements to generate up to 56.25 per cent of the maximum bonus for individual participants The Group operates funded and approved defined benefit pension schemes subject to achievement of their personal objectives.
One third of the value of APRA providing, at retirement, a pension of up to two thirds of final remuneration, is delivered in the form of a deferred award in the Companys shares.
subject to HM Revenue & Customs limits.
Andrew Shilston is a member of the In 2009, there will be changes to APRA.
Annual bonus opportunity levels will Groups UK pension scheme.
He is also a member of the Rolls-Royce increase from 100 per cent to 135 per cent of salary for the Chief Executive and Supplementary Retirement Scheme and the Company makes contributions to this from 80 per cent to 125 per cent of salary for other executive directors.
James Guyette is a member of two defined benefit plans in the US.
He percentage of APRA delivered in the form of a deferred award in the Companys also a member of two 401 K Savings Plans.
Rolls-Royce North America Inc, makes shares will increase from 33 per cent to 40 per cent.
This further aligns the interests contributions to these plans.
Colin Smith and Mike Terrett opted out of future of executives with those of shareholders.
In order to simplify APRA, the average pension accrual with effect from April 1, 2006.
Sir John Rose opted out of future cash balance measure will be removed.
The cash flow measure in APRA and the pension accrual with effect from February 1, 2008. cash flow per share measure in the Rolls-Royce Group plc Performance Share Plan will both remain.
Service contracts The committees policy is that executive directors appointed to the Board are Long-term incentives offered notice periods of 12 months.
The committee recognises that in the case of The Rolls-Royce Group plc Performance Share Plan PSP is designed to reward and appointments to the Board from outside the Group, it may be necessary to offer a incentivise selected senior executives who can influence the long-term longer initial notice period, which would subsequently reduce to 12 months after performance of the Group.
Under the rules of the PSP, selected executives are granted conditional share The committee has a defined policy on compensation and mitigation to be awards entitling them to a number of shares determined by reference to corporate applied in the event of a UK directors contract being prematurely terminated.
In performance over a three-year performance period measured by reference to Cash these circumstances, steps are taken to ensure that poor performance is not Flow Per Share CPS, Earnings Per Ordinary Share EPS and Total Shareholder rewarded.
When calculating termination payments, the committee takes into Return TSR.
account a range of factors including the directors obligation to mitigate his or her No shares will be released from the PSP unless the growth in the Companys own loss.
EPS exceeds the UK retail price index by three per cent per year over the performance period.
Non-executive directors The Companys TSR over the performance period will be compared with the The Chairman and the non-executive directors have letters of appointment rather TSR of the companies constituting the FTSE 100 index on the date of grant.
No compensation is payable to the Chairman or to any comparison will be carried out by an independent agency.
If the Companys TSR non-executive director if the appointment is terminated early.
exceeds the median of that group of companies, the number of shares due to be The Board takes account of independent market surveys in determining the released to an executive following achievement of the EPS and CPS targets will be fees payable to the Chairman and the non-executive directors.
The committee increased by 25 per cent.
makes recommendations to the Board on the remuneration of the Chairman.
Shareholders have authorised the committee to set CPS performance targets The current annual fees payable to the non-executive directors are as follows: for future grants provided that, in the committees reasonable judgement, the Fees payable targets are no less challenging in the light of the Groups business circumstances Chairman 370,000 and its internal forecasts than the targets for the initial grant in 2004 as approved by Other non-executive directors 55,000 shareholders.
Chairman of audit committee 15,000 The following CPS targets apply to the grants to be made in 2009: Chairman of remuneration committee 12,000 Aggregate CPS over Percentage of Chairman of ethics committee 12,000 three-year performance period maximum award released Senior Independent Director 10,000 40p 30 62p 100 The Chairman and the non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Groups share schemes, incentive arrangements or pension schemes.
The committee believes that these CPS targets are challenging and that the performance necessary to achieve awards towards the upper end of the range is Performance graph stretching.
They should not, therefore, be interpreted as providing guidance on the The Companys TSR performance over the previous five years compared to a broad Groups performance over the relevant period.
equity market index is shown in the graph below.
The FTSE 100 has been chosen In 2008, Sir John Rose received a conditional award of shares with a market as the comparator index because it contains a broad range of other leading UK value at the time of grant of 110 per cent of his annual salary.
For other executive listed companies.
directors and business heads the grant was 80 per cent, and 65 per cent for other members of the Group Executive.
Total shareholder return over five years For 2009, the number of conditional shares awarded under the PSP will increase from 110 per cent to 120 per cent of salary for the Chief Executive and 400 Rolls-Royce from 80 per cent to 100 per cent of salary for other executive directors.
A further FTSE 100 350 stretch will be incorporated such that if TSR performance exceeds the upper 300 quartile of the FTSE 100 index, awards are increased by 50 per cent, with straight 250 line vesting between median and upper quartile performance.
200 These increases are within the existing limits for the PSP 200 per cent of 150 salary, approved by shareholders in 2004.
The committee requires participants in the PSP to retain at least one half of 100 the number of after-tax shares released from the PSP until their shareholding 12 2003 12 2004 12 2005 12 2006 12 2007 12 2008 Total shareholder return index 19 Aggregate  The total amounts for  were as follows: 2008 2007 000 000 Emoluments 5,022 4,988 Gains on exercise of share options 9 10,364 Value of shares vested under long-term incentive awards 3,458 4,850 Money purchase pension contributions 558 433 9,047 20,635 Directorsemoluments The directorsemoluments are analysed as follows: 2008 2007 Annual Performance Related Award plan APRA Aggregate Aggregate emoluments emoluments Board and excluding excluding Basic committee Cash Deferred Total Pension Taxable pensions pensions 1 2 3 4 4 salaries fees bonus shares APRA payments benets contributions contributions 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 5 James Guyette 413 116 58 174 36 623 572 Sir John Rose 842 255 128 383 28 1,253 1,262 Andrew Shilston 543 140 70 210 15 768 784 Colin Smith 384 100 50 150 96 11 641 622 Mike Terrett 493 130 65 195 123 113 924 395 Helen Alexander CBE 63 63 18 Peter Byrom 55 55 71 Iain Conn 65 65 57 Professor Peter Gregson 55 55 46 6 Dr John McAdam 48 48 7 John Neill CBE 7 7 John Rishton 70 70 50 Simon Robertson 367 367 330 Ian Strachan 59 59 54 8 Carl Symon 24 24 66 Former directors who did not serve during the 2008 financial year 661 2,675 813 741 371 1,112 219 203 5,022 4,988 1 Shares forming part of the bonus under APRA have been valued at the date of award.
An investment is expected to be made by March 31, 2009 when the trustee will acquire the required number of shares at the prevailing market price.
2 Colin Smith and Mike Terrett received cash allowances in lieu of future pension accrual.
3 Taxable benefits include the following: company car or car allowance, private medical insurance and financial counselling, and in the case of James Guyette, a housing allowance and appropriate club membership fees.
In the case of Mike Terrett, the figure in the above table includes housing costs paid on his behalf and the tax charge on that benefit paid by the Company.
4 Details of the directorspensions are set out in the Annual report.
5 James Guyette was paid in US dollars translated at $1.854 1.
6 Dr John McAdam was appointed as a non-executive director with effect from February 19, 2008 7 John Neill CBE was appointed as a non-executive director with effect from November 13, 2008.
8 Carl Symon retired as a non-executive director with effect from May 7, 2008.
Summary consolidated income statement 20 For the year ended December 31, 2008 2008 2007 m m Revenue 9,082 7,435 Cost of sales 7,311 6,003 Gross profit 1,771 1,432 Other operating income 79 50 Commercial and administrative costs 666 653 Research and development costs 403 381 Share of profit of joint ventures 74 66 Operating profit 855 514 profit loss on sale or termination of businesses 7 2 profit before nancing 862 512 Financing income 432 718 Financing costs 3,186 497 Net nancing 2,754 221 1 Loss profit before taxation 1,892 733 Taxation 547 133 Loss profit for the year 1,345 600 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 1,340 606 Minority interests 5 6 Loss profit for the year 1,345 600 Earnings per ordinary share: Basic 73.63 p 33.67p Diluted 73.63 p 32.97p Payments to shareholders in respect of the year 263 237 1 Underlying profit before taxation 880 800 Revenue profit before nancing 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Analysis of business segments Civil aerospace 4,437 3,718 501 308 Defence aerospace 1,688 1,636 232 170 Marine 2,200 1,542 176 91 Energy 757 539 4 8 Central items 51 49 9,082 7,435 862 512 Summary consolidated balance sheet 21 At December 31, 2008 2008 2007 m m ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets 2,286 1,761 Property, plant and equipment 1,995 1,813 Investments joint ventures 345 284 Other investments 53 57 Deferred tax assets 685 81 Post-retirement scheme surpluses 453 210 5,817 4,206 Current assets Inventory 2,600 2,203 Trade and other receivables 3,929 2,585 Taxation recoverable 9 7 Other financial assets 390 514 Short-term investments 1 40 Cash and cash equivalents 2,471 1,897 Assets held for sale 12 7 9,412 7,253 Total assets 15,229 11,459 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Borrowings 23 34 Other financial liabilities 2,450 85 Trade and other payables 5,735 4,326 Current tax liabilities 184 188 Provisions 181 121 8,573 4,754 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 1,325 1,030 Other financial liabilities 391 303 Trade and other payables 1,318 965 Non-current tax liabilities 1 Deferred tax liabilities 307 345 Provisions 188 180 Post-retirement scheme deficits 595 333 4,125 3,156 Total liabilities 12,698 7,910 Net assets 2,531 3,549 EQUITY Capital and reserves Called-up share capital 369 364 Share premium account 82 67 Capital redemption reserves 204 191 Hedging reserves 22 77 Other reserves 663 62 Retained earnings 1,226 2,776 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 2,522 3,537 Minority interests 9 12 Total equity 2,531 3,549 The summary financial statement on pages 14 to 21 were approved by the Board on February 11, 2009 and signed on its behalf by: Simon Robertson Andrew Shilston Chairman Finance Director Summary five-year review 22 For the years ended December 31 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Income statement m m m m m Revenue 9,082 7,435 7,156 6,603 5,947 profit before net research and development and share of joint venture profit 1,191 827 1,016 1,113 686 1 Research and development net 403 381 370 282 288 Share of profit of joint ventures 74 66 47 46 19 profit before nancing 862 512 693 877 417 Net financing 2,754 221 698 400 53 2 Loss profit before taxation 1,892 733 1,391 477 364 Taxation 547 133 397 130 100 Loss profit for the year 1,345 600 994 347 264 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 1,340 606 998 350 263 Minority interests 5 6 4 3 1 Loss profit for the year 1,345 600 994 347 264 1 Research and development gross 885 824 747 663 601 2 Underlying profit before taxation 880 800 705 593 364 Earnings per ordinary share: Underlying 36.70p 34.06p 29.81p 24.48p 15.62p Basic 73.63 p 33.67p 57.32p 20.11p 15.56p Payments to shareholders per ordinary share 14.30p 13.00p 9.59p 8.72p 8.18p 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Balance sheet m m m m m Assets 15,229 11,459 10,798 9,627 8,419 Liabilities 12,698 7,910 8,073 8,122 6,973 2,531 3,549 2,725 1,505 1,446 Called-up share capital 369 364 356 352 346 Reserves 2,153 3,173 2,362 1,147 1,096 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 2,522 3,537 2,718 1,499 1,442 Minority interests 9 12 76 4 2,531 3,549 2,725 1,505 1,446 Shareholder information 23 Financial calendar 2009-2010 Ex entitlement to C Shares April 22, 2009 Record date for entitlement to C Shares April 24, 2009 Annual General Meeting, Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, London 11.00am April 30, 2009 Deadline for receipt of C Share elections 5.00pm June 5, 2009 Record date for dividend payable on C Shares June 5, 2009 Allotment of C Shares July 1, 2009 Payment of C Share redemption monies July 2, 2009 Purchase of ordinary shares for CRIP participants By July 8, 2009 Announcement of interim results July 30, 2009 Ex entitlement to C Shares October 28, 2009 Record date for entitlement to C Shares October 30, 2009 Deadline for receipt of C Share elections 5.00pm December 4, 2009 2009 financial year end December 31, 2009 Allotment of C Shares January 4, 2010 Payment of C Share redemption monies January 5, 2010 Purchase of ordinary shares for CRIP participants By January 8, 2010 Preliminary announcement 2009 full year results February, 2010 2009 Annual report published March, 2010 Registrar A low-cost, execution only share-dealing service for the purchase and sale of Our Registrar is Computershare Investor Services PLC.
com investor to: or write to: view your account balance, values and history: The Bank of NewYork Mellon view your payment history: Shareholder Relations update your bank details: PO Box 11258 register to receive electronic shareholder communications: Church Street Station download forms: NewYork, NY 10286 deal in Rolls-Royce shares online: Toll free telephone for callers from the US: 1-888-BNY-ADRS 1-888-269-2377 vote online for forthcoming general meetings: For callers outside the US: 1-201-680-6825 view your holdings in all companies registered with Computershare and Website: www.
Shareholder information continued 24 Warning to shareholders We are aware that some shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment correspondence concerning investment matters.
This document has been printed using vegetable based inks and is recyclable.
Printed by St Ives Westerham Press Ltd. ISO 14001:2004, FSC certied and CarbonNeutral.
Rolls-Royce plc 2009 Rolls-Royce Group plc Registered office: 65 Buckingham Gate London SW1E 6AT T 020 7222 9020 F 020 7227 9170 www.
