INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ROTORK P. L. C. We have audited the Group and parent given in the Directors Report includes other irregularity or error.
In forming our company financial statements the financial that specic information presented in opinion we also evaluated the overall statements of Rotork p. l. c. for the year the Business Review that is cross referred adequacy of the presentation of ended 31 December 2008 which comprise from the Principal activities section of the information in the financial statements the Consolidated Income Statement, the Directors Report.
and the part of the Remuneration Report Consolidated and Parent Company Balance to be audited.
In addition we report to you if, in our Sheets, the Consolidated Statement of opinion, the Company has not kept proper OPINION Cash Flows, the Consolidated Statement accounting records, if we have not received In our opinion: of Recognised Income and Expense and all the information and explanations we the related notes.
These financial the Group financial statements give a require for our audit, or if information statements have been prepared under the true and fair view, in accordance with specified by law regarding directors accounting policies set out therein.
We IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, remuneration and other transactions is have also audited the information in the of the state of the Groups affairs as at not disclosed.
Remuneration Report that is described as 31 December 2008 and of its profit for having been audited.
We review whether the Corporate the year then ended: Governance Statement reects the the Group financial statements have been This report is made solely to the Companys Companys compliance with the nine members, as a body, in accordance with properly prepared in accordance with the provisions of the 2006 Combined Code Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. specified for our review by the Listing Rules Our audit work has been undertaken so IAS Regulation: of the Financial Services Authority, and that we might state to the Companys we report if it does not.
We are not the parent company financial statements members those matters we are required to required to consider whether the Boards give a true and fair view, in accordance state to them in an auditors report and for statements on internal control cover all with United Kingdom Generally Accepted no other purpose.
To the fullest extent risks and controls, or form an opinion on Accounting Practice, of the state of permitted by law, we do not accept or the effectiveness of the Groups corporate the parent Companys affairs as at assume responsibility to anyone other than governance procedures or its risk and 31 December 2008: the Company and the Companys members control procedures.
as a body, for our audit work, for this the parent company financial statements We read the other information contained and the part of the Remuneration Report report, or for the opinions we have formed.
in the Annual Report and consider whether to be audited have been properly RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS it is consistent with the audited financial prepared in accordance with the AND AUDITORS statements.
We consider the implications Companies Act 1985: and The directors responsibilities for preparing for our report if we become aware of any the Annual Report and the Group financial the information given in the Directors apparent misstatements or material Report is consistent with the financial statements in accordance with applicable inconsistencies with the financial law and International Financial Reporting statements.
Our responsibilities do not Standards IFRSs as adopted by the extend to any other information.
European Union, and for preparing the parent company financial statements and BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION the Remuneration Report in accordance We conducted our audit in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting with International Standards on Auditing Standards United Kingdom Generally UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Accepted Accounting Practice are set out Practices Board.
An audit includes in the Statement of Directors examination, on a test basis, of evidence KPMG AUDIT PLC Responsibilities.
relevant to the amounts and disclosures in CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS REGISTERED AUDITOR the financial statements and the part of the Our responsibility is to audit the financial BRISTOL Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also 2 MARCH 2009 statements and the part of the includes an assessment of the significant Remuneration Report to be audited in estimates and judgments made by the accordance with relevant legal and directors in the preparation of the financial regulatory requirements and International statements, and of whether the accounting Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
policies are appropriate to the Groups and We report to you our opinion as to whether Companys circumstances, consistently the financial statements give a true and fair applied and adequately disclosed.
view and whether the financial statements We planned and performed our audit and the part of the Remuneration Report to so as to obtain all the information and be audited have been properly prepared in explanations which we considered accordance with the Companies Act 1985 necessary in order to provide us with and, as regards the Group financial sufficient evidence to give reasonable statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
assurance that the financial statements We also report to you whether in our and the part of the Remuneration Report opinion the information given in the to be audited are free from material Directors Report is consistent with the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or financial statements.
The information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2008 45
