NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008 a.
Accounting policies The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the financial statements.
Notes a to k relate to the Company rather than the Group.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable UK GAAP.
Under section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
Under FRS 1 the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that the Group includes the Company in its own published consolidated financial statements.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available under FRS 8 and has not disclosed transactions with entities which are subsidiaries of the Group.
The Group financial statements contain financial instruments disclosures which comply with FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Consequently, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 29 not to present separate financial instrument disclosures for the Company.
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
The Company continues to account for intragroup cross guarantees under FRS 12.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains or losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account.
Investments Investments are measured at cost less any provision for impairment and adjusted where equity settled share based payments are made to the subsidiary companys employees.
They comprise investments in subsidiary companies.
Depreciation and amortisation Freehold land is not depreciated.
Long leasehold buildings are amortised over 50 years or the expected useful life of the building where less than 50 years.
Other assets are depreciated by equal annual instalments by reference to their estimated useful lives and residual values at the following annual rates: Freehold buildings 2% to 4% Short leasehold buildings period of lease Plant and equipment 10% to 33% Post retirement benefits The Company participates in a Group wide pension scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable pay.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Company.
The Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme on a consistent and reasonable basis and therefore, as required by FRS 17 Retirement benefits, accounts for the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme.
As a result, the amount charged to the profit and loss account represents the contributions payable to the scheme in respect of the accounting period.
Classification of preference shares Following the adoption of the presentation elements of FRS 25, Financial instruments, the cumulative redeemable preference shares issued by the Company are classified as long-term debt.
The preference dividends are charged within interest payable.
Share-based payments The Company has adopted FRS 20 and the accounting policies followed are in all material respects the same as the Groups policy under IFRS 2.
This policy is shown in note 1 to the Group financial statements.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is provided in full, without discounting, on timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law, except for the items explained below.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the revaluation of fixed assets where there is no commitment to sell the assets or on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries where there is no commitment to remit those earnings.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Dividends Interim dividends are recorded in the financial statements when they are paid.
Final dividends are recorded in the financial statements in the period which they are approved by the Companys shareholders.
