NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008 Except where indicated, values in these notes are in 000.
Rotork p. l. c. is a Company domiciled in England.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2008 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The accounting policies contained below in note 1 and the disclosure in notes 2 to 27 all relate to the Group financial statements.
The Company balance sheet can be found following note 27.
As the Company has elected to continue reporting under UK GAAP, the applicable accounting policies are contained in note a, and notes b to k relate to the Companys financial statements.
Accounting policies The accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
BASIS OF PREPARATION The consolidated financial statements of Rotork p. l. c. have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU, IFRIC Interpretations and the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention subject to the items referred to in the derivative financial instruments accounting policy below.
Interpretations effective in 2008 IFRIC 14 Recognition of a Defined Benefit Pension Scheme Surplus and IFRIC 11, IFRS 2: Group and Treasury Share Transactions have been applied in the year and they have not had a material effect on the reported results or financial position of the Group for 2007 or 2008.
Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group IFRS 8 Operating Segments, IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes and IAS 1 revised Presentation of financial statements, together with the amendments to IAS 23, IAS 27, IAS 32 and IFRS 3 which are adopted by the European Union but not effective as at 31 December 2008 will be applied in 2009, 2010 or 2011 as applicable.
They are not expected to have a material effect on the reported results or financial position of the Group.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
CONSOLIDATION The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year to 31 December 2008.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date control ceases.
Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains or losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the values were determined.
Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated into sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign subsidiaries are translated to sterling at rates approximating those ruling at the date of the transactions.
Differences on exchange arising from the retranslation of the opening net investment in subsidiaries, and from the translation of the results of those subsidiaries at average rate, are recognised directly in equity.
Any differences that have arisen since 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are presented as a separate component of equity.
Translation differences that arose before the date of transition to IFRS in respect of all foreign entities are not presented as a separate component.
REVENUE Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer in accordance with the contracted shipping terms.
Revenue from services rendered is recognised in the income statement in proportion to the stage of completion of the transaction at the balance sheet date.
The stage of completion is assessed by reference to surveys of work performed.
No revenue is recognised if there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the consideration due, associated completion costs, the possible return of goods or continuing management involvement with the goods.
