Significant accounting policies continued increases the future economic benefits recorded at a revalued amount in which e Intangible assets embodied in the specific asset to which it case it is treated as a revaluation decrease i Goodwill relates.
All other expenditure is expensed to the extent that a surplus has previously All business combinations are accounted for as incurred.
by applying the purchase method.
Goodwill Impairment losses recognised in respect of iv Amortisation has been recognised in acquisitions of cash generating units are allocated first to subsidiaries and the business, assets and Amortisation is charged to profit or loss on reduce the carrying value of goodwill liabilities of partnerships.
The Board has a straight-line basis from the date that the allocated to the cash generating unit and elected, in accordance with IFRS 1, that the intangible assets are available for use over then to reduce the carrying amount of the date from which it applies IFRS 3 shall be 26 their estimated useful lives unless such lives other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
In respect of business are indefinite.
The estimated useful lives of combinations that have occurred since that the Groups intangible assets range Goodwill was tested for impairment at date, goodwill represents the difference between 4 and 15 years.
31 December 2007 and 31 December 2008. between the cost of the acquisition and the i Calculation of recoverable amount f Trade and other receivables fair value of the identifiable assets acquired.
The recoverable amount is the greater of Trade and other receivables are stated In respect of acquisitions prior to this date, the net selling price and value in use.
In at their amortised cost less impairment goodwill is included on the basis of its assessing value in use, the estimated future losses see accounting policy h. Trade and deemed cost, which represents the amount cash flows are discounted to their present other receivables are subject to impairment recorded under previous GAAP.
The value using a pre-tax discount rate that tests whenever events or changes in classification and accounting treatment of reflects current market assessments of the circumstances indicate that their carrying business combinations that occurred prior time value of money and the risks specific amount may not be recoverable.
to 26 June 2002 has not been restated in to the asset.
Impairment losses are taken to the preparing the Groups opening IFRS balance income statement as incurred.
sheet at 1 January 2004, in accordance ii Reversals of impairment with IFRS.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is g Cash and cash equivalents not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an Goodwill is stated at cost less any Cash at bank comprises cash balances and impairment loss is reversed if there has accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is call deposits with an original maturity of been a change in the estimates used to allocated to cash-generating units and is three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that determine the recoverable amount.
An tested annually for impairment see are repayable on demand and form an impairment loss is reversed only to the accounting policy h. integral part of the Groups cash extent that the assets carrying amount management are included as a component ii Other intangible assets does not exceed the carrying amount that of cash and cash equivalents for the Intangible assets other than goodwill that are would have been determined, net of purposes of the statement of cash flows.
acquired by the Group are stated at cost depreciation or amortisation, if no Cash is a loan and receivable and is carried less accumulated amortisation see below impairment loss had been recognised.
and impairment losses see accounting policy i Employee benefits h. h Impairment i Defined contribution plans Intangible assets identified in a business The carrying amount of the Groups assets, combination are capitalised at fair value at Obligations for contributions to defined other than deferred tax assets, are the date of acquisition if they are separable contribution retirement benefit plans are reviewed at each balance sheet date to from the acquired entity or give rise to recognised as an expense in the income determine whether there is any indication other contractual legal rights.
The fair values statement as incurred.
If any such indication exists, ascribed to such intangibles are arrived at the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
ii Share-based payment transactions by using appropriate valuation techniques.
For goodwill the recoverable amount is The Group operates a range of equity Expenditure on internally generated estimated at each annual balance sheet date.
settled share option and conditional share goodwill and brands is recognised in award schemes for employees.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever income as an expense as incurred.
the carrying amount of an asset or its cash The Company has applied IFRS 2 to all generating unit exceeds its recoverable iii Subsequent expenditure share options and conditional share awards amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in Subsequent expenditure on capitalised which were granted to employees and had the income statement unless the asset is intangible assets is capitalised only when it not vested as at 1 January 2005.
