Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements date.
Foreign exchange differences arising amount at the date of that revaluation, an 1.
Significant accounting policies on translation are recognised in income.
RPS Group Plc the Company is a company domiciled in England.
The ii Financial statements of foreign operations ii Leased assets consolidated financial statements of the The assets and liabilities of foreign Leases which contain terms whereby the Company for the year ended 31 December operations, including goodwill and fair value Group assumes substantially all the risks 2008 comprises the Company and its adjustments arising on consolidation, are and rewards incidental to ownership of the subsidiaries together referred to as translated to pounds sterling at the leased item are classified as finance leases.
exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet Assets acquired under a finance lease are The consolidated financial statements were date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign capitalised at the inception of the lease at authorised for issuance on 4 March 2009. operations are translated to pounds sterling fair value of the leased assets, or if lower, at rates approximating the foreign exchange the present value of the minimum a Basis of preparation 67 rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
The Group has prepared its annual financial Foreign exchange differences arising on The land and buildings elements of statements in accordance with International retranslation are recognised directly in the property leases are considered separately Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as translation reserve.
for the purposes of lease classification.
endorsed by the European Union and iii Net investment in foreign operations implemented in the UK.
The financial Obligations under finance leases are statements are presented in pounds Exchange differences arising from the included in liabilities net of finance costs sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
translation of the net investment in foreign allocated to future periods.
operations are taken to translation reserve.
The accounting policies set out below All other leases are classified as operating They are recycled and taken to income have been applied consistently to all leases and are not capitalised.
upon disposal of the operation.
The periods presented in these consolidated Lease payments are accounted for as Company has elected, in accordance with financial statements.
described in accounting policy note o. IFRS 1, that in respect of all foreign b Basis of consolidation operations, any differences that have arisen iii Subsequent costs before 1 January 2004 have been set Subsidiaries are entities controlled by The Group recognises in the carrying to zero.
Control exists when the amount of an item of property, plant and Company has the power, directly or equipment the cost of replacing part of iv Foreign currency forward contracts indirectly, to govern the financial and such an item when that cost is incurred if it Foreign currency forward contracts are operating policies of an entity so as to is probable that the future economic initially recognised at nil value, being pricedobtain benefits from its activities.
benefits embodied within the item will flow at-the-money at origination.
Subsequently to the Group and the cost of the item can The Groups consolidated financial they are measured at fair value determined be measured reliably.
All other costs are statements incorporate the financial by price changes in the underlying forward recognised in the income statement statements of the Company together with rate, the interest rate, the time to expiration as incurred.
those of subsidiaries from the date control of the contract and the amount of foreign commences to the date that control ceases.
currency specified in the contract.
iv Depreciation Intragroup balances, and any unrealised Changes in fair value are recognised in Depreciation is charged to income on a gains and losses or income and expenses income as they arise.
straight-line basis over the estimated useful arising from intragroup transactions, are lives of each part of an item of property, d Property, plant and eliminated in preparing the financial plant and equipment.
Land is not equipment statements.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: i Owned assets c Foreign currency Items of property, plant and equipment i Foreign currency transactions are stated at cost or deemed cost less Freehold buildings 50 years Transactions in foreign currency are accumulated depreciation see below and Alterations to translated at the foreign exchange rate impairment losses see accounting policy h. leasehold premises Life of lease ruling at the date of the transaction.
Certain items of property, plant and Monetary assets and liabilities denominated Motor vehicles 4 years equipment that had been revalued to fair in foreign currencies at the balance sheet Fixtures, fittings, IT value on or prior to 1 January 2004, the date are translated to pounds sterling at and equipment 3 to 8 years date of transition to IFRS, are measured on the foreign exchange rate ruling at that the basis of deemed cost, being the revalued rpsgroup.
