The market price of the shares at Report and Remuneration Report which representation of the effects of transactions, 31 December 2008 was 140p and the comply with the requirements of the other events and conditions in accordance range during the financial year was 103.25p Companies Act 1985. with the definitions and recognition criteria to 344.75p.
for assets, liabilities, income and expenses Financial statements are published on the set out in the International Accounting None of the Directors were materially Groups website in accordance with Standards Boards Framework for the interested in any significant contract to legislation in the United Kingdom governing Preparation and Presentation of Financial which the Company or any of its the preparation and dissemination of Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, subsidiaries were party during the year.
financial statements, which may vary from a fair presentation will be achieved by legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Employees compliance with all applicable IFRS.
A fair maintenance and accuracy of the Groups presentation also requires the Directors to: The Groups policies in relation to website is the responsibility of the 61 employees are disclosed on pages 15 Directors.
The Directors' responsibility also n consistently select and apply to 17. extends to the ongoing integrity of the appropriate accounting policies: financial statements contained therein.
n present information, including Charitable and community Each of the persons who is a Director at accounting policies, in a manner that donations the time of this report confirms that: provides relevant, reliable, comparable During the year the Group made charitable and understandable information: and n so far as the Director is aware, there is donations of 420,822 to non-political no relevant audit information of which n provide additional disclosures when organisations.
Total contributions including the Company's auditors are unaware: compliance with the specific contributions in kind amounted to 588,943. and requirements in IFRS is insufficient to Supplier payment policy enable users to understand the impact n the Director has taken all the steps that The Group has due regard to the payment of particular transactions, other events he or she ought to have taken as a terms of suppliers and settles all undisputed and conditions on the entitys financial Director in order to make accounts in accordance with payment position and financial performance.
himself herself aware of any relevant terms agreed with the supplier.
At the year audit information and to establish that Parent company financial statements end the Group had 36 days purchases the Company's auditors are aware of outstanding in respect of payments to Company law requires the Directors to that information.
suppliers and sub-contractors 2007: 31 prepare financial statements for each This confirmation is given and should be days.
At the year end the Company had financial year which give a true and fair view interpreted in accordance with the 26 days purchases outstanding in respect of of the state of affairs of the Company and provisions of the Companies Act 1985. payments to suppliers and sub-contractors of the profit or loss of the Company for 2007: 39 days.
In preparing these financial The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Financial statements, the Directors are required to: Going concern Statements in accordance with the n select suitable accounting policies and The financial statements have been Companies Act 1985.
The Directors are then apply them consistently: prepared on a going concern basis as the also required to prepare financial n make judgements and estimates that Directors have a reasonable expectation statements for the Group in accordance are reasonable and prudent: that the Group has adequate resources with International Financial Reporting to continue in business for the n state whether applicable accounting Standards IFRS as adopted by the foreseeable future.
European Union and Article 4 of the IAS standards have been followed, subject Regulation.
The Directors have chosen to to any material departures disclosed Directors responsibilities prepare financial statements for the and explained in the financial statement statements: and Company in accordance with UK Generally The Directors are responsible for keeping Accepted Accounting Practice.
n prepare the financial statements on the proper accounting records which disclose going concern basis unless it is Group financial statements with reasonable accuracy at any time the inappropriate to presume that the financial position of the Company, for International Accounting Standard 1 Company will continue in business.
safeguarding the assets, for taking requires that financial statements present reasonable steps for the prevention and fairly for each financial year the Groups The Directors confirm that they have detection of fraud and other irregularities financial position, financial performance and complied with the above requirements in and for the preparation of a Directors cash flows.
This requires the faithful preparing the financial statements.
