31. Credit Risk The Groups exposure to credit risk is limited to the carrying amount of financial assets recognised at the balance sheet date, as summarised below: 2008 2007 000s 000s Class of financial asset Cash and cash equivalents 17,088 10,884 Trade and other receivables 148,690 110,096 165,778 120,980 The directors consider the above financial assets that are not impaired to be of good credit quality including those that are past due.
See The directors consider the above financial In respect of trade and other receivables, The credit risk for liquid funds is considered 97 note 12 for further detail on receivables that are past due.
assets that are not impaired to be of good the group is not exposed to any significant negligible, since the counterparties are credit quality including those that are past credit risk exposure to any single reputable banks with high quality external None of the groups assets are secured by collateral.
See note 12 for further detail on counterparty or any group of credit ratings.
In respect of trade and other receivables, the group is not exposed to any significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty or any receivables that are past due.
group of counterparties with similar characteristics.
None of the groups assets are secured The credit risk for liquid funds is considered negligible, since the counterparties are reputable banks with high quality external credit ratings.
Share-based payments In accordance with IFRS 2, the Group has It should be noted that the Group has not Since 2004 the Group has incentivised and recognised an expense to the income relied on the exemption afforded under motivated employees through the grant of statement representing the fair value of IFRS 1 to exclude instruments granted conditional share awards under the Long outstanding equity settled share based before 7 November 2002.
Term Incentive Plan LTIP for Executive payment awards to employees which have Directors and other senior directors: the Prior to 2004, the Group granted options not vested as at 1 January 2008 for the Performance Share Plan PSP, for senior and super options to employees under the period ended 31 December 2008. managers and staff, and the Share Incentive Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS Plan SIP, available to staff.
Under these The Group has calculated the fair market and Save as You Earn SAYE scheme.
arrangements shares are granted at no cost value of options using a binomial model During the year, the Group made a further to the employee.
The release of shares and for whole share awards the fair value grant of options to employees under the granted under the LTIP and PSP are subject has been based on the market value of ESOS.
Under the ESOS, share options are to the satisfaction of corporate the shares at the date of grant adjusted granted at the market price on the date of performance conditions and continuity of to take into account some of the terms grant with the exercise of options subject employment provisions.
The release of and conditions upon which the shares to the satisfaction of corporate shares under the SIP are subject to were granted.
performance conditions and continuity of continuity of employment provisions.
For SAYE options, Those fair values were charged to the share options are granted at the market The following tables set out details of share income statement over the relevant vesting price on the date of grant.
Employees can schemes activity over the year from period adjusted to reflect actual and exercise the SAYE option at the end of 1 January 2008: expected vesting levels.
