Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Significant accounting policies continued iv Interest receivable Additional income taxes that arise from the ii Goodwill distribution of dividends are recognised at Finance income comprises interest As described in accounting policy e the same time as the liability to pay the receivable on funds invested.
above, the Group undertakes annual related dividend.
p Income tax Judgements in respect of discount and q Dividends Income tax on the income for the periods growth rates are made in respect of these Dividends are recognised when they presented comprises current and deferred assets.
These judgements are shown in become legally payable.
Income tax is recognised in income note 9. interim dividends to equity shareholders, except to the extent that it relates to items iii Revenue recognition this is when they are paid.
In the case of recognised directly in equity, in which case it 70 The Groups revenue recognition policy is final dividends, this is when approved by is recognised in equity.
stated in accounting policy note n. In the shareholders at the AGM.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on some cases, judgement is required to r Employee Share Ownership the taxable income for the year, using tax determine the appropriate proportion of Plan ESOP rates enacted or substantially enacted at the services performed to date on the the balance sheet date, and any adjustment As the Company is deemed to have contract and the extent to which fees will to tax payable in respect of previous years.
control of its ESOP trust, it is treated as a be recoverable.
Actual results could differ subsidiary and consolidated for the purpose Deferred tax is provided using the balance from these estimates.
The ESOPs assets sheet liability method, providing for Any subsequent changes are accounted for other than investments in the Companys temporary differences between the carrying with an effect on income at the time such shares, liabilities, income and expenses are amounts of assets and liabilities for financial updated information becomes available.
included on a line-by-line basis in the reporting purposes and the amounts used Group financial statements.
The ESOPs for taxation purposes.
The following t Accounting standards issued investment in the Companys shares is temporary differences are not provided for: but not adopted deducted from shareholders funds in the goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the During the year, the IASB and the IFRIC Group balance sheet as if they were initial recognition of assets or liabilities that issued additional standards which are treasury shares, except that profits on the affect neither accounting nor taxable profit effective for periods starting after the date sale of ESOP shares are not credited to the and the differences relating to investments of these financial statements.
The following share premium account.
in subsidiaries to the extent that they will standards and interpretations have yet to probably not reverse in the foreseeable be adopted by the Group: s Key accounting estimates future.
In accordance with IAS12, deferred and judgements n Amended IAS 1 Presentation of tax is taken directly to equity to the extent financial statements: a revised In the process of applying the Groups that the intrinsic value of the outstanding presentation accounting policies described above, share awards based on the closing share management has made the following price is greater than the share based n Amended IFRS 2 Share based judgements, which have the most significant payment expense already charged to the payment: vesting conditions and effect on the amounts recognised in the income statement.
The amount of deferred cancellations financial statements.
Any other estimates or tax provided is based on the expected n Revised IFRS 3 Business combinations judgements are made as described in the manner of realisation or settlement of the accounting policies above.
n IFRS 8 Operating segments carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at n IFRIC 11 Group and treasury share i Intangible assets the balance sheet date.
transactions As described in accounting policy e A deferred tax asset is recognised only to The Directors anticipate that the adoption above, the Group recognises certain the extent that it is probable that future of these standards will have no material intangible assets on acquisition other than taxable profits will be available against impact upon the results or net assets of the goodwill.
Judgements are made in respect which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred Group other than disclosure.
of useful lives and valuation methods tax assets are reduced to the extent that it affecting the carrying value and is no longer probable that the related tax amortisation charges in respect of benefit will be realised.
