The fair value of the employee services iii Accrued holiday pay Where deferred consideration is in the received in exchange for the grant of form of shares and the number of shares to Provision is made at each balance sheet options or conditional share awards is be issued is fixed, the fair value is credited date for holidays accrued but not taken, to recognised as an expense to the income to equity under the heading Shares to the extent that they may be carried statement.
Fair value has been determined be issued.
forward, calculated at the salary of the by using IFRS accepted valuation relevant employee at that date.
The amount j Provisions expensed to the income statement over the Revenue from services rendered is A provision is recognised in the balance vesting period is determined by reference recognised in income in proportion to the sheet when the Group has a present legal or to the fair value of the options and stage of completion of the transaction at constructive obligation as a result of a past conditional share awards, excluding the the balance sheet date.
No revenue is event and it is probable that an outflow of impact of any non-market vesting recognised if there are significant 69 economic benefits will be required to settle conditions.
Non-market vesting conditions uncertainties regarding recovery of the the obligation.
If the effect is material, are included in assumptions about the consideration due or associated costs.
An provisions are determined by discounting the number of options and conditional share expected loss on a contract is recognised expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate awards that are expected to vest.
At each immediately in the income statement.
that reflects current market assessments of balance sheet date the Group revises its Revenue includes expenses recharged to the time value of money and, when estimates of the number of options and clients.
Such expenses include mileage, appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
conditional share awards that are expected accommodation, planning applications, to vest.
The impact of the revision of original A provision for onerous contracts is counsels fees and fees from sub-consultants estimates, if any, is recognised in the income recognised when the expected benefits to charged on at low margin.
statement, with a corresponding adjustment be derived by the Group from a contract Revenue which has been recognised but to equity, over the remaining vesting period.
are lower than the unavoidable cost of not invoiced by the balance sheet date is No adjustment is made for failure to meeting its obligations under the contract.
included in trade and other receivables in achieve market vesting conditions.
Amounts invoiced in k Trade and other payables The fair value of options granted under the advance are included in trade and other Trade and other payables are recognised on Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS payables within deferred income.
inception at fair value and then carried at and Save As You Earn SAYE scheme amortised cost.
have been calculated using a binomial model o Expenses taking into account the following inputs: l Borrowings i Operating lease payments n the exercise price of the option: Payments made under operating leases Bank overdrafts and interest bearing loans are recognised in the income statement n the life of the option: are initially measured at fair value and then on a straight-line basis over the term of held at amortised cost.
Obligations under n the market price on the date of grant the lease.
Lease incentives received are finance leases are dealt with in accordance of the option: recognised as an integral part of the with accounting policy note o. n the expected volatility of the share total lease expense.
price: m Deferred consideration ii Finance lease payments Deferred consideration arises when n the dividends expected on the shares: Minimum lease payments are apportioned settlement of all or any part of the cost and between the finance charge and the of a business combination is deferred.
n the risk free interest rate for the life of reduction of the outstanding liability.
The It is stated at fair value at the date of the option.
finance charge is allocated to each period acquisition, which is determined by during the lease term so as to produce a The fair value of conditional share awards discounting the amount due to present constant periodic rate of interest on the have been calculated using the market value value at that date.
Interest is imputed on remaining balance of the liability.
of the shares on the date of grant adjusted the fair value of non interest bearing for any non-entitlement to dividends over deferred consideration at the discount rate iii Interest payable and similar charges the vesting period and market based and expensed within interest payable and Finance costs comprise interest payable on performance conditions such as total similar charges.
At each balance sheet date bank overdrafts and loans, interest imputed shareholder return.
deferred consideration comprises the on deferred consideration see accounting remaining deferred consideration valued at policy m and interest on finance leases.
acquisition plus interest imputed on such amounts from acquisition to the balance sheet date.
