Business Review Operations 15 Key Business Drivers n the necessity to comply with The world is beginning to take seriously legislation which relates to planning, the need to do something about the n the commercial advantage to be environmental and health and safety interconnected problems of: gained by developing or redeveloping matters: this regulation and legislation land, other natural resources such as n climate change and the need to derives from the activities of both minerals and oil and gas, or buildings: reduce carbon emissions: and the European Union and national this requires proper planning, design n sourcing safe and secure energy governments and continues to and evaluation of the potential effects supplies to enable global economic expand at a rapid pace: and of the proposed development: growth to continue.
n the need to manage and, where n the necessity for public agencies, RPS skills and experience place us in a possible, eliminate risk which may arise privatised utilities, regulated businesses strong position to be able to benefit from from environmental or health and and their agents to provide adequate the actions that will be taken to deal with safety issues: potential risks arise when, infrastructure: again such provision these fundamental problems.
This for example, assets are being requires proper planning, design, underpins our long term growth.
purchased and or developed or from evaluation of environmental effects the existence of substances which, if and risk management: not properly disposed of or managed, could damage the natural environment or human health.
We have all the the Company providing one matching traditional personnel management share for every employee purchased The Group remains committed to structures within our business carrying share.
The PSP is available to senior creating an employment environment out all the necessary administrative members of staff and enables them to which will attract, retain and motivate functions.
There are able personnel build significant equity participation over employees of high calibre.
Throughout management groups dealing with a period of years.
the Group emphasis is placed upon staffing issues in each country within personal development to meet both which we operate.
todays needs and those of the future.
Employee communication and The employees of the Group are able consultation is encouraged at all levels to participate in the success of the of the business.
The criteria for Company through the Companys selection and promotion are the Share Incentive Plan SIP and Share individuals suitability for the position Purchase Plan SPP and Performance offered based on their qualifications, Share Plan PSP.
The SIP and SPP are experience, skills and abilities.
Business open to the majority of Group units manage the remuneration of staff employees and offers them the within the guidelines of approved opportunity of purchasing shares with rpsgroup.
com Operations 16 Operating Structure mechanism we use to develop internal Corporate Research Foundation.
The CRF A significant part of the Groups success and external communications in the report, published in April 2009 by Guardian Books, gives RPS top rating with derives from the clarity and accountability Group.
In order to do this we also five stars for Company Culture:Training of its management structure.
The core of continued to upgrade our IT networks.
and Development and Pay Benefits.
RPS this structure is the individual business unit The businesses in England, Wales and received four and a half stars for Career which normally comprises a separate Scotland are supported by centrally run Development and Working Conditions.
accountancy and personnel functions, with office or activity, each of which is treated These high scores place RPS in the UKs these services being provided locally in separately for the purposes of budgeting top 10 employers of choice.
From time to time Ireland and the Netherlands.
The offices in business units are grouped into either Australia, USA, Canada, Malaysia and Divisional Directors, their appointed functional or geographical areas.
This Singapore are managed as part of the project managers and full-time Energy division and have local accounting organisation is capable of delivering and professional trainers are responsible for and support staff.
managing significantly more organic and the management of training and for the acquired growth.
Equally at a time of verification of technical competence for Equal Opportunities in financial and economic uncertainty as the project personnel, in accordance with our Employment world is currently experiencing our quality management system.
RPS provides equal opportunities for all its attention to detail and focus on cost employees and potential employees We aim to identify and provide training, management will enable us to operate regardless of their sex, sexual orientation, education and development for the Group efficiently.
age, race, religion, ethnic origin, disability, employees, in order that they can develop The Group provides support to the marital status, colour and nationality.
The and apply this knowledge to greater and marketing functions of its activities through policy applies to the advertisement of more demanding roles in the future.
jobs, recruitment and appointment, its business information unit, which is also Wherever possible we try to identify training, conditions of work, pay and to responsible for the Group website and successors to key posts within the every aspect of employment.
We continued to make significant organisation as part of our ongoing investments in the intranet and website succession management policy.
We recognise our obligations to ensure during 2008 as they are the main All externally advertised posts are first that people with disabilities are afforded published on the JoinRPS.
com careers equal opportunities to employment and website which is promoted internally via progress within the Group.
Central to identifying our RPS policy on equal opportunities covers training and educational needs is staff all areas of discrimination.
This activity is concerned with developing staff by identifying and meeting Training and Continuous performance and training needs as well as Professional Development developing individual potential.
RPS is committed to the training, education and development of its Appraisals are intended to complement employees to increase effectiveness, the standard staff induction programme develop potential and ensure adequate on Company policy and procedures, succession planning.
RPS is named as one which covers topics including safety or of Britains Top Employers 2009 by the equipment handling and involves Report and Accounts 2008 Business Review 17 assessments of competency on a more n Imperial College University of Group administrative level.
Staff appraisal is a London, MSc in Geotechnical Average number 2008 2007 continuous process and is not limited to Engineering of employees formal meetings.
However, formal appraisal Number of employees 4,478 4,093 n University College London UCL, one Days absent % 1.7 1.1 meetings take place in many parts of the MSc student in Urban Design and Average length Group at least once a year.
of service years 5.0 3.7 another MSc student in Spatial Planning Working part time % 7.5 8.7 RPS is a recognised commercial training n South Bank University, one MSc Retention Rate % 89.6 86.0 provider in a number of specific technical student in Transport Engineering and fields and is certified by such external another MSc student in Urban Planning Age profile bodies as CCNSG ECITB on site safety Employees aged under 25 % 11.2 12.4 n University of the West of England, courses.
RPS operates a CIWEM Employees aged 25-29 % 19.1 21.5 MSc in Transport Planning approved structured training scheme for Employees aged 30-49 % 52.1 48.6 its chartered water and environmental Employees aged 50 % 17.6 17.5 n Anglia Ruskin University, engineers and MICE and MIEI approved BSc in Environmental Planning CPD schemes for civil engineers in the UK Pensions Active members 2,430 1,978 n Brunel University, School of Engineering and Ireland.
Our aim is to help the & Design EngD in Infrared and Thermal development of individuals throughout Imaging of Nocturnal Bird Movements their employment with the Company, by underpinning the strengthening skills and n fide Montfort University, MSc in Energy professional ethics, whilst broadening their and Sustainable Buildings business knowledge.
One of the key Academic Bursaries n Queens University Belfast, objectives of the scheme is the long-term For the sixth consecutive year, RPS in the MEng in Civil Engineering commitment to CPD of all existing staff UK continued its practice of awarding within the organisation.
Thereby, individuals n University of Wales, Newport academic bursaries to students studying at are always able to demonstrate technical Allt-yr-yn Campus HND in Business university.
In 2008, this included students experience in specific sectors, such as the Administration and Accounting attending courses at twenty four UK water industry, or in relevant aspects of universities: n University of Loughborough, two environmental consultancy.
undergraduates studying for an n University of Cambridge Christs RPS industrial architecture and civil MEng in Civil Engineering College, MEng in Civil Engineering & engineering practice at Newark has an MEng in Structural Engineering n University of Nottingham, two Investors in People accreditation undergraduates studying for an recognising its commitment to staff n Oxford Brookes University MSc MEng in Civil Engineering training, internal communications and in Environmental Assessment client feedback dissemination and and Management n University of Lincoln, BA Architecture response.
The scheme not only focuses on n University of St Andrews, MSc in Bat n University of Sheffield, the in-house training provision for school Conservation in the Planning System Part 2 Architecture MArch leavers and graduate level CAD technicians, but also on promoting best n University of Heriot Watt, n University of Huddersfield, practice at every level of the business.
MSc in Water Engineering International Diploma in Architecture rpsgroup.
com Operations 18 n Leeds Metropolitan University, one BLA IBEC and the Confederation of British profit rather than revenue.
Whilst it is student in Landscape Architecture Industry CBI and support from tempting to remain in products and Universities Ireland.
Two equivalent RPS markets where margins are falling in order n University of York, MSc in Risk bursaries were open to graduates with a to maintain revenue, we do not adopt this Management primary degree from one jurisdiction approach.
Instead we endeavour to n University of Newcastle Upon Tyne, proposing to do a Masters degree in the find ways of delivering service in more one MSc student in Hydrogeology other jurisdiction.
These scholarships are attractive ways to clients or if this is and another MSc student in designed to promote all-island conot possible scale back or end our Mechanical Engineering operation and assist the economic involvement in unattractive markets development of the North South Business n Open University, Diploma in and develop and invest in new, more Corridor as part of the implementation of Environmental Science attractive, areas.
This approach has proved the structures set up under the Good valuable as economic recession took hold n Edinburgh College of Art, two BA Hons Friday Agreement.
students studying Landscape Architecture around the world during 2008.
Property n University of Glamorgan, Diploma in The Board is committed to achieving year The Group occupies 118 commercial Occupational Health on year profit and earnings growth for the office premises.
In respect of 10 of these Group, but does not set specific targets for RPS scholarship programme in Ireland we own the freehold.
We are endeavouring to deliver longinvolved a partnership with leading aggregate net book value of 10.0m at term shareholder value and have, therefore, universities and three institutes of December 2008.
The Irish universities included: to balance annual earnings growth with properties are occupied under a range of investment in both our existing clients, staff lease agreements.
The total rent paid in n University College, Cork and products and the development of our 2008 was 6.0m.
n University College, Dublin product offering and capability.
Growth and Funding n Trinity College, Dublin The acquisition strategy RPS has pursued Despite current economic circumstances over the last decade has brought n University College, Galway RPS operates in markets which are considerable benefit to shareholders, generally attractive and expanding with n Queens University, Belfast clients and staff.
The companies acquired good long-term prospects, but fast n University of Ulster have enabled us to build strong positions changing.
We need, therefore, to keep our in a number of markets and, for example, RPS provided funding to Masters level products and services and how we market to create a new business in the energy students to pursue studies in engineering and deliver them under continuous review.
The Board believes that the long-term sector.
This, in turn, enables us to offer a related disciplines.
RPS sponsors the Gold Medal for the top Civil Engineering student health and growth of the Group will be broader, higher quality service to our at University College Dublin and the best secured by ensuring that RPS is, and is clients and attractive employment to staff Centre for Talented Youth programme.
perceived by clients and staff to be, a and potential recruits.
The financial market leader in each of our business performance of the companies which have In 2008 the RPS North South Scholarships areas.
Our corporate strategy is designed been acquired has increased the Groups in Sustainable Development were launched to achieve this.
The Board sees the maintenance with further sponsorship from the Irish Business and Employers Confederation Our financial growth objectives focus on of this element of the strategy as being of Report and Accounts 2008 Business Review 19 importance to the continued growth of Shareholder Value RPS and is prepared to consider more The Board manages the Group in order significant acquisitions, as well as making to achieve good levels of growth in acquisitions outside the countries in which shareholder value on a consistent longwe currently operate.
At the year end the term basis.
The Board, however, recognises Group had net borrowings of 28.6 that this can only be achieved by million Note 25.
RPS normally generates providing a competitive service which sufficient free cash to fund its working adds value to our clients organisations capital and capital expenditure and offering an attractive working requirements.
Additional cash resources environment and career prospects to our are, therefore, only needed in order to staff.
Striking this balance whilst also pursue the Groups acquisition strategy.
respecting our responsibility to society at From time to time, the Board therefore large, is the main task facing Coastal dyke in the Netherlands secures funds by means of arranging debt the Board.
That the Group has continued to grow The Board believes the Groups current over such a long period confirms we are bank facilities, which have recently been operating in an attractive sector and increased to 125 million, will enable it to implementing a proven strategy successfully.
As a result of our acquisition strategy the Group had goodwill carried at 243 Dividend Policy million in the balance sheet at the end For a number of years our dividend per of 2008.
The Group undertakes a rigorous share has grown at an average annual impairment test of such goodwill as compound rate of about 15%.
Our part of the preparation of its accounts ability to maintain this level of growth each year.
will depend upon both the scale of earnings growth as well as the nature and Corporate Governance The T ate Modern, London scale of future acquisitions and how that RPS has had a strong system of investment is funded.
The final dividend governance in place throughout its will normally be greater than the corporate life.
In recent years we have interim payment.
formalised this in response to the various codes and guidelines that have emerged.
The various policies relevant to this are set out fully on pages 45 to 56.
The Board believes that its long-term shareholders understand that RPS operates the highest governance standards.
com Risk Management 20 Mulroy Bay Bridge, Co. Donegal Report and Accounts 2008
