As part of the consideration for RWG, Prior period acquisitions PPE balances.
On JD Consulting a customer 572,970 ordinary shares of RPS Group PLC relationship intangible of 2,508,000 has In 2007 the group acquired APA Petroleum were allotted to the vendors.
There have been no Engineering Inc. and the Scotia Group Inc. changes to the fair values of the net assets The group has finalised the provisional fair As part of the deferred consideration for acquired with the remainder of the 2007 values of the net assets of these RBA 1,240,000 of ordinary shares in RPS acquisitions.
The effect has been a credit to Group Plc will be allotted to the vendors.
net assets on acquisition of these entities by Goodwill represents the value of the 20,000 relating to adjustments to the fair assembled professional workforce acquired value of the opening tax, receivables and with these businesses.
Derivatives and other are the most significant aspects for the rates of interest for the term of the loan.
financial instruments Group in the area of financial instruments.
The Groups overdraft bears interest at It is exposed to a lesser extent to liquidity floating rates.
Surplus funds are placed on Set out below are the narrative disclosures risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies short-term deposit or held within accounts relating to financial instruments.
The for managing each of these risks and they bearing interest related to bank base rate.
numerical disclosures are set out in Notes are summarised below.
Liquidity risk Foreign currency risk The Group has strong cash flow and the Financial instruments The Group, which is based in the UK and funds generated by operating companies The Groups financial assets comprise cash reports in sterling, has investments in are managed on a country basis.
The Group and trade and other receivables which are overseas operations in the Netherlands, also considers its long-term funding categorised as Loans and other Ireland, USA, Canada and Australia that requirements as part of the annual business receivables and held at amortised cost.
have functional currencies other than planning cycle.
Please see note 14 for The Groups financial liabilities comprise sterling.
As a result the Groups balance further detail of the Groups bank facilities.
bank loans and trade and other payables sheet and income statement can be which are categorised as Other financial Credit risk affected by movement in the exchange rate liabilities and held at amortised cost.
The between sterling and the functional The Group is mainly exposed to credit risk fair value of the loan is determined by currencies of overseas operations.
The most from credit sales.
It is Group policy, discounting at the loan interest rate.
The important exchange rate as far as the implemented locally, to assess the credit risk Group occasionally uses forward foreign Group is concerned is the pound euro rate.
of new customers before entering currency to manage transactional currency contracts.
The Group does not enter into The Group does not hedge balance sheet risks arising from the Groups operations.
complex derivatives to manage credit risk.
and income statement translation exposures.
It is, and has been throughout the period Fair values under review, the Groups policy that no Interest rate risk The fair value of the financial assets and trading in financial instruments shall be The Group draws down short term loans, liabilities of the Group are considered to be undertaken.
that may be renewed, against its revolving materially equivalent to their book value.
Foreign currency risk and interest rate risk credit facility principally in sterling at fixed Classification of financial instruments 2008 2007 000s 000s Cash 17,088 10,884 Trade and other receivables 157,607 119,504 Loans and other recievables 174,695 130,388 Bank loans 45,555 43,346 Trade and other payables 87,868 62,750 Other financial liabilities 133,423 106,096 rpsgroup.
