Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Accounting policies The significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation The following standards and amendments have been published of the groups financial statements are set out below.
These that are mandatory for the groups accounting periods beginning policies have been consistently applied to all the periods on or after 1 April 2008 or later periods but that the group has presented, unless otherwise stated.
not early adopted: a Basis of preparation Amendment to IFRS 2, Share-based Payment effective The consolidated financial statements of SABMiller plc have from 1 January 2009, clarifies the definition of vesting been prepared in accordance with International Financial conditions and provides guidance on the accounting treatment Reporting Standards as adopted for use in the European Union, of cancellations by other parties.
The group does not plan to IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 1985 applicable apply this Amendment early, and its adoption is not expected to companies reporting under IFRS.
to have a material impact on the groups results.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical IFRS 8, Operating Segments, effective from 1 January 2009, cost convention, except for share-based payments, pensions requires the amount reported for each operating segment item and post-retirement benefits and the revaluation to fair value to be the measure reported to management for the purposes of certain financial instruments as described in the accounting of allocating resources to the segment and assessing its policies below.
The accounts have been prepared on a going performance.
The group does not plan to apply IFRS 8 early, concern basis.
and its adoption is not expected to have a material impact on the groups current segmental reporting.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use IAS 1 revised, Presentation of financial statements, of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires effective from 1 January 2009, prohibits the presentation management to exercise judgment in the process of applying of items of income and expense that is, non-owner changes the groups accounting policies.
Actual results could differ in equity in the statement of changes in equity, requiring from those estimates.
non-owner changes in equity to be presented separately from owner changes in equity.
All non-owner changes in equity will be required to be shown in a performance statement b Recent accounting developments but entities can choose whether to present one performance i Standards and interpretations of published standards statement the statement of comprehensive income or two effective during the year ended 31 March 2008. statements the income statement and statement of IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2, effective from 1 May 2006 comprehensive income.
provides guidance on the scope of IFRS 2.
IAS 23 revised, Borrowing costs effective from 1 January IFRIC 9, Re-assessment of embedded derivatives, effective 2009, is still subject to endorsement by the European Union.
from 1 June 2006 provides guidance as to the circumstances It requires an entity to capitalise borrowing costs directly an embedded derivative can be reassessed.
attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset one that takes a substantial period of time IFRIC 10, Interim financial reporting and impairment effective to get ready for use or sale as part of the cost of that asset.
from 1 November 2006 prohibits the reversal of impairment The option of immediately expensing those borrowing costs losses recognised in an interim period in the annual period.
The group will apply IAS 23 revised from IFRIC 11, IFRS 2Group and treasury share transactions 1 April 2009, subject to endorsement by the EU.
The group effective from 1 March 2007 provides guidance on sharedoes not plan to apply IAS 23 revised early, and its adoption based payment arrangements with a Group of companies.
is not expected to have a material impact on the groups results.
IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures and the IAS 27 revised, Consolidated and separate financial amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements statements, effective from 1 July 2009, is still subject to Capital Disclosures, effective from 1 January 2007, introduce endorsement by the European Union.
Among other changes new disclosures to improve the information about financial it requires that the difference between the consideration instruments.
It requires the disclosures of qualitative and paid or received and the recorded non-controlling interest quantitative information about exposure to risks arising from is recognised in equity in respect of transactions with nonfinancial instruments, including specified minimum disclosures controlling interests in group entities which do not result in a about credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk, including change of control.
In the case of the disposal of a subsidiary, sensitivity analysis to market risk.
It replaces disclosure any retained interest will be re-measured to fair value and the requirements in IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and difference between fair value and the previous carrying value Presentation.
This standard does not have any impact on the will be recognised immediately in the income statement.
classification and valuation of the groups financial instruments.
The group does not plan to apply IAS 27 revised early.
The adoption of these interpretations and IFRS 7 has not had a IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations, effective from material effect on the consolidated results of operations or 1 July 2009, is still subject to endorsement by the European financial position of the group.
Among other changes it requires transaction costs to be recognised immediately in the income statement, fair ii Standards and amendments to published standards that value gains or losses on existing investments in an acquired are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by company to be recognised in the income statement on the the group.
date of acquisition and adjustments to deferred tax outside of the hindsight period are recorded under IAS 12, as opposed to affecting goodwill.
In addition it requires the recognition of subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration in the income statement rather than against goodwill.
66 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 1.
Accounting policies continued c Significant judgements and estimates Intra-group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or In determining and applying accounting policies, judgement is income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are often required where the choice of specific policy, assumption eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
or accounting estimate to be followed could materially affect the Unrealised losses are eliminated unless the transaction provides reported results or net position of the group, should it later be evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
determined that a different choice be more appropriate.
Some of the companys subsidiaries have a local statutory Management considers the following to be areas of significant accounting reference date of 31 December.
These are consolidated judgement and estimation for the group: using management prepared information on a basis coterminous with the companys accounting reference date.
i Impairment reviews in respect of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are performed at least annually.
More regular ii Associates reviews are performed if events indicate that this is necessary.
Associates are entities in which the group has a long-term Details of the estimates used are set out in note 10. interest and over which the group has directly or indirectly significant influence, where significant influence is the ability ii The determination of the carrying amount of property, plant to influence the financial and operating policies of the entity.
and equipment and related depreciation: capitalisation of costs, estimation of useful economic life and recoverability The associate, Distell Group Ltd, has a statutory accounting of such assets.
The estimates in relation to these items are reference date of 30 June.
In respect of each year ending set out in part i to this note.
31 March, this company is included based on financial statements drawn up to the previous 31 December, but taking into account iii The group is subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
any changes in the subsequent period from 1 January to Significant judgement is required in determining the provision 31 March that would materially affect the results.
All other for taxes as the tax treatment cannot be finally determined associates are included on a coterminous basis.
until a formal resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority.
f Foreign exchange iv Pension accounting requires certain assumptions to be made i Foreign exchange translation in order to value our obligations and to determine the charges Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups to be made to the income statement.
Details of the entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic assumptions used are set out in note 30. environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
v The determination of the carrying amount and estimated useful The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars lives of intangible assets acquired in a business combination.
which is the groups presentational currency.
The South African rand ZAR and Colombian peso COP exchange rates to US dollar used in preparing the consolidated financial statements d Segmental reporting were as follows: A reportable segment is a distinguishable business or geographical component of the group that provides products Weighted average rate Closing rate or services that are different from those of other segments.
ZAR COP ZAR COP Segments results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated Year ended 31 March 2007 7.06 2,340 7.29 2,190 on a reasonable basis.
Year ended 31 March 2008 7.13 1,997 8.15 1,822 The groups primary segmental analyses are in accordance with The weighted average exchange rates have been calculated the basis on which the businesses are managed and according based on the average of the exchange rates during the relevant to the differing risk and reward profiles.
The group presents its year and weighted according to the revenue of the groups geographic analysis as its primary segmentation.
The group presents its product analysis as its secondary ii Transactions and balances segmentation.
This will be analysed between secondary segments The financial statements for each group company have been of Beer, Soft drinks and Other.
prepared on the basis that transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in their functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling e Basis of consolidation at the date of the transaction.
Monetary items denominated in SABMiller plc the company is a public limited company foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling incorporated in Great Britain and registered in England and at the balance sheet date with the resultant translation differences Wales.
The consolidated financial statements include the financial being included in operating profit in the income statement other information of the subsidiary and associated entities owned by than those arising on financial assets and liabilities which are the company.
recorded within net finance costs and those which are deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net i Subsidiaries investment hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the company, where assets such as equity investments classified as available for control is the power directly or indirectly to govern the financial sale assets are included in equity.
and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefit from its activities, regardless of whether this power is actually iii Overseas subsidiaries and associates exercised.
Where the companys interest in subsidiaries is less One-off items in the income and cash flow statements of than 100%, the share attributable to outside shareholders is overseas subsidiaries and associates expressed in currencies reflected in minority interests.
Subsidiaries are included in the other than the US dollar are translated to US dollars at the rates financial statements from the date control commences until of exchange prevailing on the day of the transaction.
All other the date control ceases.
items are translated at weighted average rates of exchange for the relevant reporting period.
Assets and liabilities of these Notes to the consolidated financial statements 67 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued undertakings are translated at closing rates of exchange at ii Associates each balance sheet date.
All translation exchange differences The groups share of the recognised income and expenses of arising on the retranslation of opening net assets together with associates are accounted for using the equity method from the differences between income statements translated at average date significant influence commences to the date it ceases based and closing rates are recognised as a separate component of on present ownership interests.
The date significant influence equity.
For these purposes net assets include loans between commences is not necessarily the same as the closing date group companies that form part of the net investment, for which or any other date named in the contract.
settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable The group recognises its share of associates results as a one future and is either denominated in the functional currency of the line entry before tax in the income statement, after taking account parent or the foreign entity.
When a foreign operation is disposed of the share of interest, tax and minority interests.
of, any related exchange differences in equity are recycled through the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
When the groups interest in an associate has been reduced to nil because the groups share of losses exceeds its interest in Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of the associate, the group only provides for additional losses to the a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign extent that it has incurred legal or constructive obligations to fund entity and translated at the closing rate.
such losses, or make payments on behalf of the associate.
Where the disposal of an investment in an associate is considered highly g Business combinations probable that is, significantly more likely than probable, the i Subsidiaries investment ceases to be equity accounted and, instead, is The purchase method is used to account for the acquisition classified as held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying of subsidiaries.
The identifiable net assets including intangibles, amount and fair value less costs to dispose.
are incorporated into the financial statements on the basis of iii Goodwill their fair value from the effective date of control, and the results Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the of subsidiary undertakings acquired during the financial year costs of acquisition over the groups interest in the fair value of the are included in the groups results from that date.
identifiable assets including intangibles, liabilities and contingent Control is presumed to exist when the group owns, directly or liabilities of the acquired entity at the date of acquisition.
Where indirectly through subsidiaries, more than half of the voting power the fair value of the groups share of identifiable net assets of an entity unless, in exceptional circumstances, it can be clearly acquired exceeds the fair value of the consideration, the difference demonstrated that such ownership does not constitute control.
is recorded as negative goodwill.
Negative goodwill arising on an Control also exists where the group has the ability to direct or acquisition is recognised immediately in the income statement.
dominate decision-making in an entity, regardless of whether Goodwill is stated at cost less impairment losses and is reviewed this power is actually exercised.
for impairment on an annual basis.
Any impairment identified On the acquisition of a company or business, fair values is recognised immediately in the income statement and is reflecting conditions at the date of acquisition are attributed not reversed.
to the identifiable assets including intangibles, liabilities and The carrying amount of goodwill in respect of associates is contingent liabilities acquired.
Fair values of these assets and included in the carrying value of the investment in the associate.
liabilities are determined by reference to market values, where available, or by reference to the current price at which similar Where a business combination occurs in several stages, the assets could be acquired or similar obligations entered into, or goodwill associated with each stage is calculated using fair value by discounting expected future cash flows to present value, information at the date of each additional share purchase.
using either market rates or the risk-free rates and risk-adjusted expected future cash flows.
h Intangible assets The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred on a straight-line basis if applicable and impairment losses.
Cost or assumed at the date of the acquisition plus costs directly is usually determined as the amount paid by the group, unless the attributable to the acquisition.
It also includes the groups estimate asset has been acquired as part of a business combination.
of any deferred consideration payable.
Where the business Amortisation is included within net operating expenses in the combination agreement provides for an adjustment to the cost income statement.
Internally generated intangibles are not that is contingent on future events, contingent consideration is recognised except for applied development costs referred to included in the cost of an acquisition if the adjustment is probable under research and development below.
that is, more likely than not and can be measured reliably.
The Intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortised but are difference between the costs of acquisition and the share of the subject to annual reviews for impairment.
net assets acquired is capitalised as goodwill.
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over their Where the group purchases additional shares in subsidiaries such estimated useful economic lives, and only tested for impairment purchases are reflected as separate acquisition processes and no where there is a triggering event.
The directors assessment of revised fair valuation is required.
The difference between the costs the useful life of intangible assets is based on the nature of the of acquisition and the share of the net assets acquired is asset acquired, the durability of the products to which the asset capitalised as goodwill.
attaches and the expected future impact of competition on On the subsequent disposal or termination of a previously the business.
acquired business, the results of the business are included in the groups results up to the effective date of disposal.
The profit or loss on disposal or termination is calculated after charging or crediting the amount of any related goodwill to the extent that it has not previously been taken to the income statement.
68 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 1.
Accounting policies continued Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination v Research and development are recognised separately when they are identifiable, it is probable Research and general development expenditure is written that economic benefits will flow to the group and the fair value off in the period in which it is incurred.
Certain applied development costs are only capitalised as i Trademarks recognised as part of a business combination internally generated intangible assets where there is a clearly Trademarks are recognised as an intangible asset where the defined project, separately identifiable expenditure, an outcome trademark has a long term value.
Acquired trademarks are assessed with reasonable certainty in terms of feasibility and only recognised where title is clear or the trademark could be commerciality, future costs exceed expected revenue and the sold separately from the rest of the business and the earnings group has the resources to complete the task.
Such assets are attributable to it are separately identifiable.
The group typically amortised on a straight line basis over their useful lives.
arrives at the cost of such trademarks on a relief from royalty basis.
i Property, plant and equipment Where the acquired trademark is seen as having a finite useful Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost net of economic life, it is subject to amortisation, which in respect of accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
trademarks currently held is 10-40 years, being the period for Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the which the group has exclusive rights to those trademarks.
Subsequent costs are included in Where the acquired trademark is seen as having an indefinite the assets carrying value or recognised as a separate asset as useful economic life, the carrying value is subject to an annual appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits impairment review.
associated with the specific asset will flow to the group and the ii Contract brewing and other licences recognised as part cost can be measured reliably.
Repairs and maintenance costs of a business combination are charged to the income statement during the financial period Contractual arrangements for contract brewing and competitor in which they are incurred.
licensing arrangements are recognised as an intangible asset at i Assets in the course of construction a fair value representing the remaining contractual period with Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost less any an assumption about the expectation that such a contract will be impairment loss.
Cost includes professional fees and for qualifying renewed, together with a valuation of this extension.
Contractual assets certain borrowing costs as determined below.
When these arrangements and relationships with customers and distributors assets are ready for their intended use, they are transferred into are also valued on a similar basis.
At this point depreciation commences Where the acquired licence or contract is seen as having a finite on the same basis as on other property, plant and equipment.
useful economic life, it is subject to amortisation, which is the ii Assets held under finance leases period for which the group has exclusive rights to these assets Assets held under finance leases which result in the group or income streams.
bearing substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to iii Customer lists and relationships recognised as part of ownership are capitalised as property, plant and equipment.
a business combination Finance lease assets are initially recognised at an amount The fair value of businesses acquired may include customer lists equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of and distributor relationships.
These are recognised as intangible the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, then assets and are calculated by discounting the future revenue depreciated over their useful lives.
The capital element of future stream attributable to these lists or relationships.
obligations under the leases is included as a liability in the balance sheet classified, as appropriate, as a current or non-current Where the acquired asset is seen as having a finite useful liability.
The interest element of the lease obligations is charged economic life ranging from 10 to 15 years, it is subject to to the income statement over the period of the lease term to amortisation over the period for which the group has the benefit reflect a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of of these assets.
the obligation for each financial period.
iv Software iii Containers Where computer software is not an integral part of a related Containers in circulation are recorded within property, plant and item of property, plant and equipment, the software is capitalised equipment at cost net of accumulated depreciation less any as an intangible asset.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis Depreciation of returnable bottles and containers is recorded of the costs incurred to acquire and bring them to use.
Direct to write the containers off over the course of their economic life.
costs associated with the production of identifiable and unique This is typically undertaken in a two stage process: internally generated software products controlled by the group that will probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs The excess over deposit value is written down over a period beyond one year are capitalised.
Direct costs include software of 1-3 years.
development employment costs including those of contractors Provisions are made against the deposit values for breakages used and an appropriate portion of overheads.
Capitalised and loss in trade together with a design obsolescence computer software, licence and development costs are amortised provision held to write off the deposit value over the expected over their useful economic lives of between 3 and 8 years.
bottle design period which is a period of no more than Internally generated costs associated with maintaining computer 10 years from the inception of a bottle design.
This period is software programmes are expensed as incurred.
shortened where appropriate by reference to market dynamics and the ability of the entity to use bottles for different brands.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 69 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued iv Depreciation Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less further No depreciation is provided on freehold land or assets in the costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
In respect of all other plant, property and equipment, depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis l Financial assets and financial liabilities at rates calculated to write off the cost or valuation, less the Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recorded estimated residual value of each asset over its expected useful at fair value plus any directly attributable transactions costs life as follows: where applicable.
For those financial instruments that are not Freehold buildings 20-50 years subsequently held at fair value, the group assesses whether Leasehold buildings Shorter of the lease term there is any objective evidence of impairment at each balance or 50 years sheet date.
Plant, vehicles and systems 2-30 years Financial assets are recognised when the group has rights or Returnable containers other access to economic benefits.
Such assets consist of non-returnable containers cash, equity instruments, a contractual right to receive cash or are recorded as inventory 1-10 years another financial asset, or a contractual right to exchange financial Assets held under finance leases Lower of the lease term instruments with another entity on potentially favourable terms.
of life of the asset Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash The group regularly reviews all of its depreciation rates and flows from the asset have expired or have been transferred and residual values to take account of any changes in circumstances.
the group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards When setting useful economic lives, the principal factors the of ownership.
group takes into account are the expected rate of technological Financial liabilities are recognised when there is an obligation developments, expected market requirements for the equipment to transfer benefits and that obligation is a contractual liability and the intensity at which the assets are expected to be used.
to deliver cash or another financial asset or to exchange financial The profit or loss on the disposal of an asset is the difference instruments with another entity on potentially unfavourable terms.
between the disposal proceeds and the net book amount.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when they are extinguished, that is discharged, cancelled or expired.
v Capitalisation of borrowing costs Direct financing costs incurred, before tax, on major capital If a legally enforceable right exists to set off recognised projects during the period of development or construction that amounts of financial assets and liabilities, which are in necessarily take a substantial period of time to be developed for determinable monetary amounts, the relevant financial assets their intended use, are capitalised up to the time of completion and liabilities are offset.
Interest costs are charged against income in the year in which they accrue.
Premiums or discounts arising from the difference j Advance payments made to customers principally between the net proceeds of financial instruments purchased hotels, restaurants, bars and clubs or issued and the amounts receivable or repayable at maturity Advance payments made to customers are conditional on are included in the effective interest calculation and taken to the achievement of contracted sales targets or marketing net interest payable over the life of the instrument.
The group records such payments as prepayments There are four categories of financial assets and financial liabilities.
initially at fair value and are amortised in the income statement These are described as follows: over the relevant period to which the customer commitment is made typically 3-5 years.
These prepayments are recorded i Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through net of any impairment losses.
profit or loss Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value though profit Where there is a volume target the amortised cost of the or loss includes derivative assets and derivative liabilities not advance is included in sales discounts as a reduction to revenue designated as effective hedging instruments.
and where there are specific marketing activities commitments the cost is included as an operating expense.
The amounts All gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial capitalised are reassessed annually for achievement of targets assets or financial liabilities within this category are recognised in and are impaired where there is objective evidence that the the income statement.
targets will not be achieved.
a Derivative financial assets and financial liabilities Assets held at customer premises are included within plant, Derivative financial assets and financial liabilities are financial property and equipment and are depreciated in line with group instruments whose value changes in response to an underlying policies on similar assets.
variable, require little or no initial investment and are settled in the future.
k Inventories These include derivatives embedded in host contracts.
Such Inventories are stated at the lower of cost incurred in bringing embedded derivatives need not be accounted for separately if each product to its present location and condition, and net the host contract is already fair valued: if it is not considered as realisable value, as follows: a derivative if it was freestanding: or if it can be demonstrated that it is closely related to the host contract.
There are certain currency Raw materials, consumables and goods for resale: Purchase exemptions which the group has applied to these rules which cost net of discounts and rebates on a first-in first-out basis limit the need to account for certain potential embedded foreign FIFO.
These are: if a contract is denominated in Finished goods and work in progress: Raw material cost plus the functional currency of either party: where that currency is direct costs and a proportion of manufacturing overhead commonly used in international trade of the good traded: or expenses on a FIFO basis.
if it is commonly used for local transactions in an economic environment.
70 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 1.
Accounting policies continued Derivative financial assets and liabilities are analysed between a Trade payables current and non-current assets and liabilities on the face of the Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and balance sheet, depending on when they are expected to mature.
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Trade payables are analysed between current For derivatives that have not been designated to a hedging and non-current liabilities on the face of the balance sheet, relationship, all fair value movements are recognised immediately depending on when the obligation to settle will be realised.
See note x for the groups accounting policy on hedge accounting.
b Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transactions ii Loans and receivables costs and are subsequently stated at amortised cost and include Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with accrued interest and prepaid interest.
Borrowings are classified fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active as current liabilities unless the group has an unconditional right market.
They arise when the group provides money, goods to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months from the or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading balance sheet date.
Borrowings classified as hedged items are the receivable.
They are included in current assets, except for subject to hedge accounting requirements see note x.
Bank maturities of greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities and which are classified as non-current assets.
Loans and receivables are included within cash and cash equivalents on the face of the are initially recognised at fair value including originating fees and cash flow statement as they form an integral part of the groups transaction costs, and subsequently measured at amortised cost cash management.
using the effective interest method less provision for impairment.
Loans and receivables include trade receivables, amounts owed by associates trade, accrued income and cash and cash m Impairment equivalents.
This policy covers all assets except inventories see note k, financial assets see note l, non-current assets classified as a Trade receivables held for sale see note n, and deferred tax assets see note u.
Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less provision Impairment reviews are performed by comparing the carrying for impairment.
value of the non-current asset to its recoverable amount, being the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established The fair value less costs to sell is considered to be the amount when there is objective evidence that the group will not be able that could be obtained on disposal of the asset.
The value in to collect all amounts due according to the terms of the use of the asset is determined by discounting, at a market based receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between pre-tax discount rate, the expected future cash flows resulting the assets carrying value and the present value of the estimated from its continued use, including those arising from its final future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
When the carrying values of non-current assets are This provision is recognised in the income statement.
written down by any impairment amount, the loss is recognised b Cash and cash equivalents in the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, bank deposits Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are repayable on demand and other short-term highly liquid independent from the cash flows of other assets, the group investments with original maturities of three months or less.
estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating iii Available for sale investments unit CGU to which the assets belongs.
For the purpose of Available for sale investments are non-derivative financial assets conducting impairment reviews, CGUs are considered to be that are either designated in this category or not classified as groups of assets and liabilities that have separately identifiable financial assets at fair value through the income statement, or cash flows.
They also include those assets and liabilities directly loans and receivables.
Investments in this category are included involved in producing the income and a suitable proportion of in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose those used to produce more than one income stream.
of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
When an impairment is recognised, the impairment loss is held They are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs firstly against any specifically impaired assets of the CGU, then and are subsequently re-measured at fair value and tested for taken against goodwill balances and if there is a remaining loss impairment.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair it is set against the remaining intangible and tangible assets value including any related foreign exchange movements are on a pro-rata basis.
On disposal or impairment of available for sale investments, any gains or losses in equity are recycled Should circumstances or events change and give rise to a reversal through the income statement.
of a previous impairment loss, the reversal is recognised in the income statement in the period in which it occurs and the carrying Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the date value of the asset is increased.
The increase in the carrying value on which the group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
of the asset is restricted to the amount that it would have been Investments are derecognised when the rights to receive cash had the original impairment not occurred.
Impairment losses in flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred respect of goodwill are irreversible.
and the group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Intangible non-current assets with an indefinite life and goodwill are tested annually for impairment.
Assets subject to amortisation iv Financial liabilities held at amortised cost are reviewed for impairment if circumstances or events change Financial liabilities held at amortised cost include trade payables, to indicate that the carrying value may not be fully recoverable.
accruals, amounts owed to associates trade, other payables and borrowings.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 71 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued n Non-current assets or disposal groups held for sale of sales.
It is not generally recognised as a separate item on Non-current assets and all assets and liabilities classified as held invoices, increases in excise are not always directly passed on for resale are measured at the lower of carrying value and fair to customers, and the group cannot reclaim the excise where value less costs to sell.
customers do not pay for product received.
The group therefore considers excise as a cost to the group and reflects it as a Such assets are classified as held for resale if their carrying production cost.
Consequently any excise that is recovered amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than in the sale price is included in revenue.
This condition is regarded as met only when a sale is highly probable, the asset or disposal group is Revenue excludes value added tax.
It is stated net of price available for immediate sale in its present condition and when discounts, promotional discounts, settlement discounts and after management is committed to the sale which is expected to an appropriate amount has been provided to cover the sales value qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year of credit notes yet to be issued that relate to the current and from date of classification.
The same recognition criteria also apply to the sale of by-products o Provisions and waste such as spent grain, malt dust and yeast with the Provisions are recognised when there is a present obligation, exception that these are included within other income.
whether legal or constructive, as a result of a past event for ii Interest income which it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis using the be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can effective interest method.
be made of the amount of the obligation.
Such provisions are calculated on a discounted basis where the effect is material to When a receivable is impaired the group reduces the carrying the original undiscounted provision.
The carrying amount of the amount to its recoverable amount by discounting the estimated provision increases in each period to reflect the passage of time future cash flows at the original effective interest rate, and and the unwinding of the discount and the movement is continuing to unwind the discount as interest income.
recognised in the income statement within interest costs.
iii Royalty income Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination penalties Royalty income is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance and employee termination payments.
Provisions are not with the relevant agreements and is included in other income.
recognised for future operating losses however provisions are iv Dividend income recognised for onerous contracts where the unavoidable cost Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment exceeds the expected benefit.
p Share capital s Operating leases Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
The non-voting Rentals paid and incentives received on operating leases are convertible shares are also classified as equity.
Incremental charged or credited to the income statement on a straight-line costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options basis over the lease term.
are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options, or for the acquisition of a business, are included in t Exceptional items the share premium account.
Where certain expense or revenue items recorded in a period are material by their size or incidence, the group reflects such items as exceptional items within a separate line on the income q Investments in own shares and those shares held statement except for those exceptional items that relate to by employee benefit trusts associates, interest and tax.
Associates, interest and tax Shares held by employee share ownership plans and employee exceptional items are only referred to in the notes to the benefit trusts are treated as a deduction from equity until the shares consolidated financial statements.
are cancelled, reissued, or disposed of.
The SABMiller plc shares held by Safari Ltd, a special purpose vehicle, are classified similarly.
Exceptional items are also summarised by class in the segmental analyses, excluding those that relate to interest and tax.
Purchases of such shares are classified in the cash flow statement as a purchase of own shares for share trusts within net cash from Where certain income statement items incurred are of a capital financing activities.
nature or are considered material and non-recurring, the group proposes to continue to present alternative earnings per share Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued any calculations both on a headline under the CFA Society of the consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental UK definition and on an adjusted basis.
costs and related tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the companys equity shareholders.
u Taxation The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred r Revenue recognition tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the i Sale of goods and services extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, Revenue represents the fair value at consideration received or in which case it is recognised in equity.
receivable for goods and services provided to third parties and is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership are Current tax expense is based on the results for the period as substantially transferred.
adjusted for items that are not taxable or not deductible.
The groups liability for current taxation is calculated using tax rates The group presents revenue gross of excise duties because and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by unlike value added tax, excise is not directly related to the value the balance sheet date.
72 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 1.
Accounting policies continued Deferred tax is provided in full using the liability method, in respect The group recognises a provision where contractually obliged of all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive assets and liabilities and their carrying values in the consolidated obligation.
At a mid year point an accrual is maintained for the financial statements, except where the temporary difference arises appropriate proportion of the expected bonuses which would from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than a business become payable at the year end.
combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that iv Share-based compensation affects neither accounting nor taxable profit.
The group operates a variety of equity-settled, share-based Deferred tax liabilities are recognised where the carrying value compensation plans.
These comprise share option plans with of an asset is greater than its tax base, or where the carrying and without non-market performance conditions attached and value of a liability is less than its tax base.
Deferred tax is a performance share award scheme with market conditions recognised in full on temporary differences arising from investment attached.
An expense is recognised to spread the fair value in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the of each award granted after 7 November 2002 over the vesting reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the group period on a straight-line basis, after allowing for an estimate of and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse the share awards that will eventually vest.
This expense is offset in the foreseeable future.
This includes taxation in respect of by a corresponding adjustment made to equity over the remaining the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent vesting period.
The estimate of the level of vesting is reviewed that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued at least annually, with any impact on the cumulative charge being as receivable or a binding agreement to distribute past earnings recognised immediately.
The charge is based on the fair value in future periods has been entered into by the subsidiary.
Deferred of the award as at the date of grant, as calculated by various income tax is also recognised in respect of the unremitted retained binomial model calculations and Monte Carlo simulations.
earnings of overseas associates as the group is not able to The charge is not reversed if the options are not exercised determine when such earnings will be remitted and when such because the market value of the shares is lower than the option additional tax such as withholding taxes might be payable.
price at the date of grant.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it is costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share probable that future taxable profit will be available against which premium when the options are exercised.
the temporary differences including carried forward tax losses can be utilised.
v Pension obligations The group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined reverse based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit or substantively enacted at balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan measured on a non-discounted basis.
assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised past service costs.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
v Dividend distributions The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined Dividend distributions to equity holders of the parent are by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest recognised as a liability in the groups financial statements in rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the the period in which the dividends are approved by the companys currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when approved maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Dividends declared after the balance sheet date are not recognised, as there is no present obligation at the balance Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments sheet date.
and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full as they arise outside of income statement and are presented in the statement of recognised income and expense, with the exception w Employee benefits of gains or losses arising from changes in the benefits regarding i Wages and salaries past services, which are recognised in the income statement.
Wages and salaries for current employees are recognised in the income statement as the employees services are rendered.
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional ii Vacation and long-term service awards costs on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of The group recognises a liability and an expense for accrued time.
In this case, the past-service costs are amortised on a vacation pay when such benefits are earned and not when straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised The group also recognises a liability and an expense for long-term as an expense as the costs become payable.
The contributions service awards where cash is paid to the employee at certain are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
milestone dates in a career with the group.
Such accruals are Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent appropriately discounted to reflect the future payment dates that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments at discount rates determined by reference to local high quality is available.
vi Other post-employment obligations iii Profit-sharing and bonus plans Some group companies provide post-retirement healthcare The group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses and benefits to qualifying employees.
The expected costs of these profit-sharing, based on a formula that takes into consideration benefits are assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified the profit attributable to the companys shareholders after certain actuaries and contributions are made to the relevant funds over adjustments.
the expected service lives of the employees entitled to those Notes to the consolidated financial statements 73 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience ii Cash flow hedges adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions are Cash flow hedges comprise derivative financial instruments recognised in full as they arise outside the income statement designated in a hedging relationship to manage currency risk to and are presented in the statement of recognised income which the cash flows of certain liabilities are exposed.
These obligations are valued annually by portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative that is independent qualified actuaries.
designated and qualifies for hedge accounting is recognised as a separate component of equity.
The ineffective portion is recognised vii Termination benefits immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated Termination benefits are payable when employment is in equity are recycled to the income statement in the period in terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an which the hedged item affects profit or loss.
However, where a employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these forecasted transaction results in a non-financial asset or liability, benefits.
The group recognises termination benefits when it is the accumulated fair value movements previously deferred in demonstrably committed to terminating the employment of current equity are included in the initial cost of the asset or liability.
employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal, or providing termination benefits as a result of iii Hedges of net investments in foreign operations an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Benefits Hedges of net investments in foreign operations comprise falling due more than 12 months after balance sheet date are either foreign currency borrowings or derivatives typically forward discounted to present value in a similar manner to all long-term exchange contracts and cross currency swaps designated in employee benefits.
Gains or losses on hedging instruments that are regarded as x Derivative financial instruments hedge accounting highly effective are recognised in equity.
These largely offset Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit foreign currency gains or losses arising on the translation of net or loss include all derivative financial instruments.
The derivative investments that are recorded in equity, in the foreign currency instruments used by the group, which are used solely for hedging translation reserve.
The ineffective portion of gains or losses on purposes i. e. to offset foreign exchange and interest rate risks, hedging instruments is recognised immediately in the income comprise interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and forward statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are only recycled to foreign exchange contracts.
Such derivative instruments are used the income statement upon disposal of the net investment.
to alter the risk profile of an existing underlying exposure of the Where a derivative ceases to meet the criteria of being a hedging group in line with the groups risk management policies.
The instrument or the underlying exposure which it is hedging is sold, group also has derivatives embedded in other contracts primarily matures or is extinguished, hedge accounting is discontinued.
cross border foreign currency supply contracts for raw materials.
A similar treatment is applied where the hedge is of a future Derivatives are initially recorded at fair value on the date a derivative transaction and that transaction is no longer likely to occur.
contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their Certain derivative instruments, whilst providing effective economic fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss hedges under the groups policies, are not designated as hedges.
depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not instrument, and if so, the nature of the hedging relationship.
qualify or have not been designated as hedges are recognised In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the group is required immediately in the income statement.
The group does not hold to document at inception, the relationship between the hedged or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
item and the hedging instrument as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking hedging transactions.
y Deposits by customers The group is also required to document and demonstrate that the Bottles and containers in circulation are recorded within property, relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument plant and equipment and a corresponding liability is recorded will be highly effective.
This effectiveness test is re-performed at in respect of the obligation to repay the customers deposits.
each period end to ensure that the hedge has remained and will Deposits paid by customers for branded returnable containers continue to remain highly effective.
are reflected in the balance sheet within current liabilities.
The group designates certain derivatives as either: hedges of Any estimated liability that may arise in respect of deposits the fair of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment for unbranded containers and bottles is shown in provisions.
fair value hedge : hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or commitment cash flow hedge : or hedges of net investments z Earnings per share in foreign operations net investment hedge.
Basic earnings per share represents the profit on ordinary i Fair value hedges activities after taxation attributable to the equity shareholders Fair value hedges comprise derivative financial instruments of the parent entity, divided by the weighted average number of designated in a hedging relationship to manage the groups ordinary shares in issue during the year, less the weighted average interest rate risk to which the fair value of certain assets and number of ordinary shares held in the groups employee benefit liabilities are exposed.
Changes in the fair value of the derivative trust during the year.
offset the relevant changes in the fair value of the underlying Diluted earnings per share represents the profit on ordinary hedged item attributable to the hedged risk in the income activities after taxation attributable to the equity shareholders, statement in the period incurred.
divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in Gains or losses on fair value hedges that are regarded as highly issue during the year, less the weighted average number of effective are recorded in the income statement together with the ordinary shares held in the groups employee benefit trust during gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk.
the year, plus the weighted average number of dilutive shares resulting from share options and other potential ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
74 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 2.
Segmental analysis Primary reporting format geographical segments Income statement Share of Share of post-tax post-tax Segment Segment results of Segment Segment results of revenue result associates Total revenue result associates Total 2008 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 5,239 892 892 4,373 746 746 Europe 5,242 947 1 948 4,078 706 706 North America 5,120 411 411 4,887 366 366 Africa and Asia 1,853 330 150 480 1,455 272 121 393 South Africa 3,956 962 121 1,083 3,827 1,043 84 1,127 Corporate 94 94 106 106 Group 21,410 3,448 272 3,720 18,620 3,027 205 3,232 Net finance costs 456 428 Profit before tax 3,264 2,804 Taxation 976 921 Profit for the year 2,288 1,883 Voluntary Income Statement disclosures for the primary reporting format Alternative performance measures have been provided below on a segmental basis since the directors believe that they give a useful additional indication of underlying performance.
Group revenue including associates Group Group Share of revenue Share of revenue Segment associates including Segment associates including revenue revenue associates revenue revenue associates 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 5,239 12 5,251 4,373 19 4,392 Europe 5,242 6 5,248 4,078 4,078 North America 5,120 5,120 4,887 4,887 Africa and Asia 1,853 1,514 3,367 1,455 1,219 2,674 South Africa Beverages 3,956 490 4,446 3,827 447 4,274 Hotels and Gaming 396 396 340 340 South Africa total 3,956 886 4,842 3,827 787 4,614 Group 21,410 2,418 23,828 18,620 2,025 20,645 There is no material difference between the source and destination of revenue.
Revenue between segments is immaterial.
Operating profit Operating Operating profit before profit before Operating Exceptional exceptional Operating Exceptional exceptional profit items items profit items items 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 892 61 953 746 64 810 Europe 947 947 706 24 730 North America 411 51 462 366 366 Africa and Asia 330 330 272 272 South Africa: Beverages 962 962 1,043 1,043 Corporate 94 94 106 5 101 Group 3,448 112 3,560 3,027 93 3,120 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 75 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Segmental analysis continued EBITA This comprises operating profit before exceptional items, amortisation of intangible assets excluding software and includes the groups share of associates operating profit on a similar basis.
Share of Share of associates Amortisation associates Amortisation Operating operating of intangible Operating operating of intangible profit before profit before assets profit before profit before assets exceptional exceptional excluding exceptional exceptional excluding items items software EBITA items items software EBITA 2008 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 953 118 1,071 810 105 915 Europe 947 1 4 952 730 3 733 North America 462 15 477 366 9 375 Africa and Asia 330 231 7 568 272 193 2 467 South Africa: Beverages 962 64 1,026 1,043 59 1,102 Hotels and Gaming 139 2 141 100 100 South Africa total 962 203 2 1,167 1,043 159 1,202 Corporate 94 94 101 101 Group 3,560 435 146 4,141 3,120 352 119 3,591 The groups share of associates operating profit is reconciled to the share of post-tax results of associates in the income statement as follows: 2008 2007 US$m US$m Share of associates operating profit before exceptional items 435 352 Share of associates finance costs 11 9 Share of associates taxation 120 102 Share of associates minority interests 32 36 Share of post-tax results of associates 272 205 EBITDA a reconciliation of group EBITDA after cash exceptional items to cash generated from operations can be found in note 27a.
This comprises the net cash generated from operations before working capital movements and after operating cash exceptional items.
EBITDA EBITDA before cash Cash before cash Cash exceptional exceptional exceptional exceptional items items EBITDA items items EBITDA 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 1,319 17 1,302 1,147 25 1,122 Europe 1,203 1,203 936 7 929 North America 569 2 567 510 510 Africa and Asia 404 404 340 340 South Africa: Beverages 1,073 1,073 1,200 1,200 Corporate 31 31 65 5 70 Group 4,537 19 4,518 4,068 37 4,031 76 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 2.
Segmental analysis continued Balance sheet Total assets Segment Investment in Unallocated Segment Investment in Unallocated Total assets associates assets Total assets assets associates assets assets 2008 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 15,314 2 15,316 12,575 5 12,580 Europe 7,419 12 7,431 4,232 4,232 North America 6,041 6,041 6,072 6,072 Africa and Asia 1,906 1,475 3,381 1,562 1,045 2,607 South Africa 2,186 337 2,523 2,074 301 2,375 Corporate 470 470 575 575 Unallocated assets 651 651 295 295 Group 33,336 1,826 651 35,813 27,090 1,351 295 28,736 Unallocated assets include borrowing related derivative financial instrument assets, current tax and deferred tax assets.
Total liabilities Segment Unallocated Total Segment Unallocated Total liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 1,400 1,400 1,226 1,226 Europe 1,238 1,238 874 874 North America 1,341 1,341 1,272 1,272 Africa and Asia 323 323 329 329 South Africa 569 569 592 592 Corporate 533 533 234 234 Unallocated liabilities 12,165 12,165 9,208 9,208 Group 5,404 12,165 17,569 4,527 9,208 13,735 Unallocated liabilities include borrowings including related derivative financial instruments, current tax and deferred tax liabilities.
Other segmental information Depreciation and Other Impairment amortisation non-cash items losses recognised 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 396 366 2 8 3 3 Europe 256 189 3 13 7 21 North America 151 145 8 3 1 3 Africa and Asia 77 59 13 5 9 2 South Africa 145 134 18 21 1 Corporate 13 6 19 30 2 1 Group 1,038 899 27 74 22 31 Capital expenditure Acquisition Total excluding acquisitions activity capital expenditure 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 730 372 730 372 Europe 565 374 534 7 1,099 381 North America 166 155 215 166 370 Africa and Asia 295 144 48 295 192 South Africa 279 230 279 230 Corporate 26 12 26 12 Group 2,061 1,287 534 270 2,595 1,557 Capital expenditure includes acquisitions and additions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
Sparks and Steel Reserve brands have been reflected within acquisition activity in 2007 for segmental reporting purposes.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 77 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Segmental analysis continued Secondary reporting format Business segments Revenue Total assets Capital expenditure 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Beer 18,681 15,744 29,150 22,563 2,323 1,323 Soft drinks 2,239 1,818 3,134 1,797 183 136 Other 490 1,058 1,052 2,730 89 98 Sub-total 21,410 18,620 33,336 27,090 2,595 1,557 Investment in associates 1,826 1,351 Unallocated assets 651 295 Group 21,410 18,620 35,813 28,736 2,595 1,557 Capital expenditure includes acquisitions and additions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
There is no material difference between the source and destination of revenue.
Net operating expenses 2008 2007 US$m US$m Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 5,869 4,957 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 208 27 Raw materials and consumables used 5,661 4,930 Excise duties 4,353 3,758 Employee benefits costs see note 6a 2,344 1,955 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 848 737 Owned assets 629 547 Under finance lease 4 3 Containers 215 187 Net profit on disposal of available for sale investments 1 Net profit on disposal of subsidiaries 17 Net profit on disposal of associates 1 Net profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 10 20 Amortisation of intangible assets 190 162 Intangible assets excluding software 141 119 Software 49 43 Other expenses 4,657 4,237 Selling, marketing and distribution costs 2,743 2,262 Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment 351 353 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 5 13 Adjustment to goodwill 31 Impairment of trade receivables 17 18 Operating lease rentals land and buildings 61 33 Operating lease rentals plant, vehicle and systems 78 43 Restructuring and integration costs 44 Research and development expenditure 9 6 Other operating expenses 1,393 1,434 Total net operating expenses by nature 18,232 15,786 Other income 270 193 Revenue received from royalties 32 31 Dividends received from investments 1 1 Other operating income 237 161 Net operating expenses 17,962 15,593 Excise duties have been incurred as follows: Latin America US$1,334 million 2007: US$1,092 million : Europe US$995 million 2007: US$784 million : North America US$861 million 2007: US$856 million : Africa and Asia US$420 million 2007: US$321 million and South Africa US$743 million 2007: US$705 million.
This excludes integration costs relating to accelerated container amortisation.
Foreign exchange differences recognised in the profit for the year, except for those arising on financial instruments measured at fair value under IAS 39, were a gain of US$7 million 2007: loss of US$32 million.
78 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 3.
Net operating expenses continued The following fees were paid to a number of different accounting firms as auditors of various parts of the group: 2008 2007 US$m US$m Group auditors Fees payable to the groups auditor and its associates for: Auditing of subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 8 8 Other services supplied pursuant to legislation 1 Other services relating to taxation 4 6 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 3 Other services 6 4 Fees payable to the groups auditor for the auditing of the companys annual accounts 2 1 23 20 Principally relating to assurance on internal financial control upgrades.
2008 2007 US$m US$m Other auditors Fees payable to other auditors for other services: Auditing of subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 1 1 Other services relating to taxation 3 4 Internal audit services 3 1 Litigation 1 Other services 3 6 10 13 4.
Exceptional items 2008 2007 US$m US$m Subsidiaries exceptional items included in operating profit: Latin America 61 64 Bavaria integration and restructuring costs 78 64 Profit on sale of subsidiaries 17 Europe 24 Integration and restructuring costs 7 Profit on sale of land in Italy 14 Adjustment to goodwill 31 North America Integration and restructuring costs 51 Corporate Bavaria integration costs 5 Exceptional items included within operating profit 112 93 Taxation credit 40 30 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 79 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Exceptional items continued 2008 Latin America Restructuring costs associated with the consolidation of Bavaria S. A. of US$78 million were incurred during the year.
A net US$17 million profit on disposal has been recognised in Latin America on the disposal of soft drinks businesses in Costa Rica and Colombia during the year.
North America In preparation for the proposed joint venture, which remains subject to regulatory clearance, a charge of US$51 million has been has been recorded by Miller for staff retention arrangements and for certain integration costs.
2007 Latin America and Corporate Integration and restructuring costs associated with the consolidation of Bavaria S. A. of US$69 million were incurred during the year.
Europe Integration and restructuring costs of US$7 million associated with the consolidation of Pivovar Topvar a. s. and the relocation of the Europe hub office to Zug were incurred during 2007.
In November 2006, the Naples brewery site was sold for US$28 million giving rise to a profit of US$14 million.
During the year the group recognised deferred tax assets that had previously not been recognised on the acquisition of Birra Peroni SpA.
In accordance with IAS12, Income Taxes, when deferred tax assets on losses not previously recognised on acquisition are subsequently recognised, both goodwill and deferred tax assets are adjusted with corresponding entries to operating expense and taxation in the income statement.
This deferred tax asset was substantially utilised during 2007.
Net finance costs 2008 2007 US$m US$m a Interest payable and similar charges Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 292 289 Interest payable on corporate bonds 401 327 Interest element of finance leases payments 1 1 Losses on early settlement of bonds 44 Net exchange gains on financing activities 39 28 Fair value losses on dividend related derivatives 10 Fair value losses on standalone derivative financial instruments 23 Other finance charges 33 35 Total interest payable and similar charges 721 668 b Interest receivable and similar income Interest receivable 198 177 Fair value gains losses on financial instruments: Fair value gains on standalone derivative financial instruments 19 17 Interest rate swaps: designated as fair value hedges 103 36 Non-current borrowings designated as fair value hedges 103 36 Ineffectiveness of fair value hedges 3 2 Ineffectiveness of net investment hedges 45 Other fair value gains on borrowings 44 Total interest receivable and similar income 265 240 Net finance costs 456 428 Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts and interest receivable include the interest element of derivatives.
These items relate to mark-to-market adjustments on capital items for which hedge accounting cannot be fully applied.
These items have been excluded from the determination of adjusted earnings per share.
Adjusted net finance costs are therefore US$491 million 2007: US$428 million.
Please refer to note 22 Financial risk factors for interest rate risk information.
80 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 6.
Employee and key management compensation costs a Employee costs 2008 2007 US$m US$m Wages and salaries 1,908 1,564 Share-based payments 79 52 Social security costs 199 165 Pension costs 120 120 Post-retirement benefits other than pensions 47 54 2,353 1,955 Of the US$2,353 million employee costs shown above, US$9 million have been capitalised within property, plant and equipment 2007: US$nil.
b Employee numbers The average monthly number of employees are shown on a full-time equivalent basis, excludes employees of associated undertakings and includes executive directors: 2008 2007 Number Number Latin America 25,389 26,394 Europe 12,921 12,017 North America 5,991 5,889 Africa and Asia 12,806 11,028 South Africa 11,749 11,400 Corporate 260 221 Group 69,116 66,949 c Key management compensation The directors of the group and members of the executive committee excom are defined as key management.
At 31 March 2008 there were 24 2007: 24 members of key management.
2008 2007 US$m US$m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 31 27 Post-employment benefits 3 3 Share-based payments 14 7 48 37 The key management figures given above include the directors.
d Directors 2008 2007 US$m US$m Aggregate emoluments 5,147,805 2007: 4,598,299 10 9 Aggregate gains made on the exercise of share options or vesting of share awards 9 12 Company contributions to money purchase schemes 490,500 2007: 457,500 1 1 20 22 At 31 March 2008, two directors 2007: two had retirement benefits accruing under money purchase pension schemes.
Full details of individual directors remuneration are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 49 to 59.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 81 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7.
Taxation 2008 2007 US$m US$m Current taxation 926 780 Charge for the year UK corporation tax: nil charge 2007: nil charge 935 833 Adjustments in respect of prior years 9 53 Withholding taxes and other remittance taxes 64 119 Total current taxation 990 899 Deferred taxation 14 22 Charge for the year UK corporation tax: US$9 million credit 2007: US$9 million charge 8 82 Adjustments in respect of prior years 17 5 Recognition of deferred tax asset in connection with the acquisition of Birra Peroni see note 4 31 Rate change 5 34 976 921 Tax on items charged to equity: Deferred tax charge credit on defined benefit pension and post-retirement medical schemes 10 2 Deferred tax charge on share options equity settled share incentive plans 9 Deferred tax credit on financial instruments 2 8 7 Total current tax 990 899 Total deferred tax 6 29 Total taxation 984 928 Effective tax rate before amortisation of intangible assets excluding software and exceptional items % 32.5 34.5 The effective tax rate is calculated including share of associates operating profit before exceptional items after adjusted net finance costs and share of associates tax before exceptional items.
This calculation is on a basis consistent with that used in prior years and is also consistent with other group operating metrics.
Tax rate reconciliation 2008 2007 US$m US$m Profit before taxation 3,264 2,804 Less: Share of post-tax results of associates 272 205 2,992 2,599 Tax charge at standard UK rate of 30% 898 780 Exempt income 39 13 Other incentive allowances 19 11 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 88 126 Deferred tax asset not recognised 34 12 Withholding taxes and other remittance taxes 64 119 Other taxes 33 13 Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 85 50 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 26 48 Deferred taxation rate change 5 34 Deferred taxation on unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries 33 27 Total income tax expense 976 921 82 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 8.
Earnings per share 2008 2007 US cents US cents Basic earnings per share 134.9 110.2 Diluted earnings per share 134.2 109.5 Headline earnings per share 133.0 111.3 Adjusted basic earnings per share 143.1 120.0 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 142.4 119.3 The weighted average number of shares was: 2008 2007 Millions of Millions of shares shares Ordinary shares 1,504 1,500 ESOP trust ordinary shares 4 4 Basic shares 1,500 1,496 Dilutive ordinary shares from share options 8 9 Diluted shares 1,508 1,505 The calculation of diluted earnings per share excludes 7,827,902 2007: 6,039,681 share options that were antidilutive for the year because the exercise price of the option exceeds the fair value of the shares during the year, and 6,971,801 2007: 7,707,155 share options that were anti-dilutive for the year because the performance conditions attached to the options have not been met.
These options could potentially dilute earnings per share in the future.
9,023,270 share options and awards were granted after 31 March 2008 and before the date of signing of these financial statements.
Adjusted and headline earnings The group has also presented an adjusted earnings per share figure to exclude the impact of amortisation of intangible assets excluding capitalised software and other non-recurring items in order to present a more useful comparison for the years shown in the consolidated financial statements.
Adjusted earnings per share has been based on adjusted headline earnings for each financial year and on the same number of weighted average shares in issue as the basic earnings per share calculation.
Headline earnings per share has been calculated in accordance with the new South African Circular 8 2007 entitled Headline Earnings which forms part of the listing requirements for the JSE Ltd JSE.
The adjustments made to arrive at headline earnings and adjusted earnings are as follows: 2008 2007 US$m US$m Profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent 2,023 1,649 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 5 13 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment and investments 29 20 Adjustment to goodwill 31 Tax effects of the above items 4 10 Minority interests share of the above items 2 Headline earnings 1,995 1,665 Integration reorganisation costs 129 76 Profit on fair value movements on capital items 35 10 Amortisation of intangible assets excluding capitalised software 146 119 Tax effects of the above items 88 54 Adjusted earnings 2,147 1,796 2007 re-presented to comply with the new Headline earnings definitions contained within the South African Circular 8 2007.
This does not include all fair value movements but includes those in relation to capital items for which hedge accounting cannot be applied.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 83 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9.
Dividends 2008 2007 US$m US$m Equity 2007 Final dividend paid: 36.0 US cents 2006: 31.0 US cents per ordinary share 537 472 2008 Interim dividend paid: 16.0 US cents 2007: 14.0 US cents per ordinary share 232 209 769 681 In addition, the directors are proposing a final dividend of 42.0 US cents per share in respect of the financial year ended 31 March 2008, which will absorb an estimated US$632 million of shareholders funds.
If approved by shareholders, the dividend will be paid on 7 August 2008 to shareholders registered on the London and Johannesburg Registers on 11 July 2008.
The total dividend per share for the year is 58.0 US cents 2007: 50.0 US cents.
Safari Ltd waived its rights to interim dividends of US$12 million 2007: US$11 million, and to the final dividend in respect of 2007 of US$28 million 2006: US$24 million.
Dividends amounting to US$32 million in respect of the proposed final dividend for 2008 have been waived by Safari Ltd and have been deducted in arriving at the estimated amount of shareholders funds to be absorbed.
The employee benefit trust which holds shares for the various executive share incentive schemes has waived its rights to dividends.
Dividends are paid between group companies out of profits available for distribution subject to, amongst other things in the case of companies incorporated in Great Britain, the provisions of the companies Articles of Association and the Companies Act 1985 as amended.
There are restrictions over the distribution by a company incorporated in Great Britain of any profits which are not generated from external cash receipts as defined in Technical Release 1 08, issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The final dividend of the company of US$537 million paid on 7 August 2007, relating to the year ended 31 March 2007 and the interim dividend of US$232 million paid on 21 December 2007, relating to the six months ended 30 September 2007, were paid out of profits available for distribution and the final dividend of the company of US$632 million proposed to be paid on 7 August 2008, relating to the year ended 31 March 2008, will be paid out of profits available for distribution as at 31 March 2008.
Goodwill Total US$m Cost and net book amount At 1 April 2006 12,814 Exchange adjustments 278 Arising on increase in share of subsidiary undertakings 121 Arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 78 Adjustment on recognition of deferred tax assets in connection with the acquisition of Birra Peroni 31 Transfer to disposal groups 10 At 31 March 2007 13,250 Exchange adjustments 1,406 Arising on increase in share of subsidiary undertakings see note 28 27 Arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings provisional see note 28 917 At 31 March 2008 15,600 2008 Additional goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings has resulted from the acquisition of Royal Grolsch N. V. and Browar Belgia z. o. o. both of which occurred during the year.
The purchase price allocation exercises in respect of these acquisitions are not yet complete.
2007 Additional goodwill arising on the consolidation of subsidiary undertakings was due to the acquisition of the Fosters business in India on 12 September 2006 and minority purchases in Latin America.
84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 10.
Goodwill continued Goodwill allocated by cash generating unit CGU is as follows: 2008 2007 US$m US$m Subsidiaries: Latin America: Central America 830 829 Colombia 4,729 3,926 Peru 1,700 1,470 Other Latin America 206 196 Europe: Czech 1,109 856 Netherlands 969 Italy 509 431 Other Europe 149 106 North America 4,254 4,254 Africa and Asia: India 428 402 Other Africa and Asia 135 129 South Africa 582 651 15,600 13,250 Assumptions The recoverable amount for a CGU is determined based on value-in-use calculations.
The basis for the value-in-use calculations are cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering five-year periods, after which a long-term growth rate is applied.
The discount rate weighted average cost of capital is calculated using the Modigliani-Miller methodology, which reflects the groups debt cost after tax, returns from United States treasury bonds with maturity of 10 years, relevant individual country risk profiles and an SABMiller-specific beta.
The group applies local post-tax discount rates to local post-tax cash flows and this closely approximates to applying pre-tax discount rates to pre-tax cash flows.
The following table presents the key assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations in each of the groups primary segments: Ranges of post-tax Long-term discount rates growth rates Latin America 8.9%-13.65% 2.0%-5.0% Europe 7.0%-12.6% 1.5%-2.0% North America 7.12% 1.5% Africa and Asia 11.0%-20.4% 3.0%-4.0% South Africa 10.7% 3.0% Notes to the consolidated financial statements 85 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11.
Intangible assets Computer Brands software Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2006 3,515 275 12 3,802 Exchange adjustments 165 2 167 Additions separately acquired 215 54 1 270 Acquisitions through business combinations 38 6 44 Transfers from other assets 6 6 Transfers to disposal groups 14 14 Write-offs 1 1 2 At 31 March 2007 3,919 336 18 4,273 Exchange adjustments 594 24 5 623 Additions separately acquired 2 56 2 60 Acquisitions through business combinations 8 11 19 Transfers from other assets 13 7 20 Write-offs 12 12 At 31 March 2008 4,523 417 43 4,983 Aggregate amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2006 56 149 1 206 Exchange adjustments 7 1 8 Amortisation 118 43 1 162 Transfers to disposal groups 2 2 Write-offs 1 1 2 At 31 March 2007 179 192 1 372 Exchange adjustments 36 12 2 50 Amortisation 138 49 3 190 Write-offs 12 12 At 31 March 2008 353 241 6 600 Net book amount At 1 April 2006 3,459 126 11 3,596 At 31 March 2007 3,740 144 17 3,901 At 31 March 2008 4,170 176 37 4,383 At 31 March 2008, significant individual brands included within the carrying value of intangible assets are the Aguila brand in Colombia 2008: US$1,715 million, 2007: US$1,475 million and the Cristal brand in Peru 2008: US$703 million, 2007: US$624 million.
Both of these brands have a remaining amortisation period of 37 years.
The brands which arose on the Bavaria transaction in 2005 were valued on a relief from royalty basis using the same post-tax discount rates and long-term growth rates as those applied to the goodwill impairment review.
86 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 12.
Property, plant and equipment Assets in Plant, course of Land and vehicles construction buildings and systems Containers Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2006 237 2,493 5,779 1,159 9,668 Exchange adjustments 7 81 81 19 150 Additions 709 26 244 253 1,232 Transfers to from other assets 8 1 1 6 Arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 2 8 1 11 Change in lease classification 14 14 Disposals 1 80 213 82 376 Breakages and shrinkage 33 33 Transfers 540 93 362 85 Transfers to disposal groups 10 23 22 55 Write-offs 1 7 23 31 At 31 March 2007 403 2,606 6,218 1,319 10,546 Exchange adjustments 74 380 739 115 1,308 Additions 1,130 50 385 435 2,000 Transfers to from other assets 36 4 22 10 20 Arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 21 241 226 27 515 Disposals 1 69 167 142 379 Breakages and shrinkage 31 31 Transfers 667 88 442 137 At 31 March 2008 924 3,300 7,865 1,850 13,939 Accumulated depreciation At 1 April 2006 348 2,399 584 3,331 Exchange adjustments 20 39 7 52 Provided during the period 58 492 187 737 Change in lease classification 7 7 Disposals 15 192 75 282 Breakages and shrinkage 1 1 Tranfers to disposal groups 1 11 17 29 Write-offs 7 11 18 Impairments 13 13 At 31 March 2007 410 2,726 660 3,796 Exchange adjustments 80 346 112 538 Provided during the period 64 569 215 848 Disposals 12 141 128 281 Breakages and shrinkage 4 4 Impairments 5 5 At 31 March 2008 542 3,505 855 4,902 Net book amount At 1 April 2006 237 2,145 3,380 575 6,337 At 31 March 2007 403 2,196 3,492 659 6,750 At 31 March 2008 924 2,758 4,360 995 9,037 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 87 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Property, plant and equipment continued Included in land and buildings is freehold land with a cost of US$684 million 2007: US$654 million which is not depreciated.
Included in plant, vehicles and systems are the following amounts relating to assets held under finance leases: 2008 2007 US$m US$m Net book amount 24 10 Included in plant, vehicles and systems are the following amounts in respect of interest capitalised: 2008 2007 US$m US$m At beginning of year 18 18 Exchange adjustments 1 Capitalised during the year 7 At end of year 26 18 Borrowing costs of US$7 million 2007: US$nil were capitalised during the year at an effective interest rate of 10.95% 2007: nil.
Borrowings are secured by various of the groups property, plant and equipment with an aggregate net book value of US$70 million 2007: US$101 million.
Investments in associates A list of the groups significant investments in associates, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest, is given in note 33 to the accounts.
Investments Loans Total US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2006 1,133 1,133 Movements during the year: Exchange adjustments 8 8 Additions including deferred consideration of US$5 million 191 191 Disposals 68 68 Share of results retained 205 205 Dividends received 102 102 At 31 March 2007 1,351 1,351 Movements during the year: Exchange adjustments 102 102 Additions 179 179 Acquired as part of business combination 11 2 13 Increase in loans 11 Disposals 1 1 Share of results retained 272 272 Dividends received 91 91 At 31 March 2008 1,823 3 1,826 2008 Additional investments totalling US$179 million in China Resources Snow Breweries Ltd, Vietnam Dairy Products Joint Stock Company Vinamilk and Pacific Beverages Pty Ltd in Australia were made during the year.
The associate Grolsch UK Ltd was acquired as part of the Grolsch transaction.
2007 Additional investments totalling US$186 million in China Resources Snow Breweries Ltd, Vietnam Dairy Products Joint Stock Company Vinamilk and Pacific Beverages Pty Ltd in Australia were made during the year.
The group disposed of its interest in Reserva Conchal S. A. in Costa Rica during the year.
No profit was recognised on the transaction.
88 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 13.
Investments in associates continued The analysis of associated undertakings between listed and unlisted investments is shown below: 2008 2007 US$m US$m Listed 123 130 Unlisted 1,700 1,221 1,823 1,351 The market value of listed investments included above is: Distell Group Ltd 367 419 Summarised financial information for associates for total assets, total liabilities, revenue and profit or loss on a 100% basis is shown below: 2008 2007 US$m US$m Total assets 7,922 6,571 Total liabilities 2,538 1,704 Revenue 7,414 6,194 Net profit 1,111 786 Delta Corporation Limited, a listed associated undertaking of the group which operates in Zimbabwe, is restricted from paying dividends or exporting capital due to foreign currency shortages.
As such the market value of its listed shares has not been included above.
Some of the groups investments in associated undertakings which operate in African countries are also subject to local exchange control regulations.
These local exchange control regulations provide for restrictions on exporting capital from those countries, other than through normal dividends.
Available for sale investments Investments US$m At 1 April 2006 43 Additions 3 Disposals 1 Net gains transferred to equity 7 At 31 March 2007 52 Exchange adjustments 1 Arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 1 Disposals 4 Net gains transferred to equity 2 At 31 March 2008 52 There are no impairment provisions on available for sale assets in 2008 2007: US$nil.
Available for sale investments are denominated in the following currencies: 2008 2007 US$m US$m SA Rand 12 12 US Dollars 13 13 Peruvian Sol 17 18 Other currencies 10 9 52 52 The analysis of available for sale investments between listed and unlisted investments is shown below: 2008 2007 US$m US$m Listed 18 18 Unlisted 34 34 52 52 The fair values of unlisted investments are based on cash flows discounted using a rate based on the market interest rate and the risk premium specific to unlisted securities.
The fair values of listed investments have been determined by reference to quoted stock exchanges.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the debt securities classified as available for sale.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 89 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15.
Inventories 2008 2007 US$m US$m Raw materials and consumables 712 498 Work in progress 181 104 Finished goods and goods for resale 457 326 1,350 928 The following amount of inventories are expected to be settled after 12 months: 2008 2007 US$m US$m Raw materials and consumables 31 23 Finished goods and goods for resale 7 38 23 Borrowings secured on the inventories of the group total US$4 million 2007: US$19 million.
No impairment charge has been recognised in respect of inventories during the year 2007: US$3 million.
Trade and other receivables 2008 2007 US$m US$m Trade receivables 1,541 1,224 Less: provision for impairment 143 107 Trade receivables net 1,398 1,117 Other receivables 592 359 Less: provision for impairment 42 27 Other receivables net 550 332 Amounts owed by associates trade 3 1 Prepayments and accrued income 160 202 2,111 1,652 Analysed as: Current Trade receivables net 1,396 1,114 Other receivables net 315 204 Amounts owed by associates trade 3 1 Prepayments and accrued income 157 152 1,871 1,471 Non-current Trade receivables net 2 3 Other receivables net 235 128 Prepayments and accrued income 3 50 240 181 Total trade and other receivables 2,111 1,652 The net carrying values of trade and other receivables are considered a close approximation of their fair values.
At 31 March 2008 trade and other receivables of US$351 million 2007: US$197 million were past due but not impaired.
These relate to customers of whom there is no recent history of default.
The ageing of these trade and other receivables is shown below: Past due Fully Within Over performing 30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days 90-180 days 180 days 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade receivables 1,014 220 41 24 35 31 Other receivables 425 Amounts owed by associates trade 3 90 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 16.
Trade and other receivables continued Past due Fully Within Over performing 30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days 90-180 days 180 days 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade receivables 886 104 31 13 48 1 Other receivables 188 Amounts owed by associates trade 1 The group holds collateral as security for past due trade receivables to the value of US$33 million 2007: US$28 million.
At 31 March 2008, trade receivables of US$176 million 2007: US$141 million were determined to be specifically impaired and provided for.
The amount of the provision at 31 March 2008 was US$143 million 2007: US$107 million and reflects trade receivables from customers which are considered to be experiencing difficult economic situations.
It was assessed that a portion of these receivables is expected to be recovered.
The group holds collateral as security for specifically impaired trade receivables with a fair value of US$24 million 2007: US$19 million.
At 31 March 2008, other receivables of US$136 million 2007: US$121 million were determined to be specifically impaired and provided for.
The amount of the provision at 31 March 2008 was US$42 million 2007: US$27 million and reflects loans to customers which are considered to be experiencing difficult economic situations.
The group holds collateral as security against specifically impaired other receivables equal to the net carrying value at 31 March 2008 and 31 March 2007.
Collateral held primarily includes bank guarantees, charges over assets and concurrent amounts owing to associates.
The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables are demoninated in the following currencies: 2008 2007 US$m US$m SA Rand 212 268 US Dollars 474 352 Euro 441 228 Colombian Peso 153 152 Sterling 35 114 Other currencies 796 538 2,111 1,652 Movements on the provision for impairment of trade and other receivables are as follows: Trade receivables Other receivables 2008 2007 2008 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 107 94 27 29 Provision for receivables impairment 2 18 15 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 10 2 Acquisitions 14 1 Exchange adjustments 20 4 At 31 March 143 107 42 27 The creation and release of provision for impaired receivables have been included in net operating expenses in the income statement note 3.
Cash and cash equivalents 2008 2007 US$m US$m Short-term deposits 136 86 Cash at bank and in hand 537 395 673 481 Cash and short-term deposits of US$77 million 2007: US$68 million are held in African countries including South Africa and are subject to local exchange control regulations.
During the year the group set up notional cash pools.
The structure facilitates interest and balance compensation of cash and bank overdrafts.
This notional pooling arrangement does not meet the strict set-off rules under IFRS, and as a result, the cash and bank overdraft balances have been reported gross on the balance sheet.
On a netted pro forma basis, cash and cash equivalents and overdraft balances would have been US$127 million lower, resulting in US$546 million cash and cash equivalents and US$358 million bank overdraft balances as at 31 March 2008.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 91 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Disposal groups held for sale In the prior year comparatives, assets and liabilities relating to Productura fide Jugos SA a fruit juice manufacturer in Colombia and Embotelladora Centroamericana SA a Pepsi bottling operation in Costa Rica were presented as held for sale following the approval of the groups management in June 2006 and February 2007 respectively.
The sales of Embotelladora Centroamericana SA and Productura fide Jugos SA were completed on 27 April 2007 and 31 May 2007 respectively.
Both these disposals related to the Latin America segment.
During the year ended 31 March 2008 the sales of these businesses were completed and the group recognised a net US$17 million profit on disposal see note 4.
2008 2007 US$m US$m Disposal groups held for sale Goodwill 10 Intangible assets 12 Property, plant and equipment 26 Inventories 6 Other current assets 10 64 Liabilities directly associated with disposal groups held for sale Borrowings 4 Deferred tax liabilities 4 Provisions 4 Trade and other payables 7 19 19.
Trade and other payables 2008 2007 US$m US$m Trade payables 926 913 Accruals 821 572 Deferred income 46 57 Containers in the hands of customers 455 331 Amounts owed to associates trade 20 31 Deferred consideration for acquisitions 10 7 Excise duty payable 305 268 VAT and other taxes payable 157 108 Other payables 871 728 3,611 3,015 Analysed as: Current Trade payables 926 913 Accruals 821 572 Deferred income 2 14 Containers in the hands of customers 455 331 Amounts owed to associates trade 20 31 Deferred consideration for acquisitions 5 2 Excise duty payable 305 268 VAT and other taxes payable 157 108 Other payables 582 507 3,273 2,746 Non-current Deferred income 44 43 Deferred consideration for acquisitions 5 5 Other payables 289 221 338 269 Total trade and other payables 3,611 3,015 The fair value of trade and other payables approximates the carrying amount.
92 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 20.
Deferred taxation The movement on the net deferred tax liability is shown below: 2008 2007 US$m US$m At beginning of year 1,229 1,163 Acquisitions 14 Rate Change 5 34 Exchange adjustments 198 41 Charged to the income statement 9 56 Taken to equity: Hedging reserve 2 Actuarial valuations 10 2 Share-based payments 9 Transfer to disposal groups 4 At end of year 1,435 1,229 The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities after offsetting of balances as permitted by IAS 12 during the year are shown below.
Pensions and postretirement Fixed asset benefit Financial Other timing allowances provisions Intangibles instruments differences Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Deferred tax liabilities At 1 April 2007 523 34 1,081 119 58 1,393 Acquisitions 1 1 1 20 19 Rate change 6 1 5 Exchange adjustments 28 3 175 23 29 206 Transfers 1 1 Charged credited to the income statement 27 8 35 4 158 162 At 31 March 2008 574 30 1,221 139 149 1,775 Pensions and postretirement Fixed asset benefit Provisions Financial Other timing allowances provisions and accruals instruments differences Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Deferred tax assets At 1 April 2007 217 279 85 17 164 Acquisitions 5 5 Exchange adjustments 1 5 4 8 Transfers 1 14 15 Credited charged to the income statement 6 53 124 171 Taken to equity: Hedging reserve 2 2 Actuarial valuations 10 10 At 31 March 2008 222 268 157 2 135 340 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
The deferred tax assets arise due to timing differences on provisions in Europe, Africa and Asia, North and Latin America.
Given both recent and forecast trading, the directors are of the opinion that the level of profits in the foreseeable future is more likely than not to be sufficient to recover these assets.
Deferred tax liabilities of US$1,703 million 2007: US$1,377 million are expected to be recovered after more than one year.
Deferred tax assets of US$160 million 2007: US$43 million are expected to be recovered after more than one year.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 93 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Deferred taxation continued 2008 2007 US$m US$m Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: Tax losses 62 28 Tax credits 57 8 Capital allowances in excess of depreciation 8 1 Share-based payments 5 7 132 44 These deferred tax assets will not expire, with the exception of US$43 million tax credits which may expire if conditions for utilisation are not met.
Deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries where there is an intention to distribute those reserves.
A deferred tax liability of US$35 million 2007: US$27 million has been recognised.
A deferred tax liability of US$31 million 2007: US$28 million has also been recognised in respect of unremitted profits of associates where a dividend policy is not in place.
No deferred tax has been recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiary undertakings where either the overseas profits will not be distributed in the forseeable future, or where there are plans to remit overseas earnings of subsidiaries, it is not expected that such distributions will give rise to a tax liability.
Temporary differences on which deferred tax has not been recognised are estimated at US$4,600 million 2007: US$2,900 million.
Borrowings Current 2008 2007 US$m US$m Secured: Secured loans 66 301 66 301 Unsecured: 1 US$600 million 4.25% Guaranteed Notes due 2008 603 COP 99.7 billion DTF 2.30% Ordinary Bonds due 2007 46 2, 3 Commercial paper 380 627 Other unsecured loans 524 544 Overdrafts 485 187 Obligations under finance leases 4 6 1,996 1,410 Total current borrowings 2,062 1,711 The fair value of current borrowings equals their carrying amount, as the impact of discounting is not significant.
COP: Colombian Peso DTF: Colombian average interest rate for free loan investments of the financial sector.
IPC: Consumer price index published by Departamento Administrativo Nacional fide Estadistica of Colombia.
1 On 7 August 2003, Miller Brewing Company issued US$600 million, 4.25% Guaranteed Notes due 2008, guaranteed by SABMiller plc and SABMiller Finance BV.
The notes mature on 15 August 2008.
The notes are redeemable in whole or in part at any time at the option of the issuer at a redemption price equal to the make-whole amount.
In addition, these notes are redeemable in whole but not in part at the option of the issuer upon occurance of certain changes in taxation at their principle amount with accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption.
2 In October 2006, SABMiller Plc entered into a US$1,000 million commercial paper programme for general corporate purposes.
Debt issued under the programme is guaranteed by Miller Brewing Company, Miller Products Company, Miller Breweries West Limited Partnership, Miller Breweries East Inc. MBC1 LLC, MBC2 LLC and SABMiller Finance BV.
The programme benefits from a dedicated US$1,000 million 364 day back-stop facility with a one year extension.
3 On 17 July 2007, SABSA Holdings Pty Ltd and SABFIN Pty Ltd established a South African Rand 4,000 million Domestic Medium Term Note Programme under which commercial paper may be issued.
Debt issued under the programme is guaranteed by SABMiller plc.
94 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 21.
Borrowings continued Non-current 2008 2007 US$m US$m Secured: Secured loans 16 16 Unsecured: 1 US$1,100 million 5.50% Guaranteed Notes 2013 1,115 1,083 US$600 million 4.25% Guaranteed Notes 2008 608 2 US$300 million 6.625% Guaranteed Notes due 2033 327 297 3 US$300 million Libor 0.30% Guaranteed Notes due 2009 304 303 3 US$600 million 6.20% Guaranteed Notes due 2011 608 607 3 US$850 million 6.50% Guaranteed Notes due 2016 929 884 COP 640 billion IPC 7.30% Ordinary Bonds due 2014 394 403 COP 561.8 billion IPC 6.52% Ordinary Bonds due 2015 316 317 COP 370 billion IPC 8.18% Ordinary Bonds due 2012 220 227 COP 338.5 billion IPC 7.50% Ordinary Bonds due 2013 206 210 COP 40 billion DTF 3.0% Ordinary Bonds due 2009 22 20 4 ZAR 1.6 billion 9.935% Ordinary Bonds due 2012 200 5 Multi-currency revolving credit facility 2,069 372 6 Botswana pula 60 million 11.35% fixed rate bond due 2011 9 10 Other unsecured loans 868 154 Obligations under finance leases 9 9 7,596 5,504 Total non-current borrowings 7,596 5,520 Total current and non-current borrowings 9,658 7,231 Analysed as: Borrowings 9,160 7,029 Obligations under finance leases 13 15 Overdrafts 485 187 9,658 7,231 The fair value of non-current borrowings is US$7,559m 2007: US$5,646m.
The fair values are based on cash flows discounted using prevailing interest rates.
1 On 7 August 2003, Miller Brewing Company issued US$1,100 million, 5.50% Guaranteed Notes due 2013, guaranteed by SABMiller plc and SABMiller Finance BV.
The notes mature on 15 August 2013.
In addition the notes are redeemable in whole but not in part at the option of the issuer upon occurance of certain changes in taxation at their principal amount with accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption.
2 On 7 August 2003, SABMiller plc issued US$300 million, 6.625% Guaranteed Notes due 2033, guaranteed by Miller Brewing Company, Miller Products Company, Miller Breweries West Limited Partnership, Miller Breweries East Inc. MBC1 LLC, MBC2 LLC and SABMiller Finance BV.
The notes mature on 15 August 2033.
3 On 28 June 2006, SABMiller plc issued US$300 million LIBOR plus 0.30% Notes due July 2009, US$600 million 6.20% Notes due July 2011 and US$850 million 6.50% Notes due July 2016 and guaranteed by Miller Brewing Company, Miller Products Company, Miller Breweries West Limited Partnership, Miller Breweries East Inc. MBC1 LLC, MBC2 LLC and SABMiller Finance BV.
The Fixed Rate Notes are redeemable in whole or in part at any time at the option of the issuer at a redemption price equal to the make-whole amount.
In addition the notes are redeemable in whole but not in part at the option of the issuer upon occurrence of certain changes in taxation at their principal amount with accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption.
4 On 19 July 2007, SABSA Holdings Pty Ltd issued South African Rand 1,600 million, 9.935% Guaranteed Notes due 2012, guaranteed by SABMiller plc.
The Notes were issued under the South African Rand 4,000 million Domestic Medium Term Note Programme established on 17 July 2007.
The Notes are redeemable in whole or in part at the option of the issuer upon occurance of certain changes in taxation at their principal amount with accrued and unpaid interest to the date of the redemption.
5 On 15 December 2005 the group entered into a US$2,000 million multi-currency revolving credit facility for general corporate purposes.
The facility matures in December 2011.
6 On 28 July 2004 a 60 million Botswana Pula 11.35% unsecured private bond placing was placed in the Botswana debt capital market.
This bond matures on 31 March 2011.
The bond is redeemable at any time at the option of the issuer, at a market value, in whole or in part.
The bond is not guaranteed.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 95 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Borrowings continued Maturity of borrowings The maturity profle of the carrying amount of the groups non-current financial liabilities at 31 March was as follows: Derivative Derivative Borrowings financial Borrowings financial and Finance instruments 2008 and Finance instruments 2007 overdrafts leases note 23 Total overdrafts leases note 23 Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Amounts falling due: Between one and two years 374 2 4 380 406 8 414 Between two and five years 3,734 7 191 3,932 1,706 1 140 1,847 In five years or more 3,479 120 3,359 3,399 13 3,386 7,587 9 75 7,671 5,511 9 127 5,647 Net borrowing-related derivative instruments only.
Undrawn borrowing facilities The group has the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 31 March in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date: 2008 2007 US$m US$m Amounts falling due: Within one year 980 1,309 Between one and two years 157 373 Between two and five years 53 1,741 In five years or more 32 3 1,222 3,426 The facilities expiring within one year are annual facilities subject to review at various dates during the 2009 financial year.
Maturity of obligations under finance leases Obligations under finance leases are as follows: 2008 2007 US$m US$m The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: Within one year 5 6 Between one and five years 9 10 In five years or more 1 14 17 Future finance charges on finance leases 1 2 Present value of finance lease liabilities 13 15 96 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 22.
Financial risk factors Financial Risk Management Overview In the normal course of business, the group is exposed to the following financial risks: Market risk Credit risk Liquidity risk This note explains the groups exposure to each of the above risks, aided by quantitative disclosures included throughout these consolidated accounts, and it summarises the policies and processes that are in place to measure and manage the risks arising, including those related to the management of capital.
The directors are ultimately responsible for the establishment and oversight of the groups risk management framework.
An essential part of this framework is the role undertaken by the audit committee of the board, supported by the internal audit function, and by the Chief Financial Officer, who in this regard is supported by the treasury committee and the group treasury function.
Amongst other responsibilities, the audit committee reviews the internal control environment and risk management systems within the group and it reports its activities to the board.
The board also receives a quarterly report on treasury activities, including confirmation of compliance with treasury risk management policies.
The group treasury function is responsible for the management of cash, borrowings and the financial risks arising in relation to interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
The responsibility for the management of commodities exposures lies with the procurement functions within the group.
In relation to brewing materials, these activities are co-ordinated by a global sourcing council.
Some of the risk management strategies include the use of derivatives, principally in the form of forward foreign currency contracts, cross currency swaps, interest rate swaps and exchange traded futures contracts, in order to manage the currency, interest rate and commodities exposures arising from the groups operations.
The group also purchases call options where these provide a cost-effective hedging alternative and, where they form part of an option collar strategy, the group also sells put options to reduce or eliminate the cost of purchased options.
It is group policy that no trading in financial instruments be taken.
The groups treasury policies are established to identify and analyse the financial risks faced by the group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor exposures and adherence to limits.
a Market risk i Foreign exchange risk The group is exposed to transactional currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of group entities.
These exposures are presently managed locally by group entities who, subject to regulatory constraints or currency market limitations, hedge a proportion of their foreign currency exposure estimated to arise over a period of up to 18 months.
Committed transactional exposures that are certain are hedged fully without limitation in time.
The group principally uses forward exchange contracts to hedge currency risk.
Subject to special exemptions approved by the audit committee, the value of unhedged net monetary assets or liabilities within group entities denominated in a non-functional currency is required to be lower than US$60 million in aggregate, having taken into account net investment hedges held by the group.
Furthermore, the impact of a 10% change in foreign exchange rates on this aggregate value is required to be less than 1% of group operating profit excluding exceptional items.
The group seeks to mitigate the effect of structural currency exposures, where cost effective, by borrowing in the same currencies as the functional currencies of its main operating units or by achieving the same effect through the use of currency swaps.
An approximate nominal value of US$1,580 million of US dollar borrowings has been swapped into currencies that match the currency of the underlying operations of the group, primarily Rand, but also Czech Koruna, Polish Zloty and Euro.
These swaps are accounted for as net investment hedges.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 97 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Financial risk factors continued The tables below set out the groups currency exposures from financial assets and liabilities held by group companies in currencies other than their functional currencies and resulting in exchange movements in the income statement and balance sheet.
Other Other European African US dollars SA Rand Euro currencies currencies Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Trade and other receivables 47 10 44 21 20 38 180 Derivative financial instruments 597 25 366 101 1,089 Cash and cash equivalents 56 6 14 81 4 14 175 Available for sale investments 1 1 At 31 March 2008 701 41 424 203 24 52 1,445 Potential impact on earnings 10% increase 98 4 21 18 1 3 10% decrease 80 5 26 22 2 4 Potential impact on equity 10% increase 17 10% decrease 21 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 271 28 110 108 18 535 Derivative financial instruments 160 615 385 849 228 2,237 Borrowings 264 1 168 178 1 612 At 31 March 2008 695 644 663 1,135 247 3,384 Potential impact on earnings 10% increase 72 2 28 25 1 10% decrease 59 2 35 31 1 Potential impact on equity 10% increase 55 32 77 21 10% decrease 68 40 95 25 98 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 22.
Financial risk factors continued Other Other European African US dollars SA Rand Euro currencies currencies Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Trade and other receivables 69 56 17 97 239 Derivative financial instruments 443 192 635 Cash and cash equivalents 54 5 15 13 87 At 31 March 2007 566 61 224 110 961 Potential impact on earnings 10% increase 71 6 6 10 10% decrease 58 7 7 12 Potential impact on equity 10% increase 15 10% decrease 18 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 122 54 34 8 95 313 Derivative financial instruments 624 174 651 1,449 Borrowings 378 378 At 31 March 2007 500 678 208 659 95 2,140 Potential impact on earnings 10% increase 56631 8 10% decrease 45 7 4 9 Potential impact on equity 10% increase 56 59 10% decrease 68 72 Foreign currency sensitivity analysis Currency risks arise on account of financial instruments being denominated in a currency that is not the functional currency and being of a monetary nature.
The group holds net investment hedges totalling US$2,079 million at 31 March 2008 2007: US$1,275 million.
The foreign exchange gains or losses on these contracts are recorded in the foreign currency translation reserve and partially offset the foreign currency translation risk on the groups foreign currency net assets.
The tables above assumes a 10 per cent increase decrease of the functional currency against the foreign currency using the asymmetric method where a 10% increase of the currency is calculated using a ratio of 1.1 whereas a 10% decrease of the currency is calculated using a ratio of 0.9.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant.
The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2007. ii Interest rate risk The groups policy is to borrow directly or synthetically in floating rates, reflecting the fact that floating rates are generally lower than fixed rates in the medium term.
However, a minimum of 25% of consolidated net borrowings is required to be in fixed rates for a minimum duration of 12 months and the extent to which group borrowings may be in floating rates is restricted to the lower of 75% of consolidated net borrowings and that amount of net borrowings in floating rates that with a 1% increase in interest rates would increase finance costs by an amount equal to but not more than 1.20% of EBITDA.
Borrowings arising from recent mergers and acquisitions and any inflation linked debt, where there will be a natural hedge within business operations, are excluded from these requirements.
Exposure to movements in interest rates in group borrowings is managed through fixed rate coupons, interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements.
As at 31 March 2008, 30% 2007: 34% of consolidated net borrowings were in fixed rates, taking into account interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements.
Based on the groups policy, the impact of a 1% rise in interest rates on borrowings in floating rates would be equivalent to 0.65% 2007: 0.65% of EBITDA excluding exceptional items.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 99 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Financial risk factors continued At 31 March 2008 the cash flow interest rate risk sensitivities on variable debt and interest rate swaps were: Other European Colombian US dollars SA Rand Euro currencies peso Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net debt 4,418 268 1,841 526 1,773 159 8,985 Less fixed rate debt 3,583 200 89 22 3,894 Variable rate debt 835 68 1,841 437 1,773 137 5,091 Adjust for: Financial derivatives 19 200 184 546 400 981 Net variable rate debt exposure 854 268 1,657 983 2,173 137 6,072 - 100 basis points change Potential impact on earnings 19 1 19 4 19 2 64 - 100 basis points change Potential impact on equity 1 1 2 At 31 March 2007 the cash flow interest rate risk sensitivities on variable debt and interest rate swaps were: Other European Colombian US dollars SA Rand Euro currencies peso Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net debt 4,377 364 239 151 1,317 302 6,750 Less fixed rate debt 3,494 64 15 3,573 Variable rate debt 883 364 239 87 1,317 287 3,177 Adjust for: Financial derivatives 107 200 174 559 400 1,092 Net variable rate debt exposure 990 564 65 646 1,717 287 4,269 - 100 basis points change Potential impact on earnings 22432 12 2 45 - 100 basis points change Potential impact on equity 2 2 4 Excluding net borrowing-related derivative instruments.
Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed income instruments Changes in the market interest rates of non-derivative financial instruments with fixed interest rates only affect income if these are measured at their fair value.
As such, all financial instruments with fixed rates of interest that are accounted for at amortised cost are not subject to interest rate risk as defined in IFRS 7.
The group holds derivative contracts with a nominal value of US$1,100 million as at 31 March 2008 2007: US$1,100 million which are designated as fair value hedges.
In the case of these instruments and the underlying fixed rate bonds, changes in the fair values of the hedged item and the hedging instrument attributable to interest rate movements net-off almost completely in the income statement in the same period.
As a result, these instruments are also not exposed to interest rate risk.
Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments A change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased decreased equity and the income statement by the amounts shown above.
This analysis assumes all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2007.
100 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 22.
Financial risk factors continued Interest rate profiles of financial assets and financial liabilities The following table sets out the contractual repricing included within the underlying borrowings excluding net borrowing-related derivatives exposed to either fixed interest rates, floating interest rates or no interest rates and revises this for the repricing effect of interest rate and cross currency swaps.
2008 2007 Total Effect of Total Total Effect of Total borrowings derivatives exposure borrowings derivatives exposure Financial liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Repricing due: Within one year 6,464 1,286 7,750 3,658 1,092 4,750 Between one and two years 104 104 668 317 985 Between two and five years 823 400 423 636 309 327 In five years or more 2,371 990 1,381 2,269 1,100 1,169 Total interest bearing 9,658 9,658 7,231 7,231 Analysed as: Fixed rate interest 3,894 981 2,913 3,573 1,092 2,481 Floating rate interest 5,764 981 6,745 3,658 1,092 4,750 Total interest bearing 9,658 9,658 7,231 7,231 iii Price risk Commodity price risk The group is exposed to variability in the price of commodities used in the production or in the packaging of finished products, such as the price of malt, barley, sugar and aluminium.
These price risks are managed principally through multi year fixed price contracts with suppliers internationally.
At 31 March 2008 the notional value of commodity derivatives amounted to US$48 million 2007: US$nil.
No sensitivity analysis has been provided on these outstanding contracts.
Equity securities price risk The group is exposed to equity securities price risk on investments held by the group and classified on the balance sheet as available for sale.
b Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations.
Cash and cash equivalents The group limits its exposure to financial institutions by setting credit limits on a sliding scale based on credit ratings and generally only with counterparties with a credit rating of at least BBBby Standard & Poors and Baa3 from Moodys.
For banks with a lower credit rating, or with no international credit rating, a maximum limit of US$3 million is applied, unless specific approval is obtained from either the Chief Financial Officer or the audit committee of the board.
Derivative financial assets The group calculates credit exposures on derivatives based on their positive market values and including a percentage of the notional amount, representing the potential increased credit risk during the unwind period.
This credit exposure is included in the overall exposure to financial institutions.
The group has ISDA Master Agreements with most of its counterparties for financial derivatives, which permits net settlement of assets and liabilities in certain circumstances, thereby reducing the groups credit exposure to individual counterparties.
Trade and other receivables There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables as the group has a large number of customers which are internationally dispersed.
The type of customers range from wholesalers and distributors to smaller retailers.
The group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence.
Credit risk is managed by limiting the aggregate amount of exposure to any one counterparty.
The group considers its maximum credit risk to be $2,760m 2007: $1,900m which is the total of the groups financial assets.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 101 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Financial risk factors continued c Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The group finances its operations through cash generated by the business and a mixture of short-term and medium-term bank credit facilities, bank loans, corporate bonds and commercial paper with a range of maturity dates.
In this way, the group ensures that it is not overly reliant on any particular liquidity source and that maturities of borrowings sourced in this way are not overly concentrated.
Subsidiaries have access to local bank credit facilities, but are principally funded by the group.
The group has the following core lines of credit that are available for general corporate purposes and which are maintained by SABMiller plc: US$2,000 million committed facility maturing in December 2012.
US$1,000 million committed facility maturing in September 2008, including the right of the company to term out any amounts drawn for a maximum period of one year from the date of maturity of the facility.
Liquidity risk faced by the group is mitigated by having diverse sources of finance available to it and by maintaining substantial unutilised banking facilities and reserve borrowing capacity, as indicated by the level of undrawn facilities.
Subsequent to the year end, the SABMiller plc put in place a new committed facility of US$1,000 million with a final maturity date of 30 June 2009 and a new three-year committed facility totalling US$600 million.
Including the new facilities arranged subsequent to the year end, borrowing capacity under committed bank facilities amounted to US$2,822 million.
The table below analyses the groups financial liabilities which will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.
Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2008 Borrowings 2,647 1,382 3,993 4,264 Derivative financial instruments 114 255 178 1 Trade and other payables 2,807 274 20 At 31 March 2007 Borrowings 2,349 1,459 2,227 3,906 Derivative financial instruments 48 43 114 34 Trade and other payables 2,356 21 204 The table below analyses the groups derivative financial assets which will be settled on a gross basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date.
Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2008 Forward foreign exchange contracts Outflow 155 Inflow 176 Cross currency swaps Outflow 36 34 245 229 Inflow 18 16 243 238 Interest rate swaps Outflow 10 10 43 8 Inflow 17 17 50 8 102 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 22.
Financial risk factors continued Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2007 Forward foreign exchange contracts Outflow 177 Inflow 180 Cross currency swaps Outflow 27 25 256 130 Inflow 16 15 241 124 Interest rate swaps Outflow 4 Inflow 6 Capital management The capital structure of the group consists of net borrowings and shareholders equity.
Besides the statutory minimum capitalisation rules that may apply to subsidiaries in different countries, the group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
The groups policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain the future development of the business.
The group is currently rated Baa1 by Moodys Investors Service and BBB by Standard & Poors Ratings Services, both with stable outlook.
Key credit metrics that underpin the groups rating are reviewed by the treasury committee on a quarterly basis.
Financial covenants included in the groups core bank facilities were complied with throughout the year.
Derivative financial instruments Current derivative financial instruments 2008 2007 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m Embedded derivatives 1 Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges 1 Forward foreign currency contracts 25 7 1 3 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as net investment hedges 15 17 5 2 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 4 9 45 34 6 5 Non-current derivative financial instruments 2008 2007 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m Cross currency swaps 190 140 Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges 82 298 6 51 Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges 1 8 Interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges 120 28 13 Commodity contracts designated as cash flow hedges 3 Forward foreign currency contracts 2 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 1 208 497 34 204 Derivatives designated as hedging instruments i Fair value hedges The group has entered into several interest rate swaps to pay floating and receive fixed interest which have been designated as fair value hedges to hedge exposure to changes in the fair value of its fixed rate borrowings.
The borrowings and the interest rate swaps have the same critical terms.
As at 31 March 2008, the notional amount of these interest rate swaps was US$1,100 million 2007: US$1,100 million.
The fixed interest rates received vary from 5.5% to 6.625% 2007: 5.5% to 6.625% and floating interest rates paid vary from LIBOR plus 71.6 basis points to LIBOR plus 131.75 basis points 2007: LIBOR plus 71.6 basis points to LIBOR plus 131.75 basis points on the notional amount.
As at 31 March 2008, the carrying value of the hedged borrowings was US$1,215 million 2007: US$1,117 million.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 103 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Derivative financial instruments continued ii Cash flow hedges The group has entered into interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges to manage the interest rate on borrowings.
The notional amount of these interest rate swaps was US$519 million equivalent 2007: US$324 million.
The fair value of these interest rate swaps was US$2 million 2007: US$ nil.
The fixed interest rates paid vary from 4.1% to 5.4% and the floating rates received are LIBOR plus zero basis points.
As at 31 March 2008, the carrying value of the hedged borrowings was US$519 million 2007: US$324 million.
The group has entered into forward exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges to manage short-term foreign currency exposures on expected future trade imports and exports.
As at 31 March 2008, the notional amount of these contracts was141 million 2007: 121 million.
The group has entered into option contracts and futures contracts designated as cash flow hedges to manage the future price of commodities.
As at 31 March 2008, the notional amount of the option contracts for the purchase price of corn was US$32 million and the notional amount of the futures contracts for the purchase price of natural gas and corn was US$16 million.
The following table indicates the period in which the cash flows associated with derivatives that are cash flow hedges are expected to occur and impact the income statement: Carrying Expected Less than Between 1 Between 2 More than amount Cash Flows 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2008 Interest rate swaps: Assets 2211 Liabilities 6 9 3 3 2 1 Forward exchange contracts: Assets 444 Liabilities 10 10 10 Commodity contracts: Assets 33111 7 10 7 1 1 1 iii Hedges of net investments in foreign operations The group has entered into several forward foreign currency contracts and cross currency swaps which it has designated as hedges of net investments in its foreign subsidiaries in South Africa, the Czech Republic, Poland, Italy and Peru to hedge the groups exposure to foreign exchange risk on these investments.
Net losses relating to forward foreign currency contracts and cross currency swaps of US$226 million 2007: Losses of US$2 million have been recognised in equity.
Analysis of notional amounts on financial instruments designated as net investment hedges: 2008 2007 m m Forward foreign currency contracts SA Rand 2,211 1,751 Peruvian Nuevo Sol 624 Cross currency swaps SA Rand ZAR 2,799 2,799 Polish Zloty PLN 798 798 Czech Krone CZK 7,888 7,888 Euro EUR 246 Standalone derivative financial instruments i Forward foreign currency contracts The group has entered into forward foreign currency contracts to manage short-term foreign currency exposures to expected future trade imports and exports.
These derivatives are fair valued based on discounted future cash flows with gains and losses taken to the income statement.
As at 31 March 2008, the notional amounts of these contracts were: Czk24 million, 111 million, US$195 million and R204 million 2007: Czk10 million, 22 million and US$43 million.
The group has entered into forward foreign currency contracts to manage foreign currency exposures on short-term intercompany deposits.
As at 31 March 2008, the notional amounts of these contracts were US$149 million and RUB2,270 million 2007: nil.
104 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 23.
Derivative financial instruments continued ii Cross currency swaps Bavaria S. A has entered into cross currency swaps to manage the fluctuation of the exchange rates over a portion of its US dollar debt.
As at 31 March 2008, the notional amount of these contracts was US$400 million 2007: US$400 million.
Cash deposits of US$3 million 2007: US$17 million are pledged as security for the cross currency swaps.
Fair value gain loss on financial instruments recognised in the income statement 2008 2007 US$m US$m Derivative financial instruments note 22 : Cross currency swaps 18 21 Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges 45 Embedded derivatives 1 1 Forward foreign currency contracts 23 2 Interest rate swaps 4 Interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges 106 38 157 56 Other financial instruments: Non-current borrowings designated as fair value hedges 103 36 103 36 Total fair value gain loss on financial instruments recognised in the income statement 54 20 Fair value gains or losses on borrowings and derivative financial instruments held to hedge interest rate risk on borrowings are recognised as part of net finance costs.
Fair value gains or losses on all other derivative financial instruments are recognised in operating profit.
Reconciliation of total financial instruments The table below reconciles the groups accounting categorisation of financial assets and liabilities based upon initial recognition to the classes of assets and liabilities as shown on the face of the balance sheet.
Fair value Not a Balance sheet through income Loans and Available Amortised financial statement receivables for sale cost instrument Total Current Non current US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2008 Assets Available for sale investments 52 52 52 Derivative financial instruments 253 253 45 208 Trade and other receivables 1,782 329 2,111 1,871 240 Cash and cash equivalents 673 673 673 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 531 531 34 497 Borrowings 9,658 9,658 2,062 7,596 Trade and other payables 3,102 509 3,611 3,273 338 At 31 March 2007 Assets Available for sale investments 52 52 52 Derivative financial instruments 40 40 6 34 Trade and other receivables 1,327 325 1,652 1,471 181 Cash and cash equivalents 481 481 481 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 209 209 5 204 Borrowings 7,231 7,231 1,711 5,520 Trade and other payables 2,581 434 3,015 2,746 269 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 105 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Provisions Litigation Postand demerged retirement TaxationOnerous entities benefits Insurance related contracts Restructuring Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2006 51 974 32 193 12 5 44 1,311 Exchange adjustments 1 6 5 1 11 Charged credited to the income statement Additional provision in year 3 95 62 62 4 17 243 Unused amounts reversed 3 2 1 6 Utilised in the year Existing 5 81 60 13 4 163 Actuariallosses 5 5 Transfer from payables 42 42 Transfer to disposal groups 1 3 4 At 31 March 2007 44 999 34 286 10 5 61 1,439 Exchange adjustments 1 43 20 1 4 69 Arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 1 7 3 7 18 Charged credited to the income statement Additional provision in year 2 73 54 5 4 2 140 Unused amounts reversed 9 2 11 Utilised in the year 2 96 59 1 3 4 3 168 Actuarial gains 31 31 Reclassifications 3 22 3 22 Transfer from to payables 8 5 1 4 At 31 March 2008 43 1,017 29 312 2 16 41 1,460 Analysed as: Current 25 13 227 2 7 26 300 Non-current 18 1,017 16 85 9 15 1,160 43 1,017 29 312 2 16 41 1,460 Demerged entities and litigation During the year ended 31 March 1998, the group recognised a provision of US$117 million for the disposal of certain demerged entities in relation to equity injections which were not regarded as recoverable, as well as potential liabilities arising on warranties and the sale agreements.
During the year ended 31 March 2008, US$0.3 million of this provision was further utilised in regard to costs associated with SAB Ltds previously disposed of remaining retail interests.
The residual balance of US$16 million relates mainly to the disposal of OK Bazaars 1929 Ltd to Shoprite Holdings Ltd Shoprite.
As disclosed in previous annual reports, a number of claims were made by Shoprite in relation to the valuation of the net assets of OK Bazaars at the time of the sale and for alleged breaches by SAB Ltd of warranties contained in the sale agreements.
These claims are being contested by SAB Ltd.
While a full provision for all claims has already been made, the actual outcome of the dispute and the timing of the resolution cannot be estimated by the directors at this time.
The further information ordinarily required by IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets has not been disclosed on the grounds that it can be expected to seriously prejudice the outcome of the dispute.
There are US$27 million 2007: US$21 million of provisions in respect of outstanding litigation within various operations, based on management expectation the outcomes of these disputes are expected to be resolved within the forthcoming five years.
Post-retirement benefits The provision for post-retirement benefits represents the provision for medical benefits for retired employees and their dependants in South Africa, for post-retirement medical and life insurance benefits to eligible employees and their dependants in North America, and pension provisions for employees in North and South America, South Africa, Europe and Africa and Asia.
The principal assumptions on which these provisions are based are disclosed in note 30.
106 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 24.
Provisions continued Insurance Insurance provisions of US$29 million 2007: US$34 million represent amounts provided in respect of claims made by employees for health insurance and work-related accidents.
Management estimates that the provision will be substantially utilised in the next one to two years.
Taxation-related The group has recognised various provisions in relation to taxation exposures it believes may arise.
The provisions principally relate to non-corporate taxation and interest and penalties on corporate taxation in respect of a number of group companies.
Any settlement in respect of these amounts will occur as and when the assessments are finalised with the respective tax authorities.
Onerous contracts The group has made provision for certain contracts which are deemed to be onerous.
The provisions are expected to be utilised within the year.
Restructuring This includes provision for restructuring costs primarily related to Europe which management expects to be utilised within one year.
Other provisions Included within other provisions are payroll related provisions of US$21 million 2007: US$38 million which includes US$9 million 2007: US$9 million within South Africa relating to employee long service awards.
These are expected to be utilised on an ongoing basis when the service awards fall due.
Share capital 2008 2007 US$m US$m Group and company Authorised share capital 9,420,051,230 ordinary shares of 10 US cents each 2007: 9,420,051,230 942 942 804,948,770 convertible participating shares of 10 US cents each 2007: 804,948,770 80 80 77,368,338 non-voting convertible shares of 10 US cents each 2007: 77,368,338 8 8 50,000 deferred shares of 1.00 each 2007: 50,000 1,030 1,030 Called up, allotted and fully-paid share capital 1,505,779,276 95% ordinary shares of 10 US cents each 2007: 1,502,187,446 150 150 77,368,338 5% non-voting convertible shares of 10 US cents each 2007: 77,368,338 8 8 50,000 0% deferred shares of 1.00 each 2007: 50,000 158 158 Convertible Non-voting Ordinary participating convertible Deferred shares of shares of shares of shares of 10 US cents 10 US cents 10 US cents 1 Nominal each each each each value 000 000 000 000 US$m At 1 April 2006 1,497,845 77,368 50 158 Issue of shares share purchase, option and award schemes 4,343 At 31 March 2007 1,502,188 77,368 50 158 Issue of shares share purchase, option and award schemes 3,591 At 31 March 2008 1,505,779 77,368 50 158 2008 Changes to authorised share capital There were no changes to the authorised share capital for the year ended 31 March 2008 2007: None.
Changes to issued share capital During the year, the company issued 3,591,830 2007: 4,342,988 new ordinary shares of 10 US cents to satisfy the exercise of options granted under the SABMiller plc Mirror Executive Share Purchase Scheme, the SABMiller plc Approved Executive Share Option Scheme, the SABMiller plc Executive Share Option No.
2 Scheme and the SABMiller plc International Employee Share Scheme, for a consideration of US$39 million 2007: US$38 million.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 107 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Share capital continued Rights and restrictions relating to share capital Convertible participating shares Altria is entitled to require the company to convert its ordinary shares into convertible participating shares so as to ensure that Altrias voting shareholding, if Altria so chooses, does not exceed 24.99% of the total voting shareholding.
If such an event occurs, the convertible participating shares will rank pari passu with the ordinary shares and the non-voting convertible shares in all respects and no action shall be taken by the company in relation to ordinary shares unless the same action is taken in respect of the convertible participating shares and the non-voting convertible shares.
On distribution of the profits whether by cash dividend, dividend in specie, scrip dividend, capitalisation issue or otherwise, the convertible participating shares will rank pari passu with the ordinary shares and the non-voting convertible shares.
On a return of capital whether winding-up or otherwise, the convertible participating shares will rank pari passu with the ordinary shares and the non-voting convertible shares.
Altria shall be entitled to vote its convertible participating shares at general meetings of the company on a poll on the basis of one-tenth of a vote for every convertible participating share on all resolutions other than a resolution: i proposed by any person other than Altria, to wind-up the company: ii proposed by any person other than Altria, to appoint an administrator or to approve any arrangement with the companys creditors: iii proposed by the board, to sell all or substantially all of the undertaking of the company: or iv proposed by any person other than Altria, to alter any of the class rights attaching to the convertible participating shares or to approve the creation of any new class of shares, in which case Altria shall be entitled on a poll to vote on the resolution on the basis of one vote for each convertible participating share, but, for the purposes of any resolution other than a resolution mentioned above, the convertible participating shares shall be treated as being of the same class as the ordinary shares and no separate meeting or resolution of the holders of the convertible participating shares shall be required to be convened or passed.
Upon a transfer of convertible participating shares by Altria other than to an affiliate, such convertible participating shares shall convert into ordinary shares.
Altria shall be entitled to require the company to convert its convertible participating shares into ordinary shares if: i a third party has made a takeover offer for the company and if such offer becomes or is declared unconditional in all respects it would result in the voting shareholding of the third party being more than 30% of the total voting shareholding: and ii Altria has communicated to the company in writing its intention not itself to make an offer competing with such third party offer, provided that the conversion date shall be no earlier than the date on which the third partys offer becomes or is declared unconditional in all respects.
Altria shall be entitled to require the company to convert its convertible participating shares into ordinary shares if the voting shareholding of a third party should be more than 24.99%, provided that: i the number of ordinary shares held by Altria following such conversion shall be limited to one ordinary share more than the number of ordinary shares held by the third party: and ii such conversion shall at no time result in Altrias voting shareholding being equal to or greater than the voting shareholding which would require Altria to make a mandatory offer in terms of rule 9 of the City Code.
If Altria wishes to acquire additional ordinary shares other than pursuant to a pre-emptive issue of new ordinary shares or with the prior approval of the board, Altria shall first convert into ordinary shares the lesser of: i such number of convertible participating shares as would result in Altrias voting shareholding being such percentage as would, in the event of Altria subsequently acquiring one additional ordinary share, require Altria to make a mandatory offer in terms of rule 9 of the City Code: and ii all of its remaining convertible participating shares.
The company shall use its best endeavours to procure that the ordinary shares arising on conversion of the convertible participating shares and the non-voting convertible shares are admitted to the Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges market for listed securities, admitted to listing and trading on the JSE Securities Exchange South Africa, and admitted to listing and trading on any other stock exchange upon which the ordinary shares are from time to time listed and traded, but no admission to listing or trading shall be sought for the convertible participating shares or the non-voting convertible shares whilst they remain convertible participating shares or non-voting convertible shares as the case may be.
Non-voting convertible shares Safari Limited Safari holds non-voting convertible shares of 10 US cents each.
Safari shall not be entitled to vote its non-voting convertible shares on any resolution other than a resolution to alter any of the class rights attaching to the non-voting convertible shares, in which case Safari shall be entitled to vote on the resolution on the basis of one vote for each non-voting convertible share.
The non-voting convertible shares rank pari passu with the ordinary shares and the convertible participating shares in all respects and no action shall be taken by the company in relation to ordinary shares unless the same action is taken in respect of the non-voting convertible shares and the convertible participating shares.
On distribution of the profits whether by cash dividend, dividend in specie, scrip dividend, capitalisation issue or otherwise, the non-voting convertible shares rank pari passu with the ordinary shares and the convertible participating shares.
On a return of capital whether winding-up or otherwise, the non-voting convertible shares each rank pari passu with the ordinary shares and the convertible participating shares.
The non-voting convertible shares are convertible into ordinary shares on a transfer to a third party unconnected with SABMiller, or Altria or any of their affiliates or any person deemed to be acting in concert with SABMiller or Altria.
108 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 25.
Share capital continued Deferred shares The deferred shares do not carry any voting rights and do not entitle holders thereof to receive any dividends or other distributions.
In the event of a winding up deferred shareholders would receive no more than the nominal value.
Deferred shares represent the only non-equity share capital of the group.
Ordinary shares The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the companys report and accounts, attend, speak and vote at general meetings and appoint proxies to exercise voting rights.
Holders of ordinary shares may also receive a dividend subject to the provisions of the companys articles of association and on winding up of the company may share in the assets of the company.
Share-based payments The group operates various equityand cash-settled share option schemes for certain employees.
The awards outstanding can be summarised as follows: Number of Number of Ordinary Ordinary shares shares Scheme 2008 2007 Equity-settled plans Mirror Executive Share Purchase Scheme South Africa a 12,489,849 11,772,323 Executive Share Option Scheme Approved Scheme and No 2 Scheme b 10,389,796 9,688,432 Performance Share Award Scheme c 2,266,535 1,586,484 International Performance Share Award Sub-Scheme d 2,941,808 2,147,892 International Employee Share Scheme e 4,096,202 3,379,216 International Employee Stock Appreciation Rights Scheme f 7,007,391 Total equity-settled plans 39,191,581 28,574,347 Cash-settled plans International Employee Stock Appreciation Rights Scheme f 6,303,066 Total cash-settled plans 6,303,066 Total of share option schemes 39,191,581 34,877,413 During the year this scheme was modified such that any outstanding awards are now equity-settled rather than cash-settled.
110 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 25.
Share capital continued c Performance Share Award scheme As at 31 March 2008 the following options were outstanding under the SABMiller plc Performance Share Award Scheme: Date by which 2008 2007 Exercise performance Ordinary Ordinary price condition Date of award shares shares must be met 21 May 2004 354,239 Nil 21.05.2007 20 May 2005 308,855 332,745 Nil 20.05.2008 28 February 2006 20,000 20,000 Nil 28.02.2009 19 May 2006 810,000 847,500 Nil 19.05.2009 13 March 2007 32,000 32,000 Nil 13.03.2010 18 May 2007 862,500 Nil 18.05.2010 18 May 2007 191,000 Nil 18.05.2010 2 August 2007 37,500 Nil 02.08.2010 16 November 2007 4,680 Nil 16.11.2010 2,266,535 1,586,484 Certain of these awards may rank for a 50% additional reward, provided the shares are held in the EBT for a period of two years after vesting.
SABMiller plc International Employee Share Scheme Hong Kong and China.
f International Employee Stock Appreciation Rights SAR Scheme During the year the International Employee Stock Appreciation Rights Scheme was modified such that all outstanding shares are now equity-settled rather than cash-settled.
Prior to this modification the group issued to certain employees SAR that require the group to pay the intrinsic value of the SAR to the employee at the date of the exercise.
The group has recorded a liability of US$nil 2007: US$48 million in respect of the SAR scheme.
The intrinsic value of liabilities which have vested at 31 March 2008 is US$ nil 2007: US$16 million.
112 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 25.
Share capital continued The exercise prices of options outstanding at 31 March 2008 ranged from 0 to 13.32 and R46.40 and R181.88.
The movement in share awards outstanding is summarised in the following table: Weighted Weighted Number Weighted average Number Weighted average Total of awards average fair value of awards average fair value number of under exercise at grant under exercise at grant awards under UK option price date SA option price R date R option Outstanding at 31 March 2006 20,540,563 5.68 11,702,563 75.9 32,243,126 Granted 7,459,209 7.30 4.74 2,496,860 137.5 44.9 9,956,069 Lapsed 669,111 6.11 681,800 91.6 1,350,911 Exercised or vested 4,225,571 4.61 1,745,300 56.7 5,970,871 Outstanding at 31 March 2007 23,105,090 6.38 11,772,323 90.87 34,877,413 Granted 8,223,950 7.84 5.47 3,057,850 174.89 62.8 11,281,800 Lapsed 1,447,075 3.82 686,100 121.62 2,133,175 Exercised or vested 3,180,233 5.77 1,654,224 66.06 4,834,457 Outstanding at 31 March 2008 26,701,732 7.04 12,489,849 113.04 39,191,581 Awards exercised The weighted average market price of the groups shares at the date of exercise for share awards exercised or vested during the year were: Weighted Weighted average average market market Number price Number price 2008 2008 2007 2007 Share awards designated in Pounds Sterling Equity-settled 2,373,427 12.40 3,155,991 10.60 Cash-settled 806,806 12.84 1,069,580 11.02 3,180,233 12.52 4,225,571 10.70 Share awards designated in South African Rands Equity-settled 1,654,224 181.23 1,745,300 143.63 Total awards exercised during the year 4,834,457 5,970,871 Share-based payments have been valued using a binomial model approach except for the Performance Share awards which have been valued using Monte Carlo simulations.
The Monte Carlo simulation methodology is necessary for valuing share-based payments with Total Shareholder Return performance hurdles.
This is achieved by projecting SABMIller plcs share price forwards, together with those of companies in the same comparator group, over the vesting period and or life of the options after considering their respective volatilities.
Weighted average fair value assumptions The fair value of services received in return for share options granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted.
The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured based on a binomial model for share options.
The following weighted average assumptions were used in these option pricing models during the year: 2008 2007 Share price South African schemes R 178.02 136.24 All other schemes 11.95 10.30 Exercise price South African schemes R 174.89 136.67 All other schemes 7.84 8.89 Expected volatility all schemes 22.5% 22.5% Dividend yield all schemes 2.1% 2.1% Annual forfeiture rate South African schemes 7.5% 7.5% All other schemes 3.0% 3.0% Risk-free interest rate South African schemes 8.1% 8.0% All other schemes 5.1% 4.4% The calculation is based on the weighted fair values of issues made during the financial year.
Expected volatility is calculated by assessing the historic share price data in the United Kingdom and South Africa since May 1999 and May 2001 respectively.
114 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 26a.
Statement of changes in shareholders equity Merger Safari Share Share relief Other and EBT Retained Minority Total capital premium reserve reserves shares earnings Total interest equity US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2006 158 6,099 3,395 102 655 3,944 13,043 542 13,585 Currency translation differences group 367 367 3 370 associates 8 8 8 Net investment hedges fair value losses in period 2 2 2 Fair value gains on available for sale investments 7 7 7 Deferred tax charge on items taken to equity 7 7 7 Actuarial gains taken to equity 5 5 5 Other movements 4 4 4 Profit for the financial year 1,649 1,649 234 1,883 Dividends paid 681 681 165 846 Issued capital 38 38 38 Payment for purchase of own shares for share trusts 30 30 30 Utilisation of EBT shares 2 2 Disposal of shares in subsidiaries 7 7 Payment for buyout of minorities 26 26 Equity settled share incentive plans 31 31 31 At 31 March 2007 158 6,137 3,395 466 683 4,933 14,406 595 15,001 Currency translation differences group 1,870 1,870 57 1,927 associates 102 102 102 Net investment hedges fair value losses in period 226 226 226 Cash flow hedges fair value losses in the period 1 1 1 Fair value gains on available for sale investments 2 2 2 Deferred tax charge on items taken to equity 8 8 8 Actuarial gains taken to equity 31 31 31 Other movements 5 5 5 Profit for the financial year 2,023 2,023 265 2,288 Dividends paid 769 769 201 970 Issued capital 39 39 39 Payment for purchase of own shares for share trusts 33 33 33 Utilisation of EBT shares 8 8 Payment for buyout of minorities 17 17 Credit entry relating to sharebased payments 58 58 58 Change in settlement basis of share incentive plans 54 54 54 At 31 March 2008 158 6,176 3,395 2,215 708 6,309 17,545 699 18,244 The analysis of movements in other reserves is given in note 26 b.
The groups retained earnings includes amounts of US$510 million 2007: US$607 million, the distribution of which is limited by statutory or other restrictions.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 115 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26a.
Statement of changes in shareholders equity continued Safari and EBT shares reserve In the financial year ended 31 March 2000, Safari Limited a special purpose vehicle established and financed by a wholly-owned subsidiary of SABMiller plc acquired 77,368,338 SABMiller plc shares at an initial cost of US$560 million.
In terms of the agreement, a top-up payment of US$58 million was accrued for at 31 March 2001 and paid to the selling shareholders on 3 April 2001.
On 9 July 2002 these shares held by Safari Ltd were converted to non-voting convertible shares.
These shares have been treated as a deduction in arriving at shareholders funds.
The employees benefit trust holds shares in SABMiller plc for the purposes of the various executive share incentive schemes, further details of which are disclosed in the report on directors remuneration.
The shares currently rank pari passu with all other ordinary shares.
At 31 March 2008 the trusts held 4,644,176 shares 2007: 4,034,111 shares which cost US$74 million 2007: US$58 million and had a market value of US$102 million 2007: US$88 million.
The trusts used funds provided by SABMiller plc to purchase the shares.
The costs of funding and administering the scheme are charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate.
Other reserves Foreign Net currency Cash flow investment Available Total translation hedging hedging for sale Other reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2006 104 2 102 Currency translation differences group 367 367 Currency translation differences associates 8 8 Net investment hedges fair value losses in period 2 2 Fair value gains on available for sale investments 7 7 At 31 March 2007 463 4 7 466 Currency translation differences group 1,870 1,870 Currency translation differences associates 102 102 Net investment hedges fair value losses in period 226 226 Cash flow hedges fair value gains in the period 1 1 Fair value gains on available for sale investments 2 2 At 31 March 2008 2,435 1 230 9 2,215 Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve comprises all translation exchange differences arising on the retranslation of opening net assets together with differences between income statements translated at average and closing rates.
Merger relief reserve In accordance with section 131 of The Companies Act 1985, the group recorded the US$3,395 million excess of value attributed to the shares issued as consideration for Miller Brewing Company over the nominal value of those shares as a merger relief reserve in the year ended 31 March 2003.
116 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 27a.
Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash generated from operations 2008 2007 US$m US$m Profit for the year 2,288 1,883 Taxation 976 921 Share of post-tax results of associates 272 205 Interest receivable and similar income 265 240 Interest payable and similar charges 721 668 Operating profit 3,448 3,027 Depreciation: property, plant and equipment 633 550 containers 215 187 Container breakages, shrinkage and write-offs 27 44 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment and investments 12 6 Exceptional profit on sale of property, plant and equipment Europe 14 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 5 13 Amortisation of intangible assets 190 162 Unrealised net loss from derivatives 26 2 Exceptional profit on disposal of subsidiaries 17 Dividends received from other investments 1 1 Charge with respect to share options 58 31 Restructuring and integration costs Latin America 10 Adjustment to goodwill Europe 31 Other non-cash movements 2 1 Net cash generated from operations before working capital movements EBITDA 4,518 4,031 Increase in inventories 337 73 Increase in receivables 160 294 Increase in payables 282 319 Decrease increase in provisions 5 21 Decrease increase in post-retirement provisions 22 14 Net cash generated from operations 4,276 4,018 Cash generated from operations include cash flows relating to exceptional items of US$19 million in respect of South American and European integration and restructuring costs 2007: US$37 million.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 117 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27b.
Analysis of net debt Cash and cash equivalents Derivative Total excluding financial Finance gross Net overdrafts Overdrafts Borrowings instruments leases borrowings debt US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2007 481 187 7,029 127 15 7,358 6,877 Exchange adjustments 72 41 388 1 430 502 Cash flow 254 248 1,454 10 7 1,705 1,451 Acquisitions 10 9 164 173 163 Other movements 125 62 4 67 67 At 31 March 2008 673 485 9,160 75 13 9,733 9,060 Cash and cash equivalents on the balance sheet are reconciled to cash and cash equivalents on the cash flow as follows: 2008 2007 US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents balance sheet 673 481 Overdrafts 485 187 Cash and cash equivalents cash flow 188 294 The groups net debt is denominated in the following currencies: Colombian Other US dollars SA rand Euro peso currencies Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Total cash and cash equivalents 129 19 36 77 220 481 Total gross borrowings including overdrafts 4,580 389 267 1,384 738 7,358 4,451 370 231 1,307 518 6,877 Cross currency swaps 1,400 400 400 600 Net debt at 31 March 2007 3,051 770 231 1,707 1,118 6,877 Total cash and cash equivalents 196 171 43 34 229 673 Total gross borrowings including overdrafts 4,686 439 1,888 1,807 913 9,733 4,490 268 1,845 1,773 684 9,060 Cross currency swaps 1,731 400 331 400 600 Net debt at 31 March 2008 2,759 668 2,176 2,173 1,284 9,060 27c.
Major non-cash transactions 2008 No major non-cash transactions occurred during the year.
2007 No major non-cash transactions occurred during the year.
118 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 28.
Acquisitions and disposals The following significant business combinations took effect during the year: Grolsch On 12 February 2008, SABMiller plc completed the acquisition of a 100% interest in Royal Grolsch N. V. for a cash consideration of US$1,190 million and deferred consideration of US$4 million.
Other On 8 January 2008, SABMiller plc completed the acquisition of a 99.96% interest in Browar Belgia Sp.
z. o. o in Poland for a cash consideration of US$91 million.
On 12 October 2007, SABMiller plc also completed the acquisition of a 100% interest in Bevande Torino S. r. l in Italy.
All business combinations All business combinations have been accounted for using the purchase method.
All assets were recognised at their respective fair values.
The residual over the net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill in the financial statements.
The following table represents the assets and liabilities acquired in respect of all business combinations entered into during the year ended 31 March 2008: Provisional fair value US$m Intangible assets 19 Property, plant and equipment 515 Investments in associates 13 Available for sale investments 1 Inventories 34 Trade and other receivables 122 Cash and cash equivalents 10 Current tax assets 7 Derivative financial assets 1 Borrowings 173 Trade and other payables 140 Current tax liabilities 1 Derivative financial liabilities 4 Net deferred tax liabilities 14 Provisions 18 372 Goodwill 917 Consideration 1,289 Consideration satisfied by: Total consideration 1,289 Less: Cash and cash equivalents acquired 1 Less: Deferred consideration 4 Cash outflow on acquisition 1,284 From the date of acquisition to 31 March 2008 the following amounts have been included in the groups income and cash flow statements for the year: Other Grolsch acquisitions Total US$m US$m US$m Income statement Revenue 52 1 53 Operating profit 3 2 5 Profit before tax 3 2 5 Cash flow statement Cash generated from operations 20 2 22 Net interest paid 1 1 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 8 8 If the date of acquisition made in the year had been 1 April 2007, then the groups revenue, operating profit and profit before tax for the year ended 31 March 2008 would have been as follows: Group US$m Revenue 21,872 Operating profit 3,472 Profit before tax 3,276 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 119 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Acquisitions and disposals continued Grolsch Carrying values Provisional pre-acquisition fair value US$m US$m Intangible assets 33 Property, plant and equipment 441 441 Investments in associates 13 13 Available for sale investments 11 Inventories 29 27 Trade and other receivables 163 110 Cash and cash equivalents 99 Current tax assets 17 Derivative financial assets 11 Borrowings 162 162 Trade and other payables 92 115 Current tax liabilities 1 1 Derivative financial liabilities 4 4 Net deferred tax liabilities 23 18 Provisions 6 15 373 297 Net assets acquired 297 Provisional goodwill 897 Consideration 1,194 Consideration satisfied by: Cash 1,190 Deferred consideration 4 1,194 The outflow inflow of cash and cash equivalents on the initial Grolsch transaction is calculated as follows: US$m Cash consideration 1,194 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 9 1,185 Overdrafts acquired included on borrowings 9 The intangible assets acquired as part of the initial Grolsch transaction can be analysed as follows: US$m Distribution network 3 Other acquisitions Carrying values Provisional pre-acquisition fair value US$m US$m Intangible assets 816 Property, plant and equipment 70 74 Inventories 11 7 Trade and other receivables 12 12 Cash and cash equivalents 11 Borrowings 12 11 Trade and other payables 23 25 Net deferred tax asset 4 Provisions 3 3 64 75 Equity minority interests Net assets acquired 75 Provisional goodwill 20 Consideration 95 120 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 28.
Acquisitions and disposals continued Consideration satisfied by: Cash 95 The inflow outflow of cash and cash equivalents on the other acquisitions is calculated as follows: US$m Cash consideration 95 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 1 94 Overdrafts acquired included in borrowings The intangible assets acquired as part of the other acquisitions can be analysed as follows: US$m Customer lists 8 Brands and trademarks 8 16 The fair value adjustments include provisional amounts which will be finalised in the year ended 31 March 2009.
Goodwill represents amongst other things, the following: brands yet to be recognised separately from goodwill: assembled work force: and value of synergies.
Minority interests The following minority interests were acquired for a total consideration of US$49 million with additional goodwill of US$27 million recognised.
Effective holding after acquisition of minority Form of % acquired interest consideration Region Bavaria S. A.
0.3 99% Cash Colombia Cerveceria Nacional S. A.
6.2 97% Cash Panama Refrescos Nacionales S. A.
0.8 96% Cash Panama MDVSAM Distributor 6.0 100% Cash Italy Doreca Bibtal S. r. l. 8.9 100% Cash Italy Doreca Bottaro S. r. l. 40.0 100% Cash Italy Doreca Sicilia S. r. l. 30.0 100% Cash Italy Disposals During the year the group completed the sale of Productura fide Jugos SA a fruit juice manufacturer in Colombia and Embotelladora Centroamericana S. A. a Pepsi bottling operation in Costa Rica.
Both these disposals relate to the Latin America segment.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 121 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Commitments, contingencies and guarantees a Operating lease commitments The minimum lease rentals to be paid under non-cancellable leases at 31 March 2008 are as follows: 2008 2007 US$m US$m Land and buildings Within one year 40 18 Later than one year and less than five years 101 33 After five years 42 27 183 78 Plant, vehicles and systems Within one year 29 26 Later than one year and less than five years 74 48 After five years 8 12 111 86 b Other commitments 2008 2007 US$m US$m Capital commitments not provided in the financial information: Contracts placed for future expenditure for property, plant and equipment 667 590 Contracts placed for future expenditure for intangible assets 22 59 Other commitments not provided in the financial information: Contracts placed for future expenditure 685 576 Contracts placed for future expenditure primarily relate to Millers various long-term non-cancellable advertising and promotion commitments which, at 31 March 2008, are principally due between 2008 and 2013.
In addition, Miller has various long-term supply contracts with unrelated third parties to purchase certain materials used in its production and packaging process.
The terms of these contracts generally stipulate that Miller must use the designated suppliers for expected minimum percentages of its annual purchase requirements of the specified materials.
However, Miller is not obliged to make any purchases unless it requires supplies of such materials.
Supply contracts outstanding at 31 March 2008 for malt, bottles, labels and cans expire between 2008 and 2015. c Contingent liabilities and guarantees 2008 2007 US$m US$m Guarantees to third parties provided in respect of borrowings of certain subsidiary undertakings 3,012 1,970 US$600 million 4.25% Guaranteed Notes 2008 600 600 US$1,100 million 5.50% Guaranteed Notes 2013 1,100 1,100 Rand 1,600 million 9.935% Ordinary Bonds due 2012 196 Rand 2,400 million Commercial Paper programme 294 COP 592 billion bank facility due 2009 325 270 COP 486 billion bank facility due 2008 267 US$230 million bank facility due 2009 230 Guarantees to third parties provided in respect of trade loans i 19 Staff loans and pension guarantees ii 22 24 Jointly held contingent liability iii 150 150 Share of associates contingent liabilities incurred jointly with other investors 4 Litigation iv 11 4 3,214 2,152 These represent the maximum amounts guaranteed by SABMiller plc, the company.
The aggregate actual amounts outstanding and disclosed as part of borrowings note 21 is US$2,712 million as at 31 March 2008 2007: US$1,870 million.
122 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 29.
Commitments, contingencies and guarantees continued i Trade loans Trade loans primarily relate to guarantees given by Royal Grolsch N. V. to banks in relation to loans taken out by trade customers.
ii Staff loans and pension guarantees Staff loans and pension guarantees above primarily relate to the present value of Miller pension guarantees.
Miller and Pabst Brewing Company Pabst are responsible for the Milwaukee Brewery Workers Pension Plan.
In connection with Pabsts closure of its Milwaukee, Wisconsin brewery and its contract brewing agreement with Miller, Pabst entered into a withdrawal liability settlement agreement which requires annual payments by Pabst to this pension plan of approximately US$4 million until 2013.
In the event that Pabst is unable to fulfil its pension plan obligation, the plan would have recourse to all the assets of Pabst and its parent company.
If such assets do not satisfy Pabsts remaining pension obligation, Miller would be required to fund the remaining Pabst withdrawal liability until 2013. iii Jointly held contingent liability Bavaria S. A. is jointly and severally liable with Valorem S. A. part of Santo Domingo Group SDG for the pension obligations of Avianca S. A. formerly part of the SDG group but which was sold by SDG in 2004.
The maximum obligation is for $150 million which corresponds to the initial actuarial value of the pensions obligation.
At 31 March 2008 no claim has been made against the group in respect of this obligation.
iv Litigation The group has a number of activities in a wide variety of geographic areas and is subject to certain legal claims incidental to its operations.
In the opinion of the directors, after taking appropriate legal advice, these claims are not expected to have, either individually or in aggregate, a material adverse effect upon the groups financial position, except insofar as already provided in the consolidated financial statements.
The company, with Miller Brewing Company, in common with other participants in the beer and spirits industries in the USA, was a defendant in putative class action lawsuits alleging that the defendants have intentionally targeted the marketing of certain alcoholic beverage brands to persons under the legal drinking age.
The plaintiffs alleged several causes of action, including violations of state consumer protection laws, unjust enrichment, negligence, public nuisance, and civil conspiracy.
The complaints sought, on behalf of a putative class of parents and guardians, an injunction to stop certain unspecified marketing practices and unspecified money damages including civil fines, punitive damages, and disgorgement of profits.
None of the lawsuits progressed past the pleading stage.
Of the nine lawsuits filed, three have been withdrawn and in the remaining six the defendants motions to dismiss the cases have been upheld.
In five of these cases, the decisions to dismiss were upheld on appeal.
In the sixth, plaintiffs dismissed their appeal.
Other SABMiller and Altria entered into a tax matters agreement the Agreement on 30 May 2002 to regulate the conduct of tax matters between them with regard to the acquisition of Miller and to allocate responsibility for contingent tax costs.
SABMiller has agreed to indemnify Altria against any taxes, losses, liabilities and costs that Altria incurs arising out of or in connection with a breach by SABMiller of any representation, agreement or covenant in the Agreement, subject to certain exceptions.
The group has exposures to various environmental risks.
Although it is difficult to predict the groups liability with respect to these risks, future payments, if any, would be made over a period of time in amounts that would not be material to the groups financial position, except insofar as already provided in the consolidated financial statements.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits The group operates a number of pension schemes throughout the world.
These schemes have been designed and are administered in accordance with local conditions and practices in the countries concerned and include both defined contribution and defined benefit schemes.
The majority of the schemes are funded and the schemes assets are held independently of the groups finances.
Pension and post-retirement benefit costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent professionally qualified actuaries.
Generally, the projected unit method is applied to measure the defined benefit scheme liabilities.
The group also provides medical benefits, which are mainly unfunded, for retired employees and their dependants in South Africa, Miller and Latin America.
Miller provides post-retirement benefits, as well as retiree medical and life insurance benefits, which are unfunded, to eligible employees and their dependants.
Salaried non-union employees hired after 31 August 2003 are not eligible for company subsidised retiree medical benefits.
The total pension and post-retirement medical benefit costs recognised in the income statement, and related liabilities on the balance sheet are as follows: 2008 2007 US$m US$m Defined contribution scheme costs 94 79 Defined benefit pension plan costs 26 41 Post-retirement medical and other benefit costs 47 54 Accruals for defined contribution plans balance sheet 5 7 Provisions for defined benefit pension plans balance sheet 396 363 Provisions for other post-retirement benefits balance sheet 621 636 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 123 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The group operates various defined contribution and defined benefit schemes.
Details of the main defined benefit schemes is provided below: Miller pension schemes The Miller Pension Plan is a single qualified defined benefit scheme covering both salaried non-union and union employees while maintaining separate benefit structures across the various employee groups.
Substantially all salaried non-union employees hired prior to 1 January 2005 are covered by the plan which provides benefits for this employee group based on final average pay and years of service.
Benefit accruals for salaried non-union employees ceased as of 31 December 2007.
Benefit accruals for union employees are the subject of collective bargaining and are based on a flat rate per year of service.
In addition, through negotiations, benefit accruals have been frozen for some of the union employee groups covered by the plan.
As of 31 March 2008, the plan had a deficit of US$112 million given plan assets with a fair market value of US$887 million.
This represents a funding level of 89%.
Miller has two qualified defined contribution schemes that cover salaried non-union and union employees separately.
The plan covering salaried non-union employees provides a basic company contribution equal to 5% of an employees pay along with a one-for-one company matching contribution up to 4% of an employees own contributions.
For the plan covering union employees, the company makes contributions for some of the union groups either through company matching contributions based on the employees own contributions or a flat hourly contribution rate.
In addition, substantially all salaried employees are covered by a survivor income benefit plan and a long-term disability plan.
The company provides non-qualified unfunded defined benefit and defined contribution plans for certain employees whose benefits under the qualified plans are limited by regulation.
As of 31 March 2008 the liabilities for these plans are US$13 million and US$1 million respectively.
The most recent actuarial valuation of Millers post-retirement plan was carried out by independent professionally qualified actuaries at 1 January 2007 using the projected unit credit method.
Certain of Millers hourly employees participate in the Milwaukee Brewery Workers Pension Plan.
As part of a withdrawal settlement, Pabst, which had participated in the plan prior to 1997, agreed to make annual contributions of approximately US$4 million to this plan until 2013.
The plans funded status net of the present value of Pabsts withdrawal payments at 31 March 2008 is set out below.
US$m Market value of assets 42 Present value of accrued obligations, net of Pabst withdrawal liabilities 79 Deficit 37 South Africa pension schemes The group operates a number of pension schemes throughout South Africa.
Details of the major scheme are provided below: The ABI pension fund Suncrush Pension Fund and Suncrush Retirement Fund are funded schemes of the defined benefit type based on average salary with assets held in separately administered funds.
The latest valuation of these funds was carried out at 31 March 2008 by an independent actuary using the projected unit credit method.
The liabilities were based on the transfer values of the active members and surplus allocated to the members, former members and pensioners as at 31 March 2008.
From 1 July 2005 the funds were closed, all active members were transferred to either the ABI Provident Fund or the SAB Staff Provident Fund.
The funds will be deregistered and liquidated once all assets and liabilities have been settled.
The surplus apportionment scheme for the ABI Pension Fund has been approved by the Financial Services Board.
Approval for the surplus apportionment scheme for the Suncrush Pension Fund and Suncrush Retirement Fund is still outstanding.
With regards to the apportionment of the ABI Pension Fund surplus, in the current year the employer received their share of the surplus.
The surplus due to the members, former members and pensioners is yet to be distributed.
Bavaria pension schemes The group operates a number of pension schemes throughout Latin America.
Details of the major scheme are provided below: The Colombian Labour Code Pension Plan is an unfunded scheme of the defined benefit type and covers all salaried and hourly employees in Colombia who are not covered by social security or who have at least 10 years of service prior to 1 January 1967.
The plan is financed entirely through company reserves and there are no external assets.
The most recent actuarial valuation of the Colombian Labour Code Pension Plan was carried out by independent professionally qualified actuaries at 31 December 2006 using the projected unit credit method.
All salaried employees are now covered by the Social Security provisions.
The principal economic assumptions used in the preparation of the pension valuations are set out below and take into consideration changes in the Colombian economy.
Grolsch pension scheme The Grolsch pension plan, named Stichting Pensioenfonds van fide Grolsche Bierbrouwerij, is a funded scheme of the defined benefit type, based on average salary with assets held in separately administered funds.
The latest valuation of the Royal Grolsch pension fund was carried out at 31 March 2008 by an independent actuary using the projected unit credit method.
The principal assumptions used in the valuation are listed below.
The breakdown of the plan assets, based on the data as at 31 January 2008, is approximately 57% in bonds, 37% in equity and 6% in real estate.
124 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 30.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued Principal actuarial assumptions at 31 March expressed as weighted averages Medical and other Defined benefit pension plans post-retirement benefits South Latin South Miller Africa America Grolsch Other Miller Africa Other %%%%%%%% At 31 March 2008 Discount rate 6.5 n a 10.3 4.8 4.8 6.5 9.0 10.3 Salary inflation 3.5 n a 5.7 2.5 3.0 Pension inflation 4.0 n a 5.7 2.5 3.0 Healthcare cost inflation 9.1 7.3 6.7 Mortality rate assumptions: Retirement age: Males 61 n a 55 65 n a 62 63 55 Females 61 n a 50 65 n a 62 63 50 Life expectations on retirement age: Retiring today: Males 21 n a 20 16 n a 20 16 20 Females 24 n a 25 20 n a 23 20 25 Retiring in 20 years: Males 21 n a n a 18 n a 20 16 n a Females 24 n a n a 20 n a 23 20 n a Medical and other Defined benefit pension plans post-retirement benefits South Latin South Miller Africa America Other Miller Africa Other %%%%%%% At 31 March 2007: Discount rate 5.9 7.8 8.7 4.8 5.9 7.5 8.7 Salary inflation 3.5 5.8 4.3 3.0 Pension inflation 4.0 4.5 4.3 3.0 Healthcare cost inflation 9.6 5.8 5.3 Mortality rate assumptions: Retirement age: Males 61 63 55 n a 62 63 55 Females 61 63 50 n a 62 63 50 Life expectations on retirement age: Retiring today: Males 21 16 20 n a 20 16 20 Females 24 20 25 n a 23 20 25 Retiring in 20 years: Males 21 n a n a n a 20 16 n a Females 24 n a n a n a 23 20 n a Notes to the consolidated financial statements 125 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The present value of defined benefit plan and post-employment medical benefit liabilities are as follows: Medical and other Defined benefit pension plans post-retirement benefits South Latin South Miller Africa America Grolsch Other Total Miller Africa Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Present value of scheme liabilities at 1 April 2006 1,060 51 153 29 1,293 548 49 49 646 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is unfunded 18 144 4 166 548 47 48 643 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is partly or wholly funded 1,042 51 9 25 1,127 2 1 3 Benefits paid 54 19 6 79 25 4 29 Current service costs 28 9 4 41 12 1 13 Past service costs 47 47 Interest costs 61 4 10 1 76 33 3 6 42 Actuarial losses gains 56 10 5 71 30 3 1 28 Settlements 25 25 1 1 Currency translations 9 9 4 4 10 3 7 Present value of scheme liabilities at 31 March 2007 1,151 78 167 32 1,428 537 46 53 636 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is unfunded 18 167 3 188 537 45 51 633 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is partly or wholly funded 1,133 78 29 1,240 1 2 3 Benefits paid 57 38 5 100 23 4 27 Contributions paid by plan participants 2 2 Current service cost 25 4 2 2 33 11 2 2 11 Interest costs 67 4 12 2 85 31 4 5 40 Actuarial losses gains 80 5 2 1 78 33 6 39 Settlements 5 26 2 33 4 4 Transfers from to other provisions 26 1 25 3 3 Acquisitions 299 299 5 5 Currency translations 6 34 24 6 58 5 9 4 Present value of scheme liabilities at 31 March 2008 1,101 55 203 325 33 1,717 519 42 60 621 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is unfunded 13 200 24 237 519 42 60 621 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is partly or wholly funded 1,088 55 3 325 9 1,480 126 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 30.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The fair value reconciliations of opening plan assets to closing plan assets, on an aggregated basis, are as follows: Defined benefit pension plans South Miller Africa Grolsch Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Plan asset at 1 April 2006 914 124 1,038 Expected return on plan assets 72 8 80 Benefits paid 54 54 Contributions paid by employer 27 27 Actuarial gains 28 37 65 Settlements 25 25 Currency translations 19 19 Plan asset at 31 March 2007 987 125 1,112 Expected return on plan assets 80 8 1 89 Benefits paid 57 57 Contributions paid by employer 23 1 24 Actuarial losses 91 16 107 Settlements 26 26 Acquisitions 297 297 Currency translations 9 25 16 Plan asset at 31 March 2008 942 82 324 1,348 The fair value of assets in pension schemes and the expected rates of return were: Miller South Africa Latin America Grolsch Other Total Long-term Long-term Long-term Long-term Long-term rate of rate of rate of rate of rate of US$m return US$m return US$m return US$m return US$m return US$m At 31 March 2008 Equities 455 9.0 7 12.0 120 7.3 582 Bonds 293 6.1 9.0 186 4.8 479 Cash 1 4.8 72 7.0 73 International equities 138 9.0 12.0 138 Property and other 55 6.9 3 12.0 18 7.3 76 Total fair value of assets 942 82 324 1,348 Present value of scheme liabilities 1,101 55 203 325 33 1,717 Deficit surplus in the scheme 159 27 203 1 33 369 Unrecognised pension asset due to limit 27 27 Pension liability recognised 159 203 1 33 396 At 31 March 2007 Equities 484 9.0 66 12.0 550 Bonds 301 6.5 37 9.0 338 Cash 3.0 21 7.0 21 International equities 153 9.0 10.8 153 Property and other 49 7.0 1 10.8 50 Total fair value of assets 987 125 1,112 Present value of scheme liabilities 1,151 78 167 32 1,428 Deficit surplus in the scheme 164 47 167 32 316 Unrecognised pension asset due to limit 47 47 Pension liability recognised 164 167 32 363 The expected long-term rate of return on Miller fund assets is 8%.
This is determined by considering the weighted expected return of each asset class within the fund, based on input from both Russell Investments, the Miller Pension Plans investment manager and Hewitt Associates, the Plans actuary.
All funds are actively managed and returns are based on both the expected performance of the asset class and the performance of fund managers.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 127 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: Defined benefit pension plans Medical and other post-retirement benefits South Latin South Miller Africa America Grolsch Other Total Miller Africa Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2008 Present value of scheme liabilities 1,101 55 203 325 33 1,717 519 42 60 621 Fair value of plan assets 942 82 324 1,348 159 27 203 1 33 369 519 42 60 621 Unrecognised assets due to limit 27 27 Net liability recognised on balance sheet 159 203 1 33 396 519 42 60 621 At 31 March 2007 Present value of scheme liabilities 1,151 78 167 32 1,428 537 46 53 636 Fair value of plan assets 987 125 1,112 164 47 167 32 316 537 46 53 636 Unrecognised assets due to limit 47 47 Net liability recognised on balance sheet 164 167 32 363 537 46 53 636 In respect of South Africa, the pension asset recognised must be limited to the extent that the employer is able to recover a surplus either through reduced contributions in the future or through refunds from the scheme.
The limit has been set equal to nil as the surplus apportionment exercise required in terms of the South African legislation has not yet been performed.
In addition, the net income statement gain of US$4 million 2007: charge of US$43 million and net actuarial loss taken directly to equity of US$21 million 2007: gain of US$27 million are not recognised in the financial statements.
The amounts recognised in net operating expenses in the income statement are as follows: Defined benefit pension plans Medical and other post-retirement benefits Latin South Miller America Grolsch Other Total Miller Africa Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2008 Current service costs 25 4 2 2 33 11 2 2 11 Interest costs 67 12 2 81 31 4 5 40 Expected return on plan assets 80 1 81 Settlements and curtailments 5 274 4 7 16 1 2 26 38 6 3 47 At 31 March 2007 Current service costs 28 9 4 41 12 1 13 Interest costs 61 10 1 72 33 3 6 42 Expected return on plan assets 72 72 Settlements and curtailments 1 1 17 19 5 41 44 4 6 54 128 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 30.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The amounts recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense are as follows: Defined benefit pension plans Medical and other post-retirement benefits Latin South Miller America Grolsch Other Total Miller Africa Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2008 Actual loss return on plan assets 10 1 9 Less: expected return on plan assets 80 1 81 Experience gains losses arising on scheme assets 90 90 scheme liabilities 3 3 1 1 Changes in actuarial assumptions 76 3 18034 640 Other actuarial gains losses 1 1 Actuarial losses gains recognised 11 2 1 8 33 6 39 At 31 March 2007 Actual return on plan assets 100 100 Less: expected return on plan assets 72 72 Experience gains losses arising on scheme assets 28 28 scheme liabilities 62 62 22 22 Changes in actuarial assumptions 6 5 1 8 3 1 6 Actuarial losses gains recognised 28 5 33 30 3 1 28 The cumulative amounts recognised in equity are as follows: 2008 2007 US$m US$m At 31 March: 173 168 Net actuarial gains losses recognised in the year 31 5 Cumulative actuarial losses recognised 142 173 History of actuarial gains and losses 2008 2007 2006 2005 US$m US$m US$m US$m Experience gains losses of plan assets 90 28 31 15 Percentage of plan assets 7% 3% 3% 2% Experience losses gains of scheme liabilities 2 62 4 21 Percentage of scheme liabilities 0% 3% 0% 1% Fair value of plan assets 1,348 1,112 1,038 959 Present value of scheme liabilities 2,338 2,064 1,939 1,682 Deficit in the schemes 990 952 901 723 Unrecognised assets due to limit 27 47 73 68 Net liability recognised in balance sheet 1,017 999 974 791 Contributions expected to be paid into the groups major defined benefit schemes during the annual period after 31 March 2008 are US$90 million.
A 1% increase and a 1% decrease in the assumed healthcare cost of inflation will have the following effect on the groups major postemployment medical benefits: 2008 Increase Decrease US$m US$m Current service costs 3 2 Interest costs 10 8 Accumulated post-employment medical benefit costs 119 98 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 129 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Related party transactions a Parties with significant influence over the group: Altria Group, Inc. Altria and Santo Domingo Group SDG The Miller Brewing Company has received various services from Altria, which holds a 28.6% shareholding in SABMiller plc, including insurance claims processing, leasehold accommodation and other administrative services, with an aggregate cost of US$0.1 million 2007: US$0.4 million, of which US$nil was outstanding at 31 March 2008 2007: US$nil.
The Santo Domingo Group SDG is a related party of the group by virtue of its 15% shareholding in SABMiller plc.
In the current year provisions for impairment of US$1.3 million 2007: US$nil were recorded against receivables owing from companies controlled by the SDG.
The group has also made a donation of US$8 million to the Fundacion Mario Santo Domingo transactions with the SDG in 2007 totalled US$0.1 million.
At 31 March 2008, US$nil 2007: US$0.6 million was owing to the SDG.
Bavaria S. A. is jointly and severally liable with Valorem S. A. part of the SDG for the pension obligations of Avianca S. A. a former part of the SDG which was sold by the SDG in 2004.
The maximum obligation is for US$150 million which corresponds to the initial actuarial value of the obligation.
b Associates 2008 2007 US$m US$m 1 Purchases from associates 214 213 2 Sales to associates 22 2 3 Dividends received 91 102 4 Management and guarantee fees received 3 1 The group purchased canned Coca-Cola products for resale from Coca-Cola Canners of Southern Africa Pty Limited Coca-Cola and purchased inventory from Metalforma S. A. Industria Nacional fide Plasticos S. A. and Envases del Istmo S. A. in Panama.
2 The group made sales of beer to Tsogo Sun Holdings Pty Limited Tsogo Sun and Madadeni Beer Wholesaler Pty Ltd.. 3 The group received dividends from Socit des Brasseries et Glacires Internationales and Brasseries Internationales Holding Ltd Castel of US$27 million 2007: US$22 million, Kenya Breweries Limited Kenya US$15 milion 2007: US$5 million, Coca-Cola US$4 million 2007: US$5 million, Distell Group Limited of US$17 million 2007: US$14 million and Tsogo Sun US$28 million 2007: US$56 million.
4 The group received guarantee fees from Tsogo Sun.
2008 2007 US$m US$m At 31 March: 1 Amounts owed by associates 1 2 Amounts owed to associates 20 31 1 Amounts owed by Delta and Kenya.
2 Amounts owed by SAB Ltd to Coca-Cola Canners Pty Ltd. c Transactions with key management The group has a related party relationship with the directors of the group and members of the Excom as key management.
At 31 March 2008 there are 24 members of key management.
Key management compensation is provided in note 6c.
Post balance sheet events In May 2008 the company announced that it had agreed to acquire a 99.84% interest in the Ukrainian brewer CJSC Sarmat, acquiring gross assets of approximately US$130 million.
The transaction is subject to approval by the Ukrainian competition authorities and other customary pre-closing conditions.
Also in May 2008, the group entered into an additional US$1,000 million committed facility, maturing in June 2009 and a new three-year committed facility totalling US$600 million.
130 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 33.
Principal subsidiary and associated undertakings The principal subsidiary undertakings of the group as at 31 March were as follows: Effective interest in ordinary share capital Country of Principal Name incorporation activity 2008 2007 Central administration SABMiller Holdings Limited United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% 4 SABMiller Finance BV Netherlands Holding company 100% 100% SABSA Holdings Pty Limited South Africa Holding company 100% 100% 4 SABMiller Africa and Asia BV Netherlands Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller International BV Netherlands Trademark owner 100% 100% SABMiller Latin America Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% North American operations Miller Brewing Company USA Brewing 100% 100% Miller Brewing West Limited Partnership USA Brewing 100% 100% Miller Brewing East Inc USA Brewing 100% 100% Miller Products Company USA Intellectual Property Marketing 100% 100% MBC1 LLC USA Brewing 100% 100% MBC2 LLC USA Brewing 100% 100% Latin American operations Bavaria S. A. Colombia Brewing Soft drinks 99% 99% 5 Cervecera Leona S. A. Colombia Brewing 99% Cervecera Unon S. A. Colombia Brewing 98% 98% Union fide Cerveceras Peruanas 2 3 Backus y Johnston S. A.
A Peru Brewing 93% 93% 2 3 Cervecera San Juan S. A. Peru Brewing Soft drinks 86% 86% 6 Compaia Cervecera del Sur del Peru S. A. Peru Brewing 90% 7 Cervecera Andina S. A. Ecuador Brewing 86% 10 Cervecera Nacional CN S. A. Ecuador Brewing 95% 97% Latin Development Corporation Panama Holding company 99% 100% 2 Cervecera Nacional S. A. Panama Brewing 97% 90% Bevco Ltd British Virgin Islands Holding company 100% 100% 8 Corporacin Cervecera Hondurea S. A. Honduras Distribution company 98% Cervecera Hondurea, S. A. Honduras Brewing Soft drinks 99% 98% Industrias La Constancia, S. A. El Salvador Brewing Soft drinks 100% 100% European operations SABMiller Holdings Europe Limited United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% S. p. A. Birra Peroni Italy Brewing 100% 100% Ursus Breweries S. A. Romania Brewing 99% 99% Compania Cervecera fide Canarias SA Spain Brewing 51% 51% Dreher Srgyrak Rt Hungary Brewing 100% 100% 9 SABMiller RUS LLC Russia Brewing 100% 100% 1 Kompania Piwowarska S. A. Poland Brewing 72% 72% Plzensky Prazdr oj, a. s. Czech Republic Brewing 100% 100% Miller Brands UK Ltd United Kingdom Sales & distribution 100% 100% Pivovary Topvar a. s. Slovakia Brewing 100% 100% Grolsche Bierbrouwerij Nederland N. V. Netherlands Brewing 100% Notes to the consolidated financial statements 131 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
Principal subsidiary and associated undertakings continued Effective interest in ordinary share capital Country of Principal Name incorporation activity 2008 2007 African operations SABMiller Africa BV Netherlands Holding company 62% 62% SABMiller Botswana BV Netherlands Holding company 62% 62% 2 Accra Brewery Ltd Ghana Brewing 43% 43% Botswana Breweries Ltd Botswana Sorghum brewing 31% 31% 2 Cervejas fide Moambique SARL Mozambique Brewing 49% 49% Coca-Cola Bottling Luanda Ltd Angola Soft drinks 28% 28% Coca-Cola Bottling Sul fide Angola SARL Angola Soft drinks 37% 37% Chibuku Products Ltd Malawi Sorghum brewing 31% 31% Kgalagadi Breweries Ltd Botswana Brewing Soft drinks 31% 31% Lesotho Brewing Company Pty Ltd Lesotho Brewing Soft drinks 24% 24% 2 National Breweries plc Zambia Sorghum brewing 43% 43% Nile Breweries Ltd Uganda Brewing 60% 60% Swaziland Brewers Ltd Swaziland Brewing 37% 37% 2 Tanzania Breweries Ltd Tanzania Brewing 33% 33% 2 Zambian Breweries Plc Zambia Brewing Soft drinks 54% 54% Asian operations SABMiller Asia BV Netherlands Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller A&A 2 Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller India Ltd India Holding company 100% 100% Skol Breweries India India Brewing 99% 99% Fosters India Private Ltd India Brewing 100% 100% South African operations The South African Breweries Ltd South Africa Brewing Soft drinks Holding company 100% 100% The South African Breweries Hop Farms Pty Ltd South Africa Hop farming 100% 100% Southern Associated Maltsters Pty Ltd South Africa Maltsters 100% 100% Appletiser South Africa Pty Ltd South Africa Fruit juices 100% 100% Notes: 1 SABMiller Poland BV, a wholly-owned subsidiary of SABMiller Europe, holds 71.9% of Kompania Piwowarska SA at 31 March 2008.
2 Listed in country of incorporation.
3 This is based on the effective economic interest.
7 Merged into Compaia fide Cervezas Nacionales C. A.
8 Merged into Cervecera Hondurea, S. A.
9 Previously Kaluga Brewing Company name changed during the year.
10 Previously Compaia fide Cervezas Nacionales C. A. name changed during the year.
The group comprises a large number of companies.
The list above only includes those subsidiary undertakings which materially affect the profit or net assets of the group, or a business segment, together with the principal intermediate holding companies of the group.
With the exception of the companies noted in 4 above, the principal country in which each of the above subsidiary undertakings operates is the same as the country in which each is incorporated.
Where the groups nominal interest in the equity share capital of an undertaking is less than 50%, the basis on which the undertaking is a subsidiary undertaking of the group is as follows: African operations The groups effective interest in its African operations was diluted as a result of the disposal of a 38% interest in SABMiller Africa BV on 1 April 2001, in exchange for a 20% interest in the Castel groups African beverage interests.
The operations continue to be consolidated due to SABMiller Africa BVs majority shareholdings, and ability to control the operations.
Botswana Breweries Pty Ltd and Kgalagadi Breweries Pty Ltd SABMiller Africa holds a 40% interest in each of Botswana Breweries Pty Ltd and Kgalagadi Breweries Pty Ltd with the remaining 60% interest in each held by Sechaba Brewery Holdings Ltd. SABMiller Africas shares entitle the holder to twice the voting rights of those shares held by Sechaba Brewery Holdings Ltd. SABMiller Africas 10.1% indirect interest 2007: 10.1% is held via a 16.8% interest 2007: 16.8% in Sechaba Brewery Holdings Ltd. Lesotho Brewing Company Pty Ltd Lesotho Brewing SABMiller Africa holds a 39% interest in Lesotho Brewing with the remaining interest held by a government authority, the Lesotho National Development Corporation 51%, and the Commonwealth Development Corporation 10%.
Lesotho Brewing is treated as a subsidiary undertaking based on the groups ability to control its operations through its board representation.
The day-to-day business operations are managed in accordance with a management agreement with Bevman Services AG, a group company.
132 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 33.
Principal subsidiary and associated undertakings continued Coca-Cola Bottling Luanda SARL CCBL SABMiller Africa is the largest shareholder in CCBL with a 45% holding.
Management control is exercised through a contractual agreement with Bevman Services AG, a group company.
Associated undertakings The principal associated undertakings of the group as at 31 March are set out below.
Where the groups interest in an associated undertaking is held by a subsidiary undertaking which is not wholly-owned by the group, the subsidiary undertaking is indicated in a note below.
Effective interest in ordinary share capital Country of Principal Name incorporation activity 2008 2007 European operations Grolsch UK Ltd United Kingdom Brewing 50% African operations 1 2 Delta Corporation Ltd Zimbabwe Brewing Soft drinks 22% 22% 2 5 Kenya Breweries Ltd Kenya Brewing 12% 12% 6 Socit des Brasseries et Glacires Internationales France Holding company for subsidiaries principally located in Africa 20% 20% 6 Brasseries Internationales Holding Ltd Gibraltar Holding company for subsidiaries principally located in Africa 20% 20% 3 6 Marocaine dInvestissements et fide Services Morocco Brewing 40% 40% 4 6 Socit fide Boissons fide IOuest, Algerien Algeria Soft drinks 40% 40% 4 6 Skikda Bottling Company Algeria Soft drinks 40% 40% 4 6 Socit des Nouvelles Brasseries Algeria Brewing 40% 40% 4 6 Algerienne fide Bavaroise Algeria Brewing 25% 25% Empressa Cervejas fide NGola SARL Angola Brewing 28% 28% Asian operations 6 China Resources Snow Breweries Ltd British Virgin Holding company for brewing Islands subsidiaries located in China 49% 49% 6 Pacific Beverages Pty Ltd Australia Sales and distribution 50% 50% Vietnam Dairy Products Joint Stock Company Vinamilk Vietnam Brewing 50% 50% South African Operations 6 Coca-Cola Canners of Southern Africa Pty Ltd South Africa Canning of beverages 32% 32% 1 5 Distell Group Ltd South Africa Wines and spirits 29% 29% 7 Madadeni Beer Wholesaler Pty Ltd South Africa Distribution 35% 70% Hotels and Gaming Tsogo Sun Holdings Pty Ltd South Africa Holding company for Hotels and Gaming operations 49% 49% Notes: 1 Listed in country of incorporation.
2 Interests in these companies are held by SABMiller Africa BV which is held 62% by SABMiller Africa and Asia BV.
3 SABMiller acquired a 25% direct interest in this holding company on 18 March 2004 which has controlling interests in three breweries, a malting plant and a wet depot in Morocco.
This 25% interest together with its 20% interest in the Castel groups African beverage interests, gives SABMiller an effective participation of 40%, the other 60% being held by the Castel groups African beverage interests.
4 Effective 18 March 2004, SABMiller acquired 25% of the Castel groups holding in these entities.
Together with its 20% interest in the Castel groups African beverage interests this gives SABMiller participation on a 40:60 basis with the Castel group.
5 These entities report their financial results for each 12-month period ending 30 June.
6 These entities report their financial results for each 12-month period ending 31 December.
The principal country in which each of the above associated undertakings operates is the same as the country in which each is incorporated.
However, Socit des Brasseries et Glacires Internationales and Brasseries Internationales Holding Ltds Castel group principal subsidiaries are in Africa and China Resources Snow Breweries Ltds principal subsidiaries are in the Peoples Republic of China.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008
