Statement of directors responsibilities on the company financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting the Directors Remuneration Report and the parent financial records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
financial position of the company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Company law requires the directors to prepare financial Report comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and have prepared the parent company financial statements in hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The parent company financial statements are required In addition, the Companies Act 1985 requires directors to provide by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the the companys auditors with every opportunity to take whatever company for that year.
steps and undertake whatever inspections the auditors consider to be appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their In preparing those financial statements, the directors are audit report.
The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, required to: confirm that: select suitable accounting policies and then apply so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit them consistently: information of which the companys auditors are unaware: and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have and prudent: taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any state that the consolidated financial statements comply relevant audit information and to establish that the companys with applicable UK Accounting Standards: and auditors are aware of that information.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern The directors responsibilities for publishing the company basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the accounts on the internet are stated on page 60. company will continue in business.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
134 Statement of directors responsibilities SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008
