Definitions An explanation of some of the terms and abbreviations used Volumes in this annual report is shown below.
In the determination and disclosure of reported sales volumes, the group aggregates the volumes of all consolidated subsidiaries Financial definitions and its equity-accounted associates, other than associates where primary responsibility for day-to-day management rests with Adjusted earnings others such as Castel and Distell.
In these latter cases, the Adjusted earnings are calculated by adjusting headline earnings financial results of operations are equity accounted in terms for the amortisation of intangible assets excluding software, of IFRS but volumes are excluded.
Although contract brewing integration and reorganisation costs and the fair value movements volumes are excluded from total volumes, turnover from in relation to capital items for which hedge accounting cannot be contract brewing is included within group turnover.
The tax and minority interests in respect of these items are also adjusted.
Non-financial definitions Adjusted profit before tax Clean PBT Combined Code This is defined as profit before tax and exceptional items and The Combined Code on Corporate Governance, published includes the share of post-tax results of associates before by the UK Financial Reporting Council.
Economy segment CAGR Taking an index where the bulk of the market volume is at a price The Compound Annual Growth Rate CAGR is the average index of 100, the economy sector would index at around 85. compounded growth rate recorded over a series of years for Normally, all brands in this segment will be local brands.
In the a particular metric such as volume or revenue.
beer market, the economy segment is usually dominated by Constant currency local brands.
Constant currency results have been determined by translating FAB the local currency denominated results for the year ended Flavoured alcoholic beverage.
A ready-mixed alcoholic drink, 31 March at the exchange rates for the comparable period often containing some form of fruit flavouring.
FAB also stands in the prior year.
for fruit alcohol beverage which specifically refers to a ready-mixed EBITA alcoholic drink containing fruit flavouring as opposed to non-fruit This comprises operating profit before exceptional items, flavouring such as caramel.
amortisation of intangible assets excluding software and International brewers index includes the groups share of associates operating profit The index of International brewers charts the share price on a similar basis.
progression of an index of the companys closest peers in the EBITA margin % global brewing industry Anheuser-Busch, Carlsberg, Heineken, This is calculated by expressing EBITA as a percentage of group Inbev and MolsonCoors relative to 1 April 2003.
The index is revenue including share of associates revenue.
weighted relative to the market capitalisation of the brewers as at 1 April 2003.
EBITDA Earnings Before Interest Taxation Depreciation and Amortisation Mainstream segment of intangibles excluding software EBITDA.
This comprises the Mainstream represents the group of brands that constitute the net cash generated from operations before working capital bulk of the market volume at a price index of 100.
group is the leading volume brand in any market.
Mainstream brands tend to be local.
EBITDA margin % This is calculated on a pre-exceptional basis, by expressing Organic growth EBITDA as a percentage of revenue excluding share of Refers to a companys growth rate, excluding the effects from, associates revenue.
Effective tax rate % PET This is calculated by expressing total taxation including share of PET is short for polyethylene terephthalate, a form of plastic associates tax, excluding tax on exceptional items both group which is used for bottling alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks.
and share of associates and tax on amortisation of intangible Premium segment worthmore segment in the US assets excluding software, as a percentage of profit before tax, The premium segment is dominated by international brands.
exceptional items, items of a capital nature and amortisation They are brands which consumers perceive to offer greater value of intangible assets excluding software and including share than mainstream brands and for which they are willing to pay a of operating profit of associates and including their share of net premium.
Mainstream brands are priced at about a price index finance costs before tax, minority interest and exceptional items.
of 100 and premium brands index at around 120 and above.
As Net asset value per share a result, the premium segment, although small in volume terms, This is calculated by expressing shareholders funds as often generates a disproportionate level of profit, when compared a percentage of the closing number of shares in issue.
to the mainstream and economy segments.
Return on equity % STRATE This is calculated by expressing adjusted earnings as STRATE stands for Share Transactions Totally Electronic and a percentage of total shareholders equity.
is an unlisted company owned by JSE Limited and Central Securities Depository Participants CSDP and exists to allow TSR share transactions in South Africa to be settled electronically.
Total shareholder return TSR is the measure of the returns that a company has provided for its shareholders, reflecting share price movements and assuming reinvestment of dividends.
148 Definitions SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008
