Statement of directors responsibilities on the consolidated financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the consolidated In addition, the Companies Act 1985 requires directors to provide financial statements in accordance with applicable law and the groups auditors with every opportunity to take whatever steps regulations.
and undertake whatever inspections the auditors consider to be appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit Company law requires the directors to prepare consolidated report.
The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the confirm that: directors have prepared the consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The consolidated information of which the groups auditors are unaware: and financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have view of the state of affairs of the group and of the profit or loss taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant of the group for that year.
audit information and to establish that the groups auditors are In preparing those financial statements, the directors are aware of that information.
required to: The directors have reviewed the groups budget and cash flow select suitable accounting policies and then apply them forecasts.
On the basis of this review, and in the light of the current consistently: financial position and existing borrowing facilities, the directors are satisfied that SABMiller plc is a going concern and have continued make judgements and estimates that are reasonable to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial and prudent: statements.
state that the consolidated financial statements comply A copy of the financial statements of the group and the company with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and are placed on the companys website.
The directors are prepare the consolidated financial statements on the going responsible for the maintenance and integrity of statutory and concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the audited information on the companys website.
Information group will continue in business.
published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom The directors confirm that they have complied with the above governing the preparation and dissemination of financial requirements in preparing the financial statements.
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the group and to enable them to ensure that the consolidated financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
60 Statement of directors responsibilities SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008
