111 Independent auditors report to the members of The Sage Group plc We have audited the parent Company financial statements of The Sage Basis of audit opinion Group plc for the year ended 30 September 2008 which comprise the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Company balance sheet and the related notes.
These parent Company on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Remuneration amounts and disclosures in the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an report that is described as having been audited.
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of directors in the preparation of the parent Company financial statements, The Sage Group plc for the year ended 30 September 2008. and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Remuneration report and the parent Company financial statements and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice Company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to are set out in the Statement of directors responsibilities.
be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company financial statements or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited in accordance with the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards Company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has to be audited.
been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in Opinion accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for In our opinion: no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this The parent Company financial statements give a true and fair report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at agreed by our prior consent in writing.
30 September 2008: We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Company financial The parent Company financial statements and the part of the statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent Company Remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies The information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information parent Company financial statements.
given in the Directors report is consistent with the parent Company financial statements.
The information given in the Directors report includes that specific information presented in the Business review that is cross referred from the Business review section of the Directors report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept  LLP proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law Newcastle upon Tyne regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
17 December 2008 We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent Company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans welcome, the Business review, the Directors report, the Corporate governance statement, the non-audited information in the Remuneration report and all of the other information listed on the contents page.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
