qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:09 Page 16 16 Serco Group plc Serco AR08 Ver7.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:11 Page 17 Working alongside CEOP The Child Exploitation and Online Protection CEOP Centre is the UK police agency dedicated to protecting children from sexual abuse.
Serco works in partnership with the CEOP Centre to support child protection in the UK.
As part of its partnership, Serco funded the building of a state of the art Behavioural Analysis Unit BAU within the CEOP Centre in London, providing expert project management support which enabled the BAU to be built in just six weeks.
The BAU focuses on understanding how offenders with a sexual interest in children operate and think.
It is a resource to law enforcement nationally and internationally who are investigating these types of crimes.
The qualitative information the BAU obtains is disseminated to law enforcement via a comprehensive training programme that incorporates a unique national qualification programme for child protection professionals working in this area.
The results from the analysis undertaken directly influences CEOP strategy and operational policy and helps to inform the development of CEOPs ThinkuKnow education programme, which teaches parents and children about online safety.
This programme has to date reached over 3.75 million children.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:11 Page 18 Our work includes: Civil Government Border protection Prisons management IT and IT-enabled services Government web portal management Education and childrens services Environmental services Health management and 2008 Revenue hospital support Management consultancy 1,127m 36% of Group Revenue In Civil Government, our work encompasses sectors including home affairs, healthcare, local government, education and childrens services and the corporate sector, providing a broad range of integrated facilities management, IT and business process outsourcing BPO support and consulting services.
In the US, the acquisition of We received positive inspection reports SI International has added new issued on Yarls Wood Immigration Removal records management and IT capabilities Centre by HM Chief Inspector of Prisons, which we provide to a number of civil and Hassockfield Secure Training Centre by government agencies.
Ofsted, which commended our people on the high quality of the care they provide and Civil Government revenue grew by further reinforced our reputation for the 18.4% to 1,127m, representing 36% of provision of specialist care for children and Group revenue 2007: 34%.
young people in secure accommodation.
ICT and BPO Home Affairs The demand for innovative, flexible The UK Government is responding approaches to working and people Above: Skills workshops at Acacia to increasing prisoner numbers with management, combined with the Prison investment in building new prison facilities requirement to achieve value for money and increasing the capacity of existing and the requirement for local authorities to prisons.
Serco is playing an important role achieve year on year efficiencies is leading in maximising the impact of this investment.
to new opportunities for our IT and BPO management services.
Construction has begun on new In December we acquired a 60% houseblock accommodation at HMP shareholding in InfoVision, the third largest Dovegate and HMP Lowdham Grange, BPO company serving the Indian domestic adding 260 new places to each prison, and market, enabling further development of increasing the combined operating income InfoVision's BPO business, and broadening of both contracts by over 100m over their our existing customer offering.
The pressures on the prison system agreed to acquire the remaining 40% of are also increasing demand for associated InfoVision in two tranches over the next services, including growth in our court two years.
We see strong opportunities escorting and electronic monitoring for growth, both in BPO and as a provider services, as authorities look to alternative of services to the public as the Indian approaches to prison sentences for the market develops.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:11 Page 19 We have made a successful start to our landmark 265m partnership with Glasgow City Council to transform land, property and information and communications technology ICT services.
During the first nine months of the contract we have surveyed close to 500 properties, opened a new datacentre, merged five service desks into one and delivered some 9m of transition projects to time, cost and quality.
The transfer of some 280 seconded staff into the joint venture has taken place and we have already reorganised the ICT function to improve service delivery.
Following our success in Glasgow, we signed a new contract with Derby City Council and Derby Homes to provide IT management and support.
The new partnership is designed to support innovative approaches to office and home working, alongside reducing the councils carbon footprint, and securing cash efficiencies for both Derby City Council and Derby Homes.
The contract is Above: ACCESS team members on a site visit to Glasgow City Council chambers valued at 19m over seven years.
Our contract with the businesslink.
gov In 2008, Serco was selected by Glasgow City Council for a pioneering joint services supporting SMEs has been venture.
Known as ACCESS, the joint venture provides high quality property extended to cover the development of and ICT services, improving outcomes for Glasgows citizens while saving the online business support.
This extra work, Council more than 70m over ten years.
with an additional value of 14m per annum, follows positive reviews of our Steven Purcell, Leader - Glasgow City Council says, performance on the contract by the I am both impressed and delighted with what the ACCESS team has National Audit Office.
We have continued to achieved in such a short space of time.
Having only signed the contract in develop our business support work across February, going live in April was always going to be a difficult goal.
The a number of the UKs regions, with a 2m, challenges of creating a new business unit and bringing together, so rapidly, four-year contract to support the South groups of people from different backgrounds were not insignificant.
However Easts businesses through a customer the teamwork and sense of purpose exhibited by ACCESS, working in real relationship management system, additional partnership with the Council, ensured that not only was the April target met, funding of 9m to support rural enterprise initial service performance results have been excellent, and ACCESS has in Devon, Cornwall and Somerset, and already gone on to become an established, well-respected and effective a contract for the London Development member of the wider Council team.
The energy and leadership evident in Agency for its CompeteFor procurement ACCESS is already beginning to create a real momentum of change and portal to match buyers and potential improvement across the Council and I look forward to a successful and suppliers in the 2012 Olympic Games valued partnership.
supply chain which has recently secured additional funding of 1.8m.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:11 Page 20 Civil Government continued Integrated Services strong position in the UKs airport facilities We saw good growth in 2008 in our management market, adding to existing integrated services business which provides contracts with Birmingham and Filton facilities management services to both airports.
The new contract covers primary public and private sector customers, and fire and rescue response, adverse weather environmental services for local authorities, response, training and maintenance.
all of whom are looking to reduce overall Education and Childrens Services expenditure and improve service levels.
We During the year, we renewed and extended were pleased that our work with the Norfolk our contract with Walsall Council to provide and Norwich Health Trust was commended education and childrens services.
The in the Department of Healths Deep Clean award of the new contract, which is valued to Keep Clean report, which quotes Serco at around 345m, is for a longer term of Above: Environmental services in as an example of best practice in Hammersmith and Fulham.
12 years, reflecting the success we had collaborative working.
achieved under the previous contract.
Our innovative approach to environmental Under the new contract, we are working services includes introducing electric with the Council to ensure that children and vehicles and more efficient route planning young people achieve the best possible to reduce councils carbon footprints, educational outcomes, and also to provide synchronising street cleansing, recycling support to the most vulnerable children and refuse collections, and actively and their families.
During the year, Our contract to provide support for the we won contracts with the London national roll-out of Childrens Centres under Borough of Hammersmith & Fulham, Sure Starts Together for Children at a value of 140m over a maximum of programme has been extended following 14 years, and Milton Keynes Council, with strong performance under our innovative a value of 160m over the same term.
Our approach delivered We have also won a contract to maintain the target of 2,500 rolled out centres ahead parks and sports grounds for the London of schedule, and we delivered a further Borough of Newham, with a value of 30m 400 centres under the term of the initial over ten years.
Under the contract extension, We secured a new 50m, five-year facilities worth 15m over two years, the total management contract with Deloitte, which number of centres will be increased to covers cleaning, security, maintenance, 3,500 by 2010. helpdesk facilities and the disposal of Our success under Together for Children confidential waste, and won further contributed to us winning a separate, new corporate facilities management contracts contract under the Aiming High for Disabled for Coca-Cola, Volkswagen and Wyeth Children programme known as Together for Medica, with a combined value of around Disabled Children, with a value of 5.5m 20m per annum.
In both these national The signing of a 20m, ten-year contract programmes we are proud to lead covering fire and rescue services at Cardiff contracts fully involving voluntary International Airport further secures our sector organisations in delivery.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:11 Page 21 Above: Helping with the care of patients at Norfolk and Norwich Hospital.
This year has seen two major landmarks Consulting in our success in Education.
Our primary Sercos Consulting business continued to school results across Walsall and Bradford increase its scale and scope during the were ranked the first and seventh year, expanding its high-value, strategic and respectively most improved councils for advisory level work.
Examples include NHS primary school achievement nationally Connecting for Health, the Rural Payments between 2001 and 2008, and our Agency and our work for Department for transformation of Childrens Services at Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Stoke was recognised by Ofsted in the DEFRA Animal Health where we are 2008 Annual Performance Assessment, working on a major business reform referring to significant and rapid progress programme.
Sercos consultancy team made since our appointment.
continues to perform strongly and our Above: Measuring noise, humidity, pollution, vibration presence on the programme has been and other factors that may lead to ill health Healthcare expanded to developing DEFRAs Excellent service delivery and an innovative capability and managing external approach to improving performance are relationships with suppliers.
the foundations of our growth across the Home Affairs continues to represent a Healthcare sector.
growing market, with new wins including Serco Occupational Health has increased the Metropolitan Police, Greater our presence in this fast-growing sector Manchester Police and the Home Office.
and added new capabilities in managed Other strong markets for Consulting include healthcare services.
The business has the Scottish government and education.
won new contracts and extended current As the UK Government looks to find business across both public and private efficiencies in the procurement of external sector employers.
Serco is now the third consultancy services, our position as an largest provider of occupational health approved supplier on the Office of in the UK.
solutions The extension for a further two years of our Catalist framework is also leading to an out-of-hours doctors service contract for increased number of new project Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly follows opportunities.
consistent outperformance of national targets as recognised by the Healthcare Commission and positive feedback from users of the service.
The contract extension is worth 14.5m.
We have signed a new three-year contract with Doncaster Primary Care Trust to provide nursing and related services to HMP Lindholme, HMP Moorlands and Lindholme Immigration Removal Centre.
With a value of 4m, the contract brings the number of prisons and immigration centres to 16 for which we provide health services.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:11 Page 22 Helping to make Western Australia safer In 2006, the Government of Western Australia appointed Serco to manage the States only privately run prison.
Eighteen months later, Acacia prison was ranked by the State Inspector as a high performing facility.
Among the prisons strengths are its high standard of offender treatment programmes, resettlement services, and the prisons constructive and equitable regime.
Our staff remain committed to understanding the different cultural challenges faced by Indigenous Australians who account for more than 30% of the prison population.
The positive and responsive attitude of the Serco team reflects the focus on staff engagement and communication at the prison.
Rehabilitation and the re-entry of prisoners into society is at the heart of what we do at Acacia, giving prisoners the opportunity to address their offending behaviour and develop their potential, so they leave better able to find work and contribute to the community.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:11 Page 23 Serco Group plc 23 Serco AR08 Ver7.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 21 3 09 10:30 Page 24 Our work includes: Defence Command control systems Defence establishments management Economic cost analysis Logistics consulting Marine services Port security 2008 Revenue Risk and safety management Secure IT support 786m Through-life capability management 25% of Group Revenue Training and personnel services We are a major provider of operational support services to the armed forces of the UK, the US, Canada, Germany and Australia.
We provide training, engineering and operational support, maintain strategic defence assets, and deliver cost analysis, human resources, systems engineering, safety assurance and risk management services.
We are well placed to help our customers We continued to broaden our contribution by improving efficiency and reducing to improving the capability of the UKs costs, through providing advice and military air operations in 2008, both consultancy to achieve greater through engineering support in the UK and efficiencies while improving operational deployed operations in theatres of conflict.
availability, and implementing the During the year, over 50 Serco employees Top: Providing support services to the delivery of services to improve supporting the No.
32 The Royal UK MoD at its base in Gibraltar.
Squadron and the Skynet 5 secure military Above: Maintaining military aircraft and satellite systems were awarded military helicopters at the Royal Navy Air Station Defence revenue grew by 9.1% to service medals for their work in operational in Yeovilton.
The potential for growth stemming from United Kingdom our successful track record in support to We are actively engaged with the Ministry operations is shown in a number of new air of Defence at the highest levels to help support contracts won during 2008.
These them meet their operational challenges include the ten-year 68m surface finish with a focus on improving the availability of contract covering 16 RAF sites including people and equipment to the front line and the Falkland Islands, taking Sercos military ensuring that military staff are able to focus aviation support to over 16 different aircraft on core operational tasks.
types: and a maintenance contract for the RAF glider fleet valued at 6m over a We provide training, engineering and maximum of seven years.
operational support to the Royal Air Force and the aviation arms of the British Army Following successful rebids, we were also and Royal Navy.
We also support the Royal awarded the 9m, five-year contract to Navys three main UK bases, operate and provide air traffic control, engineering and maintain key strategic defence assets such flight planning at the British Army Air Corps as secure satellite communications and Wattisham base and an 8.5m contract the UKs Defence Academy, and provide with the US Air Force Europe to provide systems engineering, safety assurance support services at three of its UK and risk management services.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:11 Page 25 Above: Providing engineering support to the Apache helicopters of 7 Air Assault Battalion, Wattisham Station.
In addition to contracts directly awarded by US$11m annually over a base year We were awarded a US$18.5m contract by the Ministry of Defence, we are benefiting plus one option year, to develop the the US Space and Naval Warfare Systems from an increasing range of opportunities MyArmyLifeToo web portal, which Command for the production and delivery with other private sector providers.
BAE provides timely and relevant information of Navigation Sensor System Interface Systems appointed Serco to the 8m, to Army families.
NAVSSI components and ongoing five-year maintenance and supply contract production engineering support services.
We successfully rebid for the Casualty for improving efficiency and aircraft The NAVSSI system collects and processes Support Services Contract awarded by availability amongst the VC10 aircraft fleet data for weapons, combat support and the US Army Casualty and Mortuary Affairs that BAE Systems operates at Brize other on-board information systems.
The Operations Center, which includes manning Norton.
We already support the RAF Tristar five-year contract combines purchases for the operations center for Army casualty fleet at the base.
the US Navy and the governments of support, receiving casualty reports and Australia and Spain.
We were also part of a providing information and assistance to North America team awarded contracts under the Project next-of-kin.
The initial value of the contract We provide information services, Management Support Services is US$9m for the first year, with the technology and network solutions, and programme, with an overall value to Serco potential to increase to US$44.5m enterprise management, engineering, estimated at US$25m over five years.
if all options are exercised.
logistics, economic cost analysis and Middle East and Asia Pacific human resources services to the US We also won, with our partner Summit In the Middle East, as previously reported, military.
The acquisition of SI International Marketing, a contract for the Freedom we were disappointed to be informed in at the end of the year has significantly Team Salute recognition and commendation February 2008 that the Oman Ministry expanded our capabilities and broadened program, which has an estimated value of of Defence no longer wished to proceed our customer base.
We now serve all US$21m to Serco over two years.
with its project to develop a military branches of the US armed forces.
The award of the Aviation Technical training college.
Increasing demand for high-quality Maintenance and Support Services personnel support services is reflected We provide training, logistics and operational contract by US Navy SPAWAR Systems in the award of a number of contracts.
support services to the Australian Center Charleston, with a potential value These included a contract to provide Department of Defence and we have of US$167m over five years, reaffirms our psychological health services at five successfully built a presence on every track record in delivering high quality air US Navy regional commands, valued at defence base in Australia, providing traffic control and integrated technical approximately US$6m over two years.
a firm foundation for organic growth.
and maintenance aviation services, and strengthens our 11-year partnership We also renewed our contract valued at Our joint venture in Australia, Serco Sodexho with SPAWAR.
up to US$32m over two years with the US Defence Services, was awarded the Army Career and Alumni Program to provide Integrated Base Services contract for the With greater budget constraints and career counselling, and won a North Queensland region, adding to its increased demand for operational new contract to support the provision of earlier success in winning the Base resources being deployed in the field, advocacy services to soldiers and family Services contract for the Northern Territory.
emphasis is being placed on cost analysis members who are victims of domestic The combined value of the two contracts and procurement.
During the year, we rebid violence and sexual assault, through is AUS$362m over nine years.
successfully for the Price Fighters cost a one-year, US$10m contract with a analysis contract supporting the US Navys second-year option.
We will provide support weapons procurement program.
The services for families of Active Army, National contract is valued at approximately Guard and Reserve Soldiers under a US$41m for a base year plus four option US$5.6m extension to our US Armys years.
We were also awarded Integrated Family Support Network contract.
a one-year US$2.3m contract to provide We were also awarded a contract worth cost analysis support to the multi-national coalition forces in Iraq.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:12 Page 26 Supporting the US Navy Sercos Price Fighters contracts help the US Navy maximise its buying power.
Under our initial contract, which began in 1996, we assessed the fair price of spare parts.
Since then, we have transformed our capabilities in response to the Navys evolving needs, enabling us to perform increasingly complex analyses of aircraft, weapons and programs.
We also adapted our methodology to understand the cost of services such as logistics.
Sercos cost analysts, engineers and technicians have years of manufacturing experience and have helped the Defense Department save over US$1.2bn.
Our expertise has been a key factor in winning other significant defence service contracts with the US Army.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:12 Page 27 Serco Group plc 27 Serco AR08 Ver7.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:12 Page 28 Our work includes: Transport Air traffic services Heavy rail operations and maintenance Light rail operations and maintenance Traffic control and transport systems Transport consultancy 2008 Revenue 671m 22% of Group Revenue We are a major provider of transport services to the UK and markets in Australia, the Middle East and the US.
We operate heavy and light rail systems, are a leader in the development of integrated traffic management systems, and are one of the worlds largest private sector suppliers of air traffic control services.
Transport revenue grew by 2.4% to Merseyrail has received the highest score 671m, representing 22% of Group for passenger satisfaction in the latest revenue 2007: 23%.
Excluding the National Passenger Survey for any train effect of the ending of our contracts to operating company outside London as well operate the Manchester Metrolink and as achieving the UKs first fully secure rail Copenhagen Metro in 2007, revenue network by the Department of Transport growth was 8% reflecting strong as all of its 66 stations have been awarded performance across this segment.
Serco Docklands was awarded Secure Station status for its During the last year, our transport stations in 2007. operations continued to leverage skills developed in the UK to win significant new Our Australian rail operation, Great Top: Air traffic control in Dubai.
business in the Middle East and further Southern Rail, has made appropriate Above: Assisting passengers on develop our presence in US markets.
adjustments to service schedules and MerseyRail.
operations after a weaker tourist market Heavy rail began to impact on passenger numbers Northern Rail and Merseyrail, Sercos two during the second half of the year.
Sales joint ventures with NedRailways, continued of the Ghan services premium Platinum to deliver good growth in 2008, supported cabins, launched in September, have by innovation and excellent service delivery, performed well.
In August, we learned and have made a good start to 2009. we had not been selected to run the These joint ventures have revenue or profit trains in Melbourne, Australia.
sharing agreements, and stable subsidies We continue to pursue opportunities for which account for over 60% of revenue.
Northern Rail was named as Train Operator Serco was awarded two contracts this year, of the Year and Rail Business of the Year one by Network Rail, extending our existing at the HSBC Rail Business Awards during track monitoring and rail grinding contract, 2008.
The new hourly service Northern Rail valued at 20m over one year with a has introduced between Leeds and possible one-year extension, and one Nottingham links these two important by Virgin Trains to upgrade property and centres, directly, for the first time in 25 years stations on the West Coast route valued and along with the expansion to a halfat 5.5m over a maximum four-year term.
hourly service on its Leeds-Sheffield route will further improve performance and enhance the passenger experience.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:12 Page 29 Left: Northern Rail, Sercos joint venture with NedRailways, was named as UK Train Operator of the Year in 2008.
Light rail Traffic management Docklands Light Railway DLR continued to Reducing congestion is a priority issue perform strongly in 2008.
The construction in the UK, with the Highways Agency work to extend the railways capacity from increasing its investment in the area and two-carriage to three-carriage trains is emphasis growing on the skills required to proceeding on schedule, and the 180m manage motorways and road infrastructure extension to the line serving Woolwich effectively.
We are taking a leading role in Arsenal was opened in January 2009. developing innovative solutions through traffic management systems, with several Our expertise in light rail systems puts us new contract wins during 2008.
We signed in an excellent position to meet growing a first-year trial contract with the UKs demand for these services, particularly Department for Transport to undertake a Above: Operating the Woolwich Ferry in London.
feasibility and strategy study on TimeSigned in April 2008, our contract with the Distance-Place TDP road charging.
TDP Civil marine Dubai Government Roads and Transport systems track vehicle movements and offer Sercos expertise in the provision of marine Authority RTA to operate and maintain road authorities the option of varying costs services to the Royal Navy led to Transport the first two lines of the new Dubai Metro to motorists depending on where and when for London awarding us a new 11m, has a value of 500m over 12 years.
We also won a 18-month contract to operate the The launch of the driverless metro system is ground-breaking contract with BAA to Woolwich Ferry, opening up further creating considerable local interest, and maintain the traffic system at Heathrow opportunities in the civil marine market.
is expected to lead to further opportunities Airport, which has the potential to be The free ferry service carries over a million in the region through the extension of the replicated around the world.
vehicles and two million passengers a year, Dubai Metro network, further transport and provides an important link to the DLR.
In the US, Serco secured a US$23m systems in Dubai, and the adoption of contract to install and manage a new smart similar rail systems in other Emirates.
Air traffic control parking system for San Francisco, as well Our implementation plan, which includes In Middle East air traffic control services, as a separate US$8m, two-year extension the recruitment of over 3,000 employees, we rebid successfully on our contract to to our parking meter counting and is proceeding to schedule, ahead of the provide air traffic control and electronic collection contract.
formal start of the operating contract in engineering services for the United Arab September 2009.
In Hong Kong, we have renewed our Emirates Area Control Centre in contracts to operate the Aberdeen tunnel Abu Dhabi.
The contract, with the Our broad transport capabilities meant that and maintain the Shenzhen road corridor General Civil Aviation Authority, is worth we were also able to win further business between Hong Kong and mainland China.
with the RTA during the year.
These included Under a further contract, Serco will supply a 3.5m contract to implement ten key the latest technology in traffic light projects under the Bus Master Plan for enforcement to the Hong Kong Transport Dubai and a 2m contract to deliver Department.
In total, these contracts are a real-time journey planner system, which valued at approximately 23m.
is accessible online, over mobile phones and through a customer service centre.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:12 Page 30 30 Serco Group plc Serco AR08 Ver7.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:12 Page 31 Servicing an infrastructure for the 21st Century Developing long-term relationships with our customers by delivering excellent service is at the heart of what we do.
We have supported Dubai Air Navigation Services since 1967.
Alongside their staff, we provide air traffic control, electronic engineering and meteorology services.
The primary purpose of the contract is to provide Dubai Airports Company with all the specialist aviation services it needs to help maximise the capacity and throughput of aircraft and passengers at Dubai.
Our team has grown from 35 to 160 since the early 1990s.
We have improved and expanded our service through innovation, helping to enhance safety with an aviation management system that Serco developed and, with our customer, introducing sophisticated air traffic control simulators to improve training.
A twoyear project to maximise capacity of the twin parallel runways has resulted in an increase of aircraft movement capacity of 30% and a decrease in departure delays as a result of implemented improvements.
In 2010 Dubai will open the first stage of what is planned to be the largest airport in the world.
Serco air traffic services staff have been at the heart of the planning process and been commended for being the most advanced in their preparations for the opening.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:12 Page 32 Our work includes: Science Materials science Measurement science Nuclear assurance Research establishments management Technical training 2008 Revenue 540m 17% of Group Revenue Serco manages science-based organisations and develops and applies scientific knowledge for wealth creation.
Technology, innovation and people management are at the heart of our offering in this market.
Science revenue grew by 11.7% to We have been responsible for managing 540m, representing 17% of Group the work of the National Physical revenue 2007: 17%.
Laboratory NPL since 1995, supporting its mission to apply scientific knowledge for We continued to see strong economic and quality of life benefits.
NPL performance from our joint venture to has won business in the environment manage and operate the UKs Atomic sector, including air monitoring projects with Weapons Establishment AWE.
The DEFRA, and in the security and defence construction phase of the new Orion sector.
In addition, the Nobel Peace Prize building finished as scheduled in March Committee recognised the important work 2008, with the project due for of NPL in supporting its peace prize completion in 2010.
AWE has also Top: The Analytical Science Team at NPL winners and our diversity and educational is a multi-disciplinary team focused on commenced the planning phase for outreach were rewarded with the Investor government priority areas such as Project Mensa, the construction of a in WISE award from Women into Science, environmental protection, energy and replacement warhead assembly and sustainability, healthcare and Engineering and Construction WISE.
disassembly facility at the Burghfield nanotechnologies.
Our nuclear assurance business, which is Above: NPL is a recognised source of focused on enhancing the performance of expertise on the evaluation of biometrics In December 2008, BNFL sold its one-third nuclear reactors that generate electricity or technologies, shareholding in AWE Management Limited power nuclear submarines, has continued AWEML to the California-based company, to perform well during the year.
We retain our one-third stake in AWEML in an equal partnership alongside Lockheed Martin and Jacobs Engineering.
The annual RoSPA awards once again recognised AWEs excellent health, safety and environmental performance, with the award of the Astor Trophy for excellence in occupational health, the International Dilmun Environmental Award and the sectoral award for outstanding performance in health and safety.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:14 Page 33 The annual RoSPA awards once again recognised AWEs excellent health, safety and environmental performance.
We were appointed as one of a team of partners to provide engineering and technical support to British Energys nuclear power stations, worth up to 30m to the partners over the next five years, and are well placed to grow the business as nuclear new build programmes get underway in the UK and overseas.
The business has also completed the main stage of its extensive refurbishment of the nuclear laboratory and support complex in Cheshire.
These facilities, which include nuclear corrosion and high temperature laboratories, strengthen Sercos world class capabilities in nuclear safety, assurance and regulatory support.
