qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 19 03 2009 16:32 Page 62 Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing The Directors have elected to prepare the We confirm to the best of our knowledge: the Annual Review, Directors Report, parent company Financial Statements in 1. the Financial Statements, prepared in Remuneration Report and the Financial accordance with United Kingdom accordance with the applicable set of Statements in accordance with applicable Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
accounting standards, give a true and law and regulations.
The parent company Financial Statements fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial are required by law to give a true and fair Company law requires the Directors to position and profit or loss of the view of the state of affairs of the Company prepare financial statements for each Company and the undertakings included and of the profit or loss of the Company financial year.
The Directors are required by in the consolidation taken as a whole: for that period.
In preparing these Financial the IAS Regulation to prepare the Group and Statements, the Directors are required to: Financial Statements under International 2. the management report, which is Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as select suitable accounting policies and incorporated into the Directors' Report, adopted by the European Union.
The then apply them consistently: includes a fair review of the development Group financial statements are also make judgments and estimates that are and performance of the business and required by law to be properly prepared in reasonable and prudent: the position of the Company and the accordance with the Companies Act 1985 undertakings included in the state whether applicable accounting and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
consolidation taken as a whole, together standards have been followed: and International Accounting Standard 1 with a description of the principal risks prepare the Financial Statements on the requires that IFRS financial statements and uncertainties they face.
going concern basis unless it is present fairly for each financial year the Approved by the Board of Directors and inappropriate to presume that the Groups financial position, financial signed on its behalf by: Company will continue in business.
This requires the faithful representation of the The Directors are responsible for keeping effects of transactions, other events and proper accounting records that disclose conditions in accordance with the with reasonable accuracy at any time the definitions and recognition criteria for financial position of the Company and assets, liabilities, income and expenses set enable them to ensure that the parent Joanne Roberts out in the International Accounting company Financial Statements comply Secretary Standards Board's 'Framework for the with the Companies Act 1985.
They are 26 February 2009 Preparation and Presentation of Financial also responsible for safeguarding the Statements'.
In virtually all circumstances, assets of the Company and hence for a fair presentation will be achieved by taking reasonable steps for the prevention compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Directors are also required to: The Directors are responsible for the properly select and apply accounting maintenance and integrity of the corporate policies: and financial information included on the present information, including Company's website.
Legislation in the accounting policies, in a manner that United Kingdom governing the preparation provides relevant, reliable, comparable and dissemination of Financial Statements and understandable information: and may differ from legislation in other provide additional disclosures when jurisdictions.
compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Group's financial position and financial performance.
