qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 18 03 2009 16:55 Page 143 Shareholder information Group website Dividends paid direct to your Go to www.
com to catch up on the bank account current share price, latest news in the Avoid the risk of cheques being lost in investors section and read the Annual the post Review and Accounts.
No need to present cheques for payment Registrars Dividend credited to your account on Serco Group plc has recently moved its payment date.
Register of Members to a new registrar, Equiniti.
Administrative enquiries about the To set up a dividend mandate or change holding of Serco Group plc shares and your existing mandated details please enquiries in relation to the Serco Dividend register with the Shareholder Centre via Re-investment Plan DRIP should be the Shareview website or contact Equiniti directed to: on the number provided above.
Equiniti Global payment services Aspect House For overseas shareholders in certain Spencer Road countries, Equiniti offers an Overseas Lancing Payment Service by arrangement with West Sussex Citibank Europe PLC.
This service offers BN99 6DA shareholders the ability to have their Tel: 0871 384 2932 dividend converted into their local currency There is a text phone available on 0871 and sent electronically to their local bank 384 2255 for shareholders with hearing account.
To sign up for this service, difficulties.
please contact Equiniti on 0871 384 2932 44 0 121 415 7161 if calling from Calls to both of these numbers are outside the UK.
Alternatively you can charged at 8p per minute from a BT download an application form and terms landline.
Other telephony provider costs and conditions from the website may vary.
Callers from outside the UK should use 44 0 121 415 7161.
Electronic communications You can register for electronic Dividend re-investment plan communications by visiting You can elect to receive future dividends www.
co. uk, you will need your as shares rather than cash by participating shareholder reference number to sign up.
To register, request further After you have registered you will receive information, or to obtain a copy of the emails alerting you to communications as terms and conditions booklet and they become available.
In response to our mandate form please contact Equiniti on shareholders commitment to electronic 0871 384 2932.
Alternatively, these can communication Serco is very proud to be be downloaded from the website a Corporate Member of the Woodland www.
co. uk by choosing the Trust, the UKs leading woodland Dividend Re-investment Plan heading conservation charity, helping them to plant within the Product Centre section.
and care for UK native woodland.
During 2008 the Trust planted more than one million native trees in the UK.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 18 03 2009 16:55 Page 144 Share dealing We have arranged the following services that can be used to buy or sell Serco shares.
Alternatively, if shareholders hold a share certificate they can also use any bank, building society or stockbroker offering share dealing facilities.
Shareholders in any doubt about buying or selling their shares should seek professional financial advice.
For EU shareholders A telephone and internet dealing service is available through Equiniti which provides a simple way of buying and selling Serco shares.
Commission is 1% with a minimum charge of 25 for telephone dealing and 0.5% with a minimum charge of 15 for internet dealing.
For telephone sales call 44 0 845 6037 037 between 8.30am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for internet sales log on to www.
You will need your shareholder reference number as shown on your share certificate.
Cazenove provide a postal dealing service to buy and sell Serco shares.
All transactions are undertaken on an execution only basis.
For further information please contact Cazenove at: Postal Share Dealing Service, 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA, United Kingdom, Tel: 44 0 20 7155 5155.
For Non EU shareholders Currently non EU shareholders may buy or sell shares through the Cazenove postal dealing service see above.
Shareholder profile The range and size of ordinary shareholding as at 31 December 2008 is set out below: Range of shareholdings No.
of shareholders % shares % 1 - 1,000 4,021 45.07 1,806,563 0.37 1,001 5,000 3,300 36.99 7,452,157 1.53 5,001 10,000 557 6.24 3,969,342 0.81 10,001 100,000 637 7.14 20,132,609 4.14 100,001 500,000 240 2.69 56,836,927 11.68 500,001 1,000,000 71 0.80 51,592,198 10.60 1,000,001 10,000,000 88 0.99 247,272,382 50.80 10,000,001 and above 7 0.08 97,702,262 20.07 Total 8,921 100 486,764,440 100 144 Serco Group plc Serco AR08 Ver8 Cover:Serco AR08 - Design 23 03 2009 14:53 Page 2 Financial calendar 2009 Preliminary results announcement 27 February Ex-dividend date 4 March Record date 6 March Last date for receipt revocation 28 April of DRIP dividend mandates 1 Introduction Interim Management Statement 12 May 2 Highlights 4 Our business Annual General Meeting 12 May 6 Serco's vision and strategy 8 Market opportunities Final dividend pay date 20 May 10 Chairman's Statement Half-year results announcement 26 August Business Review 12 Chief Executive's Statement Financial year-end 31 December 16 Operating performance 34 Business relationships 35 Our people and reputation Subject to shareholder approval Provisional 36 Corporate responsibility 39 Finance Review 44 Principal risks and uncertainties 49 Directors, Secretary and Advisors 50 Corporate Governance Report 58 Directors' Report 60 Directors' profiles 62 Directors' responsibilities 63 Remuneration Report 79 Independent Auditors' Report Financial Statements 81 Consolidated Income Statement 81 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 82 Consolidated Balance Sheet 83 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 84 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 137 Serco Group plc Company Financial Statements 143 Shareholder Information IBC Financial Calendar Printed on 9lives 80 silk which is certified as an FSC mixed sources product, 9lives 80 is produced using 20% recycled wood and fibre, 60% FSC certified fide-inked fibre recovered from post-consumer sources, 10% FSC certified virgin TCF fibre and 10% virgin fibre from well managed forests.
Mixed Sources Product group from well-managed forests, controlled sources and recycled wood or fibre Designed by Rare Corporate Design, London.
SGS-COC-003320 Artworked and printed by The Midas Press.
co. uk 1996 Forest Stewardship Council Serco Group plc Annual Review and Accounts 2008 Serco AR08 Ver8 Cover:Serco AR08 - Design 23 03 2009 14:53 Page 1 Serco people The heart of our business Serco Group plc Annual Review and Accounts 2008 Serco Group plc Registered Office: Serco House 16 Bartley Wood Business Park Bartley Way Hook Hampshire RG27 9UY T: 44 0 1256 745 900 E: generalenquiries@serco.
com Bringing service to life Serco Summary Ver8 Cover:Serco AR08 - Design 24 03 2009 11:47 Page 1 Serco people The heart of our business Serco Group plc Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2008 Serco Group plc Registered Office: Serco House 16 Bartley Wood Business Park Bartley Way Hook Hampshire RG27 9UY T: 44 0 1256 745 900 E: generalenquiries@serco.
com Bringing service to life Serco Summary Ver8 Cover:Serco AR08 - Design 24 03 2009 11:47 Page 2 Financial calendar 2009 Preliminary results announcement 27 February Ex-dividend date 4 March Record date 6 March Last date for receipt revocation 28 April of DRIP dividend mandates 1 Introduction Interim Management Statement 12 May 2 Highlights 4 Our business Annual General Meeting 12 May 6 Serco's vision and strategy 8 Market opportunities Final dividend pay date 20 May 10 Chairman's Statement Half-year results announcement 26 August Business Review 12 Chief Executive's Statement Financial year-end 31 December 16 Operating performance 34 Business relationships 35 Our people and reputation Subject to shareholder approval Provisional 36 Corporate responsibility 38 Finance Review Financial Statements 43 Summary Financial Statement 56 Directors' profiles 58 Consolidated Income Statement 58 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 59 Consolidated Balance Sheet 60 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 61 Independent Auditors' Report 62 Shareholder Information IBC Financial Calendar Printed on 9lives 80 silk which is certified as an FSC mixed sources product, 9lives 80 is produced using 20% recycled wood and fibre, 60% FSC certified fide-inked fibre recovered from post-consumer sources, 10% FSC certified virgin TCF fibre and 10% virgin fibre from well managed forests.
co. uk 1996 Forest Stewardship Council Serco AR08 Ver7.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:09 Page 1 Serco is an international service company that combines commercial know-how with a deep public service ethos.
We improve services by managing people, processes, technology and assets more effectively.
National and local governments, which represent 90% of Sercos business, face profound challenges.
Despite intense budget pressures, they must continue to improve vital services and address rising public concerns over sustainability, security and service quality.
In todays economic climate, major private companies also face issues of cost, efficiency and quality.
The result is a growing demand for Sercos skills in redesigning organisations, improving processes and enabling people to deliver their best.
This expertise is rooted in a values-led culture and over 40 years experience in delivering public services, which has enabled us to build strong capabilities across different sectors.
Our Governing Principles underpin consistent delivery and customer satisfaction and our Management System allows us to react to changing times with innovation and agility.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:09 Page 3 Adjusted profit before tax Adjusted earnings per share Dividend per share 2007: 123.2m 2007: 18.57p 2007: 4.25p 145.3m 22.20p 5.00p 17.9% 19.5% 17.6% Earnings per share Group free cash flow Profit before tax 2007: 16.98p 2007: 97.6m 2007: 114.6m 136.1m 20.49p 94.2m 18.8% 20.7% -3.5% Strong operational performance underpins growth Strong operational performance and increasing Substantial order book and continued high revenue capabilities in growing markets visibility Signed contracts valued at 3.2bn Order book of 16.3bn at 31 December 2008 Win rates of one in two for new bids and 90% of rebids Continued high visibility of 90% of planned revenue for 2009, 76% for 2010 and 65% for 2011 Organic growth broadly spread across markets and sectors Significant progress in developing new markets Growth prospects increasing: expect continued strong performance SI International integration on track Challenging global economic environment fuelling opportunities for efficient delivery of essential services Robust financial performance and secure funding in existing and new markets Strong revenue growth of 11.1% Flexible and agile business model, 26bn pipeline of opportunities and new markets support expectation Adjusted profit before tax margin increase of 30bps of continued strong performance Good cash generation: Group free cash flow of 94.2m Consistent with previous guidance, expect revenue of approximately 5bn and an improvement in 900m of committed debt funding: 64m repayable Adjusted operating profit margin of around one in 2010 with over 60% maturing from 2013 per cent to approximately 6.3% by the end of 2012 excluding material acquisitions, disposals and currency effects.
Note: Adjusted operating profit, Adjusted profit before tax and Adjusted earnings per share shown above are before amortisation of acquired intangibles as shown on the face of the Groups income statement and the accompanying notes.
Group free cash flow is free cash flow from subsidiaries and dividends received from joint ventures and is reconciled in Section 3 of the Finance Review.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:09 Page 4 Civil Government Our business Revenue 1,127m 2007: 952m We organise our business around market expertise in a variety of sectors: Civil Government, Defence, Transport and Science.
Our work in Civil Government includes home Revenue by market 2008 affairs, information and communications technology ICT, business process outsourcing Civil Government 36% BPO, education and childrens services, health, 2007 integrated facilities management and consulting.
Science 17% 17% We manage prisons in the UK, Australia and Germany, 34% electronically monitor offenders, develop systems for law enforcement agencies, controlling immigration and 3,124m 2,811m improving civil resilience.
23% We run all education services in two local authority areas and all childrens services in one area, providing services 26% for over 500 schools and around 20,000 children.
Our expanding health business provides clinical Transport 22% Defence 25% services to over two million people in a range of primary and community settings and occupational health services for private companies, local authorities Revenue by geography 2008 and not-for-profit organisations.
We use our ICT skills and BPO knowledge to deliver Europe & Middle East 7% better, faster and cheaper solutions to local North America 12% government, schools and blue chip private sector customers.
In North America, the acquisition of Asia Pacific 6% 2007 SI International has added new records management and IT capabilities which we provide to a number of civil 6% government agencies.
During the year, we also 11% acquired InfoVision now Serco BPO, the largest independent BPO business in the Indian market.
8% 3,124m 2,811m Our integrated facilities management business provides environmental, streetscene and other direct services to councils, and also works with hospitals and private sector customers.
Our consulting capability 75% United Kingdom 75% raises awareness of Serco and enhances our reputation with potential and existing customers by providing high-value advisory services.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:09 Page 5 Defence Transport Science Revenue Revenue Revenue 786m 671m 540m 2007: 721m 2007: 655m 2007: 483m Serco is a leader in the provision of Serco is a major provider of transport Serco is a leader in managing both support services to the armed forces of services.
With our partner, NedRailways, science-based organisations and the the UK, US, Germany and Australia.
we run Merseyrail one of the UKs best process of developing, transferring and performing franchises and Northern applying knowledge.
In the UK, we provide training, engineering Rail, which is the UKs largest network.
and operational support to the Royal Air We manage the National Physical Force and the flight arms of the British In Australia, Serco owns and operates Laboratory NPL, which is one of the Army and Royal Navy.
We put the Royal Great Southern Rail, including The Ghan worlds major scientific establishments.
Navy to sea at its three main UK bases, and Indian Pacific trans-continental It is our responsibility to maximise the operate and maintain strategic defence services.
positive impact of NPLs mission in assets such as secure satellite measurement standards and science, We have substantial experience communications and the Defence for business and government.
of operating light rail systems, including the Academy of the United Kingdom, and award-winning Docklands Light Railway in We have an integral role in the UK defence provide systems engineering, safety London.
During 2008, we signed the and civil nuclear industries.
Since 2000, assurance and risk management services.
contract to operate and maintain the Serco, as a joint venture partner in AWE In North America, following the acquisition Dubai Metro system which will commence Management Limited, has been entrusted of SI International during the year, our skills operation in September 2009. with the management of the UK Atomic now encompass information technology, Weapons Establishment, which is Serco is also a UK market leader in traffic professional services, human capital responsible for providing the warheads for management systems, including the management, engineering and logistics, the UKs nuclear deterrent.
In addition we National Traffic Control Centre for England, national security, and intelligence, and have provided independent specialist which helps motorists to plan their journeys we serve every branch of the military.
nuclear safety advice to the Royal Navy in and make best use of the road network.
support of its nuclear submarine fleet for We provide training, logistics and In air, we are one of the worlds largest nearly half a century.
operational support services to the private sector providers of air traffic control We also offer specialist technical support Australian Department of Defence, with services, with operations in the UK, Middle to the UKs civil nuclear industry, providing a presence on every defence base in East and the US.
safety, environmental, risk and asset Australia, and to the German Bundeswehr, management advice and operational including our work at one of Europes solutions across the UKs civil nuclear sites.
most advanced combat training centres.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:09 Page 6 Our vision is to be the leading Sercos vision and strategy service company in our chosen markets.
Our strategy for achieving this vision has four elements: Build a balanced portfolio Maintain high rebid and new win rates We aim to reduce risk and increase opportunity by building a We maintain high win rates through building long-term customer balanced contract portfolio, spread across markets.
This reduces relationships and by meeting and often exceeding customer our exposure to market fluctuations, enables us to select the best expectations.
This, along with our reputation with existing opportunities whichever market they are in, and allows us to customers, helps us to expand the scope and scale of contracts transfer expertise from one market to another.
during their life, retain contracts at rebid, and win new contracts.
Our key achievements in 2008: Most Admired Support Services Education in Walsall Light Rail in the Middle East Company for the fifth year running Serco continued to strengthen and broaden its portfolio.
We Our win rate on rebids for existing contracts in 2008 was 90%, won 3.2bn of contracts, increasing our presence in existing and we won one in two new bids, reflecting our ability to select markets, both through new contract wins and expanding the only those opportunities where we can differentiate ourselves.
scope and scale of existing contracts, and developing new We received numerous awards for the quality of our service in our markets, such as local authority strategic partnerships and businesses, which are mentioned throughout this report.
We won light rail in the Middle East.
Management Todays award for the Most Admired Support Services Company for the fifth year running.
The outcomes of our strategy Reducing our exposure to market fluctuations Each of the four elements of our strategy contributes to Our balanced portfolio and our high rebid and new contract win one or more of the following outcomes: rates give high visibility of future revenue and protect against fluctuations in any one of our markets.
Innovation enhances our competitiveness and allows us to enter new markets and find new ways of delivering services to customers.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 21 3 09 10:30 Page 7 Leading means that we want to be Our chosen markets are those the best partner to work with, the which promise strong revenue growth, company people aspire to work for, attractive margins and the ability to and the company which delivers offer good working conditions for superior returns to shareholders.
Make strategic acquisitions Develop new models While we are primarily focused on organic growth, We respond to emerging opportunities by finding new ways to we make acquisitions to acquire new skills which will be important deliver services.
This may mean collaboration between our for future growth and to enter new markets where we see strong divisions, bringing together skills and experience which few other opportunities.
Or it may mean partnering with our customer or the voluntary sector.
Our ability to lead change keeps us at the forefront of our markets.
SI International Serco BPO Glasgow City Council Guys and St Thomas pathology We took a significant step in our international development by We signed a pioneering joint venture with Glasgow City Council for acquiring SI International, a provider of information services, a range of innovative ICT and property services.
technology, and network solutions in the substantial US federal We developed a new partnership structure with the Guys and St government services market.
Thomas NHS Foundation Trust to improve its pathology services The acquisition of InfoVision now Serco BPO established Serco and target the significant pathology market.
in the fast-growing Indian market.
We also acquired the UKs Serco signed two environmental services contracts with an leading independent occupational health service company, the innovative approach to waste and recycling collection.
Our marine services and transport businesses partnered to win a contract to operate the Woolwich Ferry service.
Strengthening our position in our chosen markets Developing new skills and capabilities for the future We focus our resources on those markets where we see We constantly invest in our skills and capabilities to strengthen our the best prospects, and innovate to satisfy our customers market position.
We acquire to enhance our capabilities and to needs.
We supplement our organic growth with carefully allow us to enter new markets which helps us secure opportunities selected acquisitions to expand our footprint.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:09 Page 8 Market opportunities Our customers, principally national and local governments, are increasingly under pressure to reduce budgets and to maximise the effectiveness of their available resources given the current challenging economic environment.
At the same time, they continue to face The role of the private sector in delivering rising demand from their citizens to efficiencies was further confirmed in the improve the delivery of existing public UK Governments Operational Efficiency services, and growing challenges in Review, announced in July 2008, and due areas such as climate change, to report this year.
The Review identifies five migration, security, economic work streams, including collaborative development, ageing populations procurement, back office and IT functions, and congestion.
asset management, property and local initiatives and empowerment, and is These pressures are increasing demand seeking to draw on the best of public and from our customers to reduce the costs of private sector experience to deliver billions public services and address these broader of pounds of savings across these areas.
We are well positioned to help The further development of Competitive them, given our strong capabilities across Neutrality, as set out in the UKs Budget in a broad range of markets, our proven track 2008, should also increasingly mean that record in delivering people-led change and there will be equality between the public excellent service, and our ability to create sector and private sector or voluntary innovative solutions.
agencies when bidding for contracts.
Above: Caring for prisoners at Acacia Prison.
The strong opportunities for the private Looking at prospects across the business, sector in delivering better value for money we continue to see strong opportunities in services, both in the UK and overseas, home affairs.
Rising prison populations are were confirmed in the independent review increasing the demand for prison places of the public services industry conducted and innovative approaches to offender for the UK Government by Dr DeAnne management, providing Serco with Julius.
The review, which was published in opportunities to expand its work in the July 2008, concluded that the UK has the sector in the UK and Australia.
At the same most developed public services industry in time, border security issues have increased the world, valued at 79bn, and saw strong the pressure on places at immigration potential for this to grow further in the UK control centres, and the demand for and for these skills to be exported into proven, consistent approaches to new markets.
managing these facilities, and associated services such as escorting.
"qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:09 Page 9 Above: The joint venture between Serco and Guys and Above: Serco delivers and operates the National Traffic Above: Providing ""surface finishing"" services at St Thomas NHS Foundation Trust will enhance the Control Centre NTCC, delivering real time traffic RAF Cranwell Trusts pathology capabilities."
In the US, the incoming administrations Local authorities in the UK face a range We recognise the financial and operational focus on countering cybersecurity threats, of challenges in balancing the requirement pressures affecting our defence customers, improving information sharing among to achieve a 3% annual efficiency gain and are using our expertise to help them agencies, modernising healthcare as required by the 2007 Comprehensive achieve more within existing resource management, and increasing the need Spending Review with the demand for levels.
In the UK, we remain in constant for logistics services with the anticipated more responsive public services and their dialogue at senior levels as to how we drawdown of combat troops and the key role in enabling the delivery of national can contribute to through-life capability lengthening life expectancies of existing policy such as the Every Child Matters management, and continue to innovate to military platforms provide growing areas of agenda.
Serco has pioneered an innovative help our customers at a local level.
In the opportunity for the expanded capabilities approach to service transformation in our US, we now serve every branch of the of our North American business.
partnership with Glasgow City Council, military and see strong opportunities to and we see good opportunities to provide grow in key areas such as personnel Ageing populations are adding significantly similar services to other local authorities.
support services, procurement, engineering to the pressures on health services and We also see a strong pipeline in providing and logistics, and program management.
increasing the need to use existing our environmental services to local We also see opportunities to deploy our resources efficiently.
skills in other selected markets overseas.
partnership between Serco and Guys and St Thomas NHS Foundation Trust Traffic congestion is a growing threat to We have also identified good growth establishes a new, replicable model to economic growth, public health and the opportunities in the Indian market where target the significant national pathology wider environment in most regions of the we launched Serco BPO following the market, which is valued at 2.5bn and world.
Responsive, dependable traffic acquisition in December of InfoVisions BPO is growing at 8% to 10% annually, with management and reliable, cost-effective capabilities.
Rising incomes are creating an international opportunities.
Similarly, the public transport systems both play vital increasing demand from consumers for acquisition of Grosvenor has given us new roles in the solution.
We see further services and consequently a growing use of opportunities in the fast-growing market opportunities to grow our presence in third parties to deliver them.
The for occupational health services for public, light rail, both in Dubai as the new Metro outsourced domestic BPO services market private and not-for-profit organisations.
network expands, and in other countries, is expected to grow in value to around including the UK and continental Europe.
US$1.8bn over the next five years and The economic downturn is increasing Sercos expertise in traffic management there is early evidence that there will be the focus on developing new solutions is also in growing demand as the UK demand for process outsourcing within the to increase employment by encouraging Highways Agency increases its investment Indian public services market.
entrepreneurialism and supporting people in this area, and as other countries look to in returning to work.
We see further import the expertise in integrating systems opportunities to support small and mediumand data to maximise efficiency of the road sized enterprises through initiatives such as network developed in the UK.
Business Link and our work with the UKs regional development agencies, and expect new opportunities under the Governments Flexible New Deal initiative following the publication of the Green Paper on welfare reform in July 2008.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:09 Page 10 Chairmans Statement 2008 was another year of strong performance for Serco, with good growth across our markets and sectors.
We also made significant progress in developing new markets and enhancing our capabilities.
Our substantial order book and pipeline of opportunities together with our proven ability to deliver innovation and efficiency savings to our customers, Kevin Beeston support our expectation of continued Chairman strong performance going forward.
Financial results I am pleased to report on another year of strong financial performance.
Revenue grew by 11.1% to 3,124m, Adjusted profit before tax Adjusted PBT rose by 17.9% to 145.3m and Adjusted earnings per share grew 19.5% to 22.20p.
The Adjusted PBT margin increased from 4.4% to 4.7%, as we continue to benefit from efficiency improvements and management of our contract portfolio.
Profit before tax rose by 18.8% to 136.1m and earnings per share was 20.7% higher at 20.49p.
We delivered another good cash performance, with free cash flow of 94.2m, and have a strong funding position, with 900m of committed debt facilities, the majority of which are not repayable until 2013.
In December, we were included for the first time in the FTSE 100 index, which comprises the UKs 100 largest listed companies.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:09 Page 11 Revenue Adjusted profit before tax Adjusted earnings per share 2007: 2,811m 2007: 123.2m 2007: 18.57p 3,124m 145.3m 22.20p 11.1% 17.9% 19.5% Dividend per share 2007: 4.25p 5.00p 17.6% Dividend 1.2 million people in the UK, generates We carefully select new bidding Sercos policy is to increase the total 45bn of value per year and has significant opportunities and assess each bids dividend each year broadly in line with the export potential.
Our growing capabilities financial profile, risks, visibility, place within increase in underlying earnings.
The Board mean that we are now able to address our portfolio and our ability to deliver has proposed a final dividend of 3.52p per a broader range of these opportunities excellent service.
We take a similar share, representing an increase on the across a larger number of geographies approach to our existing contracts with 2007 final dividend of 16.6% and bringing and sectors.
regular assessment of performance the total dividend for the year to 5.00p, and risks, which is reviewed on We continue to grow our capabilities both representing growth of 17.6%.
organically, by investing within our existing dividend will be paid on 20 May 2009 business, and by acquisition.
In addition to We also constantly look to improve our to shareholders on the register on a substantial number of new contract wins processes.
Given challenging global 6 March 2009. and extensions in 2008, we took a significant economic conditions in 2008, it was step in our international development by appropriate that we incorporated our risk Delivering sustainable growth acquiring SI International, Inc. a provider of management processes into a broader Economic conditions in 2008 were information services, technology, and framework that encompasses the resilience challenging for governments, companies network solutions in the very large US of the Group as a whole, providing us with and citizens alike and whilst no one can federal government services market.
We further confidence in the visibility and expect to be immune to these conditions, also established a presence in the Indian control environment within our business.
Serco has once again demonstrated the market, where we see strong growth resilience of its business model.
Our people opportunities, through the acquisition of Budget constraints are fuelling demand for Finally, I would like to thank all Serco InfoVision, a BPO company serving the efficient and cost-effective public services, employees for their tremendous efforts over domestic market.
as governments balance their investment in the year, and to welcome to the business stimulating economies with the requirement Effective management of risk those who joined us in 2008.
It is the spirit to control national debt.
Meanwhile, citizens As well as maximising opportunities for of innovation of our people and their increasingly demand better solutions to growth within our business, a key element commitment to the delivery of excellent global challenges such as security, in delivering sustainable performance service that distinguishes us, and supports congestion and environmental issues.
is to manage risks in bids and existing our confidence in the future.
We do this through the Serco The role of the private sector in supporting Management System, our robust system governments in tackling these issues has of governance and internal control which become an established part of the solution.
covers all aspects of our business and is The Julius Review, commissioned for the overseen by the Board.
UK Government, revealed that the public services industry employs more than It is the spirit of innovation of our people and their commitment to the delivery of excellent service that distinguishes us, and supports our confidence in the future.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 21 3 09 10:30 Page 12 Chief Executives Statement In 2008, we delivered strong operational and financial performance while continuing to increase our presence in existing markets and enter new markets.
We were successful in expanding the scope and scale of existing contracts, both on rebids and during the contract term, and won a number of significant contracts in new markets with strong growth opportunities.
We delivered another year of doubleExpanding presence in a similar contract for the North Queensland digit revenue growth, enhanced our existing markets region.
The total value of both contracts to margins, generated good free cash flow We expanded our presence in existing Serco is AUS$362m.
In the US, we won a and strengthened our funding position.
markets, both through new contracts and rebid to deliver Aviation Technical At the same time, we invested in expanding the scope and scale of existing Maintenance and Support Services to the improving our capabilities, systems and contracts.
Among larger wins, in the UK US Navy, which has a total potential value structures across the business.
we won two contracts to deliver a range of US$167m over five years and of innovative environmental services for significantly increases the support we In an economic environment that seems the London Borough of Hammersmith & provide to the Space and Naval Warfare likely to remain challenging, our expectation Fulham and Milton Keynes Council valued Systems Center Atlantic.
of continued strong performance is respectively at 140m and 160m over a underpinned by our continued high revenue Developing new markets maximum of 14 years, and we renewed our visibility, our agility and flexibility in In 2008, we also invested in the education and childrens services contract addressing our customers needs and our development of a number of new markets.
with Walsall Council, which is now valued ability to direct our resources at the best In the local authority market, we signed our at 345m over a longer term of 12 years.
first local authority strategic partnership, We were also awarded a facilities valued at 265m over ten years, with The strength of our business model and management contract to manage 29 of Glasgow City Council.
We continue to the commitment of our people mean that Deloitte's office facilities and buildings pursue similar opportunities with other local we continue to deliver quality service to valued at 50m over five years.
In April, we signed our first light our customers, which was again reflected In defence, we continued to expand rail contract in the Middle East with an in our contract win rates.
During 2008, our services to the military in the UK and agreement, valued at 500m, to operate we maintained our win rates at over 90% overseas.
In the UK, we expanded our and maintain the Dubai Metro, leveraging on rebids and one in two new bids, and in contract, valued at 76m over its maximum the transport capabilities we have total we won over 200 contracts valued at ten-year term, to provide the Naval Air developed in the UK and positioning us 3.2bn across a wide range of our markets.
Command with engineering and aircraft well for further opportunities in the region.
support services at Yeovilton and Culdrose Our implementation plan for the Metro is air stations.
In Australia, Serco Sodexho on schedule ahead of the start of the Defence Services, a Serco joint venture, service in September 2009. renewed its contract to provide garrison support services at six defence bases in the Northern Territory, and was awarded 12 Serco Group plc Serco AR08 Ver7.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:09 Page 13 Visiting the Glasgow partnership team.
Investing to support our growth We have a substantial During the year, we continued to invest to support our strong growth: this means order book that gives us ensuring that we have the best people, capabilities, systems and business high visibility on our structures to meet our customers needs and pursue the higher-value opportunities available to us.
For example, during the future revenues year, we began the roll-out of our Business Academy, providing our people with online together with increasing access to the latest tools, thinking, approaches and techniques.
At the end of growth prospects.
July, we reorganised the central IT services team within our technology business in order to better align our capabilities with developing market needs such as in security and resilience, and to improve efficiency and simplify structures.
In the future, we will also leverage our new capabilities in India to support these and related areas.
We also completed the roll-out of our SAP system in the UK and the Asia Pacific business, and are now implementing it in the Middle East and anticipate starting this process in North America later this year.
A strong foundation for growth in the US government services market At the end of the year, we completed our acquisition of SI International, a provider of information services, technology, and network solutions to the US Government, for US$524m, including assumption of debt.
In 2008, SI International had revenue of US$575.5m and underlying Adjusted operating profit of US$36.7m.
SI International creates a strong foundation for growth and the delivery of higher value services in the US government services market, by giving us scale and increased resources to bid on larger US Government contracts, broader customer relationships, access to higher growth areas and increased capabilities.
Since the year end, Christopher Hyman Chief Executive 13 Serco AR08 Ver7.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:09 Page 14 Chief Executives Statement continued we have made good progress in integrating A values-led company During the year, SI International with our existing North We continue to be focused on our values, American business, and there are early our Governing Principles as we call them, we continued to positive signs that our integrated teams will to ensure that we operate in the best be able to apply our enhanced capabilities interests of all our stakeholders in the short, invest to support across our enlarged customer base.
By combining a strong public service ethos with commercial We also entered the Indian market through acumen, we seek to create a working our strong growth: the acquisition in December of a majority environment that is attractive and rewarding shareholding in InfoVision, a BPO business for employees, and gives customers the this means ensuring serving the domestic Indian market, for confidence they need to entrust their 14.8m, and have invested in enhancing requirement to deliver excellent service to that we have the our presence and launching the Serco us.
That environment helps Serco people all brand in that market.
around the world give their best, whether best people, In January 2009, we announced that we improving the education a child receives, had formed a partnership with the Guys helping pilots and commuters arrive safely capabilities, systems and St Thomas NHS Foundation Trust to at their destinations, supporting front line improve the Trusts pathology services and military personnel, or assisting businesses and business target the pathology market in the UK and in their plans to grow and prosper.
In the UK, pathology is a The quality and dedication of our people is structures to meet significant market, valued at around 2.5bn.
reflected in the many awards we receive The 50:50 joint venture the first of its kind around the world.
Some examples in 2008 our customers is branded as GSTS Pathology and will include the many employees who received operate and enhance the Trusts existing military service medals for their work in needs.
pathology capabilities under a ten-year operational theatres supporting the No.
32 contract valued at around 250m to Serco, The Royal Squadron and the Skynet 5 which started on 1 February 2009. secure military satellite communications In the nuclear market, while we were systems both in Iraq and Afghanistan.
disappointed that our consortium did not At Merseyrail and Northern Rail, employees win the Sellafield nuclear decommissioning dedication to service has been recognised contract, we have seen growth in our at an industry level: Merseyrail has achieved nuclear assurance business which is a high rating of 90% customer satisfaction well placed to take advantage of and Northern Rail was recognised as the increasing nuclear opportunities Rail Operator of the Year, having continued in the UK and overseas.
to improve reliability and service quality.
Among many other awards, we were again recognised by our peers as the UKs Most Admired Support Services company, for the fifth year in a row.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:09 Page 15 Visibility of planned revenue at 31 December 2008 13% 13% 1% 90% 76% 76% 2009 63% 63% 12% 12% 1% 76% 2010 2011 49% 49% 15% 15% 1% 65% Order book Extensions & rebids Preferred bidder We were also delighted to celebrate the expertise through exporting proven models Our projections are achievement of those teams and individuals to new areas.
With growing markets and nominated by their colleagues to receive capabilities, our pipeline now stands that our revenue will a Pulse Award, which is Sercos way of at a substantial 26bn, including recognising their efforts in ensuring that SI Internationals pipeline of over 2bn.
increase to we live our Governing Principles and With our substantial order book, excellent support those around us and in our revenue visibility, and our ability to direct wider community.
Our peoples strong approximately our resources flexibly to pursue the best commitment, which we find all over opportunities, we remain confident that our Serco, is the real bedrock of our growth.
5bn and our business will continue to perform strongly.
As 2008 came to a close, approximately We expect increasing demand for our skills Adjusted operating 13,000 people joined the Serco family to support robust revenue growth, and see through the acquisitions of SI International good opportunities to improve our margins, profit margin to in the US and InfoVision in India.
We chose through our focus on managing our these companies very carefully, based on contract portfolio, enhancing our efficiency, approximately 6.3% the growing markets they operate in, the and bidding selectively for higher-value work.
skills and capabilities they have and, Given the confidence this gives us over the by the end of critically, the values that their people medium-term, we are guiding to revenue demonstrate.
We are delighted to welcome and margin by the end of 2012.
In future, them to the Group.
2012. reflecting the operational drivers of our margin improvement and in line with market Outlook and guidance practice, we will give our margin guidance While the global economic environment at the operating profit margin level.
seems likely to remain challenging, we have a substantial order book that gives us high Accordingly, and consistent with our visibility on our future revenues together previous guidance, our projections are that with increasing growth prospects.
our revenue will increase to approximately 5bn and our Adjusted operating profit Our long-term contracts and substantial margin to approximately 6.3% by the end order book continue to provide excellent of 2012, excluding material acquisitions, visibility over our revenues, over 90% of disposals and currency effects.
Including a 1bn benefit from SI International, we had In 2009, we expect to deliver double-digit a substantial order book of 16.3bn as at revenue growth and a 30bps increase 31 December 2008, and we had identified in our Adjusted PBT margin, excluding 90% of planned revenue for 2009, 76% SI International.
The addition of for 2010 and 65% for 2011.
SI International is anticipated to increase our 2009 revenue growth by approximately Constrained government budgets 10%.
Including the benefit of SI International, drive demand for efficiency and we expect our Adjusted operating profit cost-effectiveness in the delivery of public margin of 5.3% in 2008 to increase by services, especially as governments approximately 40bps in 2009.
This balance their investment in providing 2009 guidance excludes material economic stimulus with the requirement currency effects.
Our strong capabilities mean that we are well positioned to provide relevant support in existing markets and to leverage our Serco Group plc 15 Serco AR08 Ver7.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:09 Page 16 16 Serco Group plc Serco AR08 Ver7.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:11 Page 17 Working alongside CEOP The Child Exploitation and Online Protection CEOP Centre is the UK police agency dedicated to protecting children from sexual abuse.
Serco works in partnership with the CEOP Centre to support child protection in the UK.
As part of its partnership, Serco funded the building of a state of the art Behavioural Analysis Unit BAU within the CEOP Centre in London, providing expert project management support which enabled the BAU to be built in just six weeks.
The BAU focuses on understanding how offenders with a sexual interest in children operate and think.
It is a resource to law enforcement nationally and internationally who are investigating these types of crimes.
The qualitative information the BAU obtains is disseminated to law enforcement via a comprehensive training programme that incorporates a unique national qualification programme for child protection professionals working in this area.
The results from the analysis undertaken directly influences CEOP strategy and operational policy and helps to inform the development of CEOPs ThinkuKnow education programme, which teaches parents and children about online safety.
This programme has to date reached over 3.75 million children.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:11 Page 18 Our work includes: Civil Government Border protection Prisons management IT and IT-enabled services Government web portal management Education and childrens services Environmental services Health management and 2008 Revenue hospital support Management consultancy 1,127m 36% of Group Revenue In Civil Government, our work encompasses sectors including home affairs, healthcare, local government, education and childrens services and the corporate sector, providing a broad range of integrated facilities management, IT and business process outsourcing BPO support and consulting services.
In the US, the acquisition of We received positive inspection reports SI International has added new issued on Yarls Wood Immigration Removal records management and IT capabilities Centre by HM Chief Inspector of Prisons, which we provide to a number of civil and Hassockfield Secure Training Centre by government agencies.
Ofsted, which commended our people on the high quality of the care they provide and Civil Government revenue grew by further reinforced our reputation for the 18.4% to 1,127m, representing 36% of provision of specialist care for children and Group revenue 2007: 34%.
young people in secure accommodation.
ICT and BPO Home Affairs The demand for innovative, flexible The UK Government is responding approaches to working and people Above: Skills workshops at Acacia to increasing prisoner numbers with management, combined with the Prison investment in building new prison facilities requirement to achieve value for money and increasing the capacity of existing and the requirement for local authorities to prisons.
Serco is playing an important role achieve year on year efficiencies is leading in maximising the impact of this investment.
to new opportunities for our IT and BPO management services.
Construction has begun on new In December we acquired a 60% houseblock accommodation at HMP shareholding in InfoVision, the third largest Dovegate and HMP Lowdham Grange, BPO company serving the Indian domestic adding 260 new places to each prison, and market, enabling further development of increasing the combined operating income InfoVision's BPO business, and broadening of both contracts by over 100m over their our existing customer offering.
The pressures on the prison system agreed to acquire the remaining 40% of are also increasing demand for associated InfoVision in two tranches over the next services, including growth in our court two years.
We see strong opportunities escorting and electronic monitoring for growth, both in BPO and as a provider services, as authorities look to alternative of services to the public as the Indian approaches to prison sentences for the market develops.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:11 Page 19 We have made a successful start to our landmark 265m partnership with Glasgow City Council to transform land, property and information and communications technology ICT services.
During the first nine months of the contract we have surveyed close to 500 properties, opened a new datacentre, merged five service desks into one and delivered some 9m of transition projects to time, cost and quality.
The transfer of some 280 seconded staff into the joint venture has taken place and we have already reorganised the ICT function to improve service delivery.
Following our success in Glasgow, we signed a new contract with Derby City Council and Derby Homes to provide IT management and support.
The new partnership is designed to support innovative approaches to office and home working, alongside reducing the councils carbon footprint, and securing cash efficiencies for both Derby City Council and Derby Homes.
The contract is Above: ACCESS team members on a site visit to Glasgow City Council chambers valued at 19m over seven years.
Our contract with the businesslink.
gov In 2008, Serco was selected by Glasgow City Council for a pioneering joint services supporting SMEs has been venture.
Known as ACCESS, the joint venture provides high quality property extended to cover the development of and ICT services, improving outcomes for Glasgows citizens while saving the online business support.
This extra work, Council more than 70m over ten years.
with an additional value of 14m per annum, follows positive reviews of our Steven Purcell, Leader - Glasgow City Council says, performance on the contract by the I am both impressed and delighted with what the ACCESS team has National Audit Office.
We have continued to achieved in such a short space of time.
Having only signed the contract in develop our business support work across February, going live in April was always going to be a difficult goal.
The a number of the UKs regions, with a 2m, challenges of creating a new business unit and bringing together, so rapidly, four-year contract to support the South groups of people from different backgrounds were not insignificant.
However Easts businesses through a customer the teamwork and sense of purpose exhibited by ACCESS, working in real relationship management system, additional partnership with the Council, ensured that not only was the April target met, funding of 9m to support rural enterprise initial service performance results have been excellent, and ACCESS has in Devon, Cornwall and Somerset, and already gone on to become an established, well-respected and effective a contract for the London Development member of the wider Council team.
The energy and leadership evident in Agency for its CompeteFor procurement ACCESS is already beginning to create a real momentum of change and portal to match buyers and potential improvement across the Council and I look forward to a successful and suppliers in the 2012 Olympic Games valued partnership.
supply chain which has recently secured additional funding of 1.8m.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:11 Page 20 Civil Government continued Integrated Services strong position in the UKs airport facilities We saw good growth in 2008 in our management market, adding to existing integrated services business which provides contracts with Birmingham and Filton facilities management services to both airports.
The new contract covers primary public and private sector customers, and fire and rescue response, adverse weather environmental services for local authorities, response, training and maintenance.
all of whom are looking to reduce overall Education and Childrens Services expenditure and improve service levels.
We During the year, we renewed and extended were pleased that our work with the Norfolk our contract with Walsall Council to provide and Norwich Health Trust was commended education and childrens services.
The in the Department of Healths Deep Clean award of the new contract, which is valued to Keep Clean report, which quotes Serco at around 345m, is for a longer term of Above: Environmental services in as an example of best practice in Hammersmith and Fulham.
12 years, reflecting the success we had collaborative working.
achieved under the previous contract.
Our innovative approach to environmental Under the new contract, we are working services includes introducing electric with the Council to ensure that children and vehicles and more efficient route planning young people achieve the best possible to reduce councils carbon footprints, educational outcomes, and also to provide synchronising street cleansing, recycling support to the most vulnerable children and refuse collections, and actively and their families.
During the year, Our contract to provide support for the we won contracts with the London national roll-out of Childrens Centres under Borough of Hammersmith & Fulham, Sure Starts Together for Children at a value of 140m over a maximum of programme has been extended following 14 years, and Milton Keynes Council, with strong performance under our innovative a value of 160m over the same term.
Our approach delivered We have also won a contract to maintain the target of 2,500 rolled out centres ahead parks and sports grounds for the London of schedule, and we delivered a further Borough of Newham, with a value of 30m 400 centres under the term of the initial over ten years.
Under the contract extension, We secured a new 50m, five-year facilities worth 15m over two years, the total management contract with Deloitte, which number of centres will be increased to covers cleaning, security, maintenance, 3,500 by 2010. helpdesk facilities and the disposal of Our success under Together for Children confidential waste, and won further contributed to us winning a separate, new corporate facilities management contracts contract under the Aiming High for Disabled for Coca-Cola, Volkswagen and Wyeth Children programme known as Together for Medica, with a combined value of around Disabled Children, with a value of 5.5m 20m per annum.
In both these national The signing of a 20m, ten-year contract programmes we are proud to lead covering fire and rescue services at Cardiff contracts fully involving voluntary International Airport further secures our sector organisations in delivery.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:11 Page 21 Above: Helping with the care of patients at Norfolk and Norwich Hospital.
This year has seen two major landmarks Consulting in our success in Education.
Our primary Sercos Consulting business continued to school results across Walsall and Bradford increase its scale and scope during the were ranked the first and seventh year, expanding its high-value, strategic and respectively most improved councils for advisory level work.
Examples include NHS primary school achievement nationally Connecting for Health, the Rural Payments between 2001 and 2008, and our Agency and our work for Department for transformation of Childrens Services at Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Stoke was recognised by Ofsted in the DEFRA Animal Health where we are 2008 Annual Performance Assessment, working on a major business reform referring to significant and rapid progress programme.
Sercos consultancy team made since our appointment.
continues to perform strongly and our Above: Measuring noise, humidity, pollution, vibration presence on the programme has been and other factors that may lead to ill health Healthcare expanded to developing DEFRAs Excellent service delivery and an innovative capability and managing external approach to improving performance are relationships with suppliers.
the foundations of our growth across the Home Affairs continues to represent a Healthcare sector.
growing market, with new wins including Serco Occupational Health has increased the Metropolitan Police, Greater our presence in this fast-growing sector Manchester Police and the Home Office.
and added new capabilities in managed Other strong markets for Consulting include healthcare services.
The business has the Scottish government and education.
won new contracts and extended current As the UK Government looks to find business across both public and private efficiencies in the procurement of external sector employers.
Serco is now the third consultancy services, our position as an largest provider of occupational health approved supplier on the Office of in the UK.
solutions The extension for a further two years of our Catalist framework is also leading to an out-of-hours doctors service contract for increased number of new project Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly follows opportunities.
consistent outperformance of national targets as recognised by the Healthcare Commission and positive feedback from users of the service.
The contract extension is worth 14.5m.
We have signed a new three-year contract with Doncaster Primary Care Trust to provide nursing and related services to HMP Lindholme, HMP Moorlands and Lindholme Immigration Removal Centre.
With a value of 4m, the contract brings the number of prisons and immigration centres to 16 for which we provide health services.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:11 Page 22 Helping to make Western Australia safer In 2006, the Government of Western Australia appointed Serco to manage the States only privately run prison.
Eighteen months later, Acacia prison was ranked by the State Inspector as a high performing facility.
Among the prisons strengths are its high standard of offender treatment programmes, resettlement services, and the prisons constructive and equitable regime.
Our staff remain committed to understanding the different cultural challenges faced by Indigenous Australians who account for more than 30% of the prison population.
The positive and responsive attitude of the Serco team reflects the focus on staff engagement and communication at the prison.
Rehabilitation and the re-entry of prisoners into society is at the heart of what we do at Acacia, giving prisoners the opportunity to address their offending behaviour and develop their potential, so they leave better able to find work and contribute to the community.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:11 Page 23 Serco Group plc 23 Serco AR08 Ver7.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 21 3 09 10:30 Page 24 Our work includes: Defence Command control systems Defence establishments management Economic cost analysis Logistics consulting Marine services Port security 2008 Revenue Risk and safety management Secure IT support 786m Through-life capability management 25% of Group Revenue Training and personnel services We are a major provider of operational support services to the armed forces of the UK, the US, Canada, Germany and Australia.
We provide training, engineering and operational support, maintain strategic defence assets, and deliver cost analysis, human resources, systems engineering, safety assurance and risk management services.
We are well placed to help our customers We continued to broaden our contribution by improving efficiency and reducing to improving the capability of the UKs costs, through providing advice and military air operations in 2008, both consultancy to achieve greater through engineering support in the UK and efficiencies while improving operational deployed operations in theatres of conflict.
availability, and implementing the During the year, over 50 Serco employees Top: Providing support services to the delivery of services to improve supporting the No.
32 The Royal UK MoD at its base in Gibraltar.
Squadron and the Skynet 5 secure military Above: Maintaining military aircraft and satellite systems were awarded military helicopters at the Royal Navy Air Station Defence revenue grew by 9.1% to service medals for their work in operational in Yeovilton.
The potential for growth stemming from United Kingdom our successful track record in support to We are actively engaged with the Ministry operations is shown in a number of new air of Defence at the highest levels to help support contracts won during 2008.
These them meet their operational challenges include the ten-year 68m surface finish with a focus on improving the availability of contract covering 16 RAF sites including people and equipment to the front line and the Falkland Islands, taking Sercos military ensuring that military staff are able to focus aviation support to over 16 different aircraft on core operational tasks.
types: and a maintenance contract for the RAF glider fleet valued at 6m over a We provide training, engineering and maximum of seven years.
operational support to the Royal Air Force and the aviation arms of the British Army Following successful rebids, we were also and Royal Navy.
We also support the Royal awarded the 9m, five-year contract to Navys three main UK bases, operate and provide air traffic control, engineering and maintain key strategic defence assets such flight planning at the British Army Air Corps as secure satellite communications and Wattisham base and an 8.5m contract the UKs Defence Academy, and provide with the US Air Force Europe to provide systems engineering, safety assurance support services at three of its UK and risk management services.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:11 Page 25 Above: Providing engineering support to the Apache helicopters of 7 Air Assault Battalion, Wattisham Station.
In addition to contracts directly awarded by US$11m annually over a base year We were awarded a US$18.5m contract by the Ministry of Defence, we are benefiting plus one option year, to develop the the US Space and Naval Warfare Systems from an increasing range of opportunities MyArmyLifeToo web portal, which Command for the production and delivery with other private sector providers.
BAE provides timely and relevant information of Navigation Sensor System Interface Systems appointed Serco to the 8m, to Army families.
NAVSSI components and ongoing five-year maintenance and supply contract production engineering support services.
We successfully rebid for the Casualty for improving efficiency and aircraft The NAVSSI system collects and processes Support Services Contract awarded by availability amongst the VC10 aircraft fleet data for weapons, combat support and the US Army Casualty and Mortuary Affairs that BAE Systems operates at Brize other on-board information systems.
The Operations Center, which includes manning Norton.
We already support the RAF Tristar five-year contract combines purchases for the operations center for Army casualty fleet at the base.
the US Navy and the governments of support, receiving casualty reports and Australia and Spain.
We were also part of a providing information and assistance to North America team awarded contracts under the Project next-of-kin.
The initial value of the contract We provide information services, Management Support Services is US$9m for the first year, with the technology and network solutions, and programme, with an overall value to Serco potential to increase to US$44.5m enterprise management, engineering, estimated at US$25m over five years.
if all options are exercised.
logistics, economic cost analysis and Middle East and Asia Pacific human resources services to the US We also won, with our partner Summit In the Middle East, as previously reported, military.
The acquisition of SI International Marketing, a contract for the Freedom we were disappointed to be informed in at the end of the year has significantly Team Salute recognition and commendation February 2008 that the Oman Ministry expanded our capabilities and broadened program, which has an estimated value of of Defence no longer wished to proceed our customer base.
We now serve all US$21m to Serco over two years.
with its project to develop a military branches of the US armed forces.
The award of the Aviation Technical training college.
Increasing demand for high-quality Maintenance and Support Services personnel support services is reflected We provide training, logistics and operational contract by US Navy SPAWAR Systems in the award of a number of contracts.
support services to the Australian Center Charleston, with a potential value These included a contract to provide Department of Defence and we have of US$167m over five years, reaffirms our psychological health services at five successfully built a presence on every track record in delivering high quality air US Navy regional commands, valued at defence base in Australia, providing traffic control and integrated technical approximately US$6m over two years.
a firm foundation for organic growth.
and maintenance aviation services, and strengthens our 11-year partnership We also renewed our contract valued at Our joint venture in Australia, Serco Sodexho with SPAWAR.
up to US$32m over two years with the US Defence Services, was awarded the Army Career and Alumni Program to provide Integrated Base Services contract for the With greater budget constraints and career counselling, and won a North Queensland region, adding to its increased demand for operational new contract to support the provision of earlier success in winning the Base resources being deployed in the field, advocacy services to soldiers and family Services contract for the Northern Territory.
emphasis is being placed on cost analysis members who are victims of domestic The combined value of the two contracts and procurement.
During the year, we rebid violence and sexual assault, through is AUS$362m over nine years.
successfully for the Price Fighters cost a one-year, US$10m contract with a analysis contract supporting the US Navys second-year option.
We will provide support weapons procurement program.
The services for families of Active Army, National contract is valued at approximately Guard and Reserve Soldiers under a US$41m for a base year plus four option US$5.6m extension to our US Armys years.
We were also awarded Integrated Family Support Network contract.
a one-year US$2.3m contract to provide We were also awarded a contract worth cost analysis support to the multi-national coalition forces in Iraq.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:12 Page 26 Supporting the US Navy Sercos Price Fighters contracts help the US Navy maximise its buying power.
Under our initial contract, which began in 1996, we assessed the fair price of spare parts.
Since then, we have transformed our capabilities in response to the Navys evolving needs, enabling us to perform increasingly complex analyses of aircraft, weapons and programs.
We also adapted our methodology to understand the cost of services such as logistics.
Sercos cost analysts, engineers and technicians have years of manufacturing experience and have helped the Defense Department save over US$1.2bn.
Our expertise has been a key factor in winning other significant defence service contracts with the US Army.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:12 Page 27 Serco Group plc 27 Serco AR08 Ver7.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:12 Page 28 Our work includes: Transport Air traffic services Heavy rail operations and maintenance Light rail operations and maintenance Traffic control and transport systems Transport consultancy 2008 Revenue 671m 22% of Group Revenue We are a major provider of transport services to the UK and markets in Australia, the Middle East and the US.
We operate heavy and light rail systems, are a leader in the development of integrated traffic management systems, and are one of the worlds largest private sector suppliers of air traffic control services.
Transport revenue grew by 2.4% to Merseyrail has received the highest score 671m, representing 22% of Group for passenger satisfaction in the latest revenue 2007: 23%.
Excluding the National Passenger Survey for any train effect of the ending of our contracts to operating company outside London as well operate the Manchester Metrolink and as achieving the UKs first fully secure rail Copenhagen Metro in 2007, revenue network by the Department of Transport growth was 8% reflecting strong as all of its 66 stations have been awarded performance across this segment.
Serco Docklands was awarded Secure Station status for its During the last year, our transport stations in 2007. operations continued to leverage skills developed in the UK to win significant new Our Australian rail operation, Great Top: Air traffic control in Dubai.
business in the Middle East and further Southern Rail, has made appropriate Above: Assisting passengers on develop our presence in US markets.
adjustments to service schedules and MerseyRail.
operations after a weaker tourist market Heavy rail began to impact on passenger numbers Northern Rail and Merseyrail, Sercos two during the second half of the year.
Sales joint ventures with NedRailways, continued of the Ghan services premium Platinum to deliver good growth in 2008, supported cabins, launched in September, have by innovation and excellent service delivery, performed well.
In August, we learned and have made a good start to 2009. we had not been selected to run the These joint ventures have revenue or profit trains in Melbourne, Australia.
sharing agreements, and stable subsidies We continue to pursue opportunities for which account for over 60% of revenue.
Northern Rail was named as Train Operator Serco was awarded two contracts this year, of the Year and Rail Business of the Year one by Network Rail, extending our existing at the HSBC Rail Business Awards during track monitoring and rail grinding contract, 2008.
The new hourly service Northern Rail valued at 20m over one year with a has introduced between Leeds and possible one-year extension, and one Nottingham links these two important by Virgin Trains to upgrade property and centres, directly, for the first time in 25 years stations on the West Coast route valued and along with the expansion to a halfat 5.5m over a maximum four-year term.
hourly service on its Leeds-Sheffield route will further improve performance and enhance the passenger experience.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:12 Page 29 Left: Northern Rail, Sercos joint venture with NedRailways, was named as UK Train Operator of the Year in 2008.
Light rail Traffic management Docklands Light Railway DLR continued to Reducing congestion is a priority issue perform strongly in 2008.
The construction in the UK, with the Highways Agency work to extend the railways capacity from increasing its investment in the area and two-carriage to three-carriage trains is emphasis growing on the skills required to proceeding on schedule, and the 180m manage motorways and road infrastructure extension to the line serving Woolwich effectively.
We are taking a leading role in Arsenal was opened in January 2009. developing innovative solutions through traffic management systems, with several Our expertise in light rail systems puts us new contract wins during 2008.
We signed in an excellent position to meet growing a first-year trial contract with the UKs demand for these services, particularly Department for Transport to undertake a Above: Operating the Woolwich Ferry in London.
feasibility and strategy study on TimeSigned in April 2008, our contract with the Distance-Place TDP road charging.
TDP Civil marine Dubai Government Roads and Transport systems track vehicle movements and offer Sercos expertise in the provision of marine Authority RTA to operate and maintain road authorities the option of varying costs services to the Royal Navy led to Transport the first two lines of the new Dubai Metro to motorists depending on where and when for London awarding us a new 11m, has a value of 500m over 12 years.
We also won a 18-month contract to operate the The launch of the driverless metro system is ground-breaking contract with BAA to Woolwich Ferry, opening up further creating considerable local interest, and maintain the traffic system at Heathrow opportunities in the civil marine market.
is expected to lead to further opportunities Airport, which has the potential to be The free ferry service carries over a million in the region through the extension of the replicated around the world.
vehicles and two million passengers a year, Dubai Metro network, further transport and provides an important link to the DLR.
In the US, Serco secured a US$23m systems in Dubai, and the adoption of contract to install and manage a new smart similar rail systems in other Emirates.
Air traffic control parking system for San Francisco, as well Our implementation plan, which includes In Middle East air traffic control services, as a separate US$8m, two-year extension the recruitment of over 3,000 employees, we rebid successfully on our contract to to our parking meter counting and is proceeding to schedule, ahead of the provide air traffic control and electronic collection contract.
formal start of the operating contract in engineering services for the United Arab September 2009.
In Hong Kong, we have renewed our Emirates Area Control Centre in contracts to operate the Aberdeen tunnel Abu Dhabi.
The contract, with the Our broad transport capabilities meant that and maintain the Shenzhen road corridor General Civil Aviation Authority, is worth we were also able to win further business between Hong Kong and mainland China.
with the RTA during the year.
These included Under a further contract, Serco will supply a 3.5m contract to implement ten key the latest technology in traffic light projects under the Bus Master Plan for enforcement to the Hong Kong Transport Dubai and a 2m contract to deliver Department.
In total, these contracts are a real-time journey planner system, which valued at approximately 23m.
is accessible online, over mobile phones and through a customer service centre.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:12 Page 30 30 Serco Group plc Serco AR08 Ver7.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:12 Page 31 Servicing an infrastructure for the 21st Century Developing long-term relationships with our customers by delivering excellent service is at the heart of what we do.
We have supported Dubai Air Navigation Services since 1967.
Alongside their staff, we provide air traffic control, electronic engineering and meteorology services.
The primary purpose of the contract is to provide Dubai Airports Company with all the specialist aviation services it needs to help maximise the capacity and throughput of aircraft and passengers at Dubai.
Our team has grown from 35 to 160 since the early 1990s.
We have improved and expanded our service through innovation, helping to enhance safety with an aviation management system that Serco developed and, with our customer, introducing sophisticated air traffic control simulators to improve training.
A twoyear project to maximise capacity of the twin parallel runways has resulted in an increase of aircraft movement capacity of 30% and a decrease in departure delays as a result of implemented improvements.
In 2010 Dubai will open the first stage of what is planned to be the largest airport in the world.
Serco air traffic services staff have been at the heart of the planning process and been commended for being the most advanced in their preparations for the opening.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:12 Page 32 Our work includes: Science Materials science Measurement science Nuclear assurance Research establishments management Technical training 2008 Revenue 540m 17% of Group Revenue Serco manages science-based organisations and develops and applies scientific knowledge for wealth creation.
Technology, innovation and people management are at the heart of our offering in this market.
Science revenue grew by 11.7% to We have been responsible for managing 540m, representing 17% of Group the work of the National Physical revenue 2007: 17%.
Laboratory NPL since 1995, supporting its mission to apply scientific knowledge for We continued to see strong economic and quality of life benefits.
NPL performance from our joint venture to has won business in the environment manage and operate the UKs Atomic sector, including air monitoring projects with Weapons Establishment AWE.
The DEFRA, and in the security and defence construction phase of the new Orion sector.
In addition, the Nobel Peace Prize building finished as scheduled in March Committee recognised the important work 2008, with the project due for of NPL in supporting its peace prize completion in 2010.
AWE has also Top: The Analytical Science Team at NPL winners and our diversity and educational is a multi-disciplinary team focused on commenced the planning phase for outreach were rewarded with the Investor government priority areas such as Project Mensa, the construction of a in WISE award from Women into Science, environmental protection, energy and replacement warhead assembly and sustainability, healthcare and Engineering and Construction WISE.
disassembly facility at the Burghfield nanotechnologies.
Our nuclear assurance business, which is Above: NPL is a recognised source of focused on enhancing the performance of expertise on the evaluation of biometrics In December 2008, BNFL sold its one-third nuclear reactors that generate electricity or technologies, shareholding in AWE Management Limited power nuclear submarines, has continued AWEML to the California-based company, to perform well during the year.
We retain our one-third stake in AWEML in an equal partnership alongside Lockheed Martin and Jacobs Engineering.
The annual RoSPA awards once again recognised AWEs excellent health, safety and environmental performance, with the award of the Astor Trophy for excellence in occupational health, the International Dilmun Environmental Award and the sectoral award for outstanding performance in health and safety.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:14 Page 33 The annual RoSPA awards once again recognised AWEs excellent health, safety and environmental performance.
We were appointed as one of a team of partners to provide engineering and technical support to British Energys nuclear power stations, worth up to 30m to the partners over the next five years, and are well placed to grow the business as nuclear new build programmes get underway in the UK and overseas.
The business has also completed the main stage of its extensive refurbishment of the nuclear laboratory and support complex in Cheshire.
These facilities, which include nuclear corrosion and high temperature laboratories, strengthen Sercos world class capabilities in nuclear safety, assurance and regulatory support.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:14 Page 34 Business relationships Suppliers In transport, for example, our partnership Our reputation for Alongside the hundreds of services Serco with NedRailways began work at Merseyrail manages through contracts on behalf of in 2003 and Northern Rail in 2004. delivering excellent customers, the Group also has its own Together we have become one of the extensive supplier relationships.
UKs major train operating companies.
service and our We take the same approach to suppliers as Our partnership at the Atomic Weapons we do to customers.
We look for long-term Establishment has been highly successful ability to build relationships in which there is opportunity and together we have consistently for continuous improvement and value exceeded service targets.
long-term creation based on innovation.
We continue to create new partnerships In order to continually improve quality and and joint ventures, which include innovative relationships is manage costs, the Group has standardised new business models with customers.
the centralisation of buying goods and In 2008, we formed a strategic joint venture behind the services.
The number of preferred suppliers with Glasgow City Council to improve for such goods and services, ranging from services for citizens through cohesive, consistent success commodity computer peripherals to agency efficient and higher quality property and employees, has reduced and the information and communications Serco has enjoyed terms and conditions enhanced.
In 2009, we announced that we had formed a Procurement policies and processes to date.
partnership with Guy's and St Thomas' are clearly communicated internally and NHS Foundation Trust to improve the facilitated through online purchasing systems Trust's pathology services and target which reduce administration costs, reduce the significant national and international wastage, improve cash flow and give pathology market.
contract managers more time to focus on client needs.
Relationships with joint venture partners are the responsibility of the relevant divisional Joint ventures and strategic management teams, supported by partnerships members of the Group Executive Team and Serco has a number of joint ventures and Board as appropriate.
Regular strategy and strategic partnerships around the world that review meetings ensure the joint venture manage service contracts, particularly in the partners remain firmly committed to working transport, defence and science sectors.
together to deliver services to clients.
Strong relationships, mutual trust and Our track record for successful partnerships respect and clarity of role are all essential speaks volumes.
ingredients if a service is to be successfully delivered through a joint venture.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:14 Page 35 Our people and reputation Above: We are committed to investing in the professional and technical skills our staff need to do their jobs.
Our people Our performance against our policies, and Our Pulse Awards are designed to celebrate Having skilled, qualified, engaged and the implications of changing legislation and the very best qualities and achievements of inspired employees who bring service to best practice, is monitored by our human Serco people, our customers and partners.
life is essential to our continued success.
Where we need to The awards are closely linked to our That is why we are committed to change an approach, then appropriate Governing Principles.
They recognise communicating with, supporting and communications and training are people who excel at innovation, inspire developing our people.
through their leadership, demonstrate culture based on our Governing Principles outstanding commitment and make an Our Skills for You programme was developed and we monitor how well were putting exceptional impact on communities, the in partnership with UK Government them into practice.
environment or issues such as safety and departments, trade unions and training ethics.
Having great people is the single biggest providers.
It offers Serco staff the chance factor in the growth and success of our to improve their literacy, numeracy and In 2008, 48 employees received an award business and in 2008, we have further language skills while continuing with their in the first global Pulse Awards.
embedded our leadership development workplace learning.
Since its introduction Our reputation strategy.
Initially focused on our senior at Serco, 3,221 of our people have been Our reputation for delivering excellent leadership, over the course of 2008 we assessed with 640 achieving a qualification.
service and our ability to build long-term broadened the programme to develop the We know that having highly engaged relationships is behind the consistent right type and number of leaders across our employees, who live our Governing success Serco has enjoyed to date.
This strategy Principles and bring service to life, will lead enables effective performance management Customers and potential customers tell us to even higher performing contracts.
That is and development plans that are tailored to that corporate reputation is one of the key why we research how engaged our the needs of the individual.
criteria in the selection and retention of employees are with Serco.
To us, this private sector partners.
As a result, we Across the Company, we are committed to research is more than a measurement tool: are taking steps to measure customer investing in the professional and technical it is a continuous improvement process for advocacy and corporate reputation skills our staff need to do their jobs.
We are people issues and a key driver to improved consistently on a Group-wide basis.
always looking to equip and encourage business performance.
Throughout 2008 staff to take on wider roles.
across every level of our business we We continue to build our reputation have put changes in place to improve amongst business stakeholders through a To enable our leaders to manage their engagement and will be measuring the communication programme which includes people, we have developed a impact in 2009. the publication of thought-leading research comprehensive suite of employment policies and attendance at seminars and conferences.
which support our employees, wherever Were passionate about communication.
However, we recognise that delivering value they are in the world.
The key employment It is natural for us to share information and to customers and citizens by improving policies are made available through line bring people together across the world.
services efficacy and efficiency is the most managers, human resources teams and our We have set out how we want employees significant shaper of our reputation.
They include policies covering across the business to connect to Serco.
diversity and equality, for employees having This is delivered through a communications children, resolving issues, health and safety, network, programme of channels and confidentiality, security and ethics and campaigns.
In 2008 we launched Scoop, a magazine As an international company, we for all Serco employees.
Through this experience differing employment legislation, publication we deliver consistent brand and customs and practices in different parts of message, and present a 360 degree view the world.
Our approach is always to of the Serco family.
We also introduced a respect local differences but not to fall new intranet channel for employees to short of minimum standards.
connect with their senior leadership.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:14 Page 36 These are some of the highlights Corporate responsibility taken from our 2008 Corporate Responsibility Review.
To find out more, please visit www.
com Serco strives to operate in a way that Key to this whole process is understanding Measuring performance has a positive impact on society.
how we perform so that we can improve An overall assessment is provided by the Our people embody the values that we the management decisions we make.
Business in the Community BitC Corporate have worked so hard to embed throughout Responsibility Index.
We achieved, for the We have a core set of performance the organisation.
These values are built on second year running, a gold overall rating indicators that we use to assure ourselves our Governing Principles: we foster an 90%.
This year a new workplace index that we are performing responsibly.
Details entrepreneurial culture: we enable our was introduced under which we received of these are provided in our Corporate people to excel: we deliver our promises: platinum banding with a score of 95%, Responsibility Review and are available and we build trust and respect.
These along with a community index in which we on our website.
values have supported us in becoming one achieved platinum status 96%.
Sercos of the worlds leading service companies.
Leisure business, National Physical Reviewing corporate governance We work in partnership with governments Laboratory and our contract at Airbus Filton We undertook a review of our management and commercial organisations around the were again recognised by the BitC Awards system to ensure that our policy framework world to improve services across many for Excellence with each receiving a Big is the right one for the size and scale of the areas of public life.
Tick Award for the second year in organisation we now are.
Beyond profits As we continue to grow, we have focused Our BitC environmental index rating also While financial performance is important, on how to keep it as simple as possible improved with a gold banding and overall the search for profit is not what defines us.
and make sure we are using language that score of 89%.
This was an improvement on We want not only to achieve the social everybody can clearly understand.
the previous index where we scored 79.5%.
outcomes we are often contracted to We need to ensure we have strong links deliver, but to do it in a way that has between our management system, risk a positive impact on society.
management and our internal audit process, so that we have confidence in Setting a strategic framework both our governance structure and our As an organisation, we are never management of risk.
We work continually to improve our systems and processes.
It is important that our people have clarity about their roles and accountability, Like all responsible companies, we are empowering and enabling them to excel striving to become more sustainable.
As a even further, leading to better value result we have developed our corporate all around.
responsibility framework, which recognises local cultures and conditions across our diverse operations, to put sustainable development at the heart of our business.
The framework consists of five key areas.
to make a positive difference to the communities we serve to reduce our environmental impact to reduce our consumption and assure our supply chain to increase our value to our customers and shareholders to realise the potential of our people.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:14 Page 37 Above: Teaming up with the Scouts Association to Above: Safety is a priority at Dubai Airport.
Above: Education classes at Kilmarnock Prison.
Measuring our environmental performance In our rail operations both verbal and As an organisation, has been a particular area of attention.
physical assault rates have been below 2008 saw a significant step forward with a target and reflect the success of a focused we are never comprehensive review of the Companys campaign over the last few years.
environmental performance indicators and In 2007 we launched the Pulse Awards.
We the capture of accurate environmental data.
Aligned to our Governing Principles, the This has provided a baseline of company awards recognise examples of excellence performance that we will use to benchmark work continually to in business operations or improvement, future environmental performance against.
environmental and safety initiatives and improve our We recognise we not only have a leadership.
They also recognise our wider responsibility to improve our performance responsibilities to society, the environment systems and but also to influence thinking.
In 2008 Serco and the communities we serve.
This might co-sponsored with the new Local be through significant contributions made processes.
Government Network, an independent local to charitable or community organisations.
government think tank, a piece of research In 2008 the first Pulse Awards were given looking at potential solutions to the pressing to 118 divisional award winners, of which and immediate challenges and issues 48 received a global Pulse Award.
facing the UK waste industry.
Embedding ethical guidelines Our lost time incident rate has continued Our company values and ethics are integral to improve, although the proportion relating to one another.
Historically our value set to reportable three-day absence has has been clear about where we draw the increased, leading to a pilot to better lines.
However, as we move into different manage first-day absence management countries and cultures, and as we diversify by occupational health.
Reflecting external our range of services, we need to review benchmarks, mental and behavioural regularly the Companys position on these.
diseases and musculoskeletal system That is why we have set up a formal Ethics and connective tissue diseases remain the Committee, made up of senior main reason for referrals.
We have therefore management with very clear guidelines established a process to fast track these about its remit.
It is there to determine the referrals to specialists to reduce the time big ticket items that define our position in resolving them.
We are also looking at beyond regulatory and statutory ways of reducing the number of incidents.
The pilot of the Back-Track system in the UK has seen a significant reduction in Doing business the right way demands manual handling manoeuvres where it has constant vigilance.
By its very nature, it has been trialled.
to be a journey without an ending.
Thanks to the people we employ, we are making real progress in reaching our ambitious goals.
Serco Group plc 37 Serco AR2008 Sumary.
Financial performance Sercos strong performance in 2008 is reflected in our financial results, with double-digit revenue growth and a further increase in margins.
We generated good cash flow, and have a strong funding position.
Sercos income statement for the year is summarised in Figure 1 below.
This includes the results of joint ventures which are proportionately consolidated.
Figure 1: Income statement Year ended 31 December 2008 2007 Increase m m Revenue 3,123.5 2,810.7 11.1% Gross profit 456.8 406.2 12.5% Administrative expenses 291.6 264.2 Adjusted operating profit 165.2 142.0 16.3% Investment revenue and finance costs 19.9 18.8 Adjusted profit before tax 145.3 123.2 17.9% Amortisation of acquired intangibles 9.2 8.6 Profit before tax 136.1 114.6 18.8% Tax 36.5 32.2 Profit for the year 99.6 82.4 20.9% Effective tax rate 26.8% 28.1% Adjusted earnings per share 22.20p 18.57p 19.5% Earnings per share 20.49p 16.98p 20.7% Dividend per share 5.00p 4.25p 17.6% 1.1 Revenue Revenue grew by 11.1% to 3,123.5m, benefiting from the growth of existing contracts and the contribution of new wins.
Underlying revenue growth, which excludes the effects of changes to currency exchange rates, acquisitions, disposals and significant contract divestments, was 10.3%.
1.2 Gross margin Gross margin the average contract margin across our portfolio was 14.6%, a small increase of 0.1% on 2007.
1.3 Investment revenue and finance costs Investment revenue and finance costs totalled a net cost of 19.9m 2007: 18.8m.
A reduction in the Groups underlying borrowing costs was offset by an increase in the net pension funding cost charged to the income statement.
1.4 Profit before tax Adjusted profit before tax was 145.3m, an increase of 17.9%.
This represented a margin of 4.7%, up from 4.4% on 2007.
Profit before tax increased by 18.8% to 136.1m.
1.5 Tax The tax charge of 36.5m 2007: 32.2m represents an effective tax rate of 26.8%, compared with 28.1% in 2007.
The decrease in the effective tax rate principally reflects the fall in the UK corporation tax rate from 30% to 28% in April 2008.
1.6 Earnings per share EPS Adjusted EPS rose by 19.5% to 22.20p.
EPS and Adjusted EPS are calculated on an average number of shares in issue of 485.7m during the year 2007: 482.4m.
The increase in the average number of shares in issue resulted from the exercise of employees share options.
38 Serco Group plc Serco AR2008 Sumary.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 03 2009 17:17 Page 39 2. Dividend Sercos policy is to increase the total dividend each year broadly in line with the increase in underlying earnings.
The Board has proposed a final dividend of 3.52p per share, representing an increase on the 2007 final dividend of 16.6%, and bringing the total dividend for the year to 5.00p, a growth of 17.6%.
The final dividend will be paid on 20 May 2009 to shareholders on the register on 6 March 2009.
Cash flow The Group generated a free cash inflow of 94.2m, 3.4m lower than in 2007.
The free cash flow in 2007 benefited from a low working capital movement and a lower level of cash tax.
Figure 2 analyses the cash flow.
As in previous years, we have designed the analysis to show the actual cash performance of the Group being the cash flows generated by subsidiaries plus the dividends received from joint ventures.
It therefore differs from the consolidated cash flow on page 60, which proportionately consolidates the cash flows of joint ventures.
The adjustment line in Figure 2 reconciles the movement in Group cash to the consolidated cash flow.
Figure 2: Cash flow Year ended 31 December 2008 2007 m m Operating profit excluding joint ventures 107.8 92.2 Non cash items 39.4 47.6 Group EBITDA 147.2 139.8 Working capital movement 21.6 0.2 Group operating cash flow 125.6 139.6 Interest 25.0 25.6 Tax 11.8 5.4 Net expenditure on tangible and intangible assets 31.8 47.9 Dividends from joint ventures 37.2 36.9 Group free cash flow 94.2 97.6 Disposal of business undertakings 1.9 3.3 Acquisition of subsidiaries 322.2 7.4 Financing 289.0 71.0 Special pension contribution.
51.0 Dividends paid 21.6 17.9 Group net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 41.3 46.4 Adjustment to include joint venture cash impacts 2.8 6.7 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 44.1 39.7 Note: Group EBITDA is earnings from subsidiaries excluding joint ventures before interest, tax, depreciation, intangible amortisation and other non cash items.
3.1 Group operating cash flow Group operating cash flow of 125.6m 2007: 139.6m represents a conversion of Group EBITDA into cash of 85% 2007: 100%.
The strong levels of organic growth in the business require working capital investment and this is reflected in the 2008 movement of 21.6m.
3.2 Interest Net interest paid was 25.0m, compared to 25.6m in 2007.
Tax paid in 2007 and the first half of 2008 was lower than expected as a result of the tax relief on the special pension contributions made in 2006 and 2007.
The increase in 2008 reflected that there was no further tax relief available in the second half of the year on these contributions.
Cash tax is below the equivalent charge in the income statement as a result of accelerated capital allowances and other timing differences.
Serco Group plc 39 Serco AR2008 Sumary.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 03 2009 17:17 Page 40 3.4 Net expenditure on tangible and intangible assets Net expenditure on tangible and intangible assets in the year was 31.8m 2007: 47.9m.
This comprised gross expenditure of 48.7m, representing 2.0% of revenue excluding joint ventures 2007: 2.2%, and disposals of 16.9m.
The principal component of disposals was the sale and leaseback of a number of carriages on the Great Southern Railway in Australia.
This follows similar transactions in previous years to realise a further part of the substantial investment we have made in acquiring and successfully growing the business since 1999.
3.5 Dividends from joint ventures Dividends received from joint ventures totalled 37.2m 2007: 36.9m, a conversion rate of 84% 2007: 100% of joint ventures profit after tax and minority interest, excluding costs allocated by Group.
This is in line with our expectation of a conversion rate in the range of 80-90%.
3.6 Disposal of business undertakings On 23 June 2008, the Group disposed of its equity stake in Kilmarnock Prison Services Limited, in line with our strategy to realise cash from our equity and subordinated debt in private finance initiatives PFI projects.
This disposal follows the sale of equity and subordinated debt in six PFI projects in 2006.
Profit on disposal of the Kilmarnock stake was 2.7m, and the net cash inflow of 1.9m comprised gross sale proceeds of 6.2m offset principally by cash held within the entity to cover future debt repayments of 3.0m.
We retain the operating contract for Kilmarnock prison.
3.7 Acquisition of subsidiaries Acquisition of subsidiaries principally comprises the acquisition of SI International, Inc. on 29 December 2008, a provider of information services, technology, and network solutions to the US Government, for 289.8m.
The acquisition gave rise to goodwill of 305.2m.
Intangible assets arising on the acquisition have been recognised at 51.8m and will be amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected lives.
Given the proximity of the acquisition to the Groups year end, SI International, Inc. made no contribution to the Groups revenue, profit and operating cash flow in 2008.
Other acquisitions were InfoVision, an Indian business process outsourcing company, for which we paid 14.8m for an initial 60% shareholding in December 2008, and the Grosvenor Health Group, an occupational health service provider, acquired for 19.0m, in May 2008.
Fair values have been determined provisionally in respect of SI International, Inc. and InfoVision and may be subject to adjustment in the year.
3.8 Financing The movement in financing resulted primarily from a drawdown on our committed facilities to finance acquisitions made during the year.
Net debt Figure 3 analyses Sercos net debt.
Figure 3: Net debt At 31 December 2008 2007 m m Group - cash and cash equivalents 199.8 138.1 Group - loans 708.8 263.3 Group - obligations under finance leases 15.5 12.7 Group recourse net debt 524.5 137.9 Joint venture recourse net cash 44.5 34.9 Total recourse net debt 480.0 103.0 Group non recourse debt 34.1 59.3 Total net debt 514.1 162.3 40 Serco Group plc Serco AR2008 Sumary.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 03 2009 17:17 Page 41 4.1 Group recourse net debt Group recourse net debt increased by 386.6m to 524.5m.
The net impact of acquisitions in the year added 322.2m to net debt.
Changes in currency exchange rates increased net debt by 32.3m.
Group cash and cash equivalents rose to 199.8m, an increase of 61.7m, primarily reflecting periodic changes in working capital.
Cash and cash equivalents includes encumbered cash of 10.4m 31 December 2007: 11.9m which is cash securing credit obligations and customer advance payments.
4.2 Group non recourse debt The Group's debt is non recourse if no Group company other than the relevant borrower has an obligation to repay the debt under a guarantee or other arrangement.
The debt is excluded from all of our credit agreements and other covenant calculations, and therefore has no impact on the Groups ability to borrow.
Group non recourse debt reduced by 25.2m to 34.1m, due to the disposal of our equity stake in Kilmarnock Prison Services Limited.
The remaining non recourse debt relates to our Driver Examination Services contract in Canada.
Pensions At 31 December 2008, the net liability included in the balance sheet arising from our defined benefit pension scheme obligations was 20.5m 31 December 2007: 52.2m, on an asset base of 1.2bn.
The net liability has fallen principally as a result of changes in the RPI and discount rate assumptions used to value the schemes, partially offset by lower than expected equity returns in the year.
Figure 4: Defined benefit pension schemes At 31 December 2008 2007 m m Group schemes non contract specific 0.7 67.9 Contract specific schemes: reimbursable 89.6 60.7 not certain to be reimbursable 24.4 14.0 Net retirement benefit liabilities 114.7 142.6 Intangible assets arising from rights to operate franchises and contracts 14.4 17.4 Reimbursable rights debtor 89.6 60.7 Deferred tax liabilities assets 9.8 12.3 Net balance sheet liabilities 20.5 52.2 Serco has three main types of scheme which are accounted for as defined benefit pension schemes.
Each type has its own accounting treatment under International Financial Reporting Standards.
These are: Non contract specific schemes which do not relate to specific contracts or franchises.
For these schemes, we charge the actuarial gain or loss for the period to the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense SORIE : Reimbursable schemes where we have a right of full cost reimbursement and therefore include both the pension scheme deficit and offsetting reimbursable rights debtor in the balance sheet: and Not certain to be reimbursable schemes relating to specific contracts or franchises, where the deficit will pass back to the customer or on to the next contractor at the end of the contract.
For these schemes, we charge the actuarial gain or loss on our share of the deficit for the period to the SORIE, recognise a recoverable intangible asset on the balance sheet at the start of the contract or franchise and amortise the intangible asset to the income statement over the contract or franchise life.
Serco has limited commercial risk in relation to the contract specific schemes, due to either the right of cost reimbursement or because the deficit will, in general, pass back to the customer or on to the next contractor at the end of the contract.
Among our non contract specific schemes, the largest is the Serco Pension and Life Assurance Scheme SPLAS.
At 31 December 2008, SPLAS had a surplus of 62.4m 31 December 2007: a deficit of 28.7m.
This movement in the scheme position reflects the reduction in volatility afforded by the Liability Driven Investment LDI strategy introduced in 2007 and a change in inflation and discount rate assumptions.
Figure 5 shows the sensitivity of the liabilities of our pension schemes to changes in discount rates and to adjustments in the principal actuarial assumptions for the rate of inflation, members salary increases and life expectancies.
Serco Group plc 41 Serco AR2008 Sumary.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 03 2009 17:17 Page 42 Figure 5: Pension assumptions and sensitivities Assumption Change in assumption Change in liability Discount rate 6.0% 0.5% -9% -0.5% 10% Price inflation 2.6% 0.5% 7% -0.5% -7% Salary inflation 3.1% 0.5% 3% -0.5% -3% Longevity 20.3 24.4 Increase by one year 3% Post retirement mortality range for male and female, current and future pensioners.
Treasury In the year, the Group replaced its existing 400m bank credit facility with a new five-year 400m bank revolving credit facility which matures in September 2013.
The Group also arranged a term loan and bilateral facility totalling US Dollar 550m to fund the acquisition of SI International, Inc.
The term loan and bilateral facility are repayable between September 2010 and September 2013.
The facilities, which are syndicated with a group of 13 banks, are unsecured.
As at 31 December 2008, 560m had been drawn down on these facilities.
Serco has also issued US private placement loan notes totalling 117m, which will be repaid evenly from 2011 to 2015.
In total, the Group has 900m of committed debt facilities available, giving significant headroom to fund working capital and other known requirements.
Going concern The Directors have acknowledged the guidance on going concern and financial reporting published by the Financial Reporting Council in November 2008.
Whilst the current economic environment is uncertain, the broad base of our contract portfolio and with 90% of our customers being government bodies, the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully, including those risks arising from the failure of customers to meet contractual obligations, and has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
As disclosed in the Chief Executives Statement, the Groups revenues are largely derived from long-term contracts with governments which, historically, have been largely unaffected by changes in the general economy.
The contract portfolio is spread across a number of markets, sectors and geographies such that a downturn in any one segment is highly unlikely to affect the Group as a whole.
In addition with an order book of 16.3bn and high visibility of future revenue streams 90% in 2009: 76% in 2010: and 65% in 2011, the Group is well placed to manage its business risks despite the current uncertain economic climate.
The Groups management of exposure to financial risk, including liquidity, foreign exchange, credit, interest rate and price risks, is disclosed in note 26 to the Annual Review and Accounts.
In September 2008, the Group secured medium-term financing by entering into a five-year revolving credit facility and bilateral facilities eliminating the near term risk of refinancing the 400m bank facility maturing at the end of 2009.
Including the term loan and US private placements the Group has committed funding of approximately 900m.
As at 31 December 2008, the headroom on the facilities was in excess of 300m.
The first repayment on these new facilities falls due in September 2010 for an amount of US Dollar 92m.
The Group fully expects to meet this repayment through internally generated cash flows.
In addition, we have diversified both the number and geographical locations of the banks within the syndicate which has risen from nine to thirteen.
Based on the information set out above, the Directors believe that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
42 Serco Group plc Serco AR2008 Sumary.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 03 2009 17:17 Page 43 Summary Financial Statement The Summary Financial Statement has Dividends Corporate responsibility been produced to allow readers of the An interim dividend of 1.48p 2007 The Group maintains a focus on corporate accounts an overview of the financial 1.213p per ordinary share was paid on 17 responsibility through a structure model affairs of Serco Group plc and its October 2008.
The Directors recommend that is applied across the business.
Our subsidiaries the Group, through the a final dividend of 3.52p 2007 3.02p corporate responsibility model focuses on principal financial statements, without the per ordinary share which, if approved by our people, safety, the environment and need to refer to the more detailed Annual shareholders at the Annual General the communities we serve.
This model Review and Accounts.
This Summary Meeting, will be paid on 20 May 2009 to forms an integral part of our management Financial Statement is only a summary of those shareholders on the register at the system and is supported by defined the Annual Review and Accounts which close of business on 6 March 2009. policies in all of the areas it covers.
These contain the full annual accounts, other are applied within the context of our statutory information and the full Directors policies on Ethics and Business Conduct Report: it does not contain sufficient Directors and Human Rights.
Activities are reported information to allow a full understanding of The current members of the Board quarterly as part of our internal assurance the results and state of affairs of the together with biographical details of each reporting process.
Group, and of its policies regarding Director are set out on pages 56 and 57.
Further information on our approach to Directors remuneration, as would be Grant Rumbles ceased being a Director corporate responsibility and how we have provided by the full annual statements and with effect from 25 March 2008 and delivered our commitments is contained in reports.
subsequently left Serco employment on 16 the Corporate Responsibility Review which Members who wish to receive the full May 2008. is available online at www.
This Annual Review and Accounts for the year site also provides an overview of our ended 31 December 2008 should write to Annual General Meeting approach to corporate responsibility, our the Company Secretary at the Companys The Annual General Meeting of the management system and our policies.
Alternatively, a copy of Company will be held at the Queen the Annual Review and Accounts can be Elizabeth II Conference Centre, London on Donations downloaded from www.
The Group continues to encourage all staff The independent auditors report on the to participate in their local communities The Notice convening the meeting full Annual Review and Accounts of the and has a process to capture investment includes an explanation of all the Group for the year ended 31 December on a worldwide basis.
This measure is resolutions to be proposed at the Annual 2008 is unqualified and does not contain based upon the Business in the General Meeting.
A copy can be any statement containing inadequate Community BitC reporting format.
com and is accounting records or failure to obtain sent to all shareholders.
The value of this investment in 2008 at necessary information or expectations.
Activities During the year neither the Company nor Serco Group plc is a holding company the Group made political donations and which operates via its subsidiaries and its they intend to continue with this policy.
joint ventures to improve services by managing people, processes, technology and assets more effectively.
Serco supports governments, agencies and companies by offering operational, management and consulting expertise in the aviation, defence, education, health, home affairs, local government, nuclear, science, technology, transport and commercial sectors.
Serco Group plc 43 Serco AR2008 Sumary.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 03 2009 17:17 Page 44 Corporate governance Going concern Remuneration policy In managing the affairs of the Group, the The Directors have acknowledged the As indicated in last years Remuneration Board of Serco Group plc is committed to guidance on going concern and financial Report, during 2008 the Committee achieving high standards of corporate reporting published by the Financial carried out its comprehensive triennial governance, integrity and business ethics Reporting Council in November 2008. review of executive remuneration and of for all its activities around the world.
A Whilst the current economic environment the principles which form the basis of the fundamental part of the Groups corporate is uncertain, the Group is well placed to Companys remuneration policy.
The governance processes is the Ethics and manage its business risks successfully, objective has been to ensure that the Business Conduct Policy Standard that the and has adequate resources to continue in Groups arrangements are aligned with the Company and Group have adopted to operational existence for the foreseeable three-year business plan and best support the highest standards of corporate future, given that it has a balanced practice.
portfolio of principally long-term contracts, As a result of the review, several changes an order book of 16.3bn, over 90% of its Throughout 2008 Serco Group plc are proposed both to the structure and the revenues derived from governments, and complied fully with the provisions of levels of remuneration of Executive substantial debt financing committed for Section 1 of the 2006 Combined Code on Directors.
These are described in this the medium-term.
As at 31 December Corporate Governance issued by the report and, where appropriate, in the 2008, the Group as a whole had a revenue Financial Reporting Council the Code.
Notice of Annual General Meeting.
visibility of 90% for the next 12 month Sercos remuneration policy adopts the period based upon the order book.
Board and Committee following principles which are that Visibility of planned 2010 and 2011 structure executive remuneration should: revenues are already 76% and 65% To support the principles of good respectively.
Accordingly, the Group has Support Sercos long-term future governance, the Board, the members of adopted the going concern basis in growth, strategy and values: which are shown on pages 56 and 57, is preparing the Annual Review and Align the financial interests of executives responsible for the overall management Accounts.
and shareholders: and performance of the Group and the approval of its long-term objectives and Provide market competitive reward The Remuneration Committee commercial strategy, and for ensuring that opportunities for performance in line with The Committee determines the overall any necessary corrective action is taken expectations and deliver significant remuneration policy for senior promptly.
Board meetings are held financial rewards for sustained outmanagement and the individual quarterly, over two days, with ad hoc performance: remuneration of the Chairman and the meetings in between as required.
This includes base Enable Serco to recruit and retain the salary, bonus, long-term incentives, The following are the main committees of best in all our chosen markets: pensions, benefits and terms of the Board: Be based on a clear rationale which employment including those terms on Audit participants, shareholders and other which service may be terminated.
Nomination stakeholders are able to understand and Remuneration support.
The Audit and Remuneration committees In setting the remuneration of the consist wholly of independent Executive Directors, in particular the nonNon-Executive Directors.
The Nomination financial objectives relating to the annual Committee consists of the independent bonus scheme, the Remuneration Non-Executive Directors and the Committee is able to consider corporate Chairman.
performance on safety, environmental, social and corporate governance.
The Committee retains discretion to reduce bonuses or the vesting of awards under the share plans if performance in these areas is unsatisfactory.
44 Serco Group plc Serco AR2008 Sumary.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 03 2009 17:17 Page 45 Base salary The elements of remuneration Proposed remuneration for Chief Executive As a consequence of the triennial review, Composition the Committees policy is to set the base The current remuneration package for salaries of the Executive Directors so as to Executive Directors consists of base salary, ensure that total target remuneration is annual bonus, longer term share-based competitive.
incentives, pensions and other benefits.
41% 34% The Groups policy is to ensure that a A new comparator group has been significant proportion of the package is adopted which comprises the companies related to performance.
within the FTSE 51 to 130 that are in the proprietary database of the Committees The relative proportions of the advisors and covers a range of roles at performance-related and fixed elements of and below board level.
This is a group of remuneration excluding pension and other approximately 30 companies of broadly benefits for Executive Directors - showing similar size and scope to Serco in terms of 25% the current and future position and turnover, growth profile and market assuming on-target remuneration - are capitalisation.
The new comparator group shown in the following charts.
gives access to a more robust and stable Proposed remuneration for Finance Director data set and will be used by Serco to benchmark other roles below executive level across the Group.
Base salaries are normally reviewed 33% 39% 45% 37% annually.
The Committee takes note of relative pay and employment conditions within the comparator group and the Company when determining salaries.
With effect from 1 September 2008, the base salaries for Christopher Hyman and Andrew Jenner were increased to 22% 645,000 and 380,000, increases of 24% 15% and 10% respectively.
These increases were determined with consideration to the following: Base salary Sercos strong performance in 2008: Performance-related annual bonus Sercos steady growth and performance Performance-related long-term over the past three years: incentives expected value The market position of these new salaries, which is below median against the new comparator group: and The overall impact on total target remuneration which, subject to shareholders approval of the new long-term plans, will be above median only if Executive Directors defer half their earned bonus.
Serco Group plc 45 Serco AR2008 Sumary.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 03 2009 17:17 Page 46 Annual bonus Changes to annual bonus for 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan Bonus is earned only on the basis of Following the triennial review, annual bonus The LTIP awards granted to Executive achievement of a mix of financial and nonpotential will be increased from 100% to Directors are calculated at 100% of salary financial objectives which are weighted 150% of base salary for the Chief at the time of grant.
The vesting of awards 80% and 20% respectively.
Executive and to 130% of base salary for depends on the Groups Total Shareholder the Finance Director.
Payments for target Return TSR measured relative to the top Financial measures are based on the performance will also increase to 75% and 250 companies in the FTSE, as ranked by Serco Group results and the non-financial 65% of base salary respectively.
The level market capitalisation, excluding those in measures are team-based.
The three of difficulty and the standard of certain sectors such as oil and gas and financial measures for 2008 were based performance required to achieve target financial services.
on turnover, adjusted profit before tax and performance will also increase.
The mix of amortisation, and cash conversion.
These The Committee has discretion to vary the measures will remain as described above.
measures reflect the growth and margin proportion of awards that vest if it The measure of profit will be profit before improvement strategies of the business.
considers that the TSR performance tax, adjusted for exceptional items where The standards of performance set are measure does not appropriately reflect the appropriate.
Beyond this, the bonus plan designed to be stretching.
The nonunderlying financial performance of the will not change.
financial goals set for 2008 assessed Group.
performance against a number of The change to annual bonus is designed For awards that completed their strategically important areas.
to increase the emphasis on performance performance period on 31 December and to balance reward for short-term and For 2008, the maximum annual bonus 2008, the Groups TSR performance longer term performance in combination award was 100% of salary.
On the basis relative to its comparator group was in the with the proposed new Deferred Bonus of Sercos performance in 2008, annual top decile, and therefore 200% of the Plan see below.
The increase to annual awards of 82% of salary have been awards will vest.
bonus, linked to challenging annual determined.
The Executive Directors No awards were made under this plan in performance measures, places greater delivered an excellent financial 2008. emphasis and focus on short-term performance that exceeded target.
operational performance which is key to There is no re-testing under the LTIP.
Sercos financial performance for the year delivering Sercos longer term is described in more detail in the Business performance.
Executive Option Plan Review on page 12.
The Executive Options granted under the EOP may be Directors also delivered in full against a exercised after the third anniversary of Share-based remuneration number of strategic objectives in the areas grant, depending upon the achievement of Long-term share incentives are awarded to of leadership development, new business a financial performance target over three Executive Directors under the Serco Group wins and investor relations.
The options are granted at market plc 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Annual bonuses are not pensionable.
value and awards made to Executive and the Serco Group plc 2005 Executive Directors are based on 100% of salary as Option Plan EOP.
All grants and awards at the 31 December prior to grant.
are made pursuant to the rules of the applicable plans and in accordance with For awards granted in 2008, achievement the Model Code and policies in relation to of the performance is measured by the treatment of the leavers have been reference to the Groups Earnings Per adopted.
The measurement of the Share EPS performance relative to the performance targets is undertaken by Retail Price Index RPI over the three-year Mercer for the 2006 Long Term Incentive performance period.
Plan, and audited by Deloitte LLP in The vesting of the grants is based on the relation the 2005 Executive Option Plan.
following schedule: The conditions relating to the plans are detailed below.
If the level of EPS growth is less than RPI 5% per annum, none of the options may be exercised If the level of EPS growth is equal to RPI 5% per annum, 40% of the options may be exercised If the level of EPS growth is equal to RPI 10% per annum, all of the options may be exercised 46 Serco Group plc Serco AR2008 Sumary.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 03 2009 17:17 Page 47 For an EPS growth of between RPI An award of matching shares of one half of Relative TSR and EPS growth carry equal 5% and RPI 10% per annum, a the gross value of the bonus deferred will weight in respect of the matching shares proportion of the options between vest for median or threshold performance awarded under the Deferred Bonus Plan.
and matching shares with a value of two This is to ensure a balance of internal and times the gross value of the deferred external measures and hence sufficient For option grants which completed their bonus vest for upper quartile or superior line-of-sight to encourage investment in performance period on 31 December performance at the top end of the range.
In the case of the LTIP, greater 2008, the Groups EPS growth was The EPS performance range for 2009- weight has been placed on relative TSR to 18.13% per annum over the three-year 2011 is shown in the Notice of Annual underscore the importance of longer term performance period which resulted in all General Meeting and has been set on the alignment with shareholders interests.
The level at which basis of Sercos business plan and the maximum vesting would occur was As now, the Committee will have discretion expectations of brokers and shareholders.
to vary the proportion of awards that vest The definition of EPS is basic EPS under both the Performance Share Plan The Committee considers that TSR and excluding acquisitions and before and the Deferred Bonus Plan, to ensure EPS are the key performance indicators for amortisation of non acquired intangibles.
that the outcomes are fair, and Serco and are most relevant for measuring The Serco Group plc 2006 Long Term appropriately reflect the underlying financial relative shareholder value created and the Incentive Plan LTIP will, subject to performance of the Group.
Groups underlying financial performance shareholder approval, be replaced by a The provisions of the rules of both plans in respectively.
Annual respect of good leavers and in the event Relative TSR measures share price growth awards under the plan will normally have a of a change of control are detailed in the and dividend performance against a broad face value on grant of 200% of base salary Notice of Annual General Meeting but, in range of FTSE companies, and provides for the Chief Executive and 175% of base short, time pro rating where the alignment between the interests of salary for the Finance Director.
The normal performance period is truncated and shareholders and Executive Directors.
limit on annual awards for Executive performance will normally apply.
EPS is a key operational measure for Directors will be subject to a cap of 200% Serco, and focuses Executive Directors on The changes will mean that total target of salary.
The shares will normally only sustainable, profitable growth.
remuneration is between median and vest at the end of a three-year period if the upper quartile if Executive Directors invest Executive Directors are still in employment Changes to share-based remuneration in the Deferred Bonus Plan and at median with Serco and two performance from 2009 if they do not, which the Remuneration measures have been met.
The two No further awards will be made to Committee believes is reasonable.
The measures Executive Directors under the Serco Group are TSR measured against the companies plc 2005 Executive Option Plan or the Sharesave Scheme in the FTSE 51 to 130 excluding Serco Group plc 2006 Long Term The Group operates a Sharesave Scheme.
investment trusts and EPS growth.
Incentive Plan provided shareholders No performance conditions are attached Relative TSR performance determines the approve the proposed new share plans.
to options granted under the Scheme as it vesting of 70% of the shares and EPS the is an all-employee scheme.
The structure for vesting is the Two new plans will, subject to shareholder granted to Scheme participants are same for both measures.
The shares will approval, replace the current long-term normally set at a discount of 10% to the vest in full only if Sercos performance is share plans.
Under the Deferred Bonus market value of shares at grant.
None of upper quartile or, in the case of EPS, Plan, Executive Directors will be invited to the Directors participate in the Sharesave superior and at the top end of the range.
defer up to half of any bonus earned.
Options were granted in July Median or threshold performance will encourage investment, Executive Directors 2008 under the Sharesave Scheme to trigger the vesting of 25% of the award.
will normally be eligible for an award of 8,123 participants.
matching shares at the end of a Dividends will be reinvested and three-year period, only if they are still distributed only in respect of shares that in employment with Serco and two vest under both plans at the end of the performance measures have been met.
The two measures are independent and The Remuneration Committee decided each determines the vesting of half of the that the case for relative TSR and EPS as matching shares.
The measures are TSR the performance measures for long-term measured against the companies in the share-based plans remains strong.
FTSE 51 to 130 excluding investment trusts and EPS growth.
The structure for vesting is the same for both measures.
Serco Group plc 47 Serco AR2008 Sumary.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 03 2009 17:17 Page 48 Share ownership policy In light of the proposed changes to the Executive Directors remuneration, the share ownership requirement for the Chief Executive has been increased from one to two times base salary.
The requirement for the Finance Director remains one times base salary.
Executive Directors will be required to retain in shares 50% of the net value of any performance shares or options exercised until they have satisfied the shareholding requirement.
At the end of the year, by reference to the share price at that date 450.50p, Executive Directors share ownership levels were as follows: Ordinary shareholding at Ordinary shareholding 31 December 2008 as a % of salary Chief Executive 166,440 116% Finance Director 104,874 124% Pensions, life assurance and other benefits Serco operates both defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
The Executive Directors participate in the Serco Pension and Life Assurance Scheme SPLAS.
This is a funded, defined benefit scheme, which provides for a target pension of two-thirds of pensionable salary following a full career.
Members contribute to the scheme at rates varying according to the section of the scheme.
Christopher Hyman and Andrew Jenner contributed to the scheme at a rate of 9.5% of pensionable salary in 2008.
From 1 January 2007 Serco also introduced SMART whereby all members were given the option to have their pension contributions paid by salary sacrifice.
Under this arrangement the member makes no normal pension contributions, Serco makes additional contributions to SPLAS equal to those that the member would otherwise have made and the members contractual pay is reduced by the amount of these contributions.
Both Christopher Hyman and Andrew Jenner opted to have their contributions paid by SMART.
Kevin Beestons pension benefits accrued prior to 6 April 2006 exceeded the new Lifetime Allowance, which came into force at that date, and he opted to cease paying contributions and accruing benefits in the pension scheme after 6 April 2006.
Kevin Beeston remains entitled to lump sum and widows pension benefits should he die before retirement and while still employed by or an officer of Serco.
The Chairman and Executive Directors receive a range of other benefits which include a car, private medical insurance, permanent health insurance, life cover, an annual allowance for independent financial advice and voluntary health checks every two years.
The Executive Directors are also entitled to 25 days holiday per year.
48 Serco Group plc Serco AR2008 Sumary.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 03 2009 17:18 Page 49 Service contracts and compensation Each Executive Director has a rolling service contract and these contracts will be available for inspection prior to the start of and after the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The service contracts have a notice period of 12 months.
Service contracts have been reviewed and are being amended with the agreement of the Executive Directors, to ensure they appropriately reflect best practice.
There have been no payments made during the year in relation to compensation for loss of office.
A summary of details relating to each Director who served during the year is provided below: Date of Unexpired term at Name of Date joined Appointment Date of 31 December Director Company to the Board Contract 2008 Christopher Hyman 30 August 1994 1 April 1999 21 July 2003 Rolling contract of 12 months notice period Andrew Jenner 4 November 1996 3 May 2002 21 July 2003 Rolling contract of 12 months notice period 1 Grant Rumbles 3 July 1982 3 July 2007 3 July 2007 N A 1 Grant Rumbles ceased being a Director with effect from 25 March 2008 and subsequently left Serco employment on 16 May 2008.
His termination payment was in accordance with his contractual entitlement and is reported on page 50.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The Groups policy is that the fees of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors, which are determined by the Board, are set at a level which will attract individuals with the necessary experience and ability to make a substantial contribution to the Groups affairs.
Non-Executive Directors of the Group are initially appointed for a three-year term, and that appointment may be terminated on three months written notice.
The renewal of appointments is not automatic, and Non-Executive Directors are required to retire and stand for re-election in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, and the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Current Fee Structure Non-Executive Directors remuneration consists of cash fees paid monthly with increments for positions of additional responsibility.
In addition, reasonable travel and related business expenses are paid.
No bonuses are paid to Non-Executive Directors.
The Board believe that payment of fees on a cash-only basis remains appropriate as opposed to the partial payment of fees in shares.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to hold shares in the Group but are not subject to a shareholding requirement.
Non-Executive Directors fees are not performance related.
The fees and terms of engagement of Non-Executive Directors are reviewed on an annual basis, taking into consideration market practice and approved by the Board.
Date of Appointment Date of Letter Unexpired term at to the Board of Appointment 31 December 2008 Chairman: Kevin Beeston 29 February 1996 1 September 2007 20 months 1 Non-Executive Directors : Margaret Ford 8 October 2003 7 October 2003 9 months Leonard V. Broese van Groenou 3 April 2006 20 February 2006 3 months David Richardson 2 June 2003 29 May 2003 5 months Tom Corcoran 3 December 2007 3 December 2007 23 months 1 Non-Executive Directors have a three-month notice period and no compensation or other benefits are payable on early termination.
Serco Group plc 49 Serco AR2008 Sumary.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 03 2009 17:18 Page 50 External appointments The Board believes that the Group can benefit from its Executive Directors holding appropriate non-executive directorships of companies or independent bodies.
Such appointments are subject to the approval of the Board.
Fees are retained by the Executive Director concerned.
Christopher Hyman was a non-executive director in United Business Media plc until his resignation in May 2008.
Fees payable in the year were 20,308.
Andrew Jenner was appointed non-executive director of GallifordTry plc on 1 January 2009.
No other fee-paying external positions were held by any of the Executive Directors.
Directors remuneration This section has been audited by Deloitte LLP.
The bonuses shown include performance bonuses earned in the period under review, but not paid in the financial year.
The value of the non cash benefits relates to the provision of a car allowance now fully inclusive of all scheme costs including insurance and maintenance and private healthcare.
Grant Rumbles ceased being a Director with effect from 25 March 2008 and subsequently left Serco employment on 16 May 2008.
The payment to him detailed under Termination arrangements consisted only of amounts in lieu of notice basic salary and all benefits.
Remuneration is shown gross of salary sacrificed under the SMART scheme.
Directors shareholdings The Directors interests in the shares of the Company are detailed in the following table.
Ordinary shares of Ordinary shares of Note 2p each fully paid at 2p each fully paid at 1 1 January 2008 31 December 2008 Kevin Beeston 138,218 100,000 Leonard V. Broese van Groenou 3,375 5,375 Margaret Ford 11,686 14,481 Christopher Hyman 2 156,457 166,440 Andrew Jenner 2 97,062 104,874 David Richardson 10,000 15,000 Tom Corcoran Nil 4,000 Notes: 1.
Ordinary shares are beneficial holdings which include the Directors personal holdings and those of their spouses and minor children.
17,749 of Christopher Hymans and 10,649 of Andrew Jenners shares are held in trust on their behalf under the terms of their participation in the 2003 Deferred Bonus Scheme.
Provided such shares remain in trust for three years and subject to certain performance conditions, they are also granted an award over an equivalent number of shares.
50 Serco Group plc Serco AR2008 Sumary.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 03 2009 17:18 Page 51 Share-based incentives This section has been audited by Deloitte LLP.
The total share options granted to each person who has served as a Director of the Company at any time in the financial year were as follows: i Serco Group plc 2003 Deferred Bonus Scheme DBS The DBS has now been closed and no further awards will be made under its terms.
No awards were granted, lapsed or exercised during the period.
All awards held by Grant Rumbles, with the exception of that made on 12 November 2007, were granted prior to him being appointed Executive Director.
An award made on 8 May 2007 relates to the three year performance period commencing 1 January 2007.
Awards that expire prior to the completion of the performance period will be pro-rated.
Serco Group plc 51 Serco AR2008 Sumary.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 03 2009 17:18 Page 52 iii Serco Group plc Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS The LTIS has been superseded by the LTIP.
The last award to Executive Directors under the LTIS was made in June 2005.
The awards shown in the table have all vested.
No awards were granted or lapsed during the year.
52 Serco Group plc Serco AR2008 Sumary.
The market price of the Companys ordinary shares at the close of business on 31 December 2008 was 450.50p and the range during the year to 31 December 2008 was 326.00p to 472.00p.
All awards held by Grant Rumbles were granted prior to him being appointed Executive Director.
Awards during the year were made on 28 February 2008.
Pensions and life assurance The Directors receive pension and life assurance benefits consistent with those provided by other leading companies.
Further information on the defined benefit schemes operated by the Group is set out on page 48.
In the event of death in service, the Serco Supplementary Death Benefit Scheme provides for a lump sum payment.
54 Serco Group plc Serco AR2008 Sumary.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 03 2009 17:18 Page 55 Comparison of total shareholder returns Serco Group plc Total Shareholder Return TSR vs FTSE 350 Total Return Index Value of investment of 100 on 31 December 2003 300 275 250 225 200 175 150 125 100 75 31 Dec 03 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 05 31 Dec 06 31 Dec 07 31 Dec 08 Serco FTSE 350 Index In drawing this graph, it has been assumed that all dividends paid have been reinvested.
The TSR level shown at 31 December each year is the average of the closing daily TSR levels for the 30-day period up to and including that date.
The Companys TSR is compared to that of the FTSE 350 Index, which is a broad equity market index of which it is a constituent.
As detailed earlier, TSR is defined as the return shareholders would receive if they held a notional number of shares, and received dividends on those shares over a period of time.
It measures the percentage growth in the Companys share price together with the value of any dividends paid, assuming that the dividends are reinvested into the Companys shares.
Serco Group plc 55 Serco AR2008 Sumary.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 03 2009 17:18 Page 56 Directors profiles From left to right: David Richardson Non-Executive Director Tom Corcoran Non-Executive Director Christopher Hyman Chief Executive Margaret, Baroness Ford of Cunninghame Non-Executive Director Kevin Beeston Chairman Leonard V. Broese van Groenou Non-Executive Director Andrew Jenner Finance Director Joanne Roberts Company Secretary Kevin Beeston FCMA 46 Christopher Hyman CA SA 3 Chairman 45 Kevin Beeston became Non-Executive Chief Executive Chairman of Serco Group plc in Christopher Hyman was appointed Chief September 2007, having previously served Executive of Serco Group plc in 2002.
He as the Group's Executive Chairman, Chief is also chairman of the Prince of Wales' Executive and Finance Director since charity In Kind Direct, and a non-executive joining the Group in 1985. director for Habitat for Humanity and Africa Foundation.
Earlier this year Christopher He is a member of the CBI President's was appointed National Ambassador by Committee and Chairman of the CBI's the Prince of Wales for Business in the Public Services Strategy Board, which Community.
He is also a member of the promotes the role business has in UK Government's Honours Advisory transforming the UK's public services.
Committee for Economy and UK In addition, he is the non-executive Commission for Employment and Skills.
Chairman of Partnerships in Care, Infinitas Christopher graduated from Natal Learning BV and Domestic and General University in Durban, South Africa and Ltd, and is a non-executive director of qualified as a chartered accountant, IMI plc.
serving with Arthur Andersen and Ernst & Young before joining Serco in 1994 as the European Finance Director.
He was appointed Group Company Secretary in 1996, Corporate Finance Director in 1997 and Group Finance Director in April 1999.
He is responsible for setting the vision and strategy of the Group.
56 Serco Group plc Serco AR2008 Sumary.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 03 2009 17:18 Page 57 Andrew Jenner ACA 40 Leonard V. Broese van David Richardson BSc FCA Finance Director Groenou MSc 62 57 Andrew joined Serco in 1996 as Group 1 2 3 1 2 3 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Financial Controller, having previously Leonard joined Serco as a Non-Executive David joined Serco as a Non-Executive worked for Unilever and Deloitte & Touche Director in April 2006.
He became Corporate Finance Leonard was previously Vice-President He has previously held the position of Director with additional responsibility for Human Resources and a member of the Finance Director of Whitbread, where his treasury activities in 1999 and Group corporate executive committee of roles in a 20-year career have included Finance Director in May 2002.
Andrew Pennsylvania-based Air Products, a New eight years as Strategy Director.
David shares responsibility for our relationship York listed company serving customers in was instrumental in transforming with shareholders and the City with the technology, energy, healthcare and Whitbread from a brewing and pubs Chief Executive.
He is also responsible for industrial markets worldwide where he company into a market leader in hotels, the Group's PFI investment business.
His career at restaurants and leisure clubs.
Andrew is a non-executive director of Air Products spans numerous international David is currently a non-executive director GallifordTry plc.
roles including financial control, business of Dairy Crest Group plc, Forth Ports PLC planning, operational management and and Tomkins plc.
He is the Chairman of the Netherlands Benevolent Society.
Tom Corcoran BA PhD 64 Baroness Ford of 1 2 3 Non-Executive Director Cunninghame MA MPhil 51 Tom joined Serco in December 2007 as a 1 2 3 Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director.
He brings 40 Margaret joined Serco in October 2003 as years of global business experience, a Non-Executive Director.
She spent her particularly in the US aerospace and early career in a variety of roles either in the defence contracting industry.
He is public sector or as an advisor to currently Senior Advisor to private equity Government and is a specialist in firm The Carlyle Group and President of leadership development, culture change Corcoran Enterprises, LLC, a management and public sector reform.
2000 she was Chairman of Lothian Health Board and from 2000 to 2003 was a nonTom has held senior positions in the executive director of Ofgem.
In December aerospace, defence and electronics 2007 Margaret retired from English industries including Chairman and Chief Partnerships, the national regeneration Executive Officer of Allegheny Teledyne agency, after six highly successful years.
and President and Chief Operating Officer From 2000 to 2005 Margaret was a of Lockheed Martins Electronic and Space director of Good Practice Limited, the Sectors.
During his 26 years with General publishing company that she founded.
Electric, Tom held senior management positions including Vice President and Margaret is Managing Director, Social General Manager of GE's Aerospace Infrastructure and Development, Royal operations.
Bank of Canada Capital Markets and Chairman of Irvine Bay Urban He is also a non-executive director of Regeneration Company.
She is also a Aer Lingus Ltd, L3 Communications non-executive director of Grainger plc.
Holdings Inc, Labarge Inc, ARINC Inc. and GenCorp Inc. 1 Member of the Audit Committee 2 Member of the Remuneration Committee 3 Member of the Nomination Committee Serco Group plc 57 Serco AR2008 Sumary.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 03 2009 17:18 Page 58 Consolidated Income Statement For the year ended 31 December 2008 2008 2007 m m Continuing operations Revenue 3,123.5 2,810.7 Cost of sales 2,666.7 2,404.5 Gross profit 456.8 406.2 Administrative expenses 291.6 264.2 Other expenses amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition 9.2 8.6 Total administrative expenses 300.8 272.8 Operating profit 156.0 133.4 Investment revenue 8.2 12.2 Finance costs 28.1 31.0 Profit before tax 136.1 114.6 Tax 36.5 32.2 Profit for the year 99.6 82.4 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 99.5 81.9 Minority interest 0.1 0.5 Earnings per share EPS Basic EPS 20.49p 16.98p Diluted EPS 20.18p 16.74p Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense For the year ended 31 December 2008 2008 2007 m m Net actuarial gain on defined benefit pension schemes 8.7 62.2 Actuarial gain loss on reimbursable rights 50.6 19.4 Net exchange gain on translation of foreign operations 54.1 12.8 Net fair value gain on cash flow hedges during the year 14.2 9.0 Tax charge on items taken directly to equity 21.3 11.5 Recycling of cumulative net hedging reserve on disposal 0.7.
- Net income recognised directly in equity 105.6 53.1 Profit for the year 99.6 82.4 Total recognised income and expense for the year 205.2 135.5 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 205.1 134.9 Minority interest 0.1 0.6 58 Serco Group plc Serco AR2008 Sumary.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 03 2009 17:18 Page 59 Consolidated Balance Sheet At 31 December 2008 2008 2007 m m Non-current assets Goodwill 964.7 542.1 Other intangible assets 191.3 139.4 Property, plant and equipment 115.4 95.1 Trade and other receivables 121.1 104.6 Retirement benefit assets 62.4.
- Deferred tax assets 19.6 51.6 Derivative financial instruments 5.6 1.2 1,480.1 934.0 Current assets Inventories 50.2 46.3 Trade and other receivables 719.5 573.6 Cash and cash equivalents 250.8 185.0 Derivative financial instruments 5.0 1.5 1,025.5 806.4 Total assets 2,505.6 1,740.4 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 754.7 670.0 Current tax liabilities 19.5 14.8 Obligations under finance leases 4.5 7.7 Loans 36.8 13.5 Derivative financial instruments 4.2 2.1 819.7 708.1 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 35.5 13.3 Obligations under finance leases 12.7 8.7 Loans 710.9 317.4 Derivative financial instruments 0.4 11.2 Retirement benefit obligations 177.1 142.6 Provisions 38.1 18.6 Deferred tax liabilities 25.9 22.0 1,000.6 533.8 Total liabilities 1,820.3 1,241.9 Net assets 685.3 498.5 Equity Share capital 9.7 9.7 Share premium account 301.1 299.3 Capital redemption reserve 0.1 0.1 Retained earnings 339.8 260.6 Retirement benefit obligations reserve 47.7 90.2 Share-based payment reserve 40.0 34.6 Own shares reserve 19.7 15.1 Hedging and translation reserve 61.9 1.8 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 685.2 497.2 Minority interest 0.1 1.3 Total equity 685.3 498.5 The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 26 February 2009 and signed on its behalf by: Christopher Hyman Andrew Jenner Chief Executive Finance Director Serco Group plc 59 Serco AR2008 Sumary.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 03 2009 17:18 Page 60 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement For the year ended 31 December 2008 2008 2007 m m Net cash inflow from operating activities 162.6 134.1 Investing activities Interest received 7.3 10.3 Disposal of business undertakings 1.9 2.5 Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets.
- 1.7 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 17.5 2.9 Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 322.2 9.1 Purchase of other intangible assets 20.4 30.6 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 32.6 26.2 Net cash outflow from investing activities 348.5 48.5 Financing activities Interest paid 30.3 34.2 Dividends paid 21.6 17.9 Dividend paid to minority interest.
- 1.2 Repayment of loans 78.6 74.6 Repayment of non recourse loans 7.5 8.3 New loan advances 397.4 2.2 Other financing 17.0.
- Capital element of finance lease repayments 8.6 8.4 Purchase of own shares for employee benefit trust 9.2.
- Proceeds from issue of share capital and exercise of share options 5.4 17.1 Net cash inflow outflow from financing activities 230.0 125.3 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 44.1 39.7 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 185.0 217.9 Net exchange gain 21.7 6.8 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 250.8 185.0 60 Serco Group plc Serco AR2008 Sumary.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 03 2009 17:18 Page 61 Independent Auditors Report Independent auditors Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance statement to the members of with bulletin 1999 6 The Auditors Serco Group plc Statement on the Summary Financial We have examined the summary financial Statement issued by the Auditing Practices statement which comprises the summary Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Our consolidated income statement, summary report on the Company's full annual consolidated balance sheet, summary financial statements describes the basis of consolidated statement of recognised our audit opinion on those financial income and expense, summary statements and the Remuneration Report.
consolidated cash flow statement and the summary remuneration report.
Opinion This report is made solely to the In our opinion, the summary financial Company's members, as a body, in statement is consistent with the full annual accordance with section 251 of the accounts, the Directors Report and the Companies Act 1985.
Our work has been Remuneration Report of Serco Group plc undertaken so that we might state to the for the year ended 31 December 2008 Companys members those matters we and complies with the applicable are required to state to them in an requirements of section 251 of the auditors report and for no other purpose.
Companies Act 1985, and the regulations To the fullest extent permitted by law, we made thereunder.
do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, for our audit report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Deloitte LLP Respective responsibilities of Chartered Accountants and Registered Directors and auditors Auditors The Directors are responsible for preparing London, United Kingdom the summarised annual report in 26 February 2009 accordance with United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement within the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 with the full annual accounts, the Directors Report and the Remuneration Report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 as described in the contents section, and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Serco Group plc 61 Serco AR2008 Sumary.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 03 2009 17:18 Page 62 Shareholder information Group website Dividends paid direct to your Go to www.
62 Serco Group plc Serco AR2008 Sumary.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 03 2009 17:18 Page 63 Share dealing We have arranged the following services that can be used to buy or sell Serco shares.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 03 2009 17:18 Page 64 64 Serco Group plc Serco Summary Ver8 Cover:Serco AR08 - Design 24 03 2009 11:47 Page 2 Financial calendar 2009 Preliminary results announcement 27 February Ex-dividend date 4 March Record date 6 March Last date for receipt revocation 28 April of DRIP dividend mandates 1 Introduction Interim Management Statement 12 May 2 Highlights 4 Our business Annual General Meeting 12 May 6 Serco's vision and strategy 8 Market opportunities Final dividend pay date 20 May 10 Chairman's Statement Half-year results announcement 26 August Business Review 12 Chief Executive's Statement Financial year-end 31 December 16 Operating performance 34 Business relationships 35 Our people and reputation Subject to shareholder approval Provisional 36 Corporate responsibility 38 Finance Review Financial Statements 43 Summary Financial Statement 56 Directors' profiles 58 Consolidated Income Statement 58 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 59 Consolidated Balance Sheet 60 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 61 Independent Auditors' Report 62 Shareholder Information IBC Financial Calendar Printed on 9lives 80 silk which is certified as an FSC mixed sources product, 9lives 80 is produced using 20% recycled wood and fibre, 60% FSC certified fide-inked fibre recovered from post-consumer sources, 10% FSC certified virgin TCF fibre and 10% virgin fibre from well managed forests.
co. uk 1996 Forest Stewardship Council Serco Summary Ver8 Cover:Serco AR08 - Design 24 03 2009 11:47 Page 1 Serco people The heart of our business Serco Group plc Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2008 Serco Group plc Registered Office: Serco House 16 Bartley Wood Business Park Bartley Way Hook Hampshire RG27 9UY T: 44 0 1256 745 900 E: generalenquiries@serco.
com Bringing service to life
