statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit of the Company and Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business: and include a fair review of the development, performance and position of the business, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Remuneration Report comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 and as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
