7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 75 75 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 DESCRIPTION OF OPERATIONS Shire plc formerly Shire Limited and its subsidiaries collectively referred to as either Shire or the Group is a leading specialty biopharmaceutical company that focuses on meeting the needs of the specialist physician.
Historically, the Group has grown through acquisition, completing nine major mergers or acquisitions in a 14-year period from 1994 to 2008.
Divestments of non-core assets over the past four years have streamlined the Groups operations.
The Group will continue to evaluate companies, products and project opportunities that offer a good strategic fit and enhance shareholder value in the future.
Shire focuses its business on attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder ADHD, human genetic therapies HGT, and gastrointestinal GI diseases as well as opportunities in other therapeutic areas to the extent they arise through acquisitions.
Shires in-licensing, merger and acquisition efforts are focused on products in specialist markets with strong intellectual property protection and global rights.
Shire believes that a carefully selected and balanced portfolio of products with strategically aligned and relatively small-scale sales forces will deliver strong results.
2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES a Basis of preparation The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Shire plc, all of its subsidiary undertakings and the Income Access Share trust, after elimination of inter-company accounts and transactions.
Minority interests in the net assets and earnings or losses of a consolidated subsidiary are reflected in Minority interest in the Groups consolidated balance sheet and statement of operations.
Minority interest adjusts the Groups consolidated results of operations to reflect only the Groups share of the earnings or losses of the consolidated subsidiary.
These consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with US generally accepted accounting principles US GAAP.
The Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
See the Liquidity, cash flow and going concern section of the Directors report for further details.
b Use of estimates in consolidated financial statements The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Estimates and assumptions are primarily made in relation to the valuation of intangible assets, the valuation of equity investments, sales deductions, income taxes and provisions for litigation.
c Revenue recognition The Group recognizes revenue when: i there is persuasive evidence of an agreement or arrangement: ii delivery of products has occurred or services have been rendered: iii the sellers price to the buyer is fixed or determinable: and iv collectability is reasonably assured.
Where applicable, all revenues are stated net of value added tax and similar taxes, and trade discounts.
No revenue is recognized for consideration, the value or receipt of which is dependent on future events or future performance.
The Groups principal revenue streams and their respective accounting treatments are discussed below: Product sales Revenue for the sales of products is recognized upon shipment to customers or at the time of delivery to the customer depending on the terms of sale.
Provisions for rebates, product returns and discounts to customers are provided for as reductions to revenue in the same period as the related sales are recorded.
The Group monitors and tracks the amount of sales deductions based on historical experience to estimate the amount of reduction to revenue.
Royalty income Royalty income relating to licensed technology is recognized when the licensee sells the underlying product.
The Group receives sales information from the licensee on a monthly basis.
For any period that the information is not available, the Group estimates sales amounts based on the historical product information.
Licensing and development fees Licensing and development fees represent revenues derived from product out-licensing agreements and from contract research and development agreements.
Initial license fees received in connection with product out-licensing agreements, even where such fees are non-refundable and not creditable against future royalty payments, are deferred and recognized over the period of the license term, or the period of the associated collaborative assistance if that period is reasonably estimable.
In circumstances where initial license fees are not for a defined period, revenues are deferred until the period of associated collaborative assistance is either reasonably estimable or any performance obligations are inconsequential: thereafter revenues are deferred and recognized over the period to the expiration of the relevant patent to which the license relates.
Revenue from contract research and development agreements is recognized as the services are performed.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 76 76 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Milestones During the term of certain research and development agreements and licensing agreements, the Group receives non-refundable milestones as certain technical and regulatory targets are achieved.
Revenues are recognized either on achievement of such milestones or over the relevant performance period if the Group has substantive performance obligations.
The Group also receives non-refundable clinical milestones when certain targets are achieved during the clinical phases of development, such as the submission of clinical data to a regulatory authority.
These clinical milestones are either recognized when receivable i. e. on completion of the relevant phase or over the relevant performance period if the Group has substantive performance obligations.
If milestone payments are creditable against future royalty payments, the milestones are deferred and released over the period in which the royalties are anticipated to be paid.
d Sales deductions i Rebates Rebates primarily consist of statutory rebates to state Medicaid agencies and contractual rebates with health-maintenance organizations.
These rebates are based on price differentials between a base price and the selling price.
As a result, rebates generally increase as a percentage of the selling price over the life of the product as prices increase.
Provisions for rebates are recorded as reductions to revenue in the same period as the related sales are recorded, with estimates of future utilization derived from historical trends.
ii Returns The Group estimates the proportion of recorded revenue that will result in a return, based on historical trends and when applicable, specific factors affecting certain products at the balance sheet date.
The accrual is recorded as a reduction to revenue in the same period as the related sales are recorded.
iii Coupons The Group uses coupons as a form of sales incentive.
An accrual is established based on the Groups expectation of the level of coupon redemption, using historical trends.
iv Discounts The Group offers cash discounts to customers for the early payment of receivables.
Those discounts are recorded as reductions to revenue and accounts receivable in the same period that the related sale is recorded.
v Wholesaler chargebacks The Group has contractual agreements whereby it supplies certain products to third-parties at predetermined prices.
Wholesalers acting as intermediaries in these transactions are re-imbursed by the Group if the predetermined prices are less than the prices paid by the wholesaler to the Group.
Accruals for wholesaler chargebacks, which are based on historical trends, are recorded as reductions to revenue in the same period as the related sales are recorded.
e Cost of product sales Cost of product sales includes the cost of purchasing finished product for sale, the cost of raw materials and manufacturing for those products that are manufactured by the Group, shipping and handling costs, depreciation and amortization of intangible assets in respect of favorable manufacturing contracts.
Royalties that are payable on those products that the Group does not own the rights to are also included in Cost of product sales.
f Leased assets The costs of operating leases are charged to operations on a straight-line basis over the lease term, even if rental payments are not made on such a basis.
Assets acquired under capital leases are included in the balance sheet as property, plant and equipment and are depreciated over the shorter of the period of the lease or their useful lives.
The capital elements of future lease payments are recorded as liabilities, while the interest element is charged to operations over the period of the lease to produce a level yield on the balance of the capital lease obligation.
g Advertising expense The Group expenses the cost of advertising as incurred.
Advertising costs amounted to $134.5 million, $92.3 million, and $91.6 million for the years to December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 respectively and were included within Selling, general and administrative expenses.
h Research and Development R&D expense R&D costs are expensed as incurred.
Upfront and milestone payments made to third-parties for products that have not yet received marketing approval and for which no alternative future use has been identified are also expensed as incurred.
Milestone payments made to third-parties subsequent to regulatory approval are capitalized as intangible assets, and amortized over the remaining useful life of the related product.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 77 77 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued i Valuation and impairment of long-lived assets other than goodwill and investments The Group evaluates the carrying value of long-lived assets other than goodwill and investments for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of the assets may not be recoverable.
When such a determination is made, managements estimate of undiscounted cash flows to be generated by the use and ultimate disposition of these assets is compared to the carrying value of the assets to determine whether an impairment is indicated.
If an impairment loss is indicated, the amount of the impairment recognized in the consolidated financial statements is determined by estimating the fair value of the assets and recording a loss for the amount that the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value.
This fair value is usually determined based on estimated discounted cash flows.
j Finance costs of debt Finance costs of debt are recorded as a deferred cost and amortized to the statement of operations over the period to the earliest redemption date of the debt, using the effective interest rate method.
On extinguishment of the related debt, any unamortized deferred financing costs are written-off and charged to interest expense in the consolidated statement of operations.
k Foreign currency Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into the relevant functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the relevant functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Transaction gains and losses, other than those related to current and deferred tax assets and liabilities, are recognized in arriving at income loss from continuing operations before income taxes, minority interests, equity in earnings of equity method investees and discontinued operations.
Transaction gains and losses arising on foreign currency denominated current and deferred tax assets and liabilities are included within income taxes in the statement of operations.
The results of operations for affiliates, whose functional currency is not the US dollar, are translated into the US dollar at the average rates of exchange during the period, with the balance sheets translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The cumulative effect of exchange rate movements is included in a separate component of other comprehensive income.
Foreign currency exchange transaction gains and losses included in consolidated net income loss in the years to December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, amounted to a $4.6 million gain, $4.4 million gain and $3.2 million gain, respectively.
l Income taxes The Group provides for income taxes in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards SFAS No.
109, Accounting for Income Taxes SFAS No.
109 and Financial Accounting Standards Board FASB Interpretation No.
48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No.
Uncertain tax positions are recognized in the consolidated financial statements for positions which are considered more likely than not of being sustained based on the technical merits of the position on audit by the tax authorities.
The measurement of the tax benefit recognized in the consolidated financial statements is based upon the largest amount of tax benefit that, in managements judgment, is greater than 50% likely of being realized based on a cumulative probability assessment of the possible outcomes.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the tax bases of assets and liabilities that will result in future taxable or deductible amounts.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the enacted tax laws and rates applicable to the periods in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income.
Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when, in the opinion of management, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.
The Group recognizes interest relating to unrecognized tax benefits and penalties within income taxes.
m Earnings per share Earnings per share is computed in accordance with SFAS No.
128, Earnings per Share SFAS No.
Basic earnings per share is based upon net income loss available to ordinary shareholders divided by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted earnings per share is based upon net income loss available to ordinary shareholders adjusted for the impact of interest expense on convertible debt on an if-converted basis divided by the weighted average number of Ordinary Share equivalents outstanding during the period, adjusted for the effect of all dilutive potential Ordinary Shares that were outstanding during the year.
Such potentially dilutive shares are excluded when the effect would be to increase earnings per share or reduce a loss per share.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 78 78 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued n Share-based compensation Share-based compensation represents the cost of share-based awards granted to employees.
The Group measures share-based compensation cost for awards classified as equity at the grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the award, and recognizes the cost as an expense on a straightline basis net of estimated forfeitures over the employee requisite service period.
The Group estimates the fair value of share-based awards without market-based performance conditions using a Black-Scholes valuation model and awards with market-based performance conditions are valued using a binomial valuation model.
The following assumptions were used to value share-based awards: Risk-free interest ratefor awards granted over ADSs, the US Federal Reserve treasury constant maturities rate with a term consistent with the expected life of the award is used.
For awards granted over Ordinary Shares, the yield on UK government bonds with a term consistent with the expected life of the award is used: Expected dividend yieldmeasured as the average annualised dividend estimated to be paid by the Group over the expected life of the award as a percentage of the share price at the grant date: Expected lifethe average of the vesting period and the expiration period from the date of issue of the award: and Weighted average expected volatilitymeasured using historical daily price changes of the Groups share price over the respective expected life of the share-based awards at the date of the award.
The forfeiture rate is estimated using historical trends of the number of awards forfeited prior to vesting.
The expense is recorded in Cost of product sales: R&D: and SG&A in the statement of operations based on the employees respective functions.
The Group records deferred tax assets for awards that result in deductions on the Groups income tax returns, based on the amount of compensation cost recognized and the Groups statutory tax rate in the jurisdiction in which it will receive a deduction.
Differences between the deferred tax assets recognized for financial reporting purposes and the actual tax deduction reported on the Groups income tax return are recorded in additional paid-in capital if the tax deduction exceeds the deferred tax asset or in the statement of operations if the deferred tax asset exceeds the tax deduction and no additional paid-in capital exists from previous awards.
At December 31, 2008 the Group had seven share-based employee compensation plans, which are described more fully in Note 33. o Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are defined as short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days or less.
p Financial  The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to foreign exchange risk associated with third-party and inter-company loan transactions.
These instruments consist of swap and forward foreign exchange contracts.
The Group has not elected to apply hedge accounting for these instruments and accordingly the movements in the fair values of these instruments are recognized in the statement of operations.
The fair values of these instruments are included on the balance sheet in current assets liabilities and the cash flows relating to these instruments are presented within Net cash provided by operating activities in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
q Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost including manufacturing overheads, where appropriate or market.
Cost incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition is based on purchase costs calculated on a first-in, first-out basis, including transportation costs.
Inventories include costs relating to both marketed products and certain products prior to regulatory approval.
Inventories are capitalized prior to regulatory approval if the Group considers that it is probable that the FDA or another regulatory body will grant commercial and manufacturing approval for the relevant product, and it is probable that the value of capitalized inventories will be recovered through commercial sale.
Inventories are written-down for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions.
If actual market conditions are less favorable than those anticipated, inventory adjustments may be required.
r Assets held-for-sale An asset is classified as held-for-sale when, amongst other things, the Group has committed to a plan of disposition, the asset is available for immediate sale, and the plan is not expected to change significantly.
Assets held-for-sale are carried at the lower of their carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell.
Assets acquired in a business combination that will be sold rather than held and used are classified as held-for sale at the date of acquisition when it is probable that the Group will dispose of the assets within one year.
Newly acquired assets held-for-sale are carried at their fair value less cost to sell at the acquisition date.
The Group does not record depreciation or amortization on assets classified as held-for-sale.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 79 79 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued s Investments The Group has certain investments in pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies.
Investments are accounted for using the equity method of accounting if the investment gives the Group the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control over, the investee.
Significant influence is generally deemed to exist if the Group has an ownership interest in the voting stock of the investee between 20% and 50%, although other factors, such as representation on the investees Board of Directors and the nature of commercial arrangements, are considered in determining whether the equity method of accounting is appropriate.
Under the equity method of accounting, the Group records its investments in equity-method investees in the consolidated balance sheet under Investments and its share of the investees earnings or losses together with other-than-temporary impairments in value under Equity in earnings of equity method investees in the consolidated statement of operations.
All other equity investments, which consist of investments for which the Group does not have the ability to exercise significant influence, are accounted for under the cost method or at fair value.
Investments in private companies are carried at cost, less provisions for other-than-temporary impairment in value.
For public companies that have readily determinable fair values, the Group classifies its equity investments as available-for-sale and, accordingly, records these investments at their fair values with unrealized holding gains and losses included in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income loss, net of any related tax effect.
Realized gains and losses and declines in value of available-for-sale securities judged to be other-thantemporary are included in Other expense income, net see Note 29.
The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method.
Interest and dividends on securities classified as available-for-sale are included as interest income.
t Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is shown at cost, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
The cost of significant assets includes capitalized interest incurred during the construction period.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at rates calculated to write-off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset over its estimated useful life as follows: Buildings 15 to 50 years Office furniture, fittings and equipment 3 to 10 years Warehouse, laboratory and manufacturing equipment 3 to 10 years The cost of land is not depreciated.
Assets under the course of construction are not depreciated until the relevant assets are available and ready for their intended use.
Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to the statement of operations as incurred.
The costs of major renewals and improvements are capitalized.
At the time property, plant and equipment is retired or otherwise disposed of, the cost and accumulated depreciation are eliminated from the asset and accumulated depreciation accounts.
The profit or loss on such disposition is reflected in operating income loss.
u Goodwill and other intangible assets i Goodwill In a business combination, goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
An excess of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed over the cost of acquisition is, in accordance with SFAS No.
141, Accounting for Business Combinations SFAS No.
141 allocated as a pro-rata reduction of amounts that would otherwise have been ascribed to identifiable intangible assets and In-Process R&D IPR&D, such IPR&D being immediately charged to expense, having no alternative future use.
Goodwill is not amortized to operations, but instead is reviewed for impairment, at least annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Some factors the Group considers important which could trigger an impairment review include the following: i significant under-performance of a reporting unit relative to expected historical or projected future operating results: ii significant changes in the manner of the Groups use of acquired assets or the strategy for the overall business: and iii significant negative industry trends.
In accordance with SFAS No.
142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets SFAS No.
142, goodwill is reviewed for impairment by comparing the carrying value of each reporting units net assets including allocated goodwill to the fair value of those net assets.
If the reporting units carrying amount is greater than its fair value, then a second step is performed whereby the portion of the fair value that relates to the reporting units goodwill is compared to the carrying value of that goodwill.
The Group recognizes a goodwill impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying value of goodwill exceeds the fair value.
The Group has determined that there are no impairment losses in respect of goodwill for any of the reporting periods covered by these consolidated financial statements.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 80 80 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued ii Other intangible assets Other intangible assets, which principally comprise intellectual property including trademarks for products with a defined revenue stream, are recorded at cost and amortized over the estimated useful life of the related product, which ranges from 5 to 35 years weighted average 18 years.
Intellectual property with no defined revenue stream, where the related product has not yet completed the necessary approval process and has no alternative future use, is written-off to the statement of operations on acquisition.
The following factors are considered in estimating the useful lives of other intangible assets: expected use of the asset: regulatory, legal or contractual provisions, including the regulatory approval and review process, patent issues and actions by government agencies: the effects of obsolescence, changes in demand, competing products and other economic factors, including the stability of the market, known technological advances, development of competing drugs that are more effective clinically or economically: and actions of competitors, suppliers, regulatory agencies or others that may eliminate current competitive advantages.
When a number of factors apply to an intangible asset, these factors are considered in combination when determining useful life.
v Non-monetary transactions The Group enters into certain non-monetary transactions that involve either the granting of a license over the Groups patents or the disposal of an asset or group of assets in exchange for a non-monetary asset, usually equity.
The Group accounts for these transactions at fair value if the Group is able to determine the fair value within reasonable limits.
To the extent that the Group concludes that it is unable to determine the fair value of a transaction, that transaction is accounted for at the recorded amounts of the assets exchanged.
Management is required to exercise its judgment in determining whether or not the fair value of the asset received or that given up can be determined.
w Re-classifications For the year to December 31, 2007 depreciation of $17.2 million was re-classified from SG&A costs to Cost of product sales $7.4 million and R&D $9.8 million.
For the year to December 31, 2006 depreciation of $9.5 million was re-classified from SG&A costs to Cost of product sale $4.6 million and R&D costs $4.9 million.
x New accounting pronouncements Adopted during the period SFAS No.
162 In May 2008 the FASB issued SFAS No.
162, The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles SFAS No.
162 identifies the sources of accounting principles and the framework for selecting the principles to be used in the preparation of financial statements under US GAAP.
162 became effective 60 days following the SECs approval of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board amendments to AU Section 411, The Meaning of Present Fairly in Conformity With Generally Accepted Accounting Principles on September 16, 2008.
162 did not have an impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements.
157 On January 1, 2008 the Group adopted SFAS No.
157, Fair Value Measurements SFAS No.
157 for financial assets and liabilities, which provides a single definition of fair value, establishes a framework for the measurement of fair value and expands disclosure about the use of fair value to measure assets and liabilities.
157 for financial assets and liabilities did not have a material impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements as at January 1, 2008.
159 On January 1, 2008 the Group adopted SFAS No.
159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial LiabilitiesIncluding an Amendment of FASB Statement No.
This standard permits an entity to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value.
The unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected will be reported in earnings at each subsequent reporting date.
The fair value option: a may be applied instrument by instrument, with a few exceptions, such as investments otherwise accounted for by the equity method: b is irrevocable unless a new election date occurs : and c is applied only to entire instruments and not to portions of instruments.
The Group did not elect to fair value any items on adoption, therefore the adoption of SFAS No.
159 did not have an impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements.
EITF 07-3 In June 2007 the Emerging Issues Task Force EITF reached a consensus regarding EITF 07-3, Accounting for Non-refundable Advance Payments for Goods or Services to Be Used in Future Research and Development Activities EITF 07-3.
The scope of this Issue is limited to non-refundable advance payments for goods and services to be used or rendered in future research and development activities.
The EITF concluded that nonrefundable advance payments for future research and development activities should be deferred and capitalized on the balance sheet.
Such amounts should be recognized as an expense as the related goods are delivered or the related services are performed.
Entities should continue to evaluate whether they expect the goods to be delivered or services to be rendered.
If an entity does not expect the goods to be delivered or services to be rendered, the capitalized advance payment should be charged to expense.
On January 1, 2008 the Group adopted EITF 07-3.
The adoption of EITF 07-3 had no impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements as at January 1, 2008.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 81 81 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued To be adopted in future periods EITF 07-5 In June 2008 the FASB issued EITF 07-5 Determining whether an Instrument or Embedded Feature is indexed to an Entitys Own Stock EITF No.
EITF 07-5 is effective for consolidated financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
Early application is not permitted.
133 Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities SFAS 133 specifies that a contract that would otherwise meet the definition of a derivative but is both a indexed to the Groups own stock and b classified in stockholders equity in the statement of financial position would not be considered a derivative financial instrument.
EITF 07-5 provides a new two-step model to be applied in determining whether a financial instrument or an embedded feature is indexed to an issuers own stock and thus able to qualify for the SFAS No.
The Group does not expect the adoption of EITF 07-5 to have an impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements.
FASB Staff Position FSP No.
APB 14-1 In May 2008 the FASB issued FSP No.
APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion Including Partial Cash Settlement FSP No.
This FSP clarifies that convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion including partial cash settlement do not fall within the scope of paragraph twelve of Accounting Principles Board APB Opinion No.
14, Accounting for Convertible Debt and Debt Issued with Stock Purchase Warrants APB 14.
It requires issuers of such instruments to separately account for the liability and equity components of those instruments by allocating the proceeds from issuance of the instrument between the liability component and the embedded conversion option i. e. the equity component.
APB 14-1 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 and for interim periods within those fiscal years.
It is required to be applied retrospectively to convertible debt instruments that are within the scope of the guidance and were outstanding during any period presented in the financial statements.
A cumulative effect adjustment must be recognized as of the beginning of the first period presented.
Early adoption of the guidance is not permitted.
The Group does not expect the adoption of FSP No.
APB 14-1 to have an impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements.
FAS 142-3 In April 2008 the FASB issued FSP No.
FAS 142-3, Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets FSP No.
This FSP amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under FASB Statement No.
142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets SFAS No.
FAS 142-3 is to improve the consistency between the useful life of an intangible asset determined under SFAS No.
142 and the period of expected cash flows used to measure the fair value of the asset under FASB Statement No.
FAS 142-3 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
The Group is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of FSP No.
161 In March 2008 the FASB issued SFAS No.
161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activitiesan amendment of FASB No.
161 requires enhanced disclosures about an entitys derivative and hedging activities and thereby improves the transparency of financial reporting.
161 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008 with early application encouraged.
This Statement encourages, but does not require, comparative disclosures for earlier periods at initial adoption.
The Group is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of SFAS No.
FAS 157-2 In February 2008 the FASB issued FSP No.
FAS 157-2, Effective Date of FASB Statement No.
This FSP delays the effective date of SFAS No.
157 for non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities, except for items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis at least annually.
157 will therefore be applicable to non-financial assets and liabilities for the Groups fiscal year commencing January 1, 2009.
The Group does not expect the adoption of SFAS 157 to have an impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements.
EITF 07-1 In December 2007 the EITF reached a consensus regarding EITF 07-1, Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements EITF 07-1.
The objective of this EITF 07-1 is to define collaborative arrangements and to establish reporting requirements for transactions between participants in a collaborative arrangement and between participants in the arrangement and third-parties.
EITF 07-1 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 and interim periods within those fiscal years.
EITF 07-1 shall be applied retrospectively to all prior periods presented for all collaborative arrangements existing as of the effective date.
The Group is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of EITF 07-1.
160 In December 2007 the FASB issued SFAS No.
160, Non-controlling Interests in Consolidated Financial StatementsAn Amendment of ARB No.
160 establishes new accounting and reporting standards for the non-controlling interest in a subsidiary and for the fide-consolidation of a subsidiary.
Specifically, this statement requires the recognition of a non-controlling interest minority interest as equity in the consolidated financial statements, separate from the parents equity.
The amount of net income attributable to the non-controlling interest will be included in consolidated net income on the face of the income statement.
160 also includes expanded disclosure requirements regarding the interests of the parent and its non-controlling interest.
160 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2008.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 82 82 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued SFAS No.
141 R In December 2007 the FASB issued SFAS No.
141 Revised 2007, Business Combinations SFAS No.
141 R will significantly change the accounting for business combinations.
141 R, an acquiring entity will be required to recognize all the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a transaction at the acquisition-date fair value with limited exceptions.
It also amends the accounting treatment for certain specific items including acquisition costs and non-controlling minority interests and includes a substantial number of new disclosure requirements.
141 R applies prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after December 15, 2008.
141 R. 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The preparation of consolidated financial statements, in conformity with US GAAP and SEC regulations, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
i Valuation of intangible assets a General The Group has acquired and continues to acquire significant intangible assets, recorded at acquisition cost.
At December 31, 2008, the carrying value of such intangibles was $1,824.9 million, which primarily related to the Groups DAYTRANA $130.1 million, FIRAZYR $280.4 million, FOSRENOL $22.9 million, PENTASA $71.8 million, REMINYL $13.9 million, REPLAGAL $298.9 million, VYVANSE $988.5 million and XAGRID $10.5 million products.
Those assets which do not yet have a defined revenue stream and for which there is no alternative future use are expensed upon acquisition, and those that do have a defined revenue stream namely commercial products or rights to products awaiting final regulatory approval are capitalized and amortized over their estimated useful life.
Whenever events or circumstances suggest that the carrying value of intangible assets may not be recoverable, the Group reviews the intangible asset for impairment using an undiscounted net cash flow approach.
If the undiscounted cash flows resulting from the use and ultimate disposition of the intangible asset is less than its carrying value, the intangible asset is written-down to its fair value, based on estimated discounted cash flows.
When cash flows cannot be identified for an individual asset, the impairment review is applied at the lowest level for which cash flows are identifiable.
The events or circumstances that may suggest that its intangible assets may not be recoverable, and which would lead to the Group evaluating its intangible assets for impairment, include the following: any change to the commercialization strategy in respect of a product: the loss of patent protection or challenge or circumvention by competitors of the Groups patents: the development and marketing of competitive products, including generic entrants into the marketplace: any changes to the product labels, or other regulatory intervention: sustained government pressure on prices and, specifically, competitive pricing: the occurrence of significant adverse events in respect to the Groups products: and a significant deterioration in a products operating performance compared to expectations.
The occurrence of any such events, combined with changes in interest rates, could adversely affect Shires valuation of the estimated future net cash flows generated by its long-lived assets.
Following the identification of such events and the resultant impairment review, the Group recognized impairment charges of $97.1 million in respect to its intangible assets in the year to December 31, 2008 2007: $0.4 million, 2006: $1.1 million, of which $94.6 million related to DYNEPO which the Group has decided to stop commercializing.
Dependent on the occurrence of future events or circumstances, the Groups operating results could be materially and adversely affected by impairment charges related to the recoverability of its long-lived assets.
Managements estimate of the useful life of its intangible assets considers, inter alia, the following factors: the expected use of the asset by the Group: any legal, regulatory, or contractual provisions that may limit the useful life and the effects of demand: competition, including the launch of generic products: and other economic factors such as the stability of the industry, known technological advances, legislative action that results in an uncertain or changing regulatory environment, and expected changes in distribution channels.
The Group reviews the useful life of its intangible assets subject to amortization at each reporting period, and revises its estimate of useful life if events or circumstances warrant.
In the year to December 31, 2005 the Group decreased the estimated life of a product, which resulted in an additional amortization charge of $5.9 million in each of the years to December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008.
Any future changes to the useful life of the Groups intangible assets could result in additional or lesser amortization expense in future periods which could materially affect operating results.
b Intangible assets acquired through business combinations The fair values of all of the identifiable intangible assets acquired through business combinations, primarily the acquisitions of TKT in 2005, New River in 2007 and the acquisition of more than a 98% interest in Jerini in 2008 have been determined using an income approach on a project-by-project basis using the multi-period excess earnings method.
This method starts with a forecast of all of the expected future net cash flows either generated or saved as a result of ownership of the intellectual property, the customer relationships and the other intangible assets.
These cash flows are then adjusted to present value by applying an appropriate discount rate that reflects the risk factors associated with the cash flow streams to the extent the underlying cash flows have not similarly been risk adjusted.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 83 83 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES continued The forecast of future cash flows requires various assumptions to be made, including: revenue that is reasonably likely to result from the sale of products including the estimated number of units to be sold, estimated selling prices, estimated market penetration and estimated market share and year-over-year growth rates over the product life cycles: royalty or license fees saved by owning the intellectual property associated with the products: cost of sales for the products using historical data, industry data or other sources of market data: sales and marketing expense using historical data, industry data or other sources of market data: general and administrative expenses: research and development expenses: the estimated life of the products: and the tax amortization benefit available to a market participant purchasing the assets piecemeal.
The valuations are based on information at the time of the acquisition and the expectations and assumptions that i have been deemed reasonable by the Groups management and ii are based on information, expectations and assumptions that would be available to and made by a market participant.
No assurance can be given, however, that the underlying assumptions or events associated with such assets will occur as projected.
For these reasons, among others, the actual cash flows may vary from forecasts of future cash flows.
c Valuation of IPR&D acquired through business combinations IPR&D is defined by FIN 4 as being a development project that has been initiated and achieved material progress but i has not yet reached technological feasibility or has not yet reached the appropriate regulatory approval, ii has no alternative future use, and iii the fair value is estimable with reasonable certainty.
As required by FIN 4, the portion of the purchase price ascribed to IPR&D has been immediately expensed to the Statement of Operations in the year of the acquisition.
The Group has expensed as IPR&D the following amounts in respect of its significant business combinations: $128.1 million on acquisition of a majority voting interest in Jerini in 2008: $1,866 million on acquisition of New River in 2007: and $815 million on acquisition of TKT in 2005.
Significant IPR&D projects expensed to income include FIRAZYR for the treatment of acute HAE in the US and the rest of the world excluding the US and EU for the Jerini acquisition: VYVANSE indicated for ADHD in non-pediatric patients in the US and VYVANSE indicated for ADHD in the rest of the world on acquisition of New River.
In the year to December 31, 2008 the Group also expensed IPR&D totaling $135 million for the acquisition of METAZYM from Zymenex.
In the identification of intangible assets, consideration is given to whether any technology that is identified is developed or in-process.
In making this determination the Group considers the factors in the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Practice Aid Assets Acquired in a Business Combination to Be Used in Research and Development Activities: A Focus on Software, Electronic Devices and Pharmaceutical Industries, which gives guidance on the factors that should be considered when identifying IPR&D.
The fair value of IPR&D acquired through business combinations is determined using the income approach on a project-by-project basis using the multi-period excess earnings method.
The fair value of the acquired IPR&D assets has been based on the present value of probability adjusted incremental cash flows expected to be generated by the IPR&D projects after the deduction of contributory asset charges for other assets employed in these projects.
This method includes risk factors, which include applying an appropriate discount rate that reflects the projects stage of completion, the nature of the product, the scientific data associated with the technology, the current patent situation and market competition.
The forecast of future cash flows required the following assumptions to be made: revenue that is likely to result from specific IPR&D projects, including the likelihood of approval of the product, estimated number of units to be sold, estimated selling prices, estimated market penetration, estimated market share and year-over-year growth rates over the product life cycles: cost of sales related to the potential products using historical data, industry data or other sources of market data: sales and marketing expense using historical data, industry data or other market data: general and administrative expenses: R&D expenses to complete the development of the acquired products: and the tax amortization benefit available to a market participant purchasing the assets piecemeal.
The valuation process for IPR&D involves a number of inter-relating assumptions, such that the Group does not consider it meaningful to quantify the sensitivity to change for any individual assumption.
The major risks and uncertainties associated with the timely completion of the acquired IPR&D projects consist of the ability to confirm the safety and efficacy of the technology based on the data from ongoing clinical trials and obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals.
The valuations have been based on information at the time of the acquisition and expectations and assumptions that i have been deemed reasonable by Shires management, and ii are based on information, expectations and assumptions that would be available to and made by a market participant.
However, no assurance can be given that the underlying assumptions or events associated with such assets will occur as projected.
For these reasons, among others, the actual cash flows may vary from forecast future cash flows.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 84 84 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES continued ii Valuation of equity investments The Group has investments in certain public and private pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies.
The carrying values of these investments are periodically reviewed for other-than-temporary impairments whenever certain events or circumstances suggest that the cost of an investment exceeds the fair market value of the investment.
Indicators of other-than-temporary impairment considered by the Group, include, inter alia: the market value of a quoted investment being below the cost of the investment: adverse news on a companys progress in scientific technology development of compounds: and recent stock issuances at a price below the investment price.
If the fair value appears to be below the cost of an investment the Group considers all available evidence in assessing whether there is an other-thantemporary impairment.
This evidence would include: the length of time and or the extent to which the market value of the investee is less than the cost of the investment: the level of progress in the investees scientific technology development of compound: ongoing activity in collaborations with the investee: whether or not other substantial investee-specific adverse events have occurred which may cause a decline in value: analysis and valuation of comparable companies: and the overall financial condition and near-term prospects of the investee.
In instances when this review indicates that there is an other-than-temporary impairment, for private companies the Group writes down the investment to the fair value of the investment.
For investments in public companies accounted for as available-for-sale securities any unrealized holding loss is re-classified from other comprehensive income by recording an other-than-temporary impairment charge in the consolidated statements of operations.
The determination of the fair value of private company investments and the determination of whether an unrealized loss on a publicly quoted investment is other-than-temporary requires significant judgment and can have a material impact on the reported results.
During 2008, Shire recorded impairments on long-term investments in private companies of $nil 2007: $nil, 2006: $1.8 million and an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $58.0 million 2007: $3.0 million, 2006: $0.3 million for its available-for-sale securities, including $44.3 million for its investment in Renovo Group plc.
During the third quarter of 2008, the Group considered the following factors in its determination of whether its impairment in Renovo Group plc was temporary or other-than-temporary: the severity of the decline from historical cost 87% decline and its duration eleven months : market analysts targets of Renovo Group plcs share price for the next 1824 months: and the revised expected filing date for JUVISTA due to the adoption of a sequential rather than parallel Phase 3 development plan.
These factors, together with the significant decline in global equity markets during the third quarter of 2008 meant that the Group was unable to reasonably estimate the period over which a full recovery in the value of its investment in Renovo Group plc could occur.
As such, at the end of the third quarter of 2008 the Group concluded that the decline in value was other-than-temporary.
During the fourth quarter of 2008, the value of the Groups investment in Renovo Group plc further declined to $3.6 million by December 31, 2008: the Group has recognized this decline of $2.2 million as a temporary impairment within Other Comprehensive Income during the fourth quarter of 2008. iii Sales deductions Sales deductions consist of statutory rebates to state Medicaid and other government agencies, contractual rebates with health-maintenance organizations HMOs, product returns, sales discounts including trade discounts and distribution service fees, wholesaler chargebacks, and allowances for coupon sampling programs.
These deductions are recorded as reductions to revenue in the same period as the related sales with estimates of future utilization derived from historical experience adjusted to reflect known changes in the factors that impact such reserves.
The Group accounts for these sales deductions in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No.
01-9, Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer Including a Reseller of the Vendors Products, and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards SFAS No.
48, Revenue Recognition When Right of Return Exists, as applicable.
The Group has the following significant categories of sales deductions, all of which involve estimates and judgments which the Group considers to be critical accounting estimates, and require the Group to use information from external sources: Medicaid and HMO rebates Statutory rebates to state Medicaid agencies and contractual rebates to HMOs under managed care programs are based on statutory or negotiated discounts to the selling price.
Medicaid rebates generally increase as a percentage of the selling price over the life of the product if prices increase faster than inflation.
As it can take up to six months for information to reach the Group on actual usage of the Groups products in managed care and Medicaid programs and on the total discounts to be re-imbursed, the Group maintains reserves for amounts payable under these programs relating to sold products.
The amount of the reserve is based on historical experience of rebates, the timing of payments, the level of re-imbursement claims, changes in prices both normal selling prices and statutory or negotiated prices, changes in prescription demand patterns, and the levels of inventory in the distribution channel.
Shires estimates of the level of inventory in the distribution channel are based on product-by-product inventory data provided by wholesalers: results of independently commissioned retail inventory surveys and third-party prescription data such as IMS Health National Prescription Audit data.
Revisions or clarification of guidelines from CMS related to state Medicaid and other government program re-imbursement practices with retro-active application can result in changes to managements estimates of the rebates reported in prior periods.
However, since the prices of the Groups products are fixed at the time of sale and the quantum of rebates is therefore reasonably determinable at the outset of each transaction, these factors would not impact the recording of revenues in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 85 85 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES continued The accrual estimation process for Medicaid and HMO rebates involves in each case a number of interrelating assumptions, which vary for each combination of product and Medicaid agency or HMO.
Accordingly, it would not be meaningful to quantify the sensitivity to change for any individual assumption or uncertainty.
However, Shire does not believe that the effect of uncertainties, as a whole, significantly impacts the Groups financial condition or results of operations.
At the balance sheet date, accruals for Medicaid and HMO rebates were $222.5 million in 2008, $146.6 million in 2007 and $126.4 million in 2006, or 8%, 7%, and 8%, respectively, of net product sales.
Historically, actual returns have not varied significantly from the reserves provided.
Product returns The Group typically accepts customer product returns in the following circumstances: a expiration of shelf life: b product damaged while in the possession of Shire: or c under sales terms that allow for unconditional return guaranteed sales.
Shire estimates the proportion of recorded revenue that will result in a return by considering relevant factors, including: past product returns activity: the duration of time taken for products to be returned: the estimated level of inventory in the distribution channel: product recalls and discontinuances: the shelf life of products: the launch of new drugs or new formulations: and the loss of patent protection or new competition.
Shires estimate of the level of inventory in the distribution channel is based on product-by-product inventory data provided by wholesalers, third-party prescription data and, for some product return provisions, market research of retail pharmacies.
Returns for new products are more difficult for the Group to estimate than for established products.
For shipments made to support the commercial launch of a new product which are typically guaranteed sales, as the Group cannot determine customer acceptance of the new product, the Groups policy is therefore to defer recognition of the sales revenue until there is evidence of end-patient acceptance primarily third-party prescription data, in accordance with SAB No.
For shipments after launch under standard terms ie not guaranteed sales, the Groups initial estimates of sales return accruals are primarily based on the historical sales returns experience of similar products shortly after launch.
Once sufficient historical data on actual returns of the product are available, the returns provision is based on this data and any other relevant factors as noted above.
The accrual estimation process for product returns involves in each case a number of inter-relating assumptions, which vary for each combination of product and customer.
At the balance sheet date, provisions for product returns were $47.1 million in 2008, $39.5 million in 2007 and $36.5 million in 2006, or 2%, 2% and 2%, respectively, of net product sales.
Historically, actual rebates have not varied significantly from the reserves provided.
Sales coupon accrual For certain products, primarily VYVANSE, LIALDA, and DAYTRANA, the Group uses coupons as a form of sales incentive.
These coupons re-imburse part or all of the cost of the first prescription.
Each coupon can only be used once and coupons typically expire three to 15 months after the date of issuance.
The Groups management calculates an accrual for the estimated value of coupons that will be redeemed against sold products, based on the rebate value per coupon, the timing and volume of coupon distributions, the estimated level of inventory in the distribution channel and expected coupon redemption rates, using historical trends and experience.
Shires estimate of the level of inventory in the distribution channel is based on product-by-product inventory data provided by wholesalers and thirdparty prescription data.
Shire believes that historical redemption rates, adjusted for known changes in coupon programs such as length of coupon life and redemption conditions are an appropriate basis for predicting future redemption rates.
For coupon programs open at December 31, 2008 the redemption rates assumed by Shire range between 22% and 43% of coupons distributed depending on the life of the coupons.
A one percentage point increase in estimated coupon redemption rates would increase the provision at December 31, 2008 by $0.1 million.
At December 31, 2008 the accrual for coupon redemptions was $4.0 million 2007: $9.0 million, 2006: $13.0 million.
The accrual levels at December 31 and within each financial year fluctuate according to the timing and volume of coupon distributions, in addition to changes in estimated redemption rates.
For rebates, returns and sales coupons the actual experience and the level of these deductions to revenue may deviate from the estimate.
Shire reviews its estimates every quarter and may be required to adjust the estimate in a subsequent period.
Historically, actual payments have not varied significantly from the reserves provided.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 86 86 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES continued iv Income taxes In the application of FIN 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes-an interpretation of FASB Statement No.
109 FIN 48 management is required to develop estimates as to whether a tax benefit should be recognized in the consolidated financial statements, based on whether it is more likely than not that the technical merits of the position will be sustained based on audit by the tax authorities.
The measurement of the tax benefit recognized in the consolidated financial statements is based upon the largest amount of tax benefit that, in managements judgment, is greater than 50% likely to be realized based on a cumulative probability assessment of the possible outcomes.
In applying FIN 48, management is required to make judgments in the determination of the unit of account, the evaluation of the facts, circumstances and information in respect of the tax position taken, together with the estimates of amounts that the Group may be required to pay in ultimate settlement with the tax authority.
Shire operates in numerous countries where its income tax returns are subject to audit and adjustment by local tax authorities.
Because Shire operates globally, the nature of the uncertain tax positions is often very complex and subject to change and the amounts at issue can be substantial.
Shire develops its cumulative probability assessment of the measurement of uncertain tax positions using internal expertise, experience, judgment and assistance from professional advisors.
Estimates are refined as additional information becomes known.
Any outcome upon settlement that differs from Shires best estimate may result in additional or lower tax expense in future periods.
At December 31, 2008 the Group recognized a liability of $228.7 million for total unrecognized tax benefits 2007: $292.2 million and had accrued $76.2 million 2007: $63.7 million for the payment of interest and penalties.
The Group has significant deferred tax assets due to net operating losses NOLs in the United States, the UK, Ireland, Germany and other countries.
The realization of these assets is not assured and is dependent on the generation of sufficient taxable income in future periods.
Management is required to exercise judgment in determining whether it is more likely than not that it would realize these losses, based upon the availability of prudent and feasible tax planning strategies and estimates of future taxable income in the various jurisdictions in which these NOLs exist.
Where there is an expectation that on the balance of probabilities there will not be sufficient taxable profits to utilize these NOLs a valuation allowance is held against these deferred tax assets.
If actual events differ from managements estimates, or to the extent that these estimates are adjusted in the future, any changes to the valuation allowance could materially impact the Groups financial position and results.
At December 31, 2008, the Group had deferred tax liabilities of $533 million and gross deferred tax assets of $472 million, against which the Group had recorded valuation allowances of $119 million.
At December 31, 2007, the Group had deferred tax liabilities of $539 million and gross deferred tax assets of $587 million, against which the Group had recorded valuation allowances of $105 million.
At December 31, 2006, the Group had deferred tax liabilities of $197 million and gross deferred tax assets of $568 million, against which the Group had recorded valuation allowances of $110 million.
v Litigation The Group has a number of lawsuits pending that relate to product liability and intellectual property infringement claims, see Note 24 for further details.
Shire accounts for litigation losses in accordance with SFAS No.
5, Accounting for Contingencies SFAS No 5.
5, loss contingency provisions are recorded for probable losses when management is able to reasonably estimate the loss.
Where the estimated loss lies within a range and no particular amount within that range is a better estimate than any other amount, the minimum amount is recorded.
In other cases managements best estimate of the loss is recorded.
These estimates are developed substantially earlier than the ultimate loss is known, and the estimates are refined each accounting period, as additional information becomes known.
Best estimates are reviewed quarterly and estimates are changed when expectations are revised.
Any outcome upon settlement that deviates from Shires best estimate may result in an additional or lesser expense in a future accounting period.
On November 5, 2008 the Group announced that it had successfully settled all aspects of the TKT appraisal rights litigation with all parties.
Shire paid the same price of $37 per share originally offered to all TKT shareholders at the time of the July 2005 merger, plus interest.
The settlement represents a total payment of $567.5 million, representing consideration at $37 per share of $419.9 million and an interest cost of $147.6 million.
Prior to reaching this settlement, the Group accrued interest based on a reasonable estimate of the amount that may be awarded by the Court to those former TKT shareholders who requested appraisal.
This estimate of interest was based on Shires cost of borrowing.
Between the close of the merger and November 5, 2008 the Group applied this interest rate on a quarterly compounding basis to the $419.9 million of consideration to calculate its provision for interest.
Upon reaching agreement in principle with all the dissenting shareholders, the Group determined that settlement had become the probable manner through which the appraisal rights litigation would be resolved.
Under current law, although not applicable in this case because the merger was entered into before the relevant amendment to the law became effective the court presumptively awards interest in appraisal rights cases at a statutory rate that is 5 percentage points above the Federal Reserve discount rate as it varies over the duration of the case.
In connection with the settlement, the Group agreed to an interest rate that approximates to this statutory rate.
Based on the settlement, the Group amended the method of determining its interest provision to reflect this revised manner of resolution, and recorded additional interest expense of $73.0 million in its consolidated financial statements for the year to December 31, 2008 on reaching settlement with the dissenting shareholders.
For further details on the settlement of this litigation, see Note 24 d. 7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 87 87 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 4 CHANGE IN REPORTING ENTITY Shire Limited now known as Shire plc was incorporated under the laws of Jersey Channel Islands on January 28, 2008 and is a public company limited by shares and tax resident in the Republic of Ireland.
On May 23, 2008 Shire Limited became the holding company of Shire plc the former holding company of the Shire Group Old Shire, a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales, pursuant to a scheme of arrangement under Sections 895 to 899 of the UK Companies Act 2006 that was approved by the High Court of Justice in England and Wales and the shareholders of Old Shire the Scheme of Arrangement.
Prior to May 23, 2008 Shire Limited had not commenced trading or made any profits or trading losses.
On October 1, 2008 Shire Limited herein referred as Shire plc changed its name to Shire plc following the approval of the change of name by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement, Ordinary Shares, each having a nominal value of 0.05, of Old Shire Shire Ordinary Shares were exchanged for Ordinary Shares, each having a nominal value of 0.05, of Shire plc Shire plc Ordinary Shares, on a one-for-one basis.
As a result of the Scheme of Arrangement, Old Shire became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Shire plc.
The Shire plc Ordinary Shares carry substantially the same rights as did the Shire Ordinary Shares.
The Scheme of Arrangement did not involve any payment for the Shire plc Ordinary Shares.
Shire plc immediately after the effectiveness of the Scheme of Arrangement had the same Board of Directors, management and corporate governance arrangements as Old Shire had immediately prior thereto.
The consolidated assets and liabilities of Shire plc immediately after the effective time of the Scheme of Arrangement were substantially the same as the consolidated assets and liabilities of Old Shire immediately prior thereto.
The Shire Ordinary Shares underlying the Shire American Depositary Shares the Shire ADSs, each representing three Shire Ordinary Shares, participated in the Scheme of Arrangement like all other Shire Ordinary Shares.
Upon the Scheme of Arrangement becoming effective, the Shire ADSs remained outstanding but became Shire plc ADSs, each representing three Shire plc Ordinary Shares.
The Scheme of Arrangement did not involve any payment for the Shire plc ADSs.
141, the corporate restructuring has been accounted for as a re-organization of entities under common control.
Accordingly, the historical consolidated financial statements prior to the re-organization are labeled as those of Shire plc, but continue to represent the operations of Old Shire.
Earnings per share were unaffected by the re-organization.
All Old Shire stock options granted to Directors and employees under stock option plans that were in existence immediately prior to the Scheme of Arrangement were exchangeable for stock options in Shire plc on a one-for-one basis with no change in any terms or conditions, other than the acceleration of the vesting date of certain awards granted under the Shire plc 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme 2000 Executive Scheme to the date of the Scheme of Arrangement, May 23, 2008.
The number of stock options for which this exchange did not take place was not material.
For presented periods prior to the 2008 corporate restructuring, the equity of Shire plc represents the historical equity of Old Shire, re-stated to reflect the change in the nominal value of common stock as expressed in US dollars resulting from the corporate restructuring.
The $6.4 million increase in the value of common stock at January 1, 2006 being the earliest period presented to $49.1 million on restatement is due to differences between the historic exchange rates used to convert Shires sterling denominated nominal share capital into US dollars, and the exchange rate at the time of the corporate restructuring.
The offset is recorded in additional paid in capital.
5 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Jerini AG acquisition On July 3, 2008 the Group announced that it was launching a voluntary public takeover offer for all outstanding shares in Jerini AG Jerini, a German corporation, at a price of 6.25 Euros per share.
During the second half of 2008 Shire, through its indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Shire Deutschland Investments GmbH, acquired a 98.6% voting interest in Jerini.
The acquisition added Jerinis hereditary angiodema HAE product FIRAZYR icatibant, to Shires portfolio.
By August 6, 2008 the Group had acquired 80.1% of the voting interests in Jerini for a cash consideration of $456.3 million, by i subscribing for new Jerini shares: ii acquiring voting interests through the completion of sale and purchase agreements entered into with institutional shareholders and certain members of Jerinis Management and Supervisory Boards: and iii acquiring voting interests through market purchases.
Between acquiring this controlling voting interest in early August 2008 and December 31, 2008 the Group acquired additional voting interests totaling 18.5% of Jerinis issued share capital, for a cash consideration of $100.2 million obtained by shares tendered during the Offer process, and on and off market purchases.
These additional voting interests have been accounted for as step-acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting.
By December 31, 2008 Shire had acquired a 98.6% voting interest in Jerini for a total consideration of $556.5 million, represented by Jerini shares, $539.8 million, the cash cost of cancelling Jerini stock options $9.4 million and direct costs of acquisition $7.3 million.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 88 88 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued The acquisition of Jerini has been accounted for as a purchase business combination in accordance with SFAS No.
Under the purchase method of accounting, the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed from Jerini are recorded at the date of acquisition at their fair value.
Consolidated financial statements and reported results of operations of Shire issued after the acquisition of this majority holding will reflect these values, with the results of Jerini included from August 1, 2008, for convenience purposes, in the consolidated statement of operations.
The purchase price has been allocated on a preliminary basis to the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
The final fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed will be determined as soon as possible and, in any event, no later than one year from the acquisition date if such fair values can be measured in this period.
To the extent that estimates need to be adjusted, Shire will do so in future periods in accordance with SFAS No.
The following table presents the Groups preliminary allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their fair values based on the Groups 80.1% voting interest acquired by August 6, 2008: Fair value $M ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 56.7 Restricted cash 0.4 Inventories, net 1.9 Assets held-for-sale 24.4 Other current assets 4.9 Total current assets 88.3 Property, plant and equipment 3.6 Goodwill 121.0 Other intangible assets currently marketed product 257.6 In-Process R&D 104.1 Deferred tax asset 0.5 Total assets 575.1 LIABILITIES Current liabilities: 31.3 Deferred tax liability 76.3 Other long-term liabilities 0.8 Total liabilities 108.4 Estimated fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed 466.7 Minority interests 10.4 Cost of 80.1% voting interest acquired 456.3 In respect of the step acquisitions made subsequent to the acquisition of the 80.1% majority voting interest the Group has recognized additional goodwill of $27.0 million, intangible assets in respect of the currently marketed product of $58.1 million and IPR&D of $24.0 million.
a Other intangible assets, currently marketed product Other intangible assets includes $315.7 million being $257.6 million acquired as of August 6, 2008 and $58.1 million in the subsequent step acquisitions relating to intellectual property rights in respect of Jerinis currently marketed product, FIRAZYR, which received marketing authorization from the European Commission in July 2008 for the treatment of acute HAE in the EU.
These intellectual property rights include the right to develop, use, market, sell and or offer for sale the technical processes, intellectual property and institutional understanding including the way in which FIRAZYR reacts in body, an understanding of the mechanisms of action which allow FIRAZYR to work and the knowledge related to the associated clinical and marketing studies performed to obtain approval of FIRAZYR.
The fair value of FIRAZYR in the EU has been determined using an income approach applying the multi-period excess earnings method, based on the present value of incremental after tax cash flows attributable to the asset after the deduction of contributory asset charges for the assets employed including working capital, the assembled workforce and other fixed assets.
This intangible asset has an estimated useful life of 17 years, will be amortized on a straight-line basis, and has been allocated to the HGT reporting segment.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 89 89 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued b Other intangible assets, IPR&D IPR&D is defined by FASB Interpretation No.
4, Applicability of FASB Statement No.
2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method FIN 4, as being a development project that has been initiated and has achieved material progress but i has not yet reached technological feasibility or has not yet received the appropriate regulatory approval, ii has no alternative future use, and iii the fair value is estimable with reasonable certainty.
A project-by-project valuation using the guidance in SFAS No.
141 and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Practice Aid Assets Acquired in a Business Combination to Be Used In Research and Development Activities: A Focus on Software, Electronic Devices and Pharmaceutical Industries the AICPA Practice Aid has been performed to determine the fair value of research and development projects of Jerini which were in-process, but not yet completed as of the acquisition date.
The IPR&D assets of $128.1 million being $104.1 million acquired as of August 6, 2008 and $24.0 million in the subsequent step acquisitions relate to FIRAZYR for the treatment of acute HAE in the US $64.1 million, and the rest of the world excluding the US and EU ROW, $64.0 million.
These IPR&D assets have not yet received approval from the relevant regulatory authorities at the acquisition date.
In the US FIRAZYR received a non-approvable letter from the US Food and Drug Administration in April 2008.
The Group considers that these IPR&D assets have no alternative future use outside of their current development projects and the fair value of these IPR&D assets has therefore been charged to the consolidated statement of operations as of the acquisition date in accordance with FIN 4.
The fair value of the FIRAZYR IPR&D assets was determined using the income approach applying the multi-period excess earnings method.
The fair value of the IPR&D assets has been based on the incremental cash flows expected to be generated by the development projects after the deduction of contributory asset charges in respect of other assets employed in these research projects including working capital, the assembled workforce and other fixed assets.
These estimated future cash flows were then probability adjusted to take into account the stage of completion and the remaining risks and uncertainties surrounding the future development and commercialization of FIRAZYR.
These estimated probability adjusted, after tax cash flows were then discounted at 1718% to determine a present, or fair, value.
The major risks and uncertainties associated with the timely completion of the acquired IPR&D projects consist of the ability to confirm the efficacy of the technology based on data from the clinical trials, and obtaining the relevant regulatory approvals.
The valuations have been based on information at the time of the acquisition and expectations and assumptions that i have been deemed reasonable by the Groups management, and ii are based on information, expectations and assumptions that would be available to and be made by a market participant.
c Assets held-for-sale On acquisition of Jerini the Group and Jerini commenced a strategic review of the acquired assets to identify which of the assets were non-strategic to the newly combined business.
In October 2008 Jerini announced that its Supervisory and Management Boards had concluded that it was in the best interests of Jerini to divest Jerini Ophthalmic, Inc, JOI, Jerini Peptide Technologies Gmbh JPT and Jerinis pre-clinical projects.
144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets SFAS No.
144 the Group has presented the fair value less costs to sell of those businesses that met the SFAS No.
144 criteria, being JOI and JPT, as assets held-for-sale at the acquisition date.
These held-for-sale assets are recorded at their aggregate fair value less costs to sell of $27.8 million for the Groups 98.6% voting interest within the purchase price allocation, the carrying value being primarily represented by the fair value of IPR&D.
These held-for-sale assets are reported in All Other in the Groups segmental analysis, see Note 27.
144 the Group has presented JOI and JPT as discontinued operations, recording a loss of $17.6 million from these businesses in the year to December 31, 2008, 2007: $nil: 2006: $nil.
Revenues and the pre-tax loss from discontinued operations for the year to December 31, 2008 totaled $3.6 million and $17.6 million respectively.
The loss from discontinued operations in the year to December 31, 2008 also includes a charge of $12.9 million arising on the re-measurement of assets held for sale to their fair value less costs to sell at December 31, 2008. d Goodwill Goodwill of $148.0 million resulting from the acquisition of 98.6% of the voting interests in Jerini has been wholly allocated to the HGT reporting segment and is not deductible for tax purposes.
METAZYM acquisition On June 4, 2008 Shire completed the acquisition of the global rights to METAZYM, a clinical candidate arylsulfatase-A, from Zymenex for $135.0 million in cash.
Upon completion Shire recognized an IPR&D charge of $135.0 million in respect of the acquired development project.
New River acquisition On April 19, 2007 Shire completed its acquisition of New River by way of a short-form merger, in an all-cash transaction.
The acquisition was effected by merging Shuttle Corporation, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Shire, with and into New River, with New River continuing as the surviving corporation.
As consideration, Shire paid to New Rivers shareholders $64 in cash for each share of New River common stock outstanding at the time of the acquisition.
The acquisition of New River allowed Shire to capture the full economic value of VYVANSE, and gain control of the future development and commercialization of this product.
VYVANSE for ADHD in pediatric populations was approved by the FDA on February 23, 2007 and the Group received notification from the DEA of the final Schedule II classification for VYVANSE on May 3, 2007.
The acquisition of New River was accounted for using the purchase method in accordance with SFAS No.
Under the purchase method of accounting, the assets and liabilities of New River were recorded at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The consolidated financial statements and reported results of operations of Shire issued after the completion of the acquisition reflect these fair values, with the results of New River being included within the consolidated statement of operations from April 19, 2007.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 90 90 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued Total consideration, including amounts payable in respect of stock options, share appreciation rights SARs, warrants over New Rivers common stock and costs directly attributable to the business combination was approximately $2.6 billion at the price of $64 per share of New Rivers common stock, as analyzed below: $M Cash consideration for 37.1 million outstanding shares of New River common stock at $64 per share i net of 1.5 million of common stock repurchased through a prepaid forward purchase contract 2,276.0 Cash cost of settling New Rivers stock options and SARs 124.5 Cash cost for settling sold warrants over 4.0 million shares of New Rivers common stock 133.0 Direct acquisition costs 61.0 2,594.5 i New River entered into this prepaid forward purchase contract with Merrill Lynch in July 2006.
Accounting for the effective settlement of the New River Collaboration Agreement Prior to the acquisition of New River, on January 31, 2005 Shire entered into a collaboration agreement with New River which governed the development, manufacture and commercialization of VYVANSE for the treatment of ADHD in the US and ROW territories.
In March 2005, this collaboration agreement was split into two separate agreements, the US Collaboration Agreement and the ROW Territory Licence Agreement together the New River Collaboration Agreements.
Under the terms of the New River Collaboration Agreements, the parties were required to collaborate on the development, manufacturing, marketing and sales of VYVANSE in the US.
Profits from the collaboration arising in the US were to be divided according to a predetermined formula, based on the scheduling of VYVANSE by the DEA.
Post-approval milestones were due under the New River Collaboration Agreements if the product received favorable scheduling schedule III, IV or V or unscheduled and on the achievement of certain sales milestones.
Through the New River Collaboration Agreements Shire also acquired the license in the ROW territory to develop and commercialize VYVANSE, in consideration of a low double-digit royalty.
Shire paid an initial sum of $50 million to New River in January 2005 on signing the original collaboration agreement and a further $50 million was paid by Shire to New River following acceptance of the filing of a NDA by the FDA in January 2006.
As Shire had a pre-existing relationship with New River, Shire applied EITF 04-1, Accounting for Pre-existing Relationships between the Parties to a Business Combination EITF 04-1, in accounting for the effective settlement of the New River Collaboration Agreements.
In accordance with EITF 04-1, Shire measured the effective settlement of the New River Collaboration Agreements resulting from its pre-existing relationship with New River and determined that, in respect of the US Collaboration Agreement, it was less favorable to the Group when compared with pricing for current market transactions for similar items.
The ROW Territory License Agreement was determined to be at current market rates.
The valuation of the New River Collaboration Agreements and their current market comparators was based upon information available at the time of the acquisition and using the expectations and assumptions that were deemed reasonable by the Groups management.
Although the US Collaboration Agreement was deemed less favorable to the Group at the time of the acquisition when compared with pricing for current market transactions for similar items, the Group did not record a loss on the effective settlement of the pre-existing relationship in the consolidated statement of operations, nor did the Group adjust its purchase price for New River to reflect any such loss resulting from this effective settlement, as settlement provisions in the US Collaboration Agreement available to the Group enabled effective settlement of the New River Collaboration Agreements at no cost to the Group.
a Purchase price allocation Shires cost of acquiring New River of approximately $2.6 billion has been allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed according to their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition.
Based on this allocation, and at the end of the allocation period, an excess of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed over the cost of acquisition totaling $122.2 million has arisen which management, in accordance with SFAS No.
141, allocated as a pro-rata reduction of amounts that would otherwise have been ascribed to identifiable intangible assets and IPR&D, such IPR&D being immediately charged to expense, having no alternative future use.
The value of other intangible assets and IPR&D below are presented after this prorata allocation.
During the second half of 2008, after the end of the allocation period, the Group reduced the values ascribed to other intangible assets by $24.1 million from amounts previously assigned to these assets in the purchase price allocation.
The change to the values ascribed arose from changes to estimates of deferred taxes: accordingly the excess of the fair value of net assets acquired and liabilities assumed over the cost of the acquisition increased by $24.1 million.
In accordance with SFAS 141 this excess was allocated to intangible assets.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 91 91 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued The following table presents the Groups allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including the post-allocation period adjustment as outlined above based on their fair values.
$M ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 74.9 Short-term investments 55.8 Accounts receivable, net 0.3 Inventories 11.4 Purchased call option 141.8 Deferred tax asset 68.1 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 0.2 Total current assets 352.5 Property, plant and equipment, net 0.8 Other intangible assets, net Intellectual propertydeveloped technology 1,064.5 Favorable manufacturing contracts 8.7 In-Process R&D 1,866.4 Total assets 3,292.9 LIABILITIES Current liabilities: Accounts payable and accrued expenses 33.3 Convertible loan notes 279.4 312.7 Non-current liabilities: Deferred tax liability 385.7 Total liabilities 698.4 Net assets acquired 2,594.5 b IPR&D A project-by-project valuation using the guidance in SFAS No.
141 and the AICPA Practice Aid was performed to determine the fair values of research and development projects of New River which were in-process, but not completed as at the completion of the acquisition.
IPR&D assets totaling $1,866.4 million were identified relating to VYVANSE indicated for ADHD in non-pediatric patients in the US $1,786.8 million and VYVANSE indicated for ADHD in ROW, $79.6 million.
Both of these IPR&D assets had not received approval, either from the FDA or from the relevant regulators in the ROW at the acquisition date.
The Group considered that these IPR&D assets have no alternative future use outside their current development projects, as outlined in the AICPA Practice Aid, and these assets were therefore charged to expense in the consolidated statement of operations as of the acquisition date in accordance with FIN 4.
The fair value of the VYVANSE IPR&D assets was determined through the income approach using the multi-period excess earnings method.
The fair value of the acquired IPR&D assets was based on the present value of the probability adjusted incremental cash flows expected to be generated by the research and development projects, after the deduction of contributory asset charges for other assets employed in these projects such other assets include working capital, the assembled workforce, and the favorable manufacturing contract identified below.
The valuation assumed that, consistent with EITF 04-1, the effective settlement of the pre-existing New River Collaboration Agreements had occurred and Shire had purchased 100% of the forecast future cash flows.
Estimated future cash flows were probability adjusted to take into account the stage of completion and the risks surrounding the successful development and commercialization of the acquired projects.
The estimated after tax cash flows were discounted to present value using risk adjusted discount rates between 10% and 12%.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 92 92 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued The forecast of future cash flows required various assumptions to be made including: revenue that is likely to result from sales of VYVANSE for non-pediatric patients in the US and sales of VYVANSE in ROW, including estimated number of units to be sold, estimated selling prices, estimated market penetration, estimated ADHD market share and year-over-year growth rates over VYVANSEs life cycle: cost of sales for VYVANSE using historical data from similar products, industry data or other sources of market data: sales and marketing expenses using historical data, industry data or other market data: general and administrative expenses: future research and development expenses to complete the development of VYVANSE in the US and ROW: and the tax amortization benefit which would be available to a market participant purchasing the assets piecemeal.
In addition Shire considered: the stage of completion of VYVANSE development in the US and ROW: the costs incurred to date: the projected costs to complete: the contribution, if any, of the acquired identifiable intangible assets, including the favorable manufacturing contract see below : the projected launch date of VYVANSE: and the estimated life of VYVANSE.
The valuations were based on information at the time of the acquisition and expectations and assumptions that i were deemed reasonable by Shires management, and ii were based on information, expectations and assumptions that would have been available to and made by a market participant.
c Identifiable intangible assets Fair value Asset life The acquired identifiable intangible assets were attributable to the following categories: $M Years i iii Intellectual propertydeveloped technology 1,064.5 20 ii Other finite-lived assets 8.7 5 1,073.2 i Relates to VYVANSE approved for the treatment of ADHD in pediatric patients.
ii Relates to a favorable manufacturing contract for VYVANSE.
iii The asset life of 20 years represents the period over which management believe the asset will contribute to the future cash flows of Shire, being the expected commercial lifespan of VYVANSE VYVANSE has patent protection in the US until September 2023 and until September 2024 in Europe.
Acquired identifiable intangible assets primarily represent the value ascribed to developed technology, represented by VYVANSE for the treatment of ADHD in pediatric populations in the US.
These rights include the rights to develop, use, market, sell and or offer for sale the technical processes, intellectual property and institutional understanding including the way in which VYVANSE reacts in body, an understanding of the mechanisms of action which allow VYVANSE to work and the knowledge related to the associated clinical and marketing studies performed for VYVANSE.
The fair value of this intellectual property in respect of VYVANSE for the treatment of ADHD in pediatric populations was determined through the income approach using the multi-period excess earnings method.
The valuation assumes that, consistent with EITF 04-1, the effective settlement of the pre-existing New River Collaboration Agreements has occurred and Shire has purchased 100% of the cash flows of VYVANSE for the treatment of ADHD in pediatric populations in the US.
Using the multi-period excess earnings method, the fair value of intellectual property in respect of VYVANSE for the treatment of ADHD in pediatric populations in the US was based on the present value of the incremental after-tax cash flows attributable to the asset, after the deduction of contributory asset charges for other assets employed including working capital, the assembled workforce, and the favorable manufacturing contract.
The forecast of future cash flows in respect of the VYVANSE intellectual property requires various assumptions to be made, including: revenue that is likely to result from sales of VYVANSE for the treatment of ADHD in pediatric populations, including the estimated number of units to be sold, estimated selling prices, estimated ADHD market penetration, estimated ADHD market share and year-over-year growth rates over VYVANSEs life cycle: cost of sales for the products using historical data, industry data or other sources of market data: sales and marketing expenses using historical data, industry data or other market data: general and administrative expenses: research and development expenses: and the tax amortization benefit which would be available to a market participant purchasing the assets piecemeal.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 93 93 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued The fair value of the favorable manufacturing contract represents the cost savings over market rates negotiated by New River under a five year contract for supply of the active pharmaceutical ingredient used in the manufacture of VYVANSE.
The valuations were based on information available at the time of the acquisition and the expectations and assumptions that i were deemed reasonable by Shires management, and ii were based on information, expectations and assumptions that would have been available to and made by a market participant.
d Convertible notes In July 2006, New River issued $137.8 million of 3.5% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2013 the Notes.
On conversion of the Notes New River was obligated to pay the principal amount of the Notes to the Note holders in cash, with any excess of the fair value over their principal amount the Excess Conversion Value being payable either in cash, shares of New River common stock or a combination of shares of New River common stock and cash at the election of New River.
On April 3, 2007 New River announced that it had elected to settle any Excess Conversion Value in cash.
Following the change of control of New River as a result of the business combination, Note holders were entitled to a make-whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate if they tendered their Notes for conversion prior to May 17, 2007.
98-1, Valuation of Debt Assumed in a Purchase Business Combination, the Notes were valued at their fair value, being the present value of the estimated future cash flows in respect of the Notes as at the date of acquisition.
All the outstanding Notes were tendered for conversion in the period between the acquisition and May 17, 2007 and were therefore settled in cash during the second quarter of 2007 at a value of $279.4 million which equates to the fair value of the Notes at the acquisition date including the makewhole premium.
e Purchased call option Concurrent with the issue of the Notes, New River also entered into a purchased call option with Merrill Lynch at a cost to New River of $43.5 million, being a convertible note hedge transaction for the Excess Conversion Value of the Notes.
The purchased call options covered, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, 4,005,811 shares of New River common stock at strike prices which correspond to the conversion price of the Notes.
New River had recorded the cost of acquiring the purchased call option to additional paid in capital.
As a result of New Rivers election on April 3, 2007 to settle the Excess Conversion Value in cash, Merrill Lynch was obligated to settle the purchased call option in cash.
The fair value of the purchased call option represents the Excess Conversion Value of the Notes, including the make-whole premium.
This fair value of $141.8 million was recorded by the Group as an asset within the purchase price allocation.
f Deferred taxes A net current deferred tax asset of $68.1 million and a net non-current deferred tax liability of $385.7 million were recognized in the purchase price allocation, as analyzed below: $M Deferred tax asset on New River net operating loss carry-forwards 59.5 Other deferred tax assetscurrent 8.6 Net deferred tax assetcurrent 68.1 i Deferred tax liabilities on intangible assetsnon-current 386.1 Other deferred tax liabilities 2.8 Deferred tax liabilitynon-current 388.9 Other deferred tax assetsnon-current 3.2 Net deferred tax liabilitynon-current 385.7 i Principally relating to temporary differences arising in respect of the acquired intangible asset for developed technology representing VYVANSE for the treatment of ADHD in pediatric populations in the US which is not deductible for tax purposes.
The deferred tax liability will be credited to the statement of operations in line with the amortization of the intangible asset.
g Deferred revenue In accordance with the requirements of EITF Issue No.
01-3, Accounting in a Business Combination for Deferred Revenue of an Acquiree, deferred revenue of $3.1 million previously included within New Rivers other current liabilities and $59.5 million included within other non-current liabilities relating to the New River Collaboration Agreements were eliminated from the acquisition balance sheet through the purchase price allocation exercise, as the enlarged Shire group had no external performance obligations in respect of this deferred revenue following the acquisition.
h Restructuring costs An estimate of restructuring costs of $3.6 million accounted for in accordance with EITF Issue No.
95-3 Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with Purchase Business Combinations, was recognized as a liability assumed in the purchase business combination within Accounts payable and accrued expenses.
These costs primarily relate to employee severance costs and the cost of exiting New Rivers Virginia facilities.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 94 94 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued Supplemental disclosure of pro-forma information The following unaudited pro-forma financial information for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 assumes the Jerini acquisition occurred on January 1, 2008, for the year ended December 31, 2007 assumes the Jerini acquisition occurred on January 1, 2007, and for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 assumes the New River acquisition occurred on January 1, 2006.
The unaudited pro-forma financial information which includes Jerini is based upon Shires ownership interest of 98.6% of Jerini at December 31, 2008.
The unaudited pro-forma financial information is not necessarily indicative of what the consolidated results of operations actually would have been had the acquisition been completed at the dates indicated.
In addition, the unaudited pro-forma financial information does not purport to project the future results of operations of the combined Group.
2008 2007 2006 $M $M $M Revenues 3,031.6 2,461.7 1,796.5 Net income from continuing operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting principles 114.7 204.6 105.1 Net income from continuing operations 114.7 204.6 104.4 Net income 97.1 204.6 145.0 Per share amounts: Net income from continuing operations per sharebasic 21.2 37.0 19.2 Net income per Ordinary Sharebasic 18.0 37.0 26.5 Net income from continuing operations per sharediluted 21.0 36.4 19.0 Net income per Ordinary Sharediluted 17.8 36.4 26.3 The unaudited pro-forma financial information above reflects the following pro-forma adjustments applied using the principles of SFAS No.
141: Jerini i an adjustment to decrease interest income by $9.1 million and $29.0 million in the years to December 31, 2008 and 2007 respectively, to reflect the interest foregone on the Groups cash resources used to fund the acquisition of a majority voting interest in Jerini: and ii an adjustment to increase amortization expense by approximately $12.1 million and $18.2 million for the year to December 31, 2008 and 2007 respectively, to reflect amortization of intangible assets relating to the currently marketed product, over the estimated useful life of 17 years.
New River iii an adjustment to eliminate revenues recognized by New River of $3.0 million and $34.3 million for the years to December 31, 2007 and 2006 respectively and expenses incurred by Shire of $50.0 million for the year to December 31, 2006 in connection with the New River Collaboration Agreements: iv an adjustment to increase interest expense by $25.3 million and $67.2 million for the years to December 31, 2007 and 2006 respectively, to reflect the interest expense and amortization of deferred issue costs associated with the $1,300 million drawn down under the Facilities Agreement as defined in Note 20, which was entered into by Shire on February 21, 2007 for the purpose of financing the acquisition of New River: v an adjustment to decrease interest income by $6.5 million and $18.6 million in the years to December 31, 2007 and 2006 respectively, to reflect the interest foregone on the Groups cash resources used to part fund the acquisition of New River: vi an adjustment to increase amortization expense based on the estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets from the purchase price allocation, which are being amortized over their estimated useful lives over a range of 5 to 20 years, of approximately $28.1 million and $56.2 million for the years to December 31, 2007 and 2006 respectively: and vii an adjustment to the weighted average number of shares used in the pro-forma EPS calculation to reflect the private placement of 42.9 million new Ordinary Shares of Shire plc on February 20, 2007, the proceeds of which were used to partially fund the acquisition of New River, as if the private placement took place on January 1, 2006.
The unaudited pro-forma financial information above does not include the New River IPR&D charge of $1,866.4 million and the IPR&D charge of $128.1 million in respect of FIRAZYR outside of the EU, both of which formed part of the preliminary purchase price allocations because they are non-recurring in nature.
The unaudited pro-forma financial information includes a charge of $81.8 million for the year to December 31, 2007 in respect of New River cash settled SARs.
Pursuant to SFAS No 123 R, Share-based payments SFAS No.
123 R, the liability for the cash settled SARs was revalued to fair value at each balance sheet date: these cash settled SARs were extinguished as a result of the acquisition.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 95 95 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 6 GAIN ON SALE OF PRODUCT RIGHTS Disposal of the Beta range In the year to December 31, 2008 Shire received cash consideration of $5.0 million from the divestment of the Beta range of hormone replacement products to Meda AB, realizing a gain of $5.0 million.
Disposal of non-core products to Laboratorios Almirall S. A Almirall On December 18, 2007 the Group received cash consideration of $209.6 million, net of costs of $2.2 million arising on the transfer of product licenses, in respect of the divestment of a portfolio of its non-core products, including SOLARAZE and VANIQA, to Almirall.
The Group recognizes gains in respect of these divested product rights when the relevant regulatory or other consents for the transfer of these product rights are obtained.
Following receipt of the relevant regulatory or other consents the Group recognized gains of $15.7 million and $114.8 million in the year to December 31, 2008 and 2007 respectively on disposal of assets and liabilities with a carrying value of $4.5 million and $62.1 million, including goodwill, intangibles and inventory.
At December 31, 2008 the Group recorded as a deposit within Other current liabilities $12.5 million 2007: $32.7million of proceeds from these products where regulatory or other consents have yet to be obtained.
See Note 11 for further information.
Disposal of EQUETRO In September 2007 Shire sold EQUETRO to Validus Pharmaceuticals Inc. Validus for a cash consideration of $7.5 million and transferred to Validus all post approval study commitments, resulting in a gain of $7.1 million being recorded in the year to December 31, 2007.
Other disposals In the year to December 31, 2007 Shire also received cash consideration of $11.2 million in respect of the divestment of other non-core products resulting in a gain of $5.9 million being recorded.
In addition, the Group received cash consideration of $6.1 million for divested non-core products where regulatory or other consents were yet to be obtained.
At December 31, 2007 these proceeds were recorded as a deposit within Other accrued liabilities pending transfer of the relevant regulatory authorizations for the products.
Disposal of ADDERALL in the year to December 31, 2006 In September 2006, Shire disposed of its ADDERALL immediate release mixed amphetamine salts product to Duramed Pharmaceuticals Inc. Duramed for $63.0 million in cash, resulting in a gain of $63.0 million being recorded.
All assets disposed of during 2008, 2007 and 2006 formed part of the Specialty Pharmaceuticals segment.
7 INTEGRATION COSTS Jerini Integration Integration costs of $10.3 million, primarily acquisition related advisory fees incurred by Jerini and costs relating to the integration of Jerini into Shire, have been incurred in the year to December 31, 2008.
New River Integration Integration costs of $1.3 million in connection with the Groups acquisition of New River were incurred in the year to December 31, 2007.
At December 31, 2007 the integration of New River was completed and no further integration costs will be incurred.
TKT integration costs In connection with the Groups acquisition of TKT in July 2005, the Groups management approved and initiated plans to restructure the operations of the enlarged Group to eliminate duplicate facilities and reduce costs.
Integration costs represent incremental costs incurred by the Group directly related to the absorption of the TKT business into the Group, including expenditures for consulting and systems integration.
The charges have been presented as integration costs in the Statement of Operations and are accounted for solely within the HGT operating segment.
Total costs of $5.6 million were incurred in the year to December 31, 2006 and these related to employee severance and retention payments for key TKT employees $3.0 million, Information technology costs $1.2 million and other costs relating to the integration of TKT $1.4 million.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 96 96 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 8 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS AND RE-ORGANIZATIONS Disposition of the vaccines business On September 9, 2004 the Group completed the disposition of its vaccines business to IDB for a consideration of $120 million.
As part of the transaction, Shire entered into an agreement to provide IDB with a loan facility of up to $100 million, which could be drawn down over the four years following completion.
As at December 31, 2005, IDB had drawn down the entire $100 million loan.
The transaction gave rise to an overall loss on disposition of the vaccines business of $41.1 million, recorded as a loss on disposition at completion in 2004 of $44.2 million and a subsequent provision release of $3.1 million being recognized during the year to December 31, 2005.
This net loss on disposition of $41.1 million comprised a gain on disposition of net assets of $28.9 million together with a provision for a loss of $70 million out of the $100 million loan facility available to IDB.
On February 14, 2006 the Group received $78.7 million from IDB, being the full repayment of the $70.6 million injectable flu development drawings, together with accrued interest of $8.1 million.
The repayment followed the acquisition of IDB by GSK, after which IDB was provided with resources by GSK to fund the early repayment of the injectable flu tranche.
At the time of the disposal, a provision of $70.0 million was charged to discontinued operations on the basis that there was no certainty of recovery of this amount.
The $70.0 million provision was allocated against all of the pipeline development tranche $29.4 million and against $40.6 million of the $70.6 million injectable flu development tranche.
Accordingly, the $78.7 million received in 2006 was recorded as follows: a gain on disposition of discontinued operations of $40.6 million being the amount previously provided against the injectable flu development tranche : settlement of the loan receivable balance of $31.6 million being the unprovided component of the injectable flu development loan, plus recognized and accrued interest : and interest income of $6.5 million being interest earned in the year of $1.0 million and $5.5 million of interest earned but provided for in previous periods.
The repayment of the $70.6 million injectable flu tranche had no tax effect.
On March 28, 2008 the Group agreed to a final settlement with IDB of $4.0 million for the outstanding pipeline development tranche and interest.
The amount received was recorded within interest income for the year to December 31, 2008 in accordance with the method of allocating receipts between interest and advances in the loan agreement.
9 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE, NET Accounts receivable at December 31, 2008 of $395.0 million December 31, 2007: $441.5 million, are stated net of a provision for sales discounts and doubtful accounts of $20.2 million December 31, 2007: $9.8 million.
The movement in the provision for sales discounts and doubtful accounts is as follows: 2008 2007 2006 $M $M $M As at January 1, 9.8 8.8 9.7 Charged to operations 95.0 60.1 47.1 Utilization 84.6 59.1 48.0 As at December 31, 20.2 9.8 8.8 Revenues are mainly derived in North America 76% of total revenues from agreements with major pharmaceutical companies and relationships with pharmaceutical wholesale distributors and retail pharmacy chains.
Material customers are disclosed in Note 27.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 97 97 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 10 INVENTORIES Inventories at December 31, 2008 of $154.5 million December 31, 2007: $174.1 million are stated at the lower of cost or market and are analyzed as follows: December 31, December 31, 2008 2007 $M $M Finished goods 41.4 67.6 Work-in-process 78.7 66.2 Raw materials 34.4 40.3 154.5 174.1 During the year to December 31, 2008 the Group wrote down the value of its DYNEPO inventory to the lower of cost or market, a write-down of $48.8 million.
Changes in the external environment during the year, including the launch of several competing bio-similars at lower prices has made DYNEPO uneconomic for the Group.
Accordingly during the year to December 31, 2008 the Group decided to stop commercializing DYNEPO.
Product sales were wound down over the second half of 2008 as all patients were transferred off DYNEPO by the end of 2008.
At December 31, 2008 inventories included $11.5 million 2007: $nil of costs related to inventories capitalized prior to the regulatory approval of the relevant product.
11 ASSETS HELD-FOR-SALE At December 31, 2008 assets held-for-sale had a carrying value of $16.6 million December 31, 2007: $10.6 million principally comprising JOI and JPT acquired through the Jerini acquisition which the Group intends to divest $14.9 million.
For further details in respect of these assets, see Note 5.
Other assets held-for-sale of $1.7 million 2007: $10.6 million primarily represent intangible assets and attributed goodwill for certain products divested to Almirall in 2007 of $1.7 million 2007: $8.3 million.
The recognition of the gains arising on the disposal of these products and the fide-recognition of the related assets have been deferred pending the completion of the transfer of the relevant regulatory and other consents to the acquirer.
For further details see Note 6.
These assets form part of the Specialty Pharmaceuticals operating segment.
12 PREPAID EXPENSES AND OTHER CURRENT ASSETS December 31, December 31, 2008 2007 $M $M Prepaid expenses 47.6 38.1 Income tax receivable 33.2 19.2 Value added taxes receivable 19.3 10.8 Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan SERP investment see Note 30 7.2 0.9 Other current assets 34.1 56.3 141.4 125.3 At December 31, 2007 Other current assets included $23.0 million, payable by Shires insurance companies as a contribution towards the settlement of the TKT Class Action Shareholder Suit, see Note 24 d. This amount was paid into escrow by the insurance companies during the year to December 31, 2008.
The settlement was approved by the Court on June 11, 2008.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 98 98 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 13 INVESTMENTS December 31, December 31, 2008 2007 $M $M Investments in private companies 19.3 23.2 Available-for-sale securities 6.1 62.1 Equity method investments 17.5 24.9 42.9 110.2 The Group recorded impairments of $58.0 million on its investments in private companies and available-for-sale securities during the year to December 31, 2008 2007: $3.0 million: 2006: $2.1 million.
See Note 29. i Investments in private companies During the year to December 31, 2008 there were no additions to investments in private companies.
During the years to December 31, 2007 and 2006 the Group had additions to investments of $6.2 million and $8.0 million respectively in respect of increased equity interests in ViroChem Pharma Inc. During the year to December 31, 2008 the Group recorded impairments of $nil million 2007: $nil: 2006: $1.8 million against its investments in private companies.
The 2006 impairment was based on a decline in the estimates of the fair value of certain private companies that the Group concluded were other-than-temporary.
ii Available-for-sale securities Renovo Group plc On June 19, 2007 Shire signed a development and license agreement with Renovo Limited Renovo, an affiliate of Renovo Group plc to develop and commercialize JUVISTA, Renovos novel drug candidate which at the time of entering into the development and license agreement was in late Phase 2 development, outside the EU.
In accordance with this agreement, on August 20, 2007 Shire made an equity investment of $50.0 million for 12.4 million Ordinary Shares in Renovo Group plc, which represented 6.5% of the total outstanding shares in Renovo Group plc immediately after the issue.
The Group has accounted for this investment as an available-for-sale security in accordance with SFAS No.
115 Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.
For further information on the development and license agreement, see Note 24.
Avexa Limited Avexa On January 22, 2007 Shire amended its out-license agreement with Avexa relating to the investigational HIV compound SPD754, to extend Avexas exclusive commercialization rights to include the US and Canadian markets.
In return, Shire received an up-front cash payment of $10 million, eight million additional Avexa shares valued at $2.9 million taking its shareholding in Avexa to just over 8% and will receive further milestones and royalty payments upon approval and commercialization of the product.
In March 2007, Avexa reported positive Phase 2b results for SPD754 and initiated a capital raising program, including a rights issue, to fund Phase 3 trials.
Shire has fully participated in the rights issue and accordingly has recognized an additional investment of $3.6 million.
In August 2008, Shire granted Avexa an option for 18 months to amend the license agreement to reduce the sales royalties and to remove future milestone payments for an aggregate payment of $19.0 million in cash upon exercise of the option.
Shire received $5.0 million of additional Avexa shares for the option grant, equal to 18.6 million shares taking its holding in Avexa to just over 11%.
Other-than-temporary impairment of available-for-sale securities The Group recorded other-than-temporary impairments of $58.0 million, $3.0 million and $0.3 million against its available-for-sale securities in the years to December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 respectively.
During the year to December 31, 2008 the Group recognized impairment charges in respect of its available-for-sale securities totaling $58.0 million, including $44.3 million for the Groups investment in Renovo Group plc.
These amounts represent unrealized holding losses that have been re-classified out of other comprehensive income into earnings in the period, as management has concluded that the impairment is other-than-temporary.
The decline in the market value of the Groups investment in Renovo Group plc initially arose from the results of clinical trials for JUVISTA announced over 2007 and 2008.
During the third quarter of 2008, in considering whether the decline in value was temporary or other-than-temporary under US GAAP the Group considered the following factors: the severity of the decline from historical cost 87% and its duration eleven months : market analysts targets of Renovo Group plcs share price for the next 1824 months: and the revised expected filing date for JUVISTA due to the adoption of a sequential rather than parallel Phase 3 development plan.
As such, the Group concluded that for US GAAP purposes the decline in value was other-than-temporary.
In such circumstances US GAAP requires the full difference between the book value of the investment and the fair market value be recognized as an other-than-temporary impairment.
Accordingly the Group recognized an impairment charge of $44.3 million for its investment in Renovo Group plc through the Statement of Operations in the third quarter of 2008.
For purposes of computing the impairment charge fair value was assumed to be 0.26 per share, representing the closing price of Renovo Group plc securities on the London Stock Exchange on September 30, 2008.
If in the future JUVISTAs Phase 3 trials report positively and Renovo Group plcs other products progress through development, Renovo Group plcs share price could react favorably and the Group may recover some or all of this impairment loss.
Any future potential increases in the value of Renovo Group plc will be recognized through other comprehensive income.
The closing price of Renovo Group plc securities on the London Stock Exchange on December 31, 2008 was 0.20, and the carrying value of the Groups investment in Renovo Group plc was $3.6 million.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 99 99 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 13 INVESTMENTS continued Realized gain on divestment of available-for-sale securities Other expense income, net includes a gain of $9.4 million from the sale of Shires available-for-sale investment in Questcor Pharmaceutical Inc. a specialty pharmaceutical company focused on providing prescription drugs for central nervous system CNS disorders.
Shire received cash consideration of $10.3 million on the sale of this investment.
During 2007, Shire sold an investment in part of its portfolio of available-for-sale securities, valued at $0.4 million, realizing a gain on the sale of $0.1 million.
In 2006, there were no sales of available-for-sale securities.
December 31, December 31, 2008 2007 Equity method investments $M $M GSK Partnership 5.1 7.6 GeneChem Funds 6.1 10.4 Other 6.3 6.9 17.5 24.9 a GSK Partnership The Group has accounted for its commercialization partnership with GSK through which the products 3TC and ZEFFIX are marketed in Canada, using the equity method of accounting.
The Groups 50% share of the partnership is included within Equity in earnings of equity method investees.
b GeneChem Funds The GeneChem Technologies Venture Fund and the GeneChem Therapeutics Venture Fund the Funds are Canadian limited partnerships investing in healthcare research and development companies, in which the Group owns 30% and 11% of the issued shares respectively.
At December 31, 2008 the Funds net assets totaled approximately $46.8 million 2007: $68.8 million: 2006: $72.0 million.
The Group is involved as a limited partner and has been involved in the Funds since 1997.
In August 2008, Shire sold GeneChem Financial Corporation, to its management for CAD$2.4 million, payable over two years.
Accordingly, Shire has ceased to be the general partner of the Funds.
The Groups exposure to loss as a result of its involvement with the Funds is limited to the carrying value of the investment, $6.1 million at December 31, 2008.
14 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, NET December 31, December 31, 2008 2007 $M $M Land and buildings 267.6 198.0 Office furniture, fittings and equipment 228.2 177.1 Warehouse, laboratory and manufacturing equipment 80.1 54.8 Assets under construction 164.3 94.4 740.2 524.3 Less: Accumulated depreciation 206.0 155.7 534.2 368.6 Depreciation expense for the years to December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $77.2 million, $65.3 million, and $48.1 million respectively.
The expense included impairment losses of $2.2 million, $1.8 million and $0.5 million in the years to December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 respectively.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 100 100 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 15 GOODWILL December 31, December 31, 2008 2007 $M $M Goodwill arising on businesses acquired 350.8 219.4 The changes in the net book value of goodwill for the years to December 31, 2008 and 2007 are shown in the table below: 2008 2007 $M $M As at January 1, 219.4 237.4 Acquisitions 148.0 Adjustments relating to prior year acquisitions 15.0 Re-classified to assets held-for-sale 1.0 Disposals 5.0 Foreign currency translation 16.6 3.0 As at December 31, 350.8 219.4 During the year to December 31, 2008 the Group acquired more than a 98% voting interest in Jerini for cash consideration of $556.5 million which resulted in goodwill of $148.0 million see Note 5.
This goodwill has been attributed to the HGT reporting segment.
During the year to December 31, 2007 the Group attributed $6.0 million of goodwill to the divested portfolio of non-core product rights sold to Almirall, of which $0.4 million remains within assets held-for-sale at December 31, 2008, see Note 11.
Goodwill attributed to the divestment arose in the Specialty Pharmaceuticals segment.
During the year to December 31, 2007 the Group acquired New River for $2.6 billion through a purchase business combination.
No goodwill arose on the acquisition, as pursuant to SFAS No.
141, the excess of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed over the cost of the acquisition totaling $146.3 million including those adjustments arising in the second half of the year to December 31, 2008 as outlined in Note 5 has been allocated pro-rata to reduce the values that would otherwise have been ascribed to acquired intangible assets and IPR&D see Note 5.
In the year to December 31, 2007 the Group reduced goodwill arising on the acquisition of TKT by $15.0 million.
109, the Group is required to first reduce goodwill to zero and then to reduce non-current intangible assets arising on acquisition for all changes in estimates related to tax contingencies and the elimination of valuation allowances established at the time of the acquisition, regardless of the time elapsed since the date of acquisition.
Accordingly the Group reduced the goodwill in respect of the TKT acquisition by $11.0 million due to the elimination of a valuation allowance established against acquired deferred tax assets and the goodwill was further reduced by $4.0 million due to a change in estimate in respect of pre-acquisition income tax contingencies.
At December 31, 2008 goodwill of $202.4 million 2007: $203.9 million is held in the Specialty Pharmaceuticals segment and $148.4 million 2007: $15.5 million in the HGT segment.
16 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS, NET December 31, December 31, 2008 2007 $M $M Other intangible assets: Intellectual property rights acquired 2,389.9 2,116.8 Favorable manufacturing contracts 8.7 8.9 2,398.6 2,125.7 Less: Accumulated amortization 437.0 321.6 Impairment charges 136.7 39.6 1,824.9 1,764.5 Intellectual property rights relate to currently marketed products.
At December 31, 2008 the net book value of these intellectual property rights for products with sales recorded in the Specialty Pharmaceuticals operating segment was $1,244.9 million December 31, 2007: $1,440.6 million and in the HGT operating segment was $579.3 million December 31, 2007: $322.4 million.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 101 101 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 16 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS, NET continued The increase in the net book value of other intangible assets for the year to December 31, 2008 is shown in the table below: Other intangible assets $M As at January 1, 2008 1,764.5 Acquisitions 350.8 Amortization charged 127.9 Assets transferred to held-for-sale 0.1 Impairment charges 97.1 New River purchase price allocation adjustment 24.1 Foreign currency translation 41.2 As at December 31, 2008 1,824.9 During the year to December 31, 2008 the Group acquired intangible assets totaling $350.8 million, principally relating to FIRAZYR $315.7 million for the treatment of acute HAE in the EU acquired through the Jerini business combination, and DAYTRANA $25.0 million.
The weighted average amortization period for acquired assets is 17 years.
Intangible asset acquisitions exclude $263.1 million of IPR&D acquired through the Jerini acquisition and the acquisition of METAZYM from Zymenex which was immediately charged to the Consolidated Statement of Operations at the acquisition date see Note 5.
Amortization charged for the three years to December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $127.9 million, $95.8 million and $56.3 million, respectively.
The Group recorded impairments of $97.1 million, $0.4 million and $1.1 million in the years to December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 respectively, recorded within Selling, general and administrative costs.
During the year to December 31, 2008 the Group recognized impairment charges of $97.1 million, of which $94.6 million relates to the write-down of its DYNEPO intangible asset to fair value $nil.
Changes in the external environment, including the launch of several competing bio-similars at lower prices has made DYNEPO uneconomic for the Group.
Accordingly the Group has decided to stop commercializing DYNEPO.
The fair value of DYNEPO has been determined using an expected present value technique.
The impairment charge relates to the Specialty Pharmaceuticals operating segment.
Following the resolution of uncertainties during the year to December 31, 2008 principally relating to the tax treatment of certain items incurred by New River, the Group changed its estimates of deferred taxes from those estimates made in the New River purchase price allocation.
In accordance with EITF 93-7 Uncertainties Related to Income Taxes in a Purchase Business Combination, the effect of resolving these uncertainties has been applied to decrease non-current intangible assets by $24.1 million as no goodwill arose on the acquisition of New River, see Note 5.
The useful economic lives of all intangible assets that continue to be amortized under SFAS No.
Management estimates that the annual amortization charges in respect of intangible assets held at December 31, 2008 will be approximately $137 million for each of the five years to December 31, 2013.
Estimated amortization expense can be affected by various factors including future acquisitions, disposals of product rights, foreign exchange movements and the technological advancement and regulatory approval of competitor products.
17 OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS December 31, December 31, 2008 2007 $M $M SERP investment see Note 30 7.0 Deferred financing costs see Note 20 11.5 16.6 Other assets 6.9 3.3 18.4 26.9 Further details of the SERP investment are provided in Note 30.
The amount shown above is the cash surrender value of life insurance policies, which is backed by short-term investments.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 102 102 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 18 ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED EXPENSES December 31, December 31, 2008 2007 $M $M Trade accounts payable 102.4 79.6 Accrued rebatesMedicaid 162.6 114.3 Accrued rebatesManaged care 59.9 32.3 Sales return reserve 47.1 39.5 Accrued bonuses 62.0 59.6 Accrued employee compensation and benefits payable 36.7 35.0 Accrued coupons 4.0 9.0 Research and development accruals 29.3 38.2 Marketing accruals 22.1 19.0 Deferred revenue 9.6 11.1 Accrued settlement costs 2.6 51.5 Other accrued expenses 170.3 185.1 708.6 674.2 At December 31, 2007 Accrued settlement costs included $50.0 million, for the settlement of the TKT Class Action Shareholder Suit, see Note 24 d. This amount was paid into escrow by Shire $27.0 million and Shires insurance companies $23.0 millionsee Note 12 during the year to December 31, 2008.
19 OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES December 31, December 31, 2008 2007 $M $M Income taxes payable 25.8 47.3 Value added taxes 4.4 6.0 Derivative financial instruments 46.9 2.8 Other accrued liabilities 27.2 40.4 104.3 96.5 20 LONG-TERM DEBT Shire 2.75% Convertible Bonds due 2014 On May 9, 2007 Old Shire issued $1,100 million in principal amount of 2.75% Convertible Bonds due 2014 and convertible into fully paid Shire Ordinary Shares of the Bonds.
The net proceeds of issuing the Bonds, after deducting the commissions and other direct costs of issue, totaled $1,081.7 million.
The Bonds were issued at 100% of their principal amount, and unless previously purchased and canceled, redeemed or converted, will be redeemed on May 9, 2014 the Final Maturity Date at their principal amount.
The Bonds bear interest at 2.75% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears on November 9 and May 9.
The Bonds constitute direct, unconditional, unsubordinated and unsecured obligations of the Company, and rank pari passu and rateably, without any preference amongst themselves, and equally with all other existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Company.
The Bonds may be redeemed at the option of the Company, the Call Option, at their principal amount together with accrued and unpaid interest if: i at any time after May 23, 2012 if on no less than 20 dealing days in any period of 30 consecutive dealing days the value of Shires Ordinary Shares underlying each Bond in the principal amount of $100,000 would exceed $130,000: or ii at any time conversion rights shall have been exercised, and or purchases and corresponding cancelations, and or redemptions effected in respect of 85% or more in principal amount of Bonds originally issued.
The Bonds may also be redeemed at the option of the Bond-holder at their principal amount including accrued but unpaid interest on May 9, 2012 the Put Option, or following the occurrence of change of control.
The Bonds are repayable in US dollars, but also contain provisions entitling the Company to settle redemption amounts in Pounds sterling, or in the case of the Final Maturity Date and following exercise of the Put Option, by delivery of the underlying Shire Ordinary Shares and a cash top-up amount.
The Bonds are convertible into Shire Ordinary Shares during the conversion period, being the period from June 18, 2007 until the earlier of: i the close of business on the date falling 14 days prior to the Final Maturity Date: ii if the Bonds have been called for redemption by the Company, the close of business 14 days before the date fixed for redemption: iii the close of business on the day prior to a Bond-holder giving notice of redemption in accordance with the conditions: and iv the giving of notice by the trustee that the Bonds are accelerated by reason of the occurrence of an event of default.
Upon conversion, the Bond-holder is entitled to receive Shire Ordinary Shares at the initial conversion price of $33.5879 per Shire Ordinary Share, subject to adjustment as outlined below, being 2,977.26265 shares per $100,000 denomination.
The initial conversion price is subject to adjustment in respect of i any dividend or distribution by the Company, ii a change of control and iii customary anti-dilution adjustments for, inter alia, share consolidations, share splits, spin-off events, rights issues, bonus issues and re-organizations.
The Shares issued on conversion will be delivered credited as fully paid, and will rank pari passu in all respects with all fully paid Shares in issue on the relevant conversion date.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 103 103 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 20 LONG-TERM DEBT continued On the issuance of the Bonds, the Company evaluated whether: a the conversion feature of such the issuance should be bifurcated from the debt host and separately accounted for as a derivative instrument in accordance with the requirements of SFAS No.
133 or b the conversion feature meets the criteria within SFAS No.
133 for exemption from treatment as a derivative instrument.
As the conversion feature in the Bonds qualifies for the SFAS No.
133 exemption from treatment as a derivative instrument, the Bonds are accounted for by the Company in accordance with APB 14.
In accordance with APB 14 no portion of the proceeds of the Bonds has been allocated to the conversion feature and the Bonds have been recorded at their principal amount within non-current liabilities.
In connection with the Scheme of Arrangement Shire entered into: i a supplemental trust deed dated April 15, 2008 between Shire plc, Old Shire and BNY Corporate Trustee Services Limited as Trustee the Supplemental Trust Deed relating to a trust deed dated May 9, 2007 the Trust Deed constituting the US $1,100,000,000 2.75% Convertible Bonds due 2014 the Convertible Bonds originally issued by Shire: and ii an accession and amendment agreement dated April 15, 2008 between Shire plc, Old Shire, BNY Corporate Trustee Services Limited as Trustee and The Bank of New York as Paying and Conversion Agent the Accession and Amendment Agreement relating to a paying and conversion agency agreement dated May 9, 2007 the Agency Agreement between Old Shire, BNY Corporate Trustee Services Limited as Trustee and The Bank of New York as Paying and Conversion Agent.
The following is a description of the material amendments to the Trust Deed, effected pursuant to the Supplemental Trust Deed, and to the Agency Agreement, effected pursuant to the Accession and Amendment Agreement, each of which took effect on May 23, 2008, immediately prior to the Scheme of Arrangement becoming effective.
Shire plc was substituted in place of Old Shire as principal obligor under, and issuer of, the Convertible Bonds, and Shire plc acceded to, and assumed all Old Shire obligations under, the Trust Deed and the Agency Agreement.
Old Shire ceased to be a party to the Trust Deed and the Agency Agreement.
The Trust Deed, the Agency Agreement and the terms and conditions of the Convertible Bonds were amended and re-stated in order to, among other things, provide that the Convertible Bonds will, following the substitution, be convertible into Ordinary Shares of Shire plc.
Direct costs of issue of the Bonds paid in the year to December 31, 2007 totaled $18.3 million.
These costs are being amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the five-year period to the Put Option date.
At December 31, 2008 $12.6 million was deferred $3.8 million within other current assets and $8.8 million within other non-current assets.
Multi-currency Term and Revolving Facilities Agreement In connection with the acquisition of New River, Shire plc entered into a Multi-currency Term and Revolving Facilities Agreement the Facilities Agreement with ABN AMRO Bank N. V. Barclays Capital, Citigroup Global Markets Limited and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc the Arrangers on February 20, 2007.
The Facilities Agreement comprised three credit facilities: i a committed multi-currency five year term loan facility in an aggregate amount of $1,000 million Term Loan A, ii a committed multi-currency 364 day term with a further 364 day extension option loan facility in an aggregate amount of $300 million Term Loan B and iii a committed five year revolving loan facility in an aggregate amount of $1,000 million the RCF and, together with Term Loan A and Term Loan B, the Facilities.
Shire plc has agreed to act as guarantor for any of its subsidiaries that borrow under the Facilities Agreement.
On April 18, 2007 the Group fully utilized Term Loan A of $1,000 million and Term Loan B of $300 million to partially fund the acquisition of New River.
In May 2007 Shire issued $1,100 million principal amount of the Bonds.
The proceeds of the issue were used to repay and cancel $800 million of Term Loan A and all of Term Loan B in accordance with the terms of the Facilities Agreement.
The remaining $200 million drawn down under Term Loan A was repaid on June 29, 2007.
On July 19, 2007, the Group entered into a syndication and amendment agreement in relation to the Facilities Agreement dated February 20, 2007 the Amended Facilities Agreement, which increased the RCF to an aggregate amount of $1,200 million, amended the covenant relating to the ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA and syndicated the RCF between the following banks which have the following commitment: ABN Amro Bank N. V. $200 million : Barclays Capital, $200 million : Citigroup Global Markets Limited, $200 million : The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, $200 million : Lloyds TSB Bank plc, $200 million : Bank of America N. A.
$100 million : and Morgan Stanley Bank, $100 million.
The RCF, which includes a $250 million swingline facility, may be used for general corporate purposes and matures on February 20, 2012.
The availability of loans under the RCF is subject to customary conditions, including the absence of any defaults thereunder and the accuracy in all material respects of Shires representations and warranties contained therein.
The interest rate on each loan drawn under the RCF for each interest period, as determined by the Group, is the percentage rate per annum which is the aggregate of the applicable margin ranging from 0.40 to 0.80% per annum, depending on the ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA for the preceding period and LIBOR for the applicable currency and interest period.
Shire also pays a commitment fee on undrawn amounts at 35% per annum of the applicable margin.
The Amended Facilities Agreement includes requirements that i Shires ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA as defined in the Amended Facilities Agreement does not exceed 3.5 to 1 for either the twelve month period ending December 31 or June 30 unless Shire has exercised its option which is subject to certain conditions to increase it to 4.0 to 1 for two consecutive testing dates: and ii that the ratio of EBITDA to Net Interest as defined in the Facilities Agreement must not be less than 4.0 to 1, for either the twelve month period ending December 31 or June 30, and iii additional limitations on the creation of liens, disposal of assets, incurrence of indebtedness, making of loans, giving of guarantees and granting security over assets.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 104 104 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 20 LONG-TERM DEBT continued Upon a change of control of Shire or upon the occurrence of an event of default and the expiration of any applicable cure period, the total commitments under the Facilities may be canceled and or all or part of the loans, together with accrued interest and all other amounts accrued or outstanding may become immediately due and payable.
Events of default under the Amended Facilities Agreement include: i non-payment of any amounts due under the Facilities: ii failure to satisfy any financial covenants: iii material misrepresentation in any of the finance documents: iv failure to pay, or certain other defaults under other financial indebtedness: v certain insolvency events or proceedings: vi material adverse changes in the business, operations, assets or financial condition of the group: vii certain US Employee Retirement Income Security Act breaches which would have a material adverse effect: viii if it becomes illegal for Shire or any of its subsidiaries that are parties to the Amended Facility Agreement to perform their obligations or ix if Shire or any subsidiary of Shire which is party to the Amended Facility Agreement repudiates the Amended Facility Agreement or any Finance Document as defined in the Amended Facility Agreement.
In connection with the Scheme of Arrangement, with effect from May 23, 2008, Old Shire entered into an accession and amendment deed dated April 15, 2008 between Shire plc formerly Shire Limited, Old Shire, certain subsidiaries of Shire plc and Barclays Bank plc as Facility Agent the Accession and Amendment Deed relating to the Amended Facilities Agreement.
The following is a description of the material amendments to the Amended Facilities Agreement, affected pursuant to the Accession and Amendment Deed, which took effect on May 23, 2008, immediately prior to the Scheme of Arrangement becoming effective.
Shire plc acceded to the Facility Agreement as a borrower and guarantor, and Shire Holdings UK Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Old Shire, acceded to the Facility Agreement as a borrower.
Old Shire ceased to be a party to the Facility Agreement as a guarantor although it remains a party to the Facility Agreement as a borrower.
The Amended Facilities Agreement was amended and re-stated in order to take account of the fact that Shire plc is incorporated in Jersey and tax resident in the Republic of Ireland, to exclude the Scheme of Arrangement between Shire plc and its shareholders from the mandatory prepayment provisions contained in the Amended Facilities Agreement, and amend the financial covenants contained in the Amended Facilities Agreement in order to ensure that if any amount of interest awarded in the TKT appraisal rights litigation differs from that provided for in Shires accounts, any excess or shortfall would be treated as if it had been provided for on a pro-rata basis in accounting periods up to the time of judgment.
This amendment was made to avoid a technical breach of the Amended Facilities Agreement in the accounting period in which the any judgment occurs.
During the year ended December 31, 2007 the Group paid $14.5 million for the arrangement of the Facilities of which $1.2 million has been amortized in the year to December 31, 2008 $9.4 million amortized in the year to December 31, 2007.
The remaining arrangement costs of $3.9 million, which relate to the RCF, remain deferred at December 31, 2008 and are being amortized over the estimated term of the facility $1.2 million within other current assets and $2.7 million within other non-current assets.
On November 7, 2008 Shire utilized $190.0 million of the facility to part fund the TKT appraisal rights litigation settlement.
The loan was repaid in full prior to December 31, 2008 see Note 24.
New River 3.5% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2013 During July 2006, New River issued $137.8 million of 3.5% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2013 the Notes.
Prior to the acquisition of New River during April 2007, the Notes were convertible according to their terms following the New River share price having exceeded predetermined levels.
Following Shires acquisition of New River, the Notes also became convertible as a result of the change of control of New River, entitling Note holders to a make-whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate if the Notes were tendered for conversion prior to May 17, 2007.
All of the outstanding Notes were tendered for conversion in the period between the acquisition and May 17, 2007 and were settled at their fair value of $279.4 million.
21 OTHER LONG-TERM DEBT On August 17, 2007 Shire entered into a multi-year lease on laboratory and office space in Lexington, Massachusetts for its HGT business unit.
The lease expires in 2023 although Shire has the option to extend the term of the lease for additional periods up to a total of 15 years.
Pursuant to the requirements of EITF 97-10, The Effect of Lessee Involvement in Asset Construction, as the Group is in substance the owner of the property during the construction phase, the related asset and corresponding financial obligation have been recorded within Property, plant and equipment, net and Other long-term debt, as a building financing obligation.
The fair value of the building element at inception of the arrangement of $32.7 million has been included in the balance sheet in Property, plant and equipment, net.
13, Accounting for Leases, the land element of the lease has been accounted for as an operating lease.
At the completion of the construction period, the Group will review the building for potential sale-leaseback treatment in accordance with SFAS No.
98, Accounting for Leases: Sale-Leaseback Transactions Involving Real Estate, Sales-Type Leases of Real Estate, Definition of the Lease Term, and Initial Direct Costs of Direct Financing Leasesan amendment of FASB Statements No.
13, 66, and 91 and a rescission of FASB Statement No.
However, based on its preliminary analysis, the Group determined that the building will not qualify for sale-leaseback treatment.
Therefore, the building, improvements and associated liabilities will remain on the Groups consolidated balance sheet throughout the lease term.
The building and tenant improvements will be depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Concurrent with entering into the lease, Shire also entered into an agreement which provided Shire, inter alia, with the option to purchase or lease additional manufacturing, laboratory and office space in Lexington, Massachusetts.
During 2008 Shire has purchased and leased additional manufacturing, laboratory and office space pursuant to this option agreement.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 105 105 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 22 OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES December 31, December 31, 2008 2007 $M $M Income taxes payable 220.4 320.8 SERP see Note 30 1.8 3.6 Deferred revenue 29.5 13.9 Deferred rent 16.1 16.8 Insurance provisions 18.1 14.7 Other accrued liabilities 5.4 5.8 291.3 375.6 23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Assets and Liabilities that are Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis As outlined in Note 2 x, on January 1, 2008 the Group adopted the provisions of SFAS No.
157 as they relate to financial assets and financial liabilities.
The following are the major categories of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis during the year to December 31, 2008 using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets Level 1 : significant other observable inputs Level 2 : and significant unobservable inputs Level 3.
Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 $M $M $M $M Financial assets: Available-for-sale securities 6.1 6.1 Equity method investments 6.1 6.1 i Derivatives 2.7 2.7 Financial liabilities: i Derivatives 46.9 46.9 i Derivatives comprise swap and forward foreign exchange contracts.
Certain estimates and judgments were required to develop the fair value amounts.
The fair value amounts shown above are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Group would realize upon disposition, nor do they indicate the Groups intent or ability to dispose of the financial instrument.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each material class of financial instrument: available-for-sale securitiesthe fair values of available-for-sale investments are estimated based on quoted market prices for those investments: equity method investmentsthe Groups equity method investments comprise quoted and unquoted investments.
The fair values of quoted investments within the funds are estimated based on quoted market prices for those investments.
For unquoted investments within the fund, the fair value is estimated using directly observable inputs other than quoted prices: and  instruments comprise swap and forward foreign exchange contracts.
The fair value of the swap and forward foreign exchange contracts has been determined using an income approach based on current market expectations about the future cash flows.
Fair value of financial instruments At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Groups financial instruments included cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, marketable securities, accounts receivable, investments, accounts payable and accrued expenses, Convertible Bonds, building finance obligations and derivative contracts.
The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses approximate fair value because of the short-term maturity of these amounts.
Available-for-sale marketable securities, investments and derivatives are recorded at fair values as indicated in the preceding disclosures.
The estimated fair values of the Groups other financial instruments as at December 31, 2008 and 2007 are summarized below.
The fair value amounts shown below are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Group would realize upon disposition, nor do they indicate the Groups intent or ability to dispose of the financial instrument.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each material class of financial instrument: Convertible Bondsthe fair value of the Shire plcs 2.75% Convertible Bonds due 2014 is estimated by reference to the market price of the instrument as the Convertible Bonds are publicly traded: and building financing obligationsthe fair value of building financing obligations are estimated based on the discounted future cash flows using the Groups incremental borrowing rate.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 106 106 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued The carrying amounts and corresponding fair values of financial instruments are as follows: December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value $M $M $M $M Financial assets: Option over Avexa shares 0.7 Financial liabilities: Convertible Bonds 1,100.0 892.9 1,100.0 1,110.1 Building financing obligation 45.6 40.7 32.9 36.4 24 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES a Operating Leases Future minimum payments presented below include operating lease payments and other fixed executory fees under operating lease arrangements as at December 31, 2008: Operating leases $M 2009 34.2 2010 26.5 2011 23.4 2012 16.1 2013 14.6 Thereafter 57.6 172.4 i Operating leases The Group leases land, facilities, motor vehicles and certain equipment under operating leases expiring through 2025.
Lease and rental expense amounted to $32.6 million, $28.0 million and $23.7 million for the years to December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, which is predominately included in Selling, general and administrative expenses in the accompanying statements of operations.
b Letters of credit As at December 31, 2008 the Group had the following letters of credit: i an irrevocable standby letter of credit with Barclays Bank plc, in the amount of $4.0 million, providing security on the recoverability certain of insurance claims.
The Group has restricted cash of $4.0 million, as required by this letter of credit: and ii an irrevocable standby letter of credit with Citigroup in the amount of $4.2 million, providing security on the payment of lease obligations.
The Group has restricted cash of $4.2 million, as required by this letter of credit.
c Commitments i Alba Therapeutics Corporation Alba On December 14, 2007 Shire acquired rights to SPD550 also known as AT-1001 in all markets outside of the US and Japan, from Alba.
SPD550 is Albas lead inhibitor of barrier dysfunction in various gastrointestinal disorders that is currently in Phase 2 development for the treatment of Celiac disease.
Shire paid an upfront payment of $25 million expensed as R&D in 2007 and will pay further development and sales milestones up to a maximum of $300 million.
Shire will also pay tiered royalties on net sales of the product.
Tiered royalty rates will be single or double digit dependent on annual net sales.
Alba and Shire have formed a joint development committee to monitor R&D activities of SPD550.
Alba will fund all development until SPD550 has completed Proof of Concept, which is expected to be in the first half of 2009, after which Shire and Alba will share equally development costs under a joint development plan.
ii Amicus Therapeutics, Inc. Amicus On November 7, 2007 Shire licensed from Amicus the rights to three pharmacological chaperone compounds in markets outside of the US: AMIGAL for Fabry disease Phase 2, PLICERA for Gaucher disease Phase 2 and AT2220 for Pompe disease Phase 2.
Shire paid Amicus an upfront license fee of $50 million expensed as R&D in 2007, and will pay further development and sales-based milestones to a maximum of $390 million.
Shire will also pay tiered, double digit, royalties on net sales of the products.
Shire and Amicus will pursue a joint development program toward market approval in the US and Europe: expenses for this program will be shared equally.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 107 107 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 24 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES continued iii JUVISTA On June 19, 2007 Shire signed an agreement with Renovo to develop and commercialize JUVISTA, Renovos novel drug candidate being investigated for the reduction of scarring in connection with surgery.
Under the terms of the agreement Shire has the exclusive right to commercialize JUVISTA worldwide, with the exception of EU member states.
Shire has remaining obligations to pay Renovo $25 million on the filing of JUVISTA with the FDA: up to $150 million on FDA approval: royalties on net sales of JUVISTA: and up to $525 million on the achievement of very significant sales targets.
Shire will bear the cost of clinical trials designed specifically for obtaining US regulatory approval.
Renovo will bear the costs of clinical trials designed specifically for obtaining EU regulatory approval.
Shire and Renovo will share equally the costs of conducting global clinical trials that are designed for obtaining both US and EU regulatory approvals.
iv Womens health products In August 2006, Shire and Duramed an affiliate of Barr entered into an agreement related to SEASONIQUE, a number of products using Durameds transvaginal ring technology and other oral products the Collaboration Products.
Under this agreement, Shire was required to re-imburse Duramed for US development expenses incurred in respect of the Collaboration Products up to a maximum of $140 million over eight years from September 2006, and Shire had the right to commercialize these products in a number of markets outside of North America, including the larger European markets.
US development expenses re-imbursed in the year ended December 31, 2008 totaled $30.0 million, and at December 31, 2008 the maximum future re-imbursement for Duramed incurred US development expenditures was $95.6 million.
On February 24, 2009, Shire and Duramed amended this agreement and it will terminate on December 31, 2009.
Pursuant to this amendment, Shire agreed to return to Duramed its rights under the agreement effective February 24, 2009.
Shire also agreed to re-imburse Duramed for incurred US development expenditures in 2009 up to a maximum of $30.0 million.
In addition, Shire agreed to a one-time payment to Duramed of $10.0 million and to forego royalties receivable from Barr and cost of goods otherwise payable by Barr to Shire in 2009 under the License Agreement between the parties for the supply of the authorized generic of ADDERALL XR up to a maximum of $25.0 million.
v Other R&D and sales milestones In addition to the commitments set out in i to iv, at December 31, 2008 the Group had commitments payable on achievement of specified milestones and fees payable for products under development in-licensed from third-parties of $1.0 million 2007: $5.3 million.
vi Clinical testing At December 31, 2008 the Group had committed to pay approximately $99.5 million 2007: $77.6 million to contract vendors for administering and executing clinical trials.
However, the timing of these payments is dependent upon actual services performed by the organizations as determined by patient enrollment levels and related activities.
vii Contract manufacturing At December 31, 2008 the Group had committed to pay approximately $67.0 million 2007: $109.7 million in respect of contract manufacturing.
The Group expects to pay $66.9 million of these commitments in 2009 2007: $91.3 million in 2008. viii Purchase and service commitments At December 31, 2008 the Group had committed to pay approximately $42.6 million 2007: $49.4 million in respect of commitments for purchases and services, predominately relating to active pharmaceutical ingredients sourcing and IT outsourcing.
The Group expects to pay $42.4 million of these commitments in 2009 2007: $31.0 million in 2008. ix Investment commitments At December 31, 2008 the Group had outstanding commitments to subscribe for interests in companies and partnerships for amounts totaling $5.7 million 2007: $7.9 million which may all be payable in 2009, depending on the timing of capital calls.
x Capital commitments At December 31, 2008, the Group has committed to spend $95.4 million in respect of capital projects, including commitments for the expansion and improvements to office space at the Basingstoke UK headquarters and improvements to laboratory and office space leased by the HGT business at Lexington, Massachusetts which is expected to be all payable in 2009.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 108 108 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 24 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES continued d Legal proceedings General The Group accounts for litigation losses and insurance claims and provisions in accordance with SFAS No.
5, Accounting for Contingencies SFAS No.
These estimates are developed substantially before the ultimate loss is known and the estimates are refined in each accounting period in light of additional information becoming known.
In instances where the Group is unable to develop a reasonable estimate of loss, no litigation loss is recorded at that time.
As information becomes known a loss provision is set up when a reasonable estimate can be made.
The estimates are reviewed quarterly and the estimates are changed when expectations are revised.
Any outcome upon settlement that deviates from the Groups estimate may result in an additional expense in a future accounting period.
As at December 31, 2008 provisions for litigation losses, insurance claims and other disputes totaled $20.8 million 2007: $66.2 million.
Specific ADDERALL XR i Sandoz In December 2006, Shire was notified that Sandoz Inc. Sandoz had submitted an Abbreviated New Drug Application ANDA under the HatchWaxman Act seeking permission to market its generic versions of the 5mg, 10mg, 15mg, 20mg, 25mg and 30mg strengths of ADDERALL XR prior to the expiration of US Patent No.
6,322,819 the 819 Patent and US Patent No.
6,605,300 the 300 Patent, the Shire patents that cover ADDERALL XR.
On January 26, 2007 Shire filed suit in the US District Court for the District of Colorado for infringement of the 819 and 300 Patents.
Pursuant to the Hatch-Waxman Act, there is a 30-month stay with respect to Sandoz proposed generic products.
In response to the parties summary judgment motions, the court, in a decision dated September 24, 2008, a granted Shires motion to strike Sandoz affirmative defenses of alleged patent misuse and sham litigation: b denied Sandozs motion of non-infringement: and c construed certain terms of the patent claims.
Sandoz motion for immediate appeal on the issue of whether a patentee who settles an earlier infringement case after a Markman ruling has issued is precluded under the doctrine of collateral estoppel from relitigating claim-construction issues determined in the prior case in this instance, the prior case was Shire v Impax from the Delaware court was granted by the Colorado court.
On February 6, 2009, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit CAFC also granted Sandoz petition for appeal as to this question.
The Colorado case remains administratively closed until there is a decision from the CAFC.
CARBATROL i Nostrum In August 2003, the Group was notified that Nostrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Nostrum had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market its generic version of the 300mg strength of CARBATROL Nostrums ANDA product prior to the expiration date of the Groups US patents for CARBATROL, US patent No.
5,912,013 the 013 Patent and US patent No.
On September 18, 2003, Shire filed suit against Nostrum in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging infringement of these two patents by Nostrums ANDA and ANDA product.
Pursuant to the Hatch-Waxman Act, there was a 30-month stay with respect to Nostrums ANDA product which expired in February, 2006.
Nostrum could be in a position to market its 300mg extended-release carbamazepine product upon FDA final approval of its ANDA.
On January 23, 2004 the Group amended the complaint to drop the allegations with respect to the 013 Patent while maintaining the suit with respect to the 570 Patent.
On July 17, 2006 the Court entered an order staying discovery.
In May 2008, the Group was notified that Nostrum had submitted an amendment to the above referenced ANDA seeking permission to market its generic versions of the 100mg and 200mg strengths of CARBATROL prior to the expiration date of the Groups 013 and 570 Patents.
On July 2, 2008 Shire filed suit against Nostrum in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging infringement of these two patents by Nostrums ANDA and ANDA products.
Pursuant to the Hatch-Waxman Act, there is a 30-month stay with respect to Nostrums 100mg and 200mg ANDA products which will expire in November 2010.
This case was referenced as related to the earlier filed case on Nostrums 300mg product and has been assigned to the same Judge as the earlier ongoing case.
In a December 15, 2008 decision the court decided that the two cases should proceed separately.
No trial date has been set for either case.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 109 109 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 24 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES continued ii Corepharma On March 30, 2006 the Group was notified that Corepharma LLC Corepharma had filed an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market its generic version of carbamazepine extended release products in 100mg, 200mg and 300mg strengths prior to the expiration date of the 013 and the 570 Patents.
On May 17, 2006 Shire filed suit against Corepharma in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging infringement of these two patents by Corepharmas ANDA and ANDA products.
Pursuant to the Hatch-Waxman Act, there was a 30-month stay with respect to Corepharmas proposed generic products which expired in October 2008.
The Court rendered a claim construction ruling on March 26, 2008.
On September 23, 2008 the Court issued a decision denying Corepharmas summary judgment motion for non-infringement of the 570 patent.
In an order dated October 31, 2008 the Court granted Corepharmas motion for summary judgment of non-infringement of the 013 Patent.
The parties submitted a joint pretrial order directed to the 570 Patent on December 5, 2008.
A final pretrial conference has been set for March 3, 2009.
No trial date has been set.
iii Teva On March 20, 2007 the Group was notified that Teva USA had filed an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market its generic version of carbamazepine extended release products in 100mg, 200mg and 300mg strengths prior to the expiration date of the 013 and the 570 Patents.
On May 2, 2007, Shire filed suit against Teva in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York alleging infringement of the 013 and the 570 Patents by Tevas ANDA and ANDA products.
On August 23, 2007 Shire amended the complaint to drop the allegations with respect to the 013 Patent while maintaining the suit with respect to the 570 Patent.
Teva USA raised counterclaims that the 570 and 013 Patents were not infringed.
Shire has offered Teva USA a covenant not to sue with respect to the 013 Patent.
The Court held a status conference on October 16, 2007.
Teva withdrew its counterclaim directed to the 013 patent.
The parties have submitted a discovery schedule to the Court.
The Court conducted another status conference on June 19, 2008.
The parties have submitted a revised discovery schedule for the Courts consideration.
Fact and expert discovery is to be completed by February 27, 2009.
iv Apotex In May 2008, Shire was notified that Apotex Inc. had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market its generic version of carbamazepine extended release products in 100mg, 200mg and 300mg prior to the expiration date of the 013 and the 570 Patents.
On July 2, 2008, Shire filed a lawsuit in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against Apotex Inc. Apotex Corp. and Apotex Pharmaceutical Holdings Inc. collectively: Apotex alleging infringement of the 013 and 570 Patents by Apotex ANDA and ANDA products.
On July 17, 2008 Apotex Inc. filed a declaratory judgment complaint against Shire for non-infringement and invalidity of the 570 and 013 patents in the District of New Jersey.
In a December 28, 2008 decision the Texas Court transferred the case to New Jersey.
v Actavis Shire has been notified that Actavis South Atlantic LLC has submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market its generic version of carbamazepine extended release products in 200mg and 300mg strengths prior to the expiration date of the 013 and the 570 Patents.
On July 24, 2008, Shire filed a lawsuit in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against Actavis South Atlantic LLC and Actavis Inc. collectively Actavis alleging infringement of the 013 and 570 Patents by the Actavis ANDA and ANDA products.
By an Order dated December 30, 2008 the judge in the Texas case sua sponte transferred the case to the District Court of New Jersey.
The litigation was settled on February 20, 2009.
No payments to Actavis are involved in the settlement.
As required by law, Shire will submit to the US Federal Trade Commission FTC and the US Department of Justice DOJ all of the agreements entered into as part of this settlement.
REMINYL On January 29, 2008 Generics UK Ltd commenced a rectification action in the UK seeking a declaration that the duration of the Supplementary Protection Certificate SPC for EP 236684, the patent that claims the use of galantamine for the treatment of Alzheimers disease, is zero ie the period of exclusivity conferred by the patent has already expired.
This SPC represents the primary patent protection for REMINYL in the EU.
The current term of the SPC extension runs to January 2012.
Absent the SPC extension, the patent would have expired in January 2007.
REMINYL is entitled to ten years data exclusivity in the UK, which will not expire until March 2010.
A trial was held on December 10, 2008.
No decision has been rendered to date.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 110 110 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 24 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES continued FOSRENOL In February 2009, Shire received three Paragraph IV Notice letters, from Barr, Mylan and NATCO related to ANDAs for generic versions of 500mg, 750mg and 1,000mg FOSRENOL.
Shire is currently reviewing the details of these notice letters and, under the Hatch-Waxman regulations, has 45 days from the date of each notice letter to determine if it will file a patent infringement suit.
If Shire brings suit pursuant to the Hatch-Waxman regulations, a 30 month stay of approval, commencing on October 26, 2009, will be imposed on the FDA on each ANDA which is the subject of such a lawsuit.
VYVANSE On February 24, 2009 Actavis Elizabeth LLC brought a lawsuit against the FDA seeking to overturn the FDAs decision granting new chemical entity exclusivity to VYVANSE.
Shire believes the FDAs decision was correct.
VYVANSE has new chemical entity exclusivity through February 23, 2012 and patents listed in the Orange Book which expire on June 29, 2023.
Appraisal rights In connection with Shires merger with TKT, former holders of approximately 11.7 million shares of TKT common stock submitted written demands to the Delaware Court of Chancery for appraisal of those shares and, as a result, elected not to accept the $37 per share merger consideration.
On October 10, 2005 at the request of one of the holders to tender 365,000 shares at the merger price of $37 per share, TKT filed a motion to dismiss the holders demand.
On October 12, 2005 the Delaware Court of Chancery granted this motion, and the holder tendered the shares at the merger consideration of $37 per share.
Therefore, during 2008 former holders of approximately 11.3 million shares of TKT common stock maintained written demands for appraisal of these shares and had elected not to accept the $37 merger consideration.
In November 2005, the Delaware Court of Chancery approved a stipulated consolidation order whereby actions brought by all petitioners were consolidated as one case.
Such former holders were entitled to receive the fair value of these shares as determined by the Delaware Court of Chancery.
The determination of fair value is made excluding any element of value arising from the transaction, such as cost savings or business synergies.
The Delaware Court of Chancery can ascribe a valuation to shares that is greater than, less than or equal to the merger price and may award interest on the amount determined in the appraisal process.
On March 8, 2007 certain of the former TKT shareholders who previously asserted appraisal rights in connection with the Shire TKT merger filed a second suit in the Delaware Chancery Court alleging, among other claims, breaches of fiduciary duty by TKT and certain members of its board in connection with the merger with Shire.
Shire and TKT have been named as defendants as are four former directors of TKT.
The new complaint asserted a claim that the merger itself was not properly approved by a majority of the outstanding stock of TKT entitled to vote.
The complaint sought rescissory damages with interest, attorneys fees and costs.
In January 2008 Shire and three of the other defendants former TKT directors filed a motion for summary judgment in respect of the five counts included in the second suit.
In June 2008 the Court granted the motion in full with respect to the three other defendants and in part with respect to Shire.
The remaining counts of the second suit relate to alleged breaches of fiduciary duty by Dr Dennis Langer a former TKT director and Shire as well as the claim that the merger was not properly approved.
On November 5, 2008 Shire announced that it had successfully settled all aspects of this litigation with all parties.
The Delaware Chancery Court approved dismissal of the case and Shire made payment to the dissenting shareholders on November 7, 2008.
Under current law, although not applicable in this case because the merger was entered into before the relevant amendment to the law became effective the court presumptively awards interest in appraisal rights cases at a statutory rate that is five percentage points above the Federal Reserve discount rate as it varies over the duration of the case.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 111 111 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 24 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES continued The interest cost of $147.6 million has been recorded as interest expense in the Groups statement of operations since the time of the merger, including $87.3 million recorded in the year to December 31, 2008 2007: $28.0 million: 2006: $24.6 million, inclusive of the additional charge for interest recorded on reaching settlement with the dissenting shareholders.
Class Action Shareholder Suit In January and February 2003, various parties filed purported securities fraud class action lawsuits against TKT and Richard Selden, TKTs former Chief Executive Officer, in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts.
In April 2003, the Court appointed a Lead Plaintiff and Lead Counsel and consolidated the various matters under one matter: In re Transkaryotic Therapies, Inc. Securities Litigation, C. A.
In July 2003, the plaintiffs filed a Consolidated and Amended Class Action Complaint the Amended Complaint against TKT: Dr Selden: Daniel Geffken, TKTs former Chief Financial Officer: Walter Gilbert, Jonathan S. Leff, Rodman W. Moorhead, III, and Wayne P. Yetter, then members of TKTs board of directors: William R. Miller and James E. Thomas, former members of TKTs board of directors: and SG Cowen Securities Corporation, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. Pacific Growth Equities, Inc. and Leerink Swann & Company, underwriters of TKTs common stock in prior public offerings.
The Amended Complaint alleged that the defendants made false and misleading statements and failed to disclose material information concerning the status and progress for obtaining United States marketing approval of REPLAGAL during the period between January 4, 2001 and January 10, 2003.
The Amended Complaint asserted claims against Dr Selden and TKT under Section 10 b of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder: and against Dr Selden under Section 20 a of the Exchange Act.
The Amended Complaint also asserted claims based on TKTs public offerings of June 29, 2001, December 18, 2001 and December 26, 2001 against each of the defendants under Section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933 and against Dr Selden under Section 15 of the Securities Act: and against SG Cowen Securities Corporation, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. Pacific Growth Equities, Inc. and Leerink Swann & Company under Section 12 a 2 of the Securities Act.
The plaintiffs sought equitable and monetary relief, an unspecified amount of damages, with interest, and attorneys fees and costs.
In May 2004, the Court granted in part and denied in part TKTs motion to dismiss.
In particular, the Court dismissed allegations against TKT to the extent they arose out of certain forward-looking statements protected by the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and dismissed claims based on the public offerings of June 29, 2001 and December 18, 2001.
The Court allowed all other allegations to remain.
In July 2004, the plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed all claims based on the third public offering dated December 26, 2001.
In November 2005, the Court granted the plaintiffs motion for class certification.
On May 23, 2005, the Court entered judgment on all claims alleged against SG Cowen Securities Corporation, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. Pacific Growth Equities, Inc. and Leerink Swann & Company.
On June 5, 2006, the Court entered judgment on all claims alleged against Messrs. Gilbert, Leff, Moorhead, Yetter, Miller, and Thomas.
On November 9, 2006, Mr Geffken filed an Agreement for Judgment on all claims alleged against him.
On September 1, 2007 the SEC filed suit against Dr Selden.
The case is entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Richard F Selden, Civil Action No.
On July 10, 2008 the Court entered a final judgment against Selden which permanently enjoins him from violating the anti-fraud and other provisions of the federal securities laws, and orders him to pay approximately $1.2 million in penalties.
In October 2007, the parties reached an agreement in principle to resolve the Class Action Shareholder Suit, subject to Court approval, for $50 million.
In February 2008 the US District Court for the District of Massachusetts granted preliminary approval to the settlement.
Shire contributed $27 million towards the settlement and its insurance companies contributed the remaining $23 million.
Distribution of funds under the approved settlement is expected to occur in the first quarter of 2009.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 112 112 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 25 SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY Reduction of capital and distributable reserves On June 11, 2008 the Jersey Court approved a reduction of Shire plcs share capital to take effect on June 12, 2008 see Note 4.
The reduction increased the distributable reserves potentially available to Shire plc at the time of reduction to approximately $3.7 billion by recharacterizing amounts standing to the credit of Shire plcs share premium account as a distributable reserve.
The purpose of the reduction of capital is to create a distributable reserve which would be available to be distributed as dividends, at the discretion of the Directors of Shire plc, from time to time or for any other lawful purpose to which such a reserve may be applied including share buy backs.
The reduction of capital was designed to create in Shire plc a level of distributable reserves similar to that previously available in Old Shire, see Note 4 and to enable Shire plc to continue Shires existing dividend policy in a financially and operationally efficient manner.
Income access share arrangements Shire has put into place income access share arrangements which enable Shire plc ordinary shareholders, other than Shire plc ADS holders, to elect to receive their dividends from a company resident for tax purposes in the Republic of Ireland or receive their dividends under the income access share arrangements from a Shire Group company resident for tax purposes in the UK.
Old Shire has issued one income access share which is held by the income access share trustee pursuant to the income access share trust.
The income access share trust is constituted pursuant to a trust deed which provides that inter alia : i the income access share trustee will hold any dividends paid not just declared on the income access share on trust for the Shire plc ordinary shareholders who have elected or are deemed to have elected to receive dividends pursuant to these arrangements: ii the income access share itself will be held on trust for Shire plc: and iii each registered holder of Shire plc Ordinary Shares on a dividend record date who has made or is deemed to have made a valid income access share election described below will be entitled to receive from the income access share trustee an amount equal to the dividend it would have received from Shire, to the extent the income access share trustee has actually received an amount equal to such amount by way of dividend from Old Shire.
To ensure compliance with technical trust law rules, the period during which the income access share trust may continue will be restricted.
However, the income access share trust should be able to continue for 80 years.
This mechanism is reflected in the Articles of Association of both Shire plc and Old Shire that the mechanics of the arrangements will be as follows: The Shire plc Articles of Association provide that if i a dividend is announced or declared by Shire plc on the Shire plc Ordinary Shares, ii an amount is paid by Old Shire by way of a dividend on the income access share to the income access share trustee, and iii such amount is paid by the income access share trustee to the Shire plc ordinary shareholders who have elected or are deemed to have elected to receive dividends under these arrangements, the dividend which would otherwise be payable by Shire plc to such Shire plc ordinary shareholders will be reduced by an amount equal to the amount paid to such Shire plc ordinary shareholders by the income access share trustee.
If the dividend paid on the income access share and on-paid by the income access share trustee to the Shire plc ordinary shareholders is less than the total amount of the dividend announced or declared by Shire plc on the Shire plc Ordinary Shares in respect of which an election has been made or is deemed to have been made to receive dividends under these arrangements, Shire plc will be obliged to pay a dividend on the Shire plc Ordinary Shares to those Shire plc ordinary shareholders who have so elected or are deemed to have so elected of the amount of the shortfall.
In such a case, any dividend paid on the Shire plc Ordinary Shares will generally be subject to Irish withholding tax at the rate of 20% or such lower rate as may be applicable under exemptions from withholding tax contained in Irish law.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 113 113 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 25 SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY continued A Shire plc ordinary shareholder is entitled to make an income access share election such that he will receive his dividends which would otherwise be payable by Shire plc under these arrangements from Old Shire.
A Shire plc ordinary shareholder who held 25,000 or fewer Shire plc Ordinary Shares at the time he became a Shire plc ordinary shareholder pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement, and who did not make a contrary election, is deemed to have made an election pursuant to the Shire plc Articles of Association such that he will receive his dividends under these arrangements from Old Shire.
Equally, where a Shire plc ordinary shareholder who first acquires his Shire plc Ordinary Shares after the date of the Scheme of Arrangement, who holds 25,000 or fewer Shire plc Ordinary Shares on the first dividend record date after he becomes a Shire plc ordinary shareholder, and who does not make a contrary election, will be deemed to have made an election pursuant to the Shire plc Articles of Association such that he will receive his dividends under these arrangements from Old Shire.
In accordance with the provisions of the Shire plc ADS deposit agreement, the Depositary has made an election on behalf of all holders of Shire plc ADSs such that they will receive dividends from Old Shire under the income access share arrangements.
Dividends paid by Old Shire under the income access share arrangements will not under current legislation be subject to any UK or Irish withholding taxes.
If a holder of Shire plc ADSs does not wish to receive dividends from Old Shire under the income access share arrangements, he must withdraw his Shire plc Ordinary Shares from the Shire ADS program prior to the dividend record date set by the Depositary and request delivery of the Shire plc Ordinary Shares.
This will enable him to receive dividends from Shire plc if necessary, by making an election to that effect.
It is the expectation, although there can be no certainty, that dividends will be paid by Old Shire through the income access share trustee to Shire plc ordinary shareholders who make or are deemed to make an income access share election.
It is the expectation, although there can be no certainty, that Old Shire will distribute dividends on the income access share to the income access share trustee for the benefit of all Shire plc ordinary shareholders who make or are deemed to make an income access share election in an amount equal to what would have been such Shire plc ordinary shareholders entitlement to dividends from Shire plc in the absence of the income access share election.
To the extent that any dividend paid on the income access share to the income access share trustee and on-paid by the income access share trustee to the Shire plc ordinary shareholders is less than an amount equal to what would have been such Shire plc ordinary shareholders entitlement to dividends from Shire plc in the absence of the income access share election, the dividend on the income access share received by the income access share trustee will be allocated pro-rata to such Shire plc ordinary shareholders and Shire plc will pay the balance by way of dividend.
In such circumstances, there will be no grossing up by Shire plc in respect of, and Old Shire and Shire plc will not compensate those Shire plc ordinary shareholders for, any adverse consequences including any Irish withholding tax consequences.
Shire plc will be able to suspend or terminate these arrangements at any time, in which case the full Shire plc dividend will be paid directly by Shire plc to those Shire plc ordinary shareholders including the Depositary who have made or are deemed to have made an income access share election.
On October 7, 2008 Old Shire paid dividends totaling $7.2 million on the income access share to the income access share trustee in an amount equal to the dividend Shire plc ordinary shareholders would have received from Shire plc.
Exchangeable shares On February 12, 2008 a subsidiary of Shire exercised a redemption call right and purchased all remaining exchangeable shares of Shire Acquisition Inc. SAI in public ownership.
Exchangeable shareholders received either three Ordinary Shares of Shire plc or one Shire ADS representing three Ordinary Shares of Shire plc for each Exchangeable Share held.
Exchangeable Shares were issued to Canadian resident shareholders of Biochem Pharma Inc. now Shire Canada, Inc. in 2001 as consideration for the acquisition by the Shire group of Biochem Pharma Inc.
The Exchangeable Shares have now been fide-listed from the Toronto Stock Exchange.
Authorized common stock The authorized stock of Shire plc at December 31, 2008 was 1,000,000,000 Ordinary Shares and 2 Subscriber Ordinary Shares.
On February 20, 2007 the Group raised $877.3 million, net of associated issue costs, through the private placement of 42.9 million new Ordinary Shares to certain institutional investors at a price of 1075 pence per share.
The newly issued shares represent approximately 8.4% of Shire plcs issued Ordinary Share capital prior to the placing.
Treasury stock The Group records the purchase of its own shares by the ESOT as a reduction of shareholders equity based on the price paid for the shares.
At December 31, 2008, the ESOT held 7.3 million Ordinary Shares and 4.5 million ADSs.
During the period to December 31, 2008 a total of 0.2 million 2007: 3.0 million Ordinary Shares and 2.8 million 2007: 1.8 million ADSs had been purchased for total consideration of $146.6 million 2007: $186.0 million, including stamp duty and broker commission.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 114 114 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 26 EARNINGS PER SHARE The following table reconciles income loss from continuing operations and the weighted average Ordinary Shares outstanding for basic and diluted earnings loss per share for the periods presented: 2008 2007 2006 Year to December 31, $M $M $M Income loss from continuing operations 173.6 1,451.8 237.6 Loss gain from discontinued operations, net of tax 17.6 40.6 Numerator for basic and diluted earnings per share 156.0 1,451.8 278.2 2008 2007 2006 Number Number Number Year to December 31, of shares of shares of shares Weighted average number of shares outstanding Millions Millions Millions i Basic 541.6 540.3 503.4 Effect of dilutive shares: ii Share options 3.8 5.3 ii Warrants 0.6 3.8 5.9 Diluted 545.4 540.3 509.3 i Excludes shares purchased by the ESOT and presented by the Group as treasury stock.
ii Calculated using the treasury stock method.
2008 2007 2006 Basic earnings per share: Income loss from continuing operations 32.1 268.7 47.2 Loss gain from discontinued operations 3.3 8.1 28.8 268.7 55.3 Diluted earnings per share: Income loss from continuing operations 31.8 268.7 46.6 Loss gain from discontinued operations 3.2 8.0 28.6 268.7 54.6 The share options, warrants and the number of Ordinary Shares underlying the Convertible Bond not included in the calculation of the diluted weighted average number of shares are shown below: i ii i iii ii 2008 2007 2006 Number Number Number of shares of shares of shares Millions Millions Millions Stock options in the money 8.4 Stock options out of the money 17.3 2.9 7.7 Warrants 0.3 Convertible Bonds 2.75% due 2014 32.7 21.2 i In 2008 and 2007 the Convertible Bonds were not included in the calculation of the diluted weighted average number of shares, because their effect would be anti-dilutive in the period.
ii In 2008 and 2006 certain stock options have been excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS because their exercise prices exceeded Shire plcs average share price during the calculation period.
iii In 2007 all share options, warrants and the number of Ordinary Shares underlying the Convertible Bonds were excluded from the calculation of the diluted weighted average number of shares, because the Group made a net loss during the calculation period and the effect of their inclusion would be anti-dilutive.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 115 115 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 27 SEGMENT REPORTING SFAS No.
131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information SFAS No.
131 establishes standards for reporting information about operating segments and related disclosures, products and services, geographic areas and major customers.
Operating segments are components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision-maker to decide how to allocate resources and to assess performance.
Shires internal financial reporting is in line with a business unit and management reporting structure based on two segments: Specialty Pharmaceuticals and HGT.
The Specialty Pharmaceuticals and HGT operating segments represent the Groups revenues and costs in respect of currently promoted and sold products, together with the costs of developing projects for future commercialization.
All Other has been included in the table below in order to reconcile the two operating segments to the total consolidated figures.
The Group evaluates performance based on revenue and operating income.
The Group does not have inter-segment transactions.
Assets that are directly attributable to the segments have been separately disclosed.
Specialty Pharmaceuticals HGT All other Total 2008 $M $M $M $M Product sales 2,272.5 481.7 2,754.2 Royalties 1.5 244.0 245.5 Other revenues 8.2 4.0 10.3 22.5 Total revenues 2,282.2 485.7 254.3 3,022.2 i ii Cost of product sales 329.0 58.9 20.1 408.0 i ii Research and development 318.9 201.7 6.0 526.6 i ii Selling, general and administrative 1,087.6 171.3 164.0 1,422.9 IPR&D 263.1 263.1 Gain on sale of product rights 20.7 20.7 Integration costs 10.3 10.3 Total operating expenses 1,714.8 695.0 200.4 2,610.2 Operating income loss 567.4 209.3 53.9 412.0 Total assets 2,161.2 1,107.7 664.8 3,933.7 iii Long-lived assets 192.2 263.5 82.1 537.8 iii Capital expenditure on long-lived assets 54.1 169.5 30.6 254.2 i Stock-based compensation of $65.2 million is included in: Cost of product sales $3.9 million, Research and development $18.9 million and Selling, general and administrative $42.4 million.
ii Depreciation from manufacturing plants $16.2 million and amortization of favorable manufacturing contracts $1.7 million is included in Cost of product sales: depreciation of research and development assets $12.5 million is included in Research and development: and all other depreciation, amortization and intangible asset impairment charges $271.9 million are included in Selling, general and administrative.
iii Long-lived assets comprise all non-current assets, excluding goodwill and other intangible assets, deferred tax assets, investments and financial instruments based on the geographic location within which the economic benefits arise.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 116 116 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 27 SEGMENT REPORTING continued Specialty Pharmaceuticals HGT All other Total 2007 $M $M $M $M Product sales 1,844.5 325.7 2,170.2 Royalties 1.6 245.6 247.2 Other revenues 9.5 4.3 5.1 18.9 Total revenues 1,855.6 330.0 250.7 2,436.3 i ii Cost of product sales 263.3 44.3 12.7 320.3 i ii Research and development 362.1 214.3 576.4 i ii Selling, general and administrative 864.5 124.2 190.1 1,178.8 IPR&D 1,866.4 1,866.4 Gain on sale of product rights 127.8 127.8 Integration costs 1.3 1.3 Total operating expenses 3,229.8 382.8 202.8 3,815.4 Operating loss income 1,374.2 52.8 47.9 1,379.1 Total assets 2,394.5 586.6 1,349.0 4,330.1 iii Long-lived assets 174.8 114.6 79.2 368.6 iii Capital expenditure on long-lived assets 37.3 77.5 27.9 142.7 i Stock-based compensation of $75.2 million is included in: Cost of product sales $5.5 million, Research and development $17.0 million and Selling, general and administrative $52.7 million.
ii Depreciation from manufacturing plants $11.8 million and amortization of favorable manufacturing contracts $1.2 million is included in Cost of product sales, depreciation of research and development assets $11.3 million is included in Research and development, and all other depreciation and amortization and intangible asset impairment charges $136.2 million are included in Selling, general and administrative.
Specialty Pharmaceuticals HGT All other Total 2006 $M $M $M $M Product sales 1,394.5 141.3 1,535.8 Royalties 2.3 240.6 242.9 Other revenues 16.0 1.8 17.8 Total revenues 1,412.8 143.1 240.6 1,796.5 i ii Cost of product sales 180.9 66.6 11.2 258.7 i ii Research and development 275.8 109.6 385.4 i ii Selling, general and administrative 675.8 113.1 137.7 926.6 Gain on sale of product rights 63.0 63.0 Integration costs 5.6 5.6 Total operating expenses 1,069.5 294.9 148.9 1,513.3 Operating income loss 343.3 151.8 91.7 283.2 Total assets 1,168.9 547.4 1,610.1 3,326.4 iii Long-lived assets 160.8 63.9 80.5 305.2 iii Capital expenditure on long-lived assets 51.4 21.9 35.0 108.3 i Stock-based compensation of $43.0 million is included in: Cost of product sales $3.2 million, Research and development $5.4 million and Selling, general and administrative $34.4 million.
ii Depreciation from manufacturing plants $9.4 million is included in Cost of product sales, depreciation of research and development assets $4.9 million is included in Research and development, and all other depreciation and amortization and intangible asset impairment charges $93.1 million are included in Selling, general and administrative.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 117 117 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 27 SEGMENT REPORTING continued Geographic Information Revenues based on the geographic location from which the sale originated : 2008 2007 2006 Year to December 31, $M $M $M Republic of Ireland 17.8 16.2 13.8 United Kingdom 160.0 177.0 187.5 North America 2,299.6 1,798.2 1,341.0 Rest of World 544.8 444.9 254.2 Total 3,022.2 2,436.3 1,796.5 Long-lived assets comprise all non-current assets, excluding goodwill and other intangible assets, deferred tax assets, investments and financial instruments based on the geographic location within which the economic benefits arise: 2008 2007 Year to December 31, $M $M Republic of Ireland 1.0 1.4 United Kingdom 61.6 68.8 North America 468.6 294.8 Rest of World 6.6 3.6 Total 537.8 368.6 Material customers In the periods set out below, certain customers, all within the Specialty Pharmaceuticals operating segment, accounted for greater than 10% of the Groups total revenues: 2008 2008 2007 2007 2006 2006 Year to December 31, $M % revenue $M % revenue $M % revenue Cardinal Health Inc. 888.7 29 666.1 27 512.1 29 McKesson Corp. 674.2 22 546.0 22 338.6 19 Amounts outstanding as at December 31, in respect of these material customers were as follows: 2008 2007 Year to December 31, $M $M Cardinal Health Inc. 72.3 102.9 McKesson Corp. 69.6 79.6 Revenues by product In the periods set out below, revenues by major product were as follows: 2008 2007 2006 $M $M $M SPECIALTY PHARMACEUTICALS ADDERALL XR 1,101.7 1,030.9 863.6 CALCICHEW 52.8 54.2 45.5 CARBATROL 75.9 72.3 68.3 DAYTRANA 78.7 64.2 25.1 FOSRENOL 155.4 102.2 44.8 LIALDA MEZAVANT 140.4 50.5 PENTASA 185.5 176.4 137.8 REMINYL REMINYL XL 34.4 31.2 21.5 VYVANSE 318.9 76.5 XAGRID 78.7 66.8 53.3 Other 50.1 119.3 134.6 2,272.5 1,844.5 1,394.5 HUMAN GENETIC THERAPIES ELAPRASE 305.1 181.8 23.6 FIRAZYR 0.5 REPLAGAL 176.1 143.9 117.7 481.7 325.7 141.3 2,754.2 2,170.2 1,535.8 7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 118 118 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 28 INTEREST EXPENSE Interest expense for the years to December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $139.0 million, $70.8 million and $26.4 million respectively.
Included in the amount for the year to December 31, 2008 is $87.3 million 2007: $28.0 million and 2006: $24.6 million in respect to the TKT appraisal rights litigation.
For further details on this litigation see Note 24.
29 OTHER EXPENSE INCOME, NET 2008 2007 2006 Year to December 31, $M $M $M Impairment of long-term investments see Note 13 58.0 3.0 2.1 GeneChem Funds management fee 1.9 3.6 4.6 Gain on sale of available-for-sale security see Note 13 9.4 0.1 Foreign exchange 14.1 0.8 3.2 Other 0.3 1.3 3.8 32.9 1.2 9.5 30 RETIREMENT BENEFITS Personal defined contribution pension plans The Group makes contributions to defined contribution retirement plans that together cover substantially all employees.
The level of the Groups contribution is fixed at a set percentage of employees pay.
Group contributions to personal defined contribution pension plans totaled $26.3 million, $22.3 million and $15.0 million for the years to December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and were charged to operations as they became payable.
Defined benefit pension plans i The Roberts SERP The Roberts SERP is for some US employees of Roberts Pharmaceutical Corporation Roberts who met certain age and service requirements.
Shire acquired Roberts in 1999, and the plan was discontinued in 2000.
There were no contributions payable by the Group in respect of 2008, 2007 or 2006.
In 1999, the Group paid a lump sum of $18.0 million into the Roberts SERP, which was accounted for as a fair value adjustment, on the acquisition of Roberts to make good the deficit on this scheme at the time of acquisition.
This lump sum payment has led to the Group having no future liability under the SERP, which is closed to new members with contributions no longer payable by existing members.
Assets are set aside to fund these benefits in a Rabbi Trust.
The legal form of the trust is such that the assets held to cover the pension liabilities are available to the general creditors of the Group on winding up.
Accordingly, the assets held by the trust are not plan assets and are recorded on the balance sheet.
In accordance with EITF 97-14, Accounting for Deferred Compensation Arrangements Where Amounts Earned Are Held in a Rabbi Trust and Invested the assets and liabilities of $7.2 million and $1.9 million, respectively, are shown on the balance sheet within the categories Other current assets, Other current liabilities and Other non-current liabilities.
ii The Shire SERP The Shire SERP defined benefit scheme is an unfunded arrangement: the benefits are payable to certain senior US employees as lump sums on leaving the Groups employment or earlier due to death, disability or termination.
The amount of benefit is based on the value of notional contributions increased with earned investment returns as if they were invested in investments of the employees choice.
The entire benefit liability has been recognized on the balance sheet.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 119 119 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 INCOME TAXES The components of pre tax income loss from continuing operations are as follows: 2008 2007 2006 Year to December 31, $M $M $M UK 39.2 94.7 20.5 US 238.7 27.6 28.3 Republic of Ireland 83.5 99.5 69.0 IPR&D 263.1 1,866.4 Other jurisdictions 334.3 445.5 393.6 265.6 1,398.1 316.8 The provision benefit for income taxes by location of the taxing jurisdiction for the years to December 31, consisted of the following: 2008 2007 2006 Year to December 31, $M $M $M Current income taxes: UK corporation tax 0.3 20.3 7.0 US federal tax 12.0 84.5 6.1 US state and local taxes 6.4 4.9 3.8 Republic of Ireland 0.2 1.8 Other 10.8 24.8 211.8 Total current taxes 7.9 134.7 226.9 Deferred taxes: UK corporation tax 29.8 14.4 81.0 US federal tax 75.2 91.4 57.8 US state and local taxes 17.2 5.2 0.2 Republic of Ireland 1.3 9.1 7.0 Other 3.6 6.1 3.6 Total deferred taxes 90.1 79.2 142.0 Total income taxes attributable to continuing operations 98.0 55.5 84.9 Total income taxes attributable to discontinued operations i Total income taxes 98.0 55.5 84.9 i Total income taxes relate solely to continuing operations as there is no tax provision benefit relating to discontinued operations for the years to December 31, 2008, 2007 or 2006.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 120 120 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 INCOME TAXES continued The reconciliation of income loss from continuing operations before income taxes, minority interests and equity in earnings of equity method investees and discontinued operations to the provision for income taxes is shown in the table below: 2008 2007 2006 Year to December 31, $M $M $M Income loss from continuing operations before income taxes, minority interests and equity in earnings of equity method investees and discontinued operations 265.6 1,398.1 316.8 i ii Group tax rate 25.0% 30.0% 30.0% Adjustments to derive effective rate: Non-deductible items: IPR&D 12.1% 40.0% Permanent differences 7.6% 6.6% 18.8% Other items: Change in valuation allowance 7.0% 0.3% 30.0% Difference in taxation rates 3.1% 1.3% 9.3% Change in provisions for uncertain tax positions 1.9% 2.7% 59.8% Prior year adjustment 9.2% 0.8% 6.5% Change in tax rates 0.2% 0.5% Other 4.8% 0.2% 1.6% Provision for income taxes on continuing operations 36.9% 4.0% 26.8% i In addition to being subject to the Irish Corporation tax rate of 25% 2007 and 2006: UK Corporation tax rate of 30%, in 2008 the Group is also subject to income tax in other territories in which the Group operates, including: Canada 19.5% : France 33.3% : Germany 15% : Italy 27.5% : Malta 35% : The Netherlands 25.5% : Spain 30% : Sweden 28% : Switzerland 8.5% : United Kingdom 28.5% and the US 35%.
The rates quoted represent the headline federal income tax rates in each territory, and do not include any state taxes or equivalents or surtaxes or other taxes charged in individual territories, and do not purport to represent the effective tax rate for the Group in each territory.
ii During 2008 Shire introduced a new holding company resident in the Republic of Ireland, as a result the reconciliation of income from continuing operations before income taxes, minority interests and equity in earnings of equity method investees for the year to December 31, 2008 has been prepared using the Irish non-trading corporation tax rate of 25% which is the rate applicable to Shire plc.
In prior reporting periods, the reconciliation of income from continuing operations before income taxes, minority interests and equity in earnings of equity method investees was prepared using the UK corporation tax rate of 30%.
iii The Group prospectively adopted FIN 48 from January 1, 2007.
For the year ended December 31, 2006 the measurement and disclosure of changes in uncertain tax positions in the rate reconciliation has been determined in accordance with FAS No.
The change in provision for uncertain tax positions as disclosed in the above rate reconciliation includes interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions.
IPR&D IPR&D charges arising on the acquisition of Jerini in 2008 $128.1 million, and New River in 2007 $1,866.4 million are not tax deductible, and have resulted in significant fluctuations in the effective rate of tax for the years to December 31, 2008 and 2007.
Tax deductions in respect of IPR&D for METAZYM acquired from Zymenex $135.0 million are available but have not yet been recognized at 31 December 2008, at recognition is dependent upon projections of future earnings.
Permanent differences Permanent differences decreased the effective tax rate by 7.6% or $20.2 million in the year to December 31, 2008 2007 increased by 6.6% or $92.4 million: 2006: decreased by 18.8% or $59.6 million.
These permanent differences are composed of recurring items such as the tax effect of Shires Convertible Bonds: research and development tax credits: and tax deductible amortization for which the recognition of a deferred tax asset is precluded by FAS 109.
Other significant permanent differences over the period 2006 to 2008 include: the tax free gain on disposal of certain product rights in 2007 and non-taxable capital receipts following an internal re-organization in 2005.
Permanent differences have decreased by $72.2 million between 2008 and 2007 primarily due to non-taxable gains related to the sale of certain noncore product rights of $114.8 million recognized in the fourth quarter of 2007 which were not repeated in 2008, together with the other-than-temporary impairment charge on available-for-sale securities of $58.0 million during 2008.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 121 121 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 INCOME TAXES continued Change in valuation allowances The net increase in valuation allowances of $14.5 million in 2008 $4.7 million reduction in 2007 is principally due to an increase in valuation allowance of $20.3 million in respect of losses and other timing differences in European jurisdictions, as insufficient future taxable income to overcome cumulative losses led the Groups management to maintain the position taken in the fourth quarter of 2007 that it was more likely than not that the relevant deferred tax assets would not be realized.
This is partially offset by a reversal of $5.7 million of valuation allowances in place at January 1, 2008 in North America as a result of several factors including a US State tax law change enacted in the fourth quarter of 2008, which led the Groups management to determine that it was now more likely than not that the relevant tax attributes would be realized.
The net reduction in valuation allowances of $4.7 million in 2007 is principally due to a reversal of $14.9 million of valuation allowances in place at January 1, 2007 in a European tax jurisdiction as a result of a law change enacted in the fourth quarter of 2007, which led the Groups management to determine that it was now more likely than not that the relevant tax loss carry-forwards would be realized, and utilization of a valuation allowance of $10.9 million in another jurisdiction.
This is partially offset by recognition of a valuation allowance totaling $22.0 million in respect of losses in another European jurisdiction, as insufficient future taxable income to overcome cumulative losses led the Groups management to determine in the fourth quarter of 2007 that it was now more likely that than not that the relevant tax loss carry-forwards would not be realized.
The change in valuation allowances in the year to December 31, 2006 included a reversal in the fourth quarter of $120 million of valuation allowances in place at January 1, 2006 of which $97 million related to the UK, $8 million to the US and $15 million to certain European affiliates.
The Group recognized the reversal of these valuation allowances primarily following the implementation of tax planning strategies during the fourth quarter of the year to December 31, 2006 and revisions to projections of future earnings in certain European jurisdictions, which led the Groups management to determine that it was now more likely than not that the relevant tax loss carry-forwards would be realizable.
The valuation allowances were not reversed until the fourth quarter of 2006 as the predominant tax planning strategies which triggered the recognition of the reversals were either not in place or did not provide a prudent and feasible source of taxable income until the fourth quarter.
Prior to the reversal of these valuation allowances, the Group had determined that it was more likely than not that the related deferred tax assets would not be realized, primarily as a result of insufficient future taxable income being available to overcome cumulative losses.
Realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon generating sufficient taxable income to utilize such assets.
Although realization of these assets is not assured, the Group believes it is more likely than not that the amount recognized will be realized.
Change in provisions for uncertain tax positions The Group adopted the provisions of FIN 48 on January 1, 2007.
There was no cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings arising as a result of the adoption of FIN 48.
The Group files income tax returns in the UK, the US both federal and state and various other jurisdictions see footnote i to the table above for major jurisdictions.
With few exceptions, the Group is no longer subject to income tax examinations by tax authorities for years before 1999.
Tax authorities in various jurisdictions are in the process of auditing the Groups tax returns for fiscal periods from 1999: these tax audits cover a range of issues, including transfer pricing, potential restrictions on the utilization of net operating losses, potential taxation of overseas dividends and controlled foreign companies rules.
During the year to December 31, 2008 changes in the Groups provision for unrecognized tax benefits increased the effective rate by 1.9% or $5.1 million 2007: 2.7%, or $38.1 million, which relates to a decrease of $21.0 million in the provision for unrecognized tax benefits offset by an increase of $26.1 million for interest and penalties 2007: $20.1 million increase in unrecognized tax benefits and $18.0 million increase in interest and penalties.
During the year to December 31, 2007 changes in the Companys provision for unrecognized tax benefits reduced the effective rate by 2.7%, or $38.1 million, which relates to an increase in the provision for unrecognized tax benefits of $20.1 million and an increase in the provision for interest and penalties of $18.0 million.
The increase in the provision for unrecognized tax benefits of $20.1 million was due to additional provisions of $58.4 million recognized in relation to potential transfer pricing adjustments, the deductibility of expenses and availability of certain tax reliefs, which was partially offset by a reduction in the provision as a result of expiration of the statute of limitations of $38.3 million.
The Group considers it reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits recorded at December 31, 2008 could decrease by approximately $11.6 million 2007: $40.0 million in the next twelve months.
While tax audits remain open, the Group also considers it reasonably possible that issues may be raised by tax authorities resulting in increases to the balance of unrecognized tax benefits, however, an estimate of such an increase cannot be made.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 122 122 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 INCOME TAXES continued A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows: 2008 2007 $M $M Balance at January 1, 292.2 234.4 Increases based on tax positions related to the current year 30.5 25.6 Reductions based on tax positions taken in the current year 12.5 Increases for tax positions taken in prior years 3.9 51.7 i Reductions for tax positions taken in prior years 17.4 10.4 Decreases resulting from settlements with the taxing authorities 16.6 Reductions as a result of expiration of the statute of limitations 13.8 38.3 ii Foreign currency translation adjustments 50.1 41.7 iii Balance at December 31, 228.7 292.2 i Included within this amount in the year to December 31, 2008 2007: reduction of $4.0 million is $3.2 million increase in the provision affecting the purchase price allocation of New River.
ii Recognized within Other Comprehensive Income, with the exception of $4.4 million in 2008 included in the Statement of Operations.
iii The full amount of which would affect the effective rate if recognized.
The Group recognizes interest and penalties accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits within income taxes.
During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the Group recognized approximately $26.1 million, $18.0 million and $30.3 million in interest and penalties.
The Group had approximately $76.2 million, $63.7 million and $41.3 million for the payment of interest and penalties accrued at December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively.
Additional tax contingencies under SFAS No.
5 The increase in current tax liabilities in the year to December 31, 2006 was primarily a result of additional tax contingencies of $187 million recognized in the fourth quarter of 2006 as a result of the Groups assessment of the implications of ongoing audits by tax authorities included in change in provision for uncertain tax positions above.
The tax audits commenced in 2004 and relate to the years 1999 to 2006, covering a range of issues including transfer pricing, potential restrictions on the utilization of net operating loss carry-forwards NOLs, potential taxation of overseas dividends and controlled foreign companies rules.
The Group had recognized a $53 million contingency in respect of these tax audits at December 31, 2005, based on the Groups managements assessment of the probability of additional taxation payments at that time.
However, during the fourth quarter of 2006, the tax authorities expanded the scope of their enquiries and proposed adjustments to certain tax positions previously filed by the Group.
At this point, the Group retained third-party advisors to assess the merits, quantum and implications of the adjustments proposed by the tax authorities, and to assist the Groups management in determining whether or not additional tax payments in excess of the existing provision of $53 million were reasonably possible or probable.
Upon completion of the Groups review of these proposed adjustments in December 2006, including receipt of the expert third-partys advice, the Group found it appropriate to recognize the additional tax contingencies of $187 million, which included an estimate of potential interest due in respect of potential unpaid taxes.
Following the recognition of these additional tax contingencies in the fourth quarter of 2006, the provision in respect of these ongoing tax audits totaled $240 million.
It was the opinion of the Groups management at December 31, 2006 that while tax audits remain open, additional tax payments in excess of those already provided which would have a material impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements, were not reasonably possible.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 123 123 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 INCOME TAXES continued Deferred taxes The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities and their balance sheet classifications, as at December 31, are as follows: December 31, December 31, 2008 2007 $M $M Deferred tax assets: Deferred revenue 9.1 21.5 Inventory and warranty provisions 26.4 17.3 Losses carried forward including tax credits 295.0 357.7 Provisions for product returns and doubtful accounts 54.7 35.2 Restructuring 2.0 34.1 Intangible assets 17.7 34.6 Share-based compensation 38.7 30.4 Excess of tax value over book value of assets 8.7 Other 19.4 56.1 Gross deferred tax assets 471.7 586.9 Less: valuation allowance 119.3 104.9 352.4 482.0 Deferred tax liabilities: Intangible assets 532.7 533.1 Excess of book value over tax value of assets 5.6 Net deferred tax liabilities 180.3 56.7 Balance sheet classifications: Deferred tax assetscurrent 89.5 143.3 Deferred tax assetsnon-current 118.1 143.7 Deferred tax liabilitiescurrent 10.9 11.3 Deferred tax  377.0 332.4 180.3 56.7 Shire moved to a net deferred tax liability position at December 31, 2007 principally following the recognition of a deferred tax liability on acquisition of New River in respect of acquired intangible assets.
During the year to December 31, 2008 the net deferred tax liability has increased primarily as a result of the utilisation of loss carry-forward deferred tax assets during the year in the US, Netherlands, UK and Canada, but offset by the creation of deferred tax assets for additional loss carry-forwards in other European affiliates.
An additional deferred tax liability of $85 million arose on the acquisition of Jerini in 2008 in respect of acquired intangible assets.
At December 31, 2008, the Group had a valuation allowance of $119.3 million 2007: $104.9 million to reduce its deferred tax assets to estimated realizable value.
These valuation allowances related primarily to operating loss, capital loss and tax-credit carry-forwards in the US 2008: $65.5 million 2007: $67.0 million, 2006: $79.9 million, Canada 2008: $6.6 million, 2007: $11.0 million, 2006: $9.8 million and other foreign tax jurisdictions 2008: $47.2 million, 2007: $26.9 million, 2006: $19.9 million.
At December 31, 2008, based upon the profit history of the entities, projections for future taxable income over the periods in which temporary differences are anticipated to reverse, any restrictions on uses of loss carry-forwards and prudent and feasible tax-planning strategies, management believes it is more likely than not that the Group will realize the benefits of these deductible differences, net of the valuation allowances.
However, the amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable could be adjusted in the future if estimates of taxable income are revised.
Valuation allowances related to the pre-acquisition NOLs are applied first to reduce goodwill and then to reduce non-current intangible assets arising from the acquisition as the related tax benefits are realized.
During 2008 there were no reversals of valuation allowances applied to reduce goodwill 2007: $11.0 million.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 124 124 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 INCOME TAXES continued The approximate NOLs, capital losses and tax credit carry-forwards as at December 31, are as follows: 2008 2007 $M $M US federal tax NOLs 170.6 US state tax NOLs 94.2 69.9 UK NOLs 114.0 155.1 Republic of Ireland NOLs 238.4 175.8 Foreign tax jurisdictions 88.7 102.0 R&D tax credits 208.1 176.0 Capital losses 27.3 37.8 The NOLs, capital losses and tax credit carry-forwards shown above have the following expiration dates: December 31, 2008 $M Within 1 year 6.9 Within 1 to 2 years 12.9 Within 2 to 3 years 22.7 Within 3 to 4 years 14.5 Within 4 to 5 years 0.6 Within 5 to 6 years 1.3 After 6 years 332.2 Indefinitely 379.6 As at December 31, 2008, the Group had not recorded deferred taxes on approximately $3.7 billion 2007: $2.8 billion of un-remitted earnings of the Groups foreign subsidiaries.
At December 31, 2008, these earnings are expected to be permanently reinvested overseas.
It is not practical to compute the estimated deferred tax liability on these earnings.
32 EQUITY IN EARNINGS OF EQUITY METHOD INVESTEES 2008 2007 2006 Year to December 31, $M $M $M GSK see Note 13 5.8 6.5 6.3 GeneChem Funds see Note 13 3.4 4.6 1.3 Other 0.1 0.7 2.4 1.8 5.7 33 SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS The Group applies the provisions of SFAS No.
123 R, which establishes accounting for share-based compensation to employees.
The Group measures share-based compensation cost at the grant date, based on the fair value of the award, and recognizes the expense over the employee requisite service period.
The following table shows the total share-based compensation expense see below for types of share-based awards included in the statements of operations: 2008 2007 2006 $M $M $M Cost of product sales 3.9 5.5 3.2 Research and development 18.9 17.0 5.4 Selling, general and administrative 42.4 52.7 34.4 Total 65.2 75.2 43.0 Less tax 15.3 11.7 6.5 49.9 63.5 36.5 There were no capitalized share-based compensation costs at December 31, 2008 and 2007.
At December 31, 2008 $40.7 million of total unrecognized compensation cost relating to non-vested awards, is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.9 years.
The total fair value of share and share option awards vested during the year was $34.4 million.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 125 125 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 33 SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS continued Share-based compensation plans Historically the Group has granted options to Directors and employees over Ordinary Shares under six stock option plans.
On November 28, 2005 the ordinary shareholders of Shire approved the adoption of the Shire Portfolio Share Plan Parts A and B, a new share-based compensation plan, which provides for stock-settled share appreciation rights and performance share awards to be made to Directors and employees over Ordinary Shares and Shire ADSs.
As of 28 November 2005, all awards were granted using the Portfolio Share Plan.
No further awards will be made under the previous stock option plans except for the Sharesave scheme.
The following awards were outstanding as at December 31, 2008: Number Expiration period Compensation type of awards from date of issue Vesting period Portfolio Share PlanPart A Stock-settled share 7,264,481 5 years 3 years, subject to appreciation rights performance criteria for Ordinary Shares executive directors only Portfolio Share PlanPart A Stock-settled share 18,972,372 5 years 3 years, subject to i appreciation rightsADSs performance criteria for executive directors only Total Portfolio Share PlanPart A 26,236,853 Portfolio Share PlanPart B Performance share 933,633 3 years 3 years, subject to awardsOrdinary Shares performance criteria for executive directors only Portfolio Share PlanPart B Performance share 2,291,562 3 years 3 years, subject to i awardsADSs performance criteria for executive directors only Total Portfolio Share PlanPart B 3,225,195 Executive Scheme Stock options 65,166 7 to 10 years 310 years, subject to performance criteria 2000 Executive Scheme Stock options 8,043,869 10 years 3 10 years, subject to performance criteria Sharesave Scheme Stock options 380,774 6 months 3 or 5 years after vesting Stock Purchase Plan Stock options 729,243 On vesting date 1 to 5 months BioChem Plan Stock options 13,642 10 years Immediate on acquisition by Shire Total stock option awards 9,232,694 i For the purposes of this table ADSs have been converted into Ordinary Shares.
One ADS is equivalent to three Ordinary Shares.
a Stock-settled share appreciation rights Portfolio Share PlanPart A Stock-settled share appreciation rights granted under the Portfolio Share PlanPart A are exercisable subject to certain performance criteria.
In respect of any award made to Executive Directors performance conditions will be based on relative total shareholder return.
Vesting will depend on relative total shareholder return performance against two comparator groups.
For one-third of the award, the comparator group will be the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 constituents excluding financial institutions and for two-thirds of the award the comparator group will be a group of international companies from the pharmaceutical sector.
In addition, before awards granted to Executive Directors will vest, the Committee 1 must be satisfied that the underlying performance of the Group is sufficient to justify this.
Where median performance is achieved, 33 3% of stocksettled share appreciation rights will vest, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting at upper quartile performance.
Awards granted to employees below Executive Director level will not be subject to performance conditions.
Once awards have vested, participants will have until the fifth anniversary of the date of grant to exercise their awards.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 126 126 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 33 SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS continued A summary of the status of the Groups stock-settled share appreciation rights as at December 31, 2008 and of the related transactions during the periods then ended is presented below: Weighted average Number of Intrinsic Year to December 31, 2008 exercise price shares Value Ordinary Shares M Outstanding as at beginning of period 9.89 5,680,361 Granted 9.59 2,115,297 Exercised 7.70 132,243 Forfeited 10.16 398,934 Outstanding as at end of period 9.90 7,264,481 4.6 Exercisable as at end of period 8.49 408,097 0.7 2.1 million stock-settled share appreciation rights were granted over Ordinary Shares under the Portfolio Share PlanPart A.
These options were granted with exercise prices equivalent to the market value on the date of grant.
The weighted average fair value of options granted in the year to December 31, 2008 is 2.43.
A summary of the status of the Groups stock-settled share appreciation rights as at December 31, 2007 and of the related transactions during the periods then ended is presented below: Weighted average Number of Intrinsic Year to December 31, 2007 exercise price shares Value Ordinary Shares M Outstanding as at beginning of period 8.54 2,919,223 Granted 9.92 3,297,395 Exercised 8.27 9,539 Forfeited 9.18 526,718 Outstanding as at end of period 9.89 5,680,361 9.2 Exercisable as at end of period 8.65 79,870 0.1 3.3 million stock-settled share appreciation rights were granted over Ordinary Shares under the Portfolio Share PlanPart A.
The weighted average fair value of options granted in the year to December 31, 2007 is 2.70.
A summary of the status of the Groups stock-settled share appreciation rights as at December 31, 2006 and of the related transactions during the periods then ended is presented below: Weighted average Number of Intrinsic Year to December 31, 2006 exercise price shares Value Ordinary Shares M Outstanding as at beginning of period 7.17 449,490 Granted 8.74 2,561,292 Exercised Forfeited 7.19 91,559 Outstanding as at end of period 8.54 2,919,223 6.0 Exercisable as at end of period 2.6 million stock-settled share appreciation rights were granted over Ordinary Shares under the Portfolio Share PlanPart A.
The weighted average fair value of options granted in the year to December 31, 2006 is 2.58.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 127 127 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 33 SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS continued Stock-settled share appreciation rights over Ordinary Shares outstanding as at December 31, 2008 have the following characteristics: Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average remainingexercise exercise contractual price of Number of price of Number of Exercise term options options options options prices Years outstanding exercisable exercisable outstanding 4,197,809 6.0110.00 3.4 9.03 322,720 7.84 3,066,672 10.0111.90 3.2 11.09 85,377 10.96 7,264,481 408,097 Weighted average Intrinsic Year to December 31, 2008 exercise Number of value American Depositary Shares price ADSs $M Outstanding as at beginning of period 56.29 5,414,024 Granted 55.79 1,538,666 Exercised 43.27 25,097 Forfeited 57.82 603,469 Outstanding as at end of period 56.09 6,324,124 5.3 Exercisable as at end of period 40.75 819,382 4.8 1.5 million stock-settled share appreciation rights were granted over American Depositary Shares equivalent to 4.6 million Ordinary Shares under the Portfolio Share PlanPart A.
The 6.3 million stock-settled share appreciation rights over ADSs outstanding at December 31, 2008 are equivalent to 19.0 million Ordinary Shares.
The average fair value of options granted in the year to December 31, 2008 is $14.10.
Weighted average Intrinsic Year to December 31, 2007 exercise Number of Value American Depositary Shares price ADSs $M Outstanding as at beginning of period 46.40 2,965,798 Granted 49.79 2,782,413 Exercised 46.04 1,156 Forfeited 49.68 333,031 Outstanding as at end of period 56.29 5,414,024 70.8 Exercisable as at end of period 52.83 30,201 2.8 million stock-settled share appreciation rights were granted over American Depositary Shares equivalent to 8.3 million Ordinary Shares under the Portfolio Share PlanPart A.
The 5.4 million stock-settled share appreciation rights over ADSs outstanding at December 31, 2007 are equivalent to 16.2 million Ordinary Shares.
The average fair value of options granted in the year to December 31, 2007 is $13.53.
Weighted average Intrinsic Year to December 31, 2006 exercise Number of Value American Depositary Shares price ADSs $M Outstanding as at beginning of period 37.80 937,392 Granted 50.10 2,138,356 Exercised Forfeited 41.71 109,950 Outstanding as at end of period 46.40 2,965,798 45.3 Exercisable as at end of period 2.1 million stock-settled share appreciation rights were granted over American Depositary Shares equivalent to 6.3 million Ordinary Shares under the Portfolio Share PlanPart A.
The 3.0 million stock-settled share appreciation rights over ADSs outstanding at December 31, 2006 are equivalent to 9.0 million Ordinary Shares.
The average fair value of options granted in the year to December 31, 2006 is $14.70.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 128 128 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 33 SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS continued Stock-settled share appreciation rights over American Depositary Shares outstanding as at December 31, 2008 have the following characteristics: Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average remainingexercise exercise contractual price of Number of price of Number of Exercise term options options options options prices Years outstanding exercisable exercisable outstanding $ $ $ 2,485,686 35.0150.00 2.6 45.50 752,687 38.75 3,838,438 50.0175.00 3.6 62.95 66,695 63.30 6,324,124 819,382 b Performance shares Portfolio Share PlanPart B Performance share awards granted under the Portfolio Share PlanPart B are exercisable subject to certain performance criteria.
For one-third of an award, the comparator group will be the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 constituents excluding financial institutions and for two-thirds of the award the comparator group will be a group of international companies from the pharmaceutical sector.
In addition, before awards granted to Executive Directors will vest, the Committee must be satisfied that 1 the underlying performance of the Group is sufficient to justify this.
Where median performance is achieved, 33 3% of performance shares will vest, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting at upper quartile performance.
A summary of the status of the Groups stock-settled share awards as at December 31, 2008 and of the related transactions during the periods then ended is presented below: Weighted Aggregate average Number of intrinsic remaining shares value life Performance share awardsOrdinary Shares M Outstanding as at beginning of period 240,406 Granted 710,482 Exercised 565 Forfeited 16,690 Outstanding as at end of period 933,633 9.4 2.0 Exercisable as at end of period n a n a The average fair value of options granted in the year to December 31, 2008 is 8.15.
Weighted Aggregate average Number of intrinsic remaining ADSs value life Performance share awardsAmerican Depositary Shares $M Outstanding as at beginning of period 299,103 Granted 530,571 Exercised 20,866 Forfeited 44,954 Outstanding as at end of period 763,854 34.2 2.2 Exercisable as at end of period n a n a The average fair value of options granted in the year to December 31, 2008 is $57.27.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 129 129 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 33 SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS continued A summary of the status of the Groups stock-settled share awards as at December 31, 2007 and of the related transactions during the periods then ended is presented below: Weighted Aggregate average Number of intrinsic remaining shares value life Performance share awardsOrdinary Shares M Outstanding as at beginning of period 130,406 Granted 110,000 Outstanding as at end of period 240,406 2.8 1.9 Exercisable as at end of period n a n a Weighted Aggregate average Number of intrinsic remaining ADSs value life Performance share awardsAmerican Depositary Shares $M Outstanding as at beginning of period 175,341 Granted 146,316 Forfeited 22,554 Outstanding as at end of period 299,103 20.6 1.9 Exercisable as at end of period n a n a c Stock option plans i Shire Pharmaceuticals Executive Share Option SchemeParts A and B Executive Scheme Options granted under the Executive Scheme are subject to performance criteria and cannot be exercised in full, unless Shires Ordinary Share price increases at a compound rate of at least 20.5% per annum over a minimum three-year measurement period.
If Shires Ordinary Share price increases at a compound rate of 14.5% per annum over a minimum three-year measurement period, 60% of the options may be exercised.
If these conditions are not met after the initial three years, they are thereafter tested quarterly by reference to share price growth over the extended period.
If the share price does not meet these conditions at any time, none of the options will become exercisable.
On February 28, 2000 the Remuneration Committee of the Board exercised its powers to amend the terms of the Executive Share Option Scheme so as to include a cliff vesting provision.
ii Shire 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme 2000 Executive Scheme Options granted under this scheme are exercisable subject to certain performance criteria.
In respect of any option granted prior to August 2002, if Shires Ordinary Share price increases at a compound rate of at least 20.5% per annum over a minimum three-year measurement period, the option becomes exercisable in full.
If it increases by at least 14.5% per annum over the same three-year period, 60% of the options granted become exercisable.
If these conditions are not met after the initial three-year measurement period, they will thereafter be tested quarterly by reference to compound annual share price growth over an extended period.
The performance criteria were reviewed in 2002 to ensure the criteria reflected the market in which Shire operates.
Given Shires development, it was considered appropriate that an earnings per share-based measure should be adopted.
The performance criteria are based on real growth in the diluted earnings per share reported in the Groups Form 10-K under US GAAP, adjusted to ensure a consistent basis of measurement, as approved by the Remuneration Committee, including the add back of significant one time items Option EPS.
Therefore, the performance criteria were amended so that an option would become exercisable in full if Shires Option EPS growth over a three-year period from the date of award exceeds the UK Retail Prices Index RPI for the following tranches of grants: Options with a grant value of up to 100% of salary RPI plus 9% Directors, RPI plus 15% Between 101% and 200% of salary RPI plus 15% Between 201% and 300% of salary RPI plus 21% Over 301% of salary RPI plus 27% The new earnings per share performance criteria apply to options granted under the 2000 Executive Scheme from August 2002.
After consultation with certain of its institutional shareholders, the Group has decided that for options granted under the scheme from 2004 onwards, the retest of the performance condition if Shires option EPS growth has fallen short of the minimum annual average percentage increase over the three-year period from grant, should be changed.
The revised performance condition will be retested once only, at five years after the grant.
Hence the level of option EPS growth in the next two years needs to be consequentially higher to meet the test.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 130 130 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 33 SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS continued Under Part B of the scheme, six weeks prior to the expiration date, any options that have not become exercisable at an earlier date, automatically vest without reference to the performance criteria.
In December 2006, the Remuneration Committee exercised its powers to amend the performance criteria for options granted under the 2000 Executive Scheme which had not vested.
The RPI based growth rate was replaced with an equivalent fixed growth rate based on historical and forecast inflation.
The fair values of the awards were unaffected by this change and no additional employee compensation cost was recorded as a result of the modification.
iii Shire Sharesave Scheme Sharesave Scheme Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme are granted with an exercise price equal to 80% of the mid-market price on the day before invitations are issued to employees.
Employees may enter into three or five-year savings contracts.
iv Shire Employee Stock Purchase Plan Stock Purchase Plan Under the Stock Purchase Plan, options are granted with an exercise price equal to 85% of the fair market value of a share on the enrolment date the first day of the offering period or the exercise date the last day of the offering period, whichever is the lower.
Following approval by shareholders at the AGM held on June 20, 2007, the 2007 Shire Employee Stock Purchase Plan was adopted on similar terms to the predecessor plan, save that participants agree to save for a period up to 27 months, rather than a fixed 27 months, as set by the Committee.
The offering period set for plan grants in 2008 was twelve months.
v BioChem Stock Option Plan BioChem Plan Following the acquisition of BioChem Pharma Inc. on May 11, 2001, the BioChem Stock Option Plan was amended such that options over BioChem Pharma Inc. s common stock became options over Ordinary Shares of Shire.
All BioChem Pharma Inc. options, which were not already exercisable, vested and became exercisable as a result of the acquisition.
It is intended that no further options will be granted under the BioChem Stock Option Plan.
vi Long Term Incentive Plan The Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP was adopted by Shire at the Groups 1998 Annual General Meeting and amended in 2000.
Under the LTIP, the Remuneration Committee has discretion to make awards to senior executives of shares subject to a maximum of 100% of salary a year.
The last awards were granted under the LTIP in 2005.
Performance tied to the vesting of the 2005 LTIP grants, as detailed below, resulted in a vesting percentage of 88.54%.
Awards will be satisfied by the transfer of shares in May 2009.
The performance condition attached to the vesting of the share awards made under the LTIP is Shires Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to the FTSE 100 Index over a three-year period.
The Committee considers that this measure is a reliable and appropriate measure of the Groups performance and that the FTSE 100 is an appropriate benchmark given that the Group is a member of the Index.
Under the LTIP: all shares vest if Shires TSR is in the top 10% of the FTSE 100: 20% of the shares vest if Shires TSR is at the median of the FTSE 100, with vesting between these points on a linear basis: and no shares vest if Shires TSR is below the median of the FTSE 100.
The Remuneration Committee determines whether and to what extent the performance condition has been met on the basis of data provided by an independent third-party.
Whilst the performance period is measured over three years, an award is normally transferred after the fourth anniversary of grant, to the extent the performance condition has been met.
A summary of the status of the Groups stock option plans as at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 and of the related transactions during the periods then ended is presented below: Weighted average Aggregate exercise intrinsic price Number of value Year to December 31, 2008 shares M Outstanding as at beginning of period 6.09 13,113,255 Granted 7.12 879,049 Exercised 7.01 4,440,123 Forfeited 9.44 319,487 Outstanding as at end of period 6.14 9,232,694 38.7 Exercisable as at end of period 5.98 8,098,635 35.5 0.2 million options were granted under the Sharesave Scheme at a price of 7.74.
These options were granted with an exercise price equal to 80% of the mid-market price on the day before invitations were issued to employees.
The weighted average fair value of options granted was 3.43.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 131 131 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 33 SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS continued 0.7 million options were granted under the Stock Purchase Plan at prices of 6.96, 6.87 and 7.26.
These options were granted with an exercise price equal to 15%, 20% and 25% of the mid-market price on the day before invitations were issued to employees.
The weighted average fair value of options granted was 2.06.
Weighted average Aggregate exercise intrinsic price Number of value Year to December 31, 2007 shares M Outstanding as at beginning of period 5.90 19,559,873 Granted 9.93 287,762 Exercised 5.78 5,947,857 Forfeited 7.58 786,523 Outstanding as at end of period 6.09 13,113,255 71.9 Exercisable as at end of period 6.02 5,132,646 29.1 0.1 million options were granted under the Sharesave Scheme at a price of 9.77.
The weighted average fair value of options granted was 3.96.
0.2 million options were granted under the Stock Purchase Plan at a prices of 10.12 and 8.92.
These options were granted with an exercise price equal to 15% and 20% of the mid-market price on the day before invitations were issued to employees.
The weighted average fair value of options granted was 2.72.
Weighted average Aggregate exercise intrinsic price Number of value Year to December 31, 2006 shares M Outstanding as at beginning of period 5.85 28,470,739 Granted 7.33 386,159 Exercised 5.21 8,312,174 Forfeited 8.83 984,851 Outstanding as at end of period 5.90 19,559,873 92.1 Exercisable as at end of period 6.77 5,742,106 24.2 0.1 million options were granted under the Sharesave Scheme at a price of 6.99.
The weighted average fair value of options granted was 3.21.
0.3 million options were granted under the Stock Purchase Plan at a price of 7.48.
These options were granted with an exercise price equal to 85% of the mid-market price on the day before invitations were issued to employees.
The weighted average fair value of options granted was 3.71.
Options outstanding as at December 31, 2008 have the following characteristics: Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average remainingexercise exercise contractual price of Number of price of Number of Exercise term options options options options prices Years outstanding exercisable exercisable outstanding 1,785,273 0.014.00 4.1 3.54 1,757,709 3.54 4,284,635 4.016.00 5.8 5.44 4,269,262 5.44 2,298,210 6.0110.00 4.3 7.11 1,262,647 6.97 864,576 10.0113.00 2.3 12.46 809,017 12.56 9,232,694 8,098,635 Exercises of employee share-based awards The total intrinsic values of share-based awards exercised for the years to December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were $23.8 million, $67.9 million and $65.5 million, respectively.
The total cash received from employees as a result of employee share option exercises for the period to December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was approximately $11.4 million, $30.4 million and $82.0 million, respectively.
In connection with these exercises, the tax deficit charged to additional paid-in capital for the period to December 31, 2008 was $3.8 million 2007: $nil, 2006: $nil.
The Group will settle future employee share award exercises with either newly listed common shares or with shares held in an ESOT.
The number of shares to be purchased by the ESOT during 2009 will be dependent on the number of employee share awards granted and exercised during the year and Shire plcs share price.
At December 31, 2008 the ESOT held 7.3 million Ordinary Shares and 4.5 million ADSs.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 132 132 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 33 SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS continued Valuation methodologies The Group estimates the fair value of share-based awards without market-based performance conditions using a Black-Scholes valuation model and awards with market-based performance conditions are valued using a binomial valuation.
This is consistent with the provisions of SFAS No.
123 R and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
Key input assumptions used to estimate the fair value of sharebased awards include the grant price of the award, the expected stock-based award term, volatility of the Groups share, the risk-free rate and the Groups dividend yield.
The Group believes that the valuation technique and the approach utilized to develop the underlying assumptions are appropriate in estimating the fair values of Shires stock-based awards.
Estimates of fair value are not intended to predict actual future events or the value ultimately realized by employees who receive equity awards, and subsequent events are not indicative of the reasonableness of the original estimates of fair value made by the Group under SFAS No.
123 R. The fair value of share awards granted was estimated using the following assumptions: Year ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 i Risk-free interest rate 1.35.3% 3.45.35% 4.75.0% Expected dividend yield 00.5% 00.5% 0.5% ii Expected life 4 years 4 years 4 years Weighted average volatility 29% 27% 30% Forfeiture rate 5% 5% 5% i Risk free interest rate is for UK and US grants.
ii Stock awards made in the year to December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 expire five years from the date of issue.
34 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES All subsidiary undertakings with the exception of the Jerini subsidiaries which are held at 98.6% of Shire plc are 100% beneficially owned directly or indirectly and are all included in the consolidated financial statements.
Subsidiary Jurisdiction of incorporation 3829359 Canada Inc. Canada BioChem Vaccines B. V. Netherlands GlaxoSmithKline Shire Canada Inc. Canada Instant Companies Limited United Kingdom Monmouth Pharmaceuticals Limited United Kingdom Orpharm S. A. Argentina Pharma International Insurance Limited Ireland Rybar Laboratories Limited United Kingdom Shire 2005 Investments Limited Cayman Islands Shire Acquisition Inc. Canada Shire Australia Pty Limited Australia Shire Belgium BVBA Belgium Shire Biopharmaceuticals Holdings United Kingdom Shire Biopharmaceuticals Ireland Limited Ireland Shire Biopharmaceuticals Ireland No.
2 Limited Ireland Shire Canada Inc. Canada Shire Deutschland GmbH Germany Shire Deutschland Investments GmbH Germany Shire Development Inc. United States Shire Europe Finance United Kingdom Shire Europe Limited United Kingdom Shire Executive Services LLC United States Shire Finance Limited Cayman Islands Shire France S. A. France Shire Global Finance United Kingdom Shire Holdings AG Switzerland Shire Holdings Europe B. V. Netherlands Shire Holdings Europe Limited United Kingdom Shire Holdings Europe No.
l Luxembourg Shire Holdings Ireland Limited Ireland Shire Holdings Ireland No.
2 Limited Ireland Shire Holdings Limited Bermuda Shire Holdings UK Canada Limited United Kingdom 7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 133 133 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 34 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES continued Subsidiary Jurisdiction of incorporation Shire Holdings UK Limited United Kingdom Shire Holdings US AG United States Shire Human Genetic Therapies Canada Inc. Canada Shire Human Genetic Therapies AB Sweden Shire Human Genetic Therapies Inc. United States Shire Human Genetic Therapies Limited United Kingdom Shire Human Genetic Therapies Ltda Brazil Shire Human Genetic Therapies Securities Corporation United States Shire Human Genetic Therapies UK Limited United Kingdom Shire Incorporated United States Shire Intellectual Property 2 SRL Barbados Shire Intellectual Property SRL Barbados Shire International Licensing B. V. Netherlands Shire Investments & Finance U. K. Company United Kingdom Shire IP Services Corporation Canada Shire Italia S. p. A. Italy Shire Jersey Limited Jersey Shire LLC United States Shire Luxembourg S. a r. l. Luxembourg Shire Pharmaceutical Contracts Limited United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceutical Development Inc. United States Shire Pharmaceutical Development Limited United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceutical Holdings Ireland Limited Ireland Shire Pharmaceutical Investment Holdings Limited Malta Shire Pharmaceutical Investment Limited Malta Shire Pharmaceutical Investment Trading Ireland Ireland Shire Pharmaceutical Investments 2008 Ireland Shire Pharmaceuticals Group United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceuticals Iberica S. L. Spain Shire Pharmaceuticals Inc. United States Shire Pharmaceuticals Investments British Virgin Islands Limited British Virgin Islands Shire Pharmaceuticals Investments 2007 Limited Ireland Shire Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited Ireland Shire Pharmaceuticals Limited United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceuticals Mexico SA fide CV Mexico Shire Pharmaceuticals Services Limited United Kingdom Shire plc Jersey Shire Properties US United States Shire Regulatory Inc. United States Shire Supplies U. S. LLC United States Shire UK Investments Limited United Kingdom Shire US Holdings Inc. United States Shire US Inc. United States Shire US Investments United Kingdom Shire US Manufacturing Inc. United States Sparkleflame Limited United Kingdom SPG Insurance Company Limited Guernsey Tanaud International B. V. Netherlands Tanaud Ireland Inc. Ireland The Endocrine Centre Limited United Kingdom TKT Argentina srl Argentina Jerini AG Germany Jerini US, Inc. United States JPT Peptide Technologies GmbH Germany JPT Peptide Technologies, Inc. United States Jerini Ophthalmic Holding GmbH Germany Jerini Ophthalmic, Inc. United States Jerini Beteiligungen GmbH Germany Jerini Holding Ltd Malta Jerini Trading Ltd Malta 7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 134 134 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 35 RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS In October 2005 the Group sub-leased its office premises in Newport to Xanodyne Pharmaceuticals Inc. Dr James Cavanaugh, the Non-Executive Chairman of the Group up to June 18, 2008, was the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Xanodyne Pharmaceuticals, Inc. up to February 9, 2007.
As a result of the transaction the Group will receive $7.8 million net of inducements in lease income over the sub-lease period from Xanodyne Pharmaceuticals Inc. 36 AUDITORS REMUNERATION The ACR Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit and non-audit services, including tax advisory and compliance services, provided by the Groups auditors, Deloitte LLP, the cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditor.
In recognition of the importance of maintaining the independence of Deloitte LLP, a process for pre-approval has been in place since July 1, 2002 and has continued through to the end of the period covered by this Report.
The following table provides an analysis of the amount paid to the Groups auditors, Deloitte LLP, all fees having been pre-approved by the ACR Committee.
2008 2007 Year to December 31, $000 $000 i Audit fees 4,512 3,625 ii Audit-related fees 435 1,432 iii Tax fees 544 1,142 iv All other fees 140 346 Total fees 5,631 6,545 i Audit fees consisted of audit work only the Groups auditors can reasonably be expected to perform, such as statutory audits.
ii Audit related fees consist of work generally only the Groups auditors can reasonably be expected to perform, such as procedures relating to regulatory filings.
iii Tax fees consisted principally of assistance with matters related to compliance, planning and advice in various tax jurisdictions.
iv All other fees relate to assisting the remuneration committee and corporate responsibility.
37 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Agreement to Acquire EQUASYM IR and XL On February 20, 2009 the Company announced that it had signed an agreement with UCB to acquire the worldwide rights excluding the USA, Canada and Barbados to the currently marketed products EQUASYM IR and XL methylphenidate hydrochloride used for the treatment of ADHD.
The acquisition is subject to standard closing conditions.
On completion of the transaction approximately 20 sales and sales management personnel will transfer to the Company, providing an established sales force for EQUASYM and other potential ADHD products.
Shire will make a cash payment to UCB of ?55 million for the acquisition of these rights on completion of the transaction.
In addition, small milestone payments may become due in 2009 and 2010 if certain net sales targets are met.
Agreement to Terminate Development of Womens Health Products In August 2006, Shire and Duramed an affiliate of Barr entered into an agreement related to SEASONIQUE, a number of products using Durameds transvaginal ring technology and other oral products the Collaboration Products.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 135 135 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS UNAUDITED The following table presents summarized unaudited quarterly results for the years to December 31, 2008 and 2007: Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2008 $M $M $M $M Total revenues 702.2 775.6 778.6 765.8 Operating income loss 163.0 67.3 122.9 193.4 Net income loss 128.6 79.0 34.9 141.3 Earnings per sharebasic 23.6 14.6 6.5 26.2 Earnings per sharediluted 22.7 14.6 6.5 26.0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2007 $M $M $M $M Total revenues 528.2 574.9 608.7 724.5 Operating income loss 141.2 1,775.1 22.6 232.2 Net income loss 112.7 1,811.3 34.7 212.1 Earnings per sharebasic 21.6 331.0 6.4 38.9 Earnings per sharediluted 21.3 331.0 6.3 36.9 RECONCILIATION OF US GAAP TO NON-GAAP NET INCOME LOSS AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER ADS 2008 2008 2007 2007 2006 2006 $M ADS $M ADS $M ADS GAAP Net income loss and diluted earnings per ADS 156.0 85.8 1,451.8 806.1 278.2 163.8 IPR&D charge Jerini Zymenex New River 263.1 1,866.4 Gain on sale of product rights 20.7 127.8 63.0 Up front and milestone in-license payments 155.9 80.5 Costs associated with new holding company 14.8 Exit costs associated with DYNEPO 149.9 Integration and transaction related costs 10.3 1.3 5.6 Legal settlement 17.0 Intangible asset amortization 126.2 94.6 56.3 Intangible asset impairment excluding DYNEPO 2.5 0.4 1.1 FAS 123R catch up charge 29.2 Cost of product sales fair value adjustment 47.0 Operating IncomeNon-GAAP adjustments 546.1 2,037.0 127.5 Gain on disposal of minority equity investment 9.4 Write down of investments 58.0 Deferred finance costs write-off 7.9 Interest on TKT appraisal rights settlement 73.0 Discontinued operations 17.6 40.6 Taxes on above adjustments 112.4 61.8 34.2 Non-GAAP Net income and diluted earnings per ADS 728.9 385.8 531.3 284.1 330.9 195.0 The Non-GAAP measures are presented in this Annual Report as the Groups management believe that they will provide investors with a means of evaluating, and an understanding of how Shires management evaluates, the Groups performance and results on a comparable basis that is not otherwise apparent on a US GAAP basis, since many one-time, infrequent or non-cash items that the Groups management believe are not indicative of the core performance of the business may not be excluded when preparing financial measures under US GAAP.
The following items are excluded from net income loss from continuing operations in calculating Non-GAAP diluted earnings per ADS: intangible asset amortization and impairment charges: gains and losses on the sale of non-core assets: upfront payments and milestones in respect of in-licensed and acquired products: termination costs: costs associated with the introduction of the new holding company: costs associated with the acquisition and integration of companies, and acquired in-process research and development charges: other-than-temporary impairment of investments: incremental interest charges in 2008 of $73 million arising on the settlement of litigation with the former dissenting shareholders of TKT: and taxes associated with these items.
