Our business in action Sugar & Agriculture 40 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Our business in action Financial statements AB AGRI: FARMING IN HARMONY WITH THE COUNTRYSIDE Former Editor of Farmers Weekly, Denis Chamberlain, examines AB Agris approach to business and concludes that success in modern agricultural business requires partnership not only with customers but the environment as well.
ver recent years AB Agri has developed a strategy focusing on AB Agri has been developing supply chains to anticipate customers desire provision of technology throughout the food supply chain and for assured and traceable sources for products, foresight which has made increasing its international presence.
AB Agris success in this year it better able to meet the modern challenge and add genuine value.
Oof extreme volatility is testimony to that strategy.
Waitrose customers can purchase WildCare milk from farms focused on bio-diversity.
This scheme, developed by AB Agri, has recently been granted The complex food and animal feed chains in which the business operates the Green Apple award for environmental best practice.
Earlier this year, have been made more volatile by dramatic increases in the price of cereals the business launched the UKs first Carbon Trust accredited model.
This and oilseeds, burgeoning energy costs and the ongoing challenge of working will help to reduce the overall greenhouse gas emissions from the dairy with growing crops and livestock in an unpredictable climate.
farms that supply milk to Sainsburys.
The model measures current practice Cereal production, central to so much of the businesss UK operation, is a case on each farm and recommends areas for improvement such as reducing in point.
In the past 15 months the price of wheat has swung violently, up to usage of artificial fertilisers by the judicious use of organic manure and 200% over the period.
Frontiers leading market position, unique centralised reducing electricity usage by switching to modern ice bank plate coolers trading structure and trading systems meant it was ideally placed to manage to chill milk.
This  approach is expected to deliver price volatility on behalf of its grain customers and farmer suppliers.
For a company determined to add value to the operations of its trading The future will be equally challenging, but recent acquisitions will strengthen partners, AB Agri has had to draw on all its skills and experience in buying, the product and service offering in livestock feed and the provision of feed formulation, logistics and technical services.
The result has been micro-ingredients to other businesses in the food chain both in the UK and continued growth and stable trading relations.
Helping customers to manage overseas.
This, together with a history of investing in people who can deliver their risk throughout the supply chain has been important in building quality service, should keep AB Agri ahead of the game.
relationships and differentiating AB Agri from its competitors.
In todays food industry it is no longer enough to focus on the immediate customer or supplier.
Consumers are demanding that the whole chain is traceable from field to supermarket, is environmentally sound, cares for its countryside and focuses on good animal welfare.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 41
