Our business in action Retail lothing expenditure in the spending.
Only a handful of large expanded EU is worth operators with scale economies WE ARE NOW some 1300bn and offers can run a high volume low price major development proposition and survive in the C opportunities, particularly UK under these conditions.
for retailers from mature markets Moreover, on the Continent, where growth is slowing and costs OPEN although discounters are well are rising.
However, UK retailers established, they are still primarily have lagged behind their European centred around a low-price family counterparts in exploiting these offer in low-cost locations and the opportunities.
To be successful they value sector is at an earlier stage need to have a proposition that OSCAILTE of development than the UK.
not only stands out from existing operators, but one that appeals to Despite the difficult retail differing national tastes.
environment in the UK, opportunities still exist for Primark.
In this respect Primark has a distinct ABIERTO Even now there are prime locations advantage.
It differs from the typical without a major Primark store, and clothing or value model in running there are more sales opportunities a very-low price fashion proposition from an expanding product range.
from large, bright, contemporary However, long-term sustainable stores in prime retail locations.
Also, growth must come from GEOPEND its core target market of up to 35 international expansion.
year olds has the twin advantages of an insatiable appetite for fashion That said, European expansion is not Primarks expansion across and lower financial exposure to going to be achieved unchallenged.
the vagaries of the economic Competitors, having watched Europe gathers pace this year Primark turn former department environment particularly for teenagers and the early twenties.
stores in the UK into major shopping with new store openings in Spain destinations, will be keen to defend Furthermore, due to the influence of global media and the internet, their business in continental Europe, and the prospect of further particularly given Primarks success young fashion is now international and less prone to regional tastes.
in Spain, and its stated intention of countries to come.
opening stores in the Netherlands Expansion into fast growing and Germany.
international clothing markets becomes even more attractive as Other retailers in the larger EU Maureen Hinton, Retail Analyst markets may have wide experience potential for growth in the UK slows and becomes more dependent on of European retail markets, but they with Verdict, examines the are not used to running a low-cost, taking share from competitors.
The influence of value retailers has high-volume proposition.
success and comes to the On the other hand Primark lacks caused a downward shift in price across the whole market which experience of running an conclusion that value travels.
international operation, but the combined with substantial growth in retail space, has meant that UK recruitment this year of a number of key senior executives with just clothing shoppers are saturated with choice as well as good value.
such experience will accelerate the learning process.
Primark has a lot However, with their disposable income shrinking, consumers are to play for.
becoming more selective in their 42 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Our business in action Financial statements Shot on location in Madrid, Spain.
A Ass sso oci cia at ted ed B Br ri it ti is sh h F Fo ood ods s A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 00 08 8 43 43
