NOTES TO THE PARENTCOMPANY ACCOUNTS A.
General Information The Company redenominated its share capital into US Dollars on 23 January 2006 and will retain distributable reserves and declare dividends in US Dollars.
Consequently its functional currency became the US Dollar.
Financial information for prior periods were restated from Sterling into US Dollars in accordance withFRS 23,  Rates.
Share capital and share premium in comparative periods was translated at the rate of exchange on the date ofredenomination.
Accounting Policies The separate accounts of the Parent Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.
The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified to include revaluation to fair value of certain financial instruments as described below, and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
As consolidated financial information has been disclosed under IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, the Parent Company is exempt from FRS 29, Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
The Group accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by  onpages 74to138.
The Parent Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8, Related Party Disclosures not to present its related party disclosures as the Group accountscontainthese disclosures.
Inaddition, theParent Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 1, Cash Flow Statements not to present its own cash flowstatement as .
In applying these policies management is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of current events and actions, actual results ultimatelymaydiffer fromthoseestimates.
ForeignCurrencies Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All exchange differences are dealt with in arriving at profit before taxation.
Financial Instruments Currency swaps are used to match foreign currency net assets with foreign currency liabilities.
They are initially recorded at fair value and then for reporting purposes remeasured to fair value at exchange rates andinterest rates at subsequent balancesheet dates.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are recognised in the profit and loss account as theyarise.
DeferredTaxation Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligationtopaymore, orarighttopayless ortoreceivemore, tax.
