Contingencies The Group is engaged, as both plaintiff and defendant, in litigation with various competitors and others over claims and patent infringement.
The Group is also party to other legal proceedings in the normal course of business.
Other than as set out below, the Group considers that these will not result in any material adverse effect ontheGroupsresults .
Asatthatdate,  US, 450 in Australia and 50 in Europe, the first component having been implanted in December 2001.
As at 31 December 2008, 1,044 implants required revision surgery as a result of some patients not achieving adequate .
A charge of $154m was recorded in 2004 for anticipated expenses in connection with macrotexture claims.
Most of this amount has since been applied to settlements of such claims.
The key variables in assessing the adequacy of the provision are the number of revisions likely to arise and the average cost of settling patient claims for those revisions.
Management believes that the $30m provision remaining is adequate to coverremainingclaims.
To date the primary insurance carrier has paid $60m in full settlement of its policy liability.
An additional $22m was received from a successful legal settlement.
At 31 December 2008, $124m remains due, and the Group has sought coverage from five other excess insurers.
However, these excess carriers have denied coverage, citing defences relating primarily to the wording of the insurance policies.
In December 2004, the Group brought suit against them in federal district court in Memphis, Tennessee, and hearing is expected to commenceinlate 2009.
The Groups assessment of the impact of these revisions and related matters constitute forward-looking statements that aresubject touncertainties,  as compared to the assumptions made in estimating claim amounts.
Smith & Nephew cannot provide assurance that these estimates will prove correct.
Depending on the number and average cost of future settlements, costs maybe greater orless .
In September 2007, the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC notified the Group that it was conducting an informal investigation of the Group, regarding possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in connection with the sale of medical devices in certain foreign countries.
The US Department of Justice has subsequently joined the SECs request.
The Group is cooperatingfully with the US Department ofJusticeandtheSEC regardingthese matters.
In June 2008, the Group won a jury verdict in Portland, Oregon against Arthrex Inc. Arthrex for infringement of a patent relating to suture anchors.
The Group was awarded approximately $15m in damages, plus approximately $6m interest and an injunction forbidding further sales of infringing suture anchors by Arthrex.
On appeal by Arthrex, the Court of Appeals stayed the injunction pending a hearing.
A second lawsuit against other Arthrex suture anchors has also been stayed pending the appeal.
Arthrex has also asked the US Patent and Trademark Office to re-examine the patent in question.
A decision on the appeal is not expected before the end of 2009.
Whilst the outcome is not certain, the Group believes that it is probable that the original decision will ultimately be upheld, and as such is required under IAS 37 Provisions,  .
