The second interim dividend will be paid on 8 May 2009 to shareholders on the Register of Members at the .
Special Note Regarding  The Groups reports filed with, or furnished to, the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, includingthis document and written information released, or oral statements made, to the public in the future by or on behalf of the Group, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In particular, statements regarding planned growth in the Groups business and trading margins discussed under Outlook and Trend Information are forward-looking statements as are discussions of the Groups product pipeline and discussions of the costs of future revisions of the macrotextured knee product under Recent Developments, Legal Proceedings and Operating and Financial Review Liquidity and Prospects.
When used in this Annual Report, the words aim, anticipate, believe, consider, estimate, expect, intend, plan, target, well-placed and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors including, but not limited to, the outcome of litigation and regulatory approvals that could cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Smith & Nephew, or industry results, to differ materially from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Specific risks faced by the Group are described under Risk Factors on page 22 of this Annual Report.
All forward-looking statements in this Annual Report are based on information available to Smith & Nephew as of 17 March 2009.
All written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to Smith & Nephew or any person acting on behalf of Smith & Nephew are expressly qualified in their entirety by the foregoing.
Smith & Nephew does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement contained herein to reflect any change in Smith & Nephews expectation with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or  isbased.
Market Data Market data and market share estimates throughout this report are derived from a variety of sources including publicly available competitors information, internal management information and independent market research reports.
Documents on Display It is possible to read and copy documents referred to in this Annual Report at the Registered Office of the Company.
Documents referred to in this Annual Report that have been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the US may be read and copied at the SECs public reference room located at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington DC 20549.
Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference rooms and their copy charges.
The SEC also maintains a web site at www.
gov that contains reports and other information regarding registrants that file electronically with the SEC.
This Annual Report and some of  bytheGrouptotheSEC maybe accessed throughtheSEC website.
