INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS  Following shareholder approval in 2007, the Company will be sending paper copies of the Annual Report only to those shareholders that have elected to receive shareholder documentation by post.
ADS holders also will not be sent a hard copy unless they have elected to receive it.
The document, as well as the electronic Summary Financial Statement, will be available on the Groups website at www.
com and both ordinary shareholders and ADS holders can request hard copies of these documents, which will be provided free of charge.
The Group will continue to send the notice of the Annual General Meeting with an accompanying letter to ordinary shareholders by post which will state that the Annual Report is available on the Groups website.
Shareholders who have elected to receive the notice electronically are informed by e-mail of the availability of the .
From 2007, following regulatory changes in the UK, the Interim Report has been made available through Stock Exchange announcements and on the Groups website.
Quarterly reports are made available through Stock Exchange announcements and on the Groups website.
Hard copies are available on request.
Copies of recent Annual Reports, Summary Financial Statements and Interim Reports are also available on the Smith & Nephew website alongwithpress releases,  andaudiowebcasts.
 There is a regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders, together with results presentations.
To ensure that all members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders, the executive directors review significant issues raised by investors with the Board.
Non-executive directors are sent copies of analysts and brokers briefings.
There is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the directors at the AGM, at which the level of proxy votes received are advised, and the Company regularly responds toletters .
Financial Calendar QuarterOneresults andAGM 30April2009  8May2009 Halfyearresults announced 30July2009 i QuarterThreeresults announced 6November2009 Paymentof2009first interimdividend November2009 Fullyearresults announced February2010 i AnnualReport available March2010 AnnualGeneral Meeting May2010 i Dividend declaration dates.
Dividend The Ordinary Shares and ADSs will trade ex-dividend on both the London and New York Stock Exchanges respectively from 15 April 2009 and the record date will be 17 April 2009 in respect of the second interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2008 of 8.12 per Ordinary Share to be paid on 8 May 2009.
The Sterling equivalent per Ordinary Share will be set following the record date.
Shareholders may elect to receive  Dollarsandthelast dayforelectionwillbe 15April2009.
Ordinary Shares Paymentofcash dividends Shareholders who wish their dividends to be paid directly to a bank or building society and who have not already  mandate , Equiniti.
 The Company has a dividend re-investment plan that offers shareholders, except those in North America, the opportunity to invest their cash dividends in further Smith & Nephew Ordinary Shares, which are purchased in the market at competitive dealing costs.
Application forms for re-investing the 2008 second interim dividend and   oftheCompany.
150 UK capital gainstax Forthepurposes ofUK capitalgainstax  on31March1982was 35.04p.
Smith& Nephewshareprice The Companys Ordinary Shares are quoted on the LSE under the symbol SN.
The Companys share price is available on the Smith & Nephew website www.
com whereitisupdated at intervals throughouttheday.
Smith& NephewcorporateISA The Company has a corporate Individual Savings Account ISA, for UK shareholders, administered by the Companys registrar.
For information about this service if calling from the UK please contact their helpline on telephone 0871 384 2081 calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline, other telephony providerscosts mayvary or 44 0 .
Shareview To view information about your shareholdings on the internet, register at www.
co. uk, the registrars enquiryand portfoliomanagement service for shareholders.
  be able to register your proxy instructions online and elect to receive future shareholder communications via the website at www.
Shareholderenquiries For information about the AGM, shareholdings, dividends and changes to personal details all shareholders should contact Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, UK on telephone 0871 384 2081 calls to this number are changed are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline, other telephony providerscosts mayvary or 44 0 .
American DepositaryReceipts ADRs In the US, the Companys Ordinary Shares are traded in the form of ADSs, evidenced by ADRs, and trade on the NYSE under the symbol SNN.
Each American Depositary Share represents five OrdinaryShares.
The Bankof New York Mellon is the authorised depositary bank for the Companys ADR programme.
A Global BuyDIRECT plan is available for US residents, enabling investment directly in ADSs with reduced brokerage commissions and servicecosts.
The Company furnishes the Bank of New York Mellon, as depositary, with copies of this annual report containing Consolidated FinancialStatements and the opinionexpressed thereon byits independentauditors.
Suchfinancial statements are prepared under IFRS.
Upon receipt thereof, the Bank of New York Mellon will mail all such reports to recorded holders who have elected to receive hard copy versions.
The Company also furnishes to The Bank of New York Mellon all notices of shareholders meetings and other reports and communications that are made generally available to shareholders of the Company.
The Bank of New York Mellon makes such notices, reports and communications available for inspection by recorded holders of ADSs and mails forms of proxy to all .
Smith& NephewADS price The Companys ADS price can be obtained from the official New York Stock Exchange website at www.
ADS Enquiries All enquiries regarding ADS holder accounts and payment of dividends should be addressed to: BNY Mellon ShareholderServices, POBox358516, Pittsburgh, PA15252-8516, USA: 1-866-259-2287: internationallycall 1-201-680-6825:oremailshrrelations@bnymellon.
Annual General Meeting The Companys Annual General Meeting is to be held on 30 April 2009 at 11.00am at The Royal College of Physicians, 11 St Andrews Place, Regents Park, London, NW14LE, UK.
Noticeof the meeting has been sent to all  fromtheChairman.
151 Investor Information Corporate Headquarters and Registeredoffice The corporate headquarters is in the UK and the registered office address is: Smith & Nephew plc, 15 Adam Street, London WC2N 6LA, UK.
Registered in England and Wales No.
com Advisors Solicitors: Ashurst LLP Freshfields BruckhausDeringer Auditors: Ernst &YoungLLP Stockbrokers: JP MorganCazenove UBS 152
