New Accounting Standards New IFRS Accounting Standards The following IFRS and IFRIC interpretations, which are relevant to the Group, have been issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB but are not yet effective or have not yet been adopted by the Group.
Unless otherwise listed below, no other standard, amendment or interpretaton is likely to have a materialeffect ontheGroupsresults .
In November 2006, the IASB issued IFRS 8 Operating Segments which is required to be implemented in the .
 basis as used by management when evaluating performance.
This is not expected to change the business .
In March 2007, the IASB issued an amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs which the Group will adopt in the financial year commencing1 January 2009.
This amendment removes the option of immediately recognising as an expense borrowing costs that relate to assets that take a substantial period of time to get ready for use or sale.
The Group currently applies the policy of expensing all interest costs, and will therefore be required to capitalise borrowing costs as part of the cost of such assets.
This amendment was endorsed by theEU inDecember2008.
In September 2007, the IASB issued a revised IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements which the Group will adopt in the financial year commencing 1 January 2009.
This revised standard requires information in financial statements to be aggregated on the basis of shared characteristics and introduces a statement of comprehensiveincome.
In January 2008, the IASB issued an amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
The Group will adopt this amendment in the financial year commencing 1 January 2009.
The amendment clarifies the terms vesting conditions and cancellation and their related accounting treatment.
This amendment does not have a material impact on the Groups results of operations or financial position.
This revised standard was endorsedbytheEU inDecember2008.
In February 2008, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Presentationof Financial Statements with regards to puttable financialinstruments and obligationsarisingon liquidation.
The Group will adopt these amendments in the financial year commencing 1 January 2009.
As a result of these amendments, some puttable financial instruments and obligations that currently meet the definition of a financial liability will be classified as equity.
These amendments do not have a material impact onthe Groups results .
In May 2008, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
The Group will adopt these in the financial year commencing 1 January 2009.
As a result of these amendments, upon initial recognition of an investment, the Group will be allowed an option of the previous GAAP carrying amount of the investment or its fair value as deemed cost.
These amendments do not have a material impact on the Groups results of .
In January 2008, the IASB issued a revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations and an amended IAS 27 Consolidated and Financial Statements.
The Group will adopt these standards in the financial year commencing 1 January 2010.
The amended IFRS 3 clarifies certain areas in accounting for business combinations, whilst the revised IAS 27 reduces the number of alternatives in accounting for subsidiaries in consolidated financial statements.
This revised standard will be applied to all business acquisitions with an acquisition date on or after January 2010, and will have a significant impact on how an acquisition will be accountedforfromthat date.
Theserevised andamended standards havenotyet beenendorsedbytheEU.
In July 2008, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The Group will adopt these amendments in the financial year commencing 1 January 2010.
These amendments clarify how the principles that determine whether a hedged risk or portion of cash flows is eligible for designation should be applied in particular situations.
These amendments have not yet been endorsedbytheEU.
