General Information Smith & Nephew plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act.
In these accounts, Group means the Company and all its subsidiaries.
The principal activities of the Group are to develop, manufacture, market and sell medical devices in the sectors of Orthopaedics, .
Presentation of financialinformation The Group changed its presentational currencyfrom Pounds Sterling to US Dollars with effect from 1 January 2006 as at that time the Groups principal assets and operations were in the US and the majority of its operations were conducted in US Dollars.
Additionally, the Company redenominated its share capital into US Dollars on 23 January 2006 and will retain distributable reserves and declare dividends in US Dollars.
Consequently its functional currency became the US Dollar.
This lowers the Groups exposure to currency translation risk on its revenue, profits and equity.
Financial information for prior periods was restated from PoundsSterlingintoUS  21  Rates.
The cumulative translation reserve was set to nil at 1 January 2003 i. e. the transition date to IFRS.
All subsequent movements comprising differences on the retranslation of the opening net assets of non US Dollar subsidiaries and hedging instruments have been charged to the cumulative translation reserve included in Other Reserves.
Share capital and share premium were translated at the rate of exchange on thedate ofredenomination.
As required by the European Unions IAS Regulation and the Companies Act 1985, the Group has prepared its accounts in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU effective as at 31 December 2008.
The Group has also prepared its accounts in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB effective as at 31December2008.
The Group applied IFRS 1 First Time Adoption for International Financial Reporting Standards in 2005 to provide a starting point for reporting under IFRS.
The Groups date of transition to IFRS was 1 January 2003 and all comparative information in the financial statements was restated to reflect the Groups adoption of IFRS, except  underIFRS 1.
IFRS 1 required an entity to comply with each IFRS effective at the reporting date for its first IFRS financial statements.
As a general principle, IFRS 1 required the standards effective at the reporting date to be applied retrospectively.
However, retrospective application was prohibited in some areas, particularly where retrospective application would require judgements by management about past conditions after the outcome of the particular transaction is already known.
A number of optional exemptions from full retrospective application of IFRS were granted where the cost of compliance was deemed to exceed the benefits to users of the financial statements.
Where applicable, the options selected by management are set .
At 31 December 2007 the cost of the Plus business was allocated on a provisional basis to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed on acquisition.
In 2008, the provisional fair value adjustments were finalised to reflect improved knowledge of the Plus business.
The final allocation of the purchase price was completed by 31 May 2008, inaccordancewith the time linestipulated inIFRS 3 BusinessCombinations.
The final adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed increased goodwill by $25m, decreased intangible assets by $27m and other assets increased by $2m.
Accordingly, the balance sheet as at 31 December 2007 has been adjusted.
These fair value adjustments had a negligible affect on the income statement presented for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Further information can be found in Note 32 of .
