Discontinued Operations Investment in Joint Venture BSN Medical From 1 October 2005 the Groups 50% interest in the BSN Medical joint venture held jointly with Beiersdorf AG was classified as held for sale.
On 23 February 2006 the Group sold this interest for cash consideration of$562m.
Investments in Associates On 31 May 2007, the Group acquired 49% of the Austrian entities Plus Orthopedics GmbH and Intraplant GmbHand20%.
Goodwill is allocated to the cash-generating unit that is expected to benefit from the acquisition.
If therecoverableamount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount then an impairment loss is determined to have occurred.
Any impairment losses that arise are recognised immediately in the income statement and are .
Goodwill continued In September 2008 and 2007 impairment reviews were performed by comparing the recoverable amount of each business segment with its carrying amount, including goodwill.
These were updated during December 2008, taking into account significant events that occurred between September 2008 and December 2008.
For each cash-generating unit CGU the recoverable amounts are based on value-in-use which is calculated from pre-tax cash flow projections for five years using data from the Groups budget and strategic planning process, the results of which are reviewed and approved by the Board.
These projections exclude any estimated future cash inflows or outflows expected to arise from future restructurings.
The five-year period is in line with the Groups strategic planning process.
The growth rates used over the five year period for the Orthopaedics business vary up to 10%, for the Endoscopy business up to 10% and for the Advanced  upto12%.
The calculation of value-in-use for the three identified CGUs is most sensitive to discount rates, growth rates  set outbelow: The discount rate reflects managements assessment of risks specific to the assets of each CGU.
The pretax discount rate used in the Orthopaedics and Endoscopy businesses is 12% and for the Advanced Wound Managementbusiness is10%.
In determining the growth rate used in the calculation of the value-in-use, the Group considered the annual sales growth and trading margins.
Projections are based on anticipated volume and value growth in the markets served by the Group and assumptions as to market share movements.
Each year the projections for the previous year are compared to actual results and variances are factored into the assumptions used in thecurrentyear.
Specific considerations and strategies taken into account in determining the sales growth and trading marginforeachCGU are: Orthopaedics In the Orthopaedic Reconstruction market, management believes that by focusing innovation on the needs of the younger, more active patients, Smith & Nephew can lead the sector in providing hip and knee implants to this growing demographic fragment.
As such, the Group is continuing to invest in strategies that drive patient demand through integrated communications programmes, including direct-to-consumer advertising and internet-based initiatives.
In the Orthopaedic Trauma and Clinical Therapies markets, management intends on delivering growth through innovative product development in the existing core business, while expanding into fast-growing market areas includingalternative therapies .
Endoscopy It is managements intent to maintain and grow this CGU as the leading provider of endoscopic techniques and technologies for joint and ligament repair.
This is driven partly through the growing acceptance of endoscopy as a preferred surgical choice amongst physicians and patients, as well as supporting surgeon educational programmes, global fellowship support initiatives and partnerships .
Advanced Wound Management By focusing on the higher added value sectors of exudate and infection management through improved wound bed preparation, moist and active healing and negative pressure woundtherapy, .
A growth rate of 4% in pre-tax cash flows is assumed after five years in calculating a terminal value for the Groups CGUs.
Management considered this to be an appropriate estimate based onthe growthrates of the markets .
Capital utilisation represents the Groups expected annual investment in property, plant and equipment and .
: Growth of Market and Market Share Management has considered the impact of a variance in market growth and market share.
The value-in-use calculation shows that if the assumed long-term growth rate was reduced to nil, the recoverable amount of all of the CGUs independently would still be greater than theircarryingvalues.
