Accounting Policies The Group has adopted IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction in the financial year ended 31 December 2008.
This is the Groups initial application of this interpretation, which gives further guidance on how to assess the limit on the amount of a defined benefit scheme surplus that can be recognised as an asset.
The adoption did not have a material  .
  outbelow: Basis of Preparation The preparation of accounts in conformity with IFRS requires management to use estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
The accounting policies requiring management to use significant estimates and assumptions are discussed under Critical Accounting Policies within the Operating and Financial Review, Liquidity and Prospects section on pages 31 and 32.
Although these estimates are based on managements best  andactions, actualresults ultimatelymaydiffer fromthoseestimates.
Consolidation The Group accounts include the accounts of Smith & Nephew plc the Company and its subsidiaries for  oftheGroup.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group.
Subsidiaries are included in the Group accounts from the date that the Group obtains control.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses  .
BusinessCombinations On acquisition, identifiable assets and liabilities including contingent liabilities of subsidiaries and associates are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition with any excess of the cost of acquisition over this value being capitalised as goodwill.
The fair value of assets includes the taxation benefits resulting from amortisation for income taxation purposes from which a third party separately acquiringtheassets wouldreasonablybe expected tobenefit.
The Group elected not to apply IFRS 3 Business Combinations retrospectively to transactions occurring prior to the date of transition to IFRS, as permitted by IFRS 1.
Goodwill and intangible assets would be different had this election not been made.
Had prior business combinations been restated, goodwill arising from transactions occurring prior to 31 December 1998 which was previously set-off against reserves would be reinstated.
Goodwill arising from transactions from 1 January 1999 to 31 December 2002 would be lower as  reclassified as separately .
 be increased by the reversal of amortisation charged during that period.
In the Income Statement goodwill  wouldhavebeenhigher.
Interest in BSN Medical Joint Venture A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
The Groups interest in the results and assets and liabilities of its joint venture BSN Medical, which was a jointly controlled entity prior to disposal, were included in the accounts .
Investments in Associates Investments in associates, being those entities over which the Group has a significant influence and which is neither a subsidiary or a joint venture, are accounted for using the equity method, with the Group recording its share of the associates net income and equity.
The Groups share in the results of its associates is included in one separate income statement line and is calculated after deduction of their respective taxes.
Accounting Policies continued Minority Interests Minority interests in the net assets excluding goodwill of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity.
The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the minoritys proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Minority interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination  ofthecombination.
TheGroupapplies apolicyof treatingtransactions  as transactions withequityholdersof theParentCompany.
Non-Current Assets Held for sale Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale rather than from continued use.
Assets held for sale are valued at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The joint venture in BSN Medical was classified as such from 1October2005.
Revenue Revenue comprises sales of products and services to third parties at amounts invoiced net of trade discounts and rebates, excluding taxes on revenue.
Revenue from the sale of products is recognised upon transfer to the customer of the significant risks and rewards of ownership.
This is generally when goods are delivered to customers.
Sales of inventory located at customer premises and available for customers immediate use are recognised when notification is received that the product has been implanted or used.
Appropriate provisions for returns, trade discounts and rebates are deducted from revenue.
Rebates comprise retrospective volume discounts granted to certain customers on attainment of certain levels of purchases from the Group.
These are accrued over the course of the arrangement based on estimates of thelevel ofbusiness expected andadjusted at  actualvolumes.
ForeignCurrencies Balance sheet items of foreign operations and foreign currency borrowings are translated into US Dollars on consolidation at year end rates of exchange.
Income statement items and the cash flows of overseas subsidiary undertakingsand associated undertakingsare translated at average rates as anapproximationto , with used forlargeoneoff transactions.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and  at theclosingrate.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange rulingat thebalancesheet date.
The following are recorded as movements in Other reserves within equity: exchange differences on the translation at closing rates of exchange of non-US Dollar opening net assets: the differences arising between the translation of profits into US Dollars at average and closing exchange rates: to the extent that the hedging relationship is effective, the difference on translation of foreign currency borrowings or swaps that are used to finance or hedge the Groups net investments in foreign operations: and the movement in the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts used to hedge forecast foreign exchange cash flows.
All other exchange differences are taken to the income statement.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation, net of related , wouldbe .
Under IFRS 1, the Group was not required to record cumulative translation differences arising prior to the transition date.
In utilising this exemption, all cumulative translation differences were deemed to be zero as at 1 January 2003 and subsequent foreign business disposals will exclude any translation differences arising prior to the date of transition.
Full retrospective presentation of cumulative translation differences would either increase or decrease Other reserves depending on historic exchange rate fluctuations with the corresponding movement taken to Accumulated profits.
Gains or losses on the disposals of foreign operations in the future would be different as a result of thedifferent amount of  differences.
Accounting Policies continued Taxation The charge for current taxation is based on the results for the year as adjusted for items which are non-assessable or disallowed.
It is calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted bythebalancesheet date.
Deferred taxation is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method in respect of temporary differences arising between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the accounts and the correspondingtax bases used  profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences except in respect of investments insubsidiaries where the Group is able to controlthe timingofthereversal  is probable that this will not reverse in the foreseeable future: on the initial recognition of non-deductible goodwill: and on the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combinationandthat, at , does notaffect  profit.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
Their carrying amount is reviewed at each balance sheet date onthesame basis.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis, and at the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date that are expected to apply inthe periods inwhichthe asset or liability is settled.
It is recognised in the income statement except when it relates to items credited or , inwhichcase thedeferred tax isalsodealt withinequity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority, when the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis and that authoritypermits .
AdvertisingCosts Expenditure onadvertisingcosts isexpensed as incurred.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets  the date of transitionto IFRS isstated at netbookvalueas at that date.
Goodwill recognised subsequent to 1 January 2003, representing the excess of purchase consideration over the Groups share of the fair value of net assets acquired, is capitalised.
Goodwill is not amortised but is .
Purchased intangibles, including purchased patents, know-how, trademarks, licences and distribution rights are capitalised at cost and amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful economic lives.
The estimated useful economic life of an intangible asset ranges between three and 20 years depending on its nature.
Purchased computer software and certain costs of information technology projects are capitalised as intangibleassets.
Software that  as plant andequipment.
Research and Development The Group considers that the regulatory, technical and market uncertainties inherent in the development of new products means that development costs should not be capitalised as intangible assets until products receive approval from the appropriate regulatory body.
Substantially all development expenditure is complete by the time the product is submitted for regulatory approval.
Consequently expenditure on  isexpensed as incurred.
Accounting Policies continued Property, Plant andEquipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less depreciation and provision for impairment where appropriate.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Freehold buildings are depreciated on a straight-line basis at between 2% and 5% per annum.
Leasehold land and buildings are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of their estimated useful economic lives and the terms of the leases.
Plant and equipment is depreciated over lives ranging between three and 20 years by equal annual instalments to write down the assets to their estimated residual value at the end of their workinglives.
Impairment of assets Goodwill is allocated to the reported business segments which are principally the same as the cashgenerating units.
The recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets with finite lives are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of impairment loss.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Groupestimates .
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
In assessing value-in-use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of .
In carrying out impairment reviews of goodwill and intangible assets a number of significant assumptions have to be made whenpreparing cash flow projections.
These includeannualsales growth, trading margins, capital utilisation and anticipated volume and value growth in the markets served by the Group.
If actual results should differ, or changes in expectations arise, impairment charges may be required which would adversely .
LeasingCommitments Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards .
All otherleases areclassified as operatingleases.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised as property, plant or equipment and depreciated accordingly.
The capital element of future lease payments is included in borrowings and interest is charged toprofitbefore taxation  .
Rentals payable under operating leases are expensed in the income statement on a straight line basis over thetermoftherelevant lease.
Investments and Other Financial Assets Investments, other than those related to associates, are initially recorded at fair value plus transaction costs on the trade date.
The Group holds an investment in an entity that holds mainly unquoted equity securities, which is classed as available for sale and carried at fair value.
The fair value of the investment is based on the underlying fair value of the equity securities: marketable securities are valued by reference to closing prices in the market: non-marketable securities are estimated considering factors including the purchase price, prices of recent significant private placements of securities of the same issuer and estimates of liquidation value.
Changes in fair value are recognised in equity except where management considers that there is objective evidence of an ,  recognisedas anexpense immediately.
Accounting Policies continued Investments and Other Financial Assets continued Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost, less any allowances for uncollectibleamounts.
Theyare included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are classified as non-current assets.
Loans and other receivables are classified as Trade and other receivables inthebalancesheet.
Inventories Finished goods and work-in-progress are valued at factory cost, including appropriate overheads, on a first-in first-out basis.
Raw materials and bought-in finished goods are valued at purchase price.
All inventories are reduced to net realisable value where lower than cost.
Inventory acquired as part of a business acquisitionisvalued at sellingpriceless costs ofdisposal .
Orthopaedic instruments are generally not sold but provided to customers and distributors for use in surgery.
They are recorded as inventory until they are deployed at which point they are transferred to plant  .
A feature of the orthopaedic business is the high level of product inventory required, some of which is located at customer premises and is available for customers immediate use.
Complete sets of product, including large and small sizes, have to be made available in this way.
These outer sizes are used less frequently than standard sizes and towards the end of the product life cycle are inevitably in excess of requirements.
Adjustments to carrying value are therefore required to be made to orthopaedic inventory to anticipate this situation.
These adjustments are calculated in accordance with a formula based on levels of inventory compared with historical or forecast usage.
This formula is applied on an individual product line basis and is first applied when a product group has been on the market for two years.
This method of calculation is considered appropriate based on experience but it involves management judgements on effectiveness of inventory deployment, length of product lives, phase-out of old products and efficiency of .
Derivative Financial Instruments Derivative financial instruments are recorded initially at fair value and for reportingpurposes are remeasured tofairvalueat subsequent balancesheet dates.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges of forecasted third party and intercompany transactions are recognised directly in equity until the associated asset or liability is recognised.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit and loss.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset,  .
Currency swaps to match foreign currency net assets with foreign currency liabilities are fair valued at year end.
Currency swaps are classified as financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit or loss with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement.
Changes in the fair values of currency swaps that are designated and effective as net investment hedges are matched in equity against changes in value of therelated netassets.
Interest rate swaps transacted to fix interest rates on floating rate borrowings are accounted for as cash flow hedges and changes in the fair values resulting from changes in market interest rates are recognised in equity.
Any ineffectiveness on hedging instruments and changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement within other finance income costs as theyarise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained there until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is nolongerexpected to occur,   totheincomestatement fortheperiod.
Accounting Policies continued Recognitionof Financial Assets and Liabilities Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on a trade date basis in the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group carries borrowings in the BalanceSheet at amortisedcost.
Retirement Benefits The Groups major pension plans are of the defined benefit type.
For these plans, the employers portion of past and current service cost is charged to operating profit, with the interest cost net of expected return on assets in the plans reported within other finance income costs.
Actuarial gains or losses are recognised .
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by external actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash flows using, where available, interest rates  aredenominated in the currencyin whichthe benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms oftherelated pensionliability.
A number of key judgements have to be made in calculating the fair value of the Groups defined benefit pension plans.
These assumptions impact the balance sheet liability, operating profit and finance income costs.
The ,  applied to future pension plan liabilities.
In making these judgements management takes into account the advice of professionalexternal  assumptionsagainst external data.
Where defined contributionplans operate, the contributionsto these plans are charged to operating profit as theybecomepayable.
Share Based Payments The Group operates a number of executive and employee share schemes.
For all grants of share options and awards, the fair value at the grant date is calculated using option pricing models and the corresponding expense  period.
Under IFRS 1, the Group is required to restate its comparative years for all grants of equity instrumentsmade on or after 7 November 2002.
A first time adopter is encouraged to apply IFRS to grants made before this date to the extent information on the fair value of these equity instruments has previously been publicly disclosed.
The Group disclosed share option valuations in its US GAAP reporting in prior years and these valuationswereused torestate comparatives.
Contingenciesand Provisions In the normal course of business the Group is involved in numerous legal disputes.
Provision is made for loss contingencies when it is deemed probable that an adverse outcome will occur and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
Where the Group is the plaintiff in pursuing claims against third parties legal and associated expenses are charged to the income statement as incurred.
The recognition of provisions for legal disputes is subject to a significant degree of estimation.
In making its estimates management takes into account the advice of internal and external legal counsel.
Provisions are reviewed regularly and amounts updated where necessary to reflect developments in the disputes.
The ultimate liability may differ from the amount provided depending on the outcome of court proceedings and settlement negotiationsoras newfacts emerge.
The estimation of the liability for the costs of the macrotextured product withdrawal for which insurance coverage has been declined is dependent upon two main variables.
These are, the number of implant revisions that will ultimately be required and the average cost of settlements with patients.
The estimate of the remaining number of implant revisions is based on trends to date and the advice of external statistical and other advisors.
The estimate of average settlement costs is based on the most recent settlement experienceupdated .
