OPERATING ACTIVITIES SALES, MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION Smith & Nephews customers are the various providers of medical and surgical services worldwide.
In certain parts of the world, including the UK, much of Continental Europe, Canada and Japan, these are largely government organisations funded by tax revenues.
In the US, the Groups major customers are publicand private hospitals, which receive revenue from private health insurance and government reimbursement programmes.
In the US, Medicare is the major source of reimbursement for knee and hip reconstruction procedures and for  regimes.
Competition exists amonghealthcare providers to gain patients onthe basis of quality, service and price.
In many countries, providers are under pressure to reduce the total cost of healthcare delivery.
There has been some consolidation in the Groups customer base, as well as amongst the Groups competitors, and these trends are expected to continue in the long term.
Smith & Nephew competes against both specialised and multinational corporations,  financial, .
The Groups customers reflect the wide range of distribution channels, purchasing agents and buying entities in over 90 countries worldwide.
The largest single customers worldwide are the National Health Service in the UK  whichrepresented 4%and2%respectively .
In the US, the Groups products are marketed directly to doctors, hospitals and other healthcare facilities with each business unit operating a separate specialised sales force.
The US sales forces consist of a mixture of independent commissioned sales agents and direct employees.
The independent agents are not permitted contractually to sell products that compete with Smith & Nephews.
Orthopaedics and Endoscopy products are shipped and invoiced directly to the ultimate customer.
Advanced Wound Management products are marketed directly to the ultimate customer.
However, the products are shipped and invoiced to a number of wholesale distributors.
The emerging markets unit comprises direct selling and marketing operations in India, China, Hong Kong, Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand, the United Arab Emirates, South Africa, Mexico and Puerto Rico.
In these markets, Orthopaedics and Endoscopy frequently share sales resources.
The Advanced Wound Management sales force is typically separate because it calls on different customers.
In other countries, Smith & Nephew sells to third party .
The Group operates a number of central distribution facilities in the key geographical areas in which it operates.
Orthopaedics and Endoscopy operate a facility in Baar, Switzerland which acts as the main holding and consolidation point for markets outside of the US.
Hubs serving the US are located in Memphis for Orthopaedics and Oklahoma for Endoscopy.
Product is shipped to Group companies who hold small amounts of inventory locally for immediate or urgent customer requirements.
Advanced Wound Management distribution hubs include Neunkirchen, Germany:Nottingham, UK:andAtlanta, US.
SEASONALITY Smith & Nephews revenues are generally at their highest in the fourth quarter of any year.
This is caused by the relatively high number of accidents and sports injuries which occur in the North American and European autumn and winter seasons which increase revenues of orthopaedic trauma and endoscopy products.
Orthopaedic  are lower inthe third quarter due to fewer elective  thefourthquarteras elective surgeriesincrease.
