DeferredTaxation continued The Group has unused tax losses of $34m 2007 $60m available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of $5m 2007 $6m of such losses.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised on the remaining unused tax losses as these are not expected to be realised in theforeseeable future.
Called Up Equity Share Capital continued 2 On 23 January 2006 the Ordinary Shares of 12 p were redenominated to US Dollar shares of 20 each by 9 means of a Court approved reduction in share capital, creation of a capital redemption reserve and subsequent issue and allotment of new Ordinary Shares of 20 each on the basis of one new share for one existingshareheld.
In 2006, in order to comply with English law the Company issued 50,000 of shares in Sterling.
These were issued as deferred shares, which are not listed on any stock exchange, have extremely limited rights and effectively havenovalue.
 follows: Theholdershallnotbe entitled toparticipate intheprofits oftheCompany: The holder shall not have any right to participate in any distribution of the Companys assets on a winding up or other distribution except that after the return of the nominal amount paid up on each share in the capital of the company of any class other than the Deferred Shares and the distribution of a further $1,000 in respect of each such share there shall be distributed to a holder of a Deferred Share foreachDeferred Shareheldbyhim  Share: The holder shall not be entitled to receive notice, attend, speak or vote at any general meeting of the Company:and The Company may create, allot and issue further shares or reduce or repay the whole or any part of its share capital or other capital reserves without obtaining the consent of the holders of the Deferred Shares.
The Groups objectives when managing capital are to ensure the Group has adequate funds to continue as a going concern and sufficient flexibility within the capital structure to fund the ongoing growth of the business andtotake advantage ofbusiness development .
The Group determines the amount of capital taking into account changes in business risks and future cash requirements.
The Group reviews its capital structure on an ongoing basis and uses share buy-backs,  toadjust theretainedcapital.
Other than the share buy-back programme detailed in Note 29 of the Notes to the Group Accounts the Groupisnotsubject .
