PARENT COMPANY AUDITORSREPORT Independent Auditors Report to the Shareholdersof Smith & Nephewplc We have audited the Parent Company accounts of Smith & Nephew plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the balance sheet and the related Notes A to H. These Parent Company accounts have been prepared  outtherein.
Wehavealsoaudited  Report that isdescribed as havingbeenaudited.
We have reported separately on the Group accounts of Smith & Nephew plc for the year ended 31 December 2008.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken, so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companysmembers as abody, forourauditwork, forthisreport, .
 directorsand auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration Report and the Parent Company accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards United Kingdom GenerallyAccepted AccountingPractice areset  fortheAccounts.
Our responsibility is to audit the Parent Companyaccountsand the part of the RemunerationReport to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Parent Company accounts give a true and fair view and whether the Parent Company accounts and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the  .
We also report to you if, in our opinion the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding .
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Parent Company accounts.
The other information comprises only the Financial Summary, the Description of the Group, the Operating and Financial Review, Liquidity and Prospects, the Corporate Governance Statement and the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Parent Company accounts.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includesexamination, ona test basis, of evidencerelevant totheamountsand disclosures in the Parent Company accounts and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the Parent Company accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistentlyapplied andadequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Parent Company accounts and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In formingouropinionwe also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Parent Company accounts and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
139 Parent Company Accounts Opinion Inouropinion: the Parent Company accounts give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted AccountingPractice, ofthestate ofthecompanysaffairs as at 31December2008: the Parent Company accounts and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared  1985:and  Companyaccounts.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered auditor London, England 17March2009 140
