Financials Financials Financials Additional Information Company Information Registered Office Advisors SOCO International plc St Jamess House Auditors 23 King Street Deloitte LLP London London, United Kingdom SW1Y 6QY United Kingdom Bankers The Royal Bank of Scotland International Registered in England PO Box 64 Company No.
3300821 Royal Bank House 71 Bath Street Website St Helier www.
co. uk Jersey JE4 8PJ Company Secretary Channel Islands Cynthia B Cagle JPMorgan Financial Calendar 125 London Wall Group results for the year to 31 December are announced London in March April.
The Annual General Meeting is held during EC2Y 5AY the second quarter.
Half year results to 30 June are United Kingdom announced in August.
Additionally, the Group will issue an interim management statement between 10 weeks after Joint Financial Advisors and Corporate Brokers the beginning and six weeks before the end of each half Merrill Lynch International year period.
Merrill Lynch Financial Centre 2 King Edward Street London EC1A 1HQ United Kingdom Citigroup Global Markets Limited 33 Canada Square Canary Wharf London E14 5LB United Kingdom Registrar Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing BN99 6DA United Kingdom Solicitors Ashurst Broadwalk House 5 Appold Street London EC2A 2HA United Kingdom Annual Report and Accounts 2008 SOCO International plc 75 Disclaimer This document includes certain forward-looking statements regarding the SOCO Group.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties or assumptions that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
These risks, uncertainties or assumptions could adversely affect the outcome and financial effects of the plans and events described herein.
Forward-looking statements contained in this document regarding past trends or activities should not be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will continue in the future.
You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak as only of the date of this document.
Except as required by law, the Company is under no obligation to publicly update or keep current the forward-looking statements contained in this document or to publicly correct any inaccuracies which may become apparent in such forward-looking statements.
76 SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 We are an international oil and gas exploration and production company headquartered in London and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company has designated core areas in South East Asia and Africa and employs a strategy for building shareholder value through a portfolio of oil and gas assets by focusing on: Recognising Opportunity Contents By cultivating relationships and having early Overview access into regions, projects or situations where 02 SOCO Around the World 04 On Location there is potential to create significant upside 06 Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement through the Companys participation.
Business Review 12 Review of Operations Capturing Potential 22 Financial Review By adding the Companys managerial, technical 26 Corporate Responsibility and commercial expertise to progress activities Governance through the formative stages or through periods 32 Board of Directors of difficulty.
34 The Annual Report of the Directors 38 Corporate Governance 44 The Directors Remuneration Report Realising Value By locking in returns, regardless of the phase Financials 52 Independent Auditors Report of the project life cycle, once the Companys 53 Consolidated Income Statement capability to add value begins to diminish.
54 Balance Sheets 55 Cash Flow Statements and Statements of Recognised Income and Expense 56 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 73 Five Year Summary Additional Information 74 Reserve Statistics 75 Company Information Annual Report Design and Production Emperor Design Consultants Ltd Photography John Hepler Cover Vietnam and Thailand Simon Townsley Africa pages 21 and 39 All location photography was taken in SOCOs areas of interest in South East Asia and Africa.
SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 SOCO International plc St Jamess House SOCO International plc 23 King Street London SW1Y 6QY United Kingdom Annual Report and Accounts T: 44 0 20 7747 2000 F: 44 0 20 7747 2001 2008 www.
