Shareholder Information Financial calendar Annual General Meeting and Interim management statement 19 May 2009 Record date for 2008 final dividend 5 June 2009 2008 Final dividend payable 26 June 2009 2009 Interim results 25 August 2009 Interim management statement 5 November 2009 2009 Preliminary results February 2010 Company secretary Shareholder relations advisers R J Stephens, FCIS Makinson Cowell Registered office Financial PR advisers Spectris plc FD Station Road Egham Registrars Surrey Equiniti Limited TW20 9NP Aspect House England Spencer Road Lancing Tel: 44 0 1784 470470 West Sussex Email: info@spectris.
com BN99 6DA Company registered in England, No.
2025003 The registrars provide a range of shareholder services on-line at www.
co. uk Auditors KPMG Audit Plc Share price information The companys ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Bankers Exchange.
The latest share price is available via the companys Royal Bank of Scotland Plc website at www.
com Solicitors E-mail news service Ashurst To receive details of press releases and other announcements as they are issued, register with the e-mail alert service on the Brokers companys website at www.
com RBS Hoare Govett Ltd Merrill Lynch Designed by Emperor Design Consultants Ltd Printed in England by Miter Press This report is printed on Greencoat 80 Gloss, which is made from 80% recovered fibre, with the remaining material sourced from responsibly managed and sustainable forests, certified in accordance with the FSC Forest Stewardship Council.
The paper is manufactured at a mill that meets ISO14001 and EMAS Eco-Management & Audit Scheme international standards, minimising impacts on the environment.
Spectris plc February 2009 92 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Directory of Companies Materials Analysis Malvern Instruments PANalytical Particle Measuring Systems Analytical systems for materials Analytical X-ray equipment for industrial Micro-contamination monitoring Spectris designs, develops and characterisation, from bulk powders to and scientific applications.
systems for ultraclean environments nano-materials and macro-molecules.
Our products, applications and services help customers Test and Measurement Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration HBM to improve product quality Transducers, sound level meters and Load cells, transducers, strain gauges, analysers for sound and vibration signal conditioning and data acquisition and performance, improve measurement.
systems, test and measurement software and services.
core manufacturing processes, reduce downtime and wastage and reduce time to market.
In-line Instrumentation Beta LaserMike Brel & Kjr Vibro BTG Group Non-contact, laser-based dimensional Machine condition monitoring systems High performance blades, rods and measuring and flaw detection, ultrasonic and maintenance services.
equipment for metering and doctoring: dimensional gauging.
lab and on-line analysers and sensors for process control in the pulp and paper industry.
A global presence We operate from over 160 offices around the world.
The map below shows the location of our principal group offices in the key regions.
787.1m Sales from continuing businesses Fusion UV Systems NDC Infrared Engineering Servomex Ultraviolet light processing technology Infrared, X-ray, isotopic and microwave Gas analysers, gas analysis systems for curing photo-sensitive inks, coatings sensors for on-line measurement of and transducers.
moisture, composition, film thickness and coat weight.
Adjusted operating profit from continuing businesses 72.8p Industrial Controls Adjusted earnings per share Microscan Red Lion Controls The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide information to the shareholders of Spectris plc.
The High speed industrial bar code scanning Operator interfaces, signal conditioners, company, its directors, employees, agents and advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to and decoding instruments.
temperature controllers, counters, rate any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such indicators and panel meters.
responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
The Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the company.
Front cover image By their nature, these statements involve uncertainties since future events and circumstances can The Kinexus rheometer is a new platform for analysing the cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated and no reliance should be placed on flow properties of materials.
Designed for ease of use, its them.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date adaptive intelligence guides users on how to operate the of preparation of this Annual Report and the company undertakes no obligation to update these system quickly, leaving them more time to investigate ways in forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
which to characterise and optimise a materials performance.
Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Enhancing Productivity Spectris plc Station Road Egham Surrey TW20 9NP England Tel : 44 0 1784 470470 Fax: 44 0 1784 470848 info@spectris.
com Annual report and accounts www.
