 13 6 08 10:33 Page 61 Independent auditors report to the members of Speedy Hire Plc We have audited the Group and parent Company financial We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and statements the financial statements of Speedy Hire Plc for the consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial year ended 31 March 2008 which comprise the Group Income statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we Statement, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the become aware of any apparent misstatements or material Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group and inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do Parent Company Statements of Recognised Income and Expense, not extend to any other information.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have Basis of audit opinion also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards that is described as having been audited.
on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements members those matters we are required to state to them in an made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a adequately disclosed.
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU are set out in the In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 35. presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance Opinion with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International In our opinion: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements Groups affairs as at 31 March 2008 and of its profit for the year give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and then ended: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU as applied in 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the the state of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2008: information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the the financial statements and the part of the Directors financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared includes that specific information presented in the Operating and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Financial Review that is cross-referred from the Business Review Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and section of the Directors Report.
the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the KPMG Audit Plc information and explanations we require for our audit, or if St James Square information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and Manchester other transactions is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 27 May 2008 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 61 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5
