 13 6 08 10:32 Page 32 Audit Committee: Nomination Committee: Remuneration Committee: Directors David Galloway Chairman, David Wallis Chairman, Ishbel Macpherson Chairman, Ishbel Macpherson, David Galloway, David Galloway, Peter Atkinson, Ishbel Macpherson, Peter Atkinson, Michael Averill Peter Atkinson, Michael Averill Michael Averill, Steve Corcoran I am also pleased to report that a fourth executive Director joined the Board in October 2007, with the appointment of Claudio Veritiero as Chief Operating Officer.
Claudio initially joined us from the investment banking arm of N M Rothschild.
His first role was in business development with responsibility for acquisitions and strategic development, followed by a spell as Managing Director of Speedy Lifting where he built it to clear UK market leader.
Already master of his brief, Claudio has brought an added dimension and new skills both to the Executive team and to the Board.
Additionally there have been a number of changes to the NonDavid William Wallis, Executive Directors.
Frank Dee retired by rotation, having served BSc Econ seven years on the Board.
Frank spent a considerable amount of Non-Executive Chairman time in the business at all levels, developing an understanding of issues then advising the Executive on practical solutions, bringing an Once again, I am able to report a year of further progress and equal measure of challenge and support.
As Chairman of the improvement in the effectiveness of the Board at a time when it has Remuneration Committee he dealt with some detailed and complex undergone significant change.
This change is a reflection of the issues, always injecting an appropriate level of pragmatism and growth of the business, which now needs to build on its existing common sense.
In short, Frank has been an exemplary Nonstrengths but also encompass a broader range of skills and Executive Director and both I and Speedy Hire are grateful for his experiences.
Our annual evaluation format has been further contribution and wish him well for the future.
enhanced with the introduction of a numerical scoring system and we continue to work on the areas identified in our external evaluation Peter Atkinson and I are retiring by rotation at this years Annual carried out in 2006.
General Meeting and are offering ourselves for re-election.
The areas addressed include: In accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, my performance has been reviewed by the Non-Executive Directors The effectiveness of the Board in the testing and development of who have confirmed that it remains effective and they recommend strategy including an evaluation of the Companys resources and my reappointment as a Director.
Further comments in support of advisers.
my proposed re-election may be found in the Directors report, on An examination of the Boards governance and processes, page 35. including its structure and the skills and experiences of its members, together with Board relationships.
This also includes an Peter Atkinson is also recommended by the Board for reappointment.
evaluation of the Board committees, risk management and Peter joined the Board in 2005 and is an effective contributor at all our resource planning.
His background in service businesses across a range of An evaluation of the meetings themselves to ensure that there is industries remains a great asset to the Company.
Following a year of appropriate reporting of key information, full and open debate, not insignificant changes to the Board, Peter also brings an important proper resolution of issues and that an appropriate balance is element of continuity at such a time.
struck between strategic and operational matters.
An examination of the effectiveness of the communication of the In July 2007, I was delighted to welcome Ishbel Macpherson to the decisions of the Board, in terms of the strategy which has been set Board as an additional Non-Executive Director.
Ishbel was an and the safeguarding of the ethics and core values of the business.
experienced corporate financier having spent 20 years specialising in UK mid market corporate finance, latterly as head of UK emerging The score achieved was 81% indicating that the Board is effective companies corporate finance at DKW.
Her input has been and working well, but that there are areas where there is still room for immediate and an extremely valuable addition to our team.
I think this is the right place to be, demonstrating that has been appointed as Senior Independent Director and chair of the there is no room for complacency in any part of the business.
As I wrote in last years report, I anticipated a number of changes to We welcomed Michael Averill to the Board as a Non-Executive the composition of the Board over the next year or two and so it has Director in May 2008.
Until last year, Michael was CEO of Shanks proved to be.
Group plc, having transformed it into one of Europes largest waste management companies, employing 4,300 people in the UK, Neil OBrien, who has been Group Finance Director for the last nine Belgium and Holland.
He is currently a Non-Executive Director at years, has left the business to pursue other opportunities.
Neil has TDG plc and Care UK plc and a member of the Waste and Resource made a massive contribution to the growth of Speedy Hire over that Action Programme.
He brings a range of operational, strategic and time and has remained with us to ensure a smooth transition of his commercial skills gained in international services companies.
responsibilities to his successor, typical of his commitment and professionalism.
Neil leaves with our very best wishes for every The Board structure is once again complete.
My objectives for this success in the future.
year are to ensure that our new members settle into their roles and that following a period of change and re-invigoration we can look forward once again to a period of stability.
The skills and experience Justin Read was appointed as Group Finance Director from 1 April 2008.
Justin has until recently been employed by Hanson PLC, the embedded in the Board are now very broad and in my view, well matched to meet the Companys objectives and strategy in the years international building materials company.
At the time of his leaving ahead, along with the challenges that inevitably will arise.
Hanson, he held the dual roles of Managing Director, Hanson Continental Europe and Head of Corporate Development.
Over the Finally, I would like to thank Patrick Rawnsley, our Company last 14 years, he has held a number of other senior roles within Secretary for his wise counsel and endless patience and all my Hanson, including Deputy Finance Director, Head of Risk Management former and new colleagues for their continuing support.
Their input is and Treasury, and Group Treasurer.
He had also been responsible for essential to making the Board effective and successful.
It is a Hansons corporate communications and investor relations.
Justin is privilege and honour to lead it.
already making a valuable contribution to the business.
David Wallis Chairman 32 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5 15110
