 13 6 08 10:33 Page 60 Report of the Nomination Committee The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee set out its responsibilities.
These include inter alia: Reviewing the size and composition of the Board and membership of Board Committees.
Ensuring that succession planning is in place.
Making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Executive and Non-Executive Directors at both Plc and operating level, including job description.
The reappointment of Directors following their retirement by David Wallis rotation.
Non-Executive Chairman During the course of the year, the Committee met five times.
The Chairmans report on the functioning of the Board on page 32 outlines many of the issues discussed by the Nomination Committee during the course of the year.
Replacement Non-Executive Directors and succession planning will remain as key agenda items during the course of the current financial year.
During the year under review, the Committee agreed terms for the appointment of Ishbel Macpherson, Claudio Veritiero, Justin Read and Michael Averill.
External search consultancies were engaged in relation to the selection and appointment of Justin Read and Michael Averill.
Claudio Veritiero has been with Speedy for a number of years and was appointed as a result of continual monitoring by the Board and the Committee of promising internal candidates for promotion to the main Board.
In the case of Ishbel Macpherson, when the specification for an additional Non-Executive Director was finalised, it was immediately apparent that Ishbel possessed the skills and attributes being sought.
Being well known to several of the Directors through a number of different business contexts over many years it was felt unnecessary to use the services of external consultants as the Board was confident that she would make an excellent addition to the Non-Executive team.
As the Company has developed an effective HR function and HR strategy, there is increasing communication and interaction with the Committee, particularly with regard to succession planning.
In a growing business, it is essential that its rising stars are identified early and given a career path to ensure that they maximise their potential.
This also ensures that the Committee internally has the largest possible pool of talented individuals from which to choose, as well as the option of recruiting externally.
David Wallis Chairman of the Nomination Committee 60 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5 15110
